CHAPTER I.

CHAPTER IL

THE SACRED AMULET,'

CHAPTER III.

A mother's WELCOME,

PAGE



CHAPTER IV.

FOR SELF ALONE,'

CHAPTER V.

RELUCTANT FEET,

CHAPTER VI.

BANISHED,





 135

Contents.

CHAPTER VII.

IN A NEW WORLD, .

CHAPTER VIII.

A VOICE IN THE NIGHT,

CHAPTER IX.

IN WONDER-LAND ! .

CHAPTER X.

THE DAWN BREAKS, .

CHAPTER XL

AWAKENED,

Page










CHAPTER I.

ASLEEP.

Her form was fresher than the morning rose
When the dew wets its leaves,  unstain'd and pure
As is the lily, or the mountain snow.'  Thornton.

Bring was over all the land,
and the April sunshine was
beaming mildly on the tender
green leaves and half - blown flowers
in the convent garden of Ansprach. On
the broad open terrace, strewn with the
golden petals of the fragile and short-lived
laburnum, and scented with the
VOL. L A

delicate fragrance of lilac and apple-blossom,
a pair of anxious, feathered
parents were vainly endeavouring, by
means of continuous twittering, to induce
an awkward fledgling to return to
the nest from which he had prematurely
fallen ; whilst up and down between the
borders of primroses and polyanthuses,
three or four old nuns, too feeble for
work, toddled and sunned themselves,
and talked together in quavering voices
Heaven alone knows of what  perhaps
of the days when they were young and
comely, and thought lovers and husbands
were natural institutions and free gifts
from God to Woman. From the 
around the convent, the lambs
were calling to their mother ewes ; in
the farmyard the poultry softly chattered
to each other as they picked up the scattered
grain ; from the playground was
wafted a buzz of happy voices. There
were no sounds to be heard, nor sights
to be seen on any side, but such as

breathed of purity, and contentment, and
peace.

Suddenly, at the farther end of the
terrace, appeared a group of children,
galloping and stamping as they played at
horses, and the venerable sisters stood on
one side, smiling, to let them pass. A tall
graceful girl led the van, but she was evidently
joining in the sport only for the
benefit of the little ones, who had encircled
her with half-a-dozen skipping ropes, and
were driving her vigorously from behind.
Allons  coinage  plus vite! ' they shouted
every time their charger showed the least
symptom of declining speed. But as the
tall girl reached the side of the sisters, she
came to a full stop. It was not only to
say 'Bon jottr, mes soeurs with a deep
reverence, that she did so ; she had
caught sight of the little fledgling on the
pathway, and her heart was full in a
moment. She called to the children to
be careful, and knelt down on the terrace
to examine the fallen bird, much

to the consternation of its anxious
parents.

What can I do for it ? ' she demanded
of the old nuns who watched her proceedings.


Do nothing, my child,' they answered,
but lay it inside the flower border. It
will be safe there ; and the mother bird
is close at hand. She will provide for
it better than you can.'

Yes,' shouted one of the little ones ;
see, there they are, Fenella  both the
papa and the mamma. How dreadfully
afraid they are lest we should hurt their
child ! And now it has hopped up to
them  just as I shall hop up to my darling
mamma when the midsummer holidays
arrive. Oh, Fenella, don't you wish
that they had come ?'

Fenella did not answer ; she was watching
the twittering fuss that the old birds
were making over their fledgling, and perhaps
she did not hear what the child said.
But as she rose and twisted the ropes

about her arms again, and set off at a
gallop down the terrace, with the little
ones tearing after her, something very like
a tear fell from her grey eyes upon the
bosom of her convent dress.

Is she an orphan ? ' asked one of the
nuns, as the girl passed out of hearing.

I don't know, but I think she must
be ; she has not left Ansprach for five
years. She is, at any rate, very friendless.'

Poor little soul ! Perhaps they destine
her to remain here for ever,' was the reply ;
and then the old women were silent for
awhile, as though the idea had conjured
up some tender memory. It must be sad
to arrive at the close of one's life, and feel
that very soon it will be ended, and leave
not a sign behind it that it has ever been.
But they soon shook off the feeling, for the
Convent of Saint Barbara was like a busy
hive of bees upon that April morning, and
it was difficult to realise that it could ever
be less so. Inside the solemn grey building
dozens of hands were employed in

cooking and washing and ironing, for the
sisters allowed no one to assist them in
their household labour, and brought up the
children under their charge to be as helpful
as themselves. In the class-rooms a
score of teachers were engaged in the
education of the pupils ; the hospital had
no lack of tender nurses, nor the chapel
of reverent worshippers ; whilst, as though
in strong contrast to the latter employment,
the mother of the English pupils
or, as she was generally called, Mere
Josephine  was seated in one of the convent
parlours, talking on the most mundane
of matters with a visitor who had
arrived in Ansprach but an hour ago.

To look at Mere Josephine alone, was
almost to be persuaded that a conventual
life must be the happiest life in the world.
For she was not so young as to be unaware
of the weight of the duties she had
undertaken, nor was she so old as to have
lost interest in what might befall her in
the future. And yet, though her lot was

irrevocably fixed beyond the power of
alteration, she not only looked happy, but
was so. She was a healthy, intelligent
woman, of from five-and-thirty to forty
years of age, who was English on the
mother's side, and spoke that language as
well as she did her native German. She
had blue eyes that twinkled with humour,
firm rosy cheeks, an elastic step that
would have befitted twenty, and a comfortably
rounded form that seemed the
very embodiment of maternity, though
no one would have laughed more than
Mere Josephine had you told her so.
She was a thoroughly practical person
into the bargain, with a keen appreciation
of motives and character, and she
jingled the huge bunch of keys that hung
at her girdle with an air that said she
would not be trifled with. In fact, you
would have had to get up early to take
in Mere Josephine.

The person with whom she was engaged
in conversation was not a bad

specimen of her class either, but it was
a lower class. She had a mild face,
which would, under any circumstances,
have denoted rather a weak and easily
led disposition, and it had had no opportunities
of learning to attest itself  for
she was a servant. Her name was Eliza
Bennett, and she was the housekeeper
and lady's-maid and confidential agent
of Mrs Barrington, of South Audley
Street, London.

Mrs Bennett was sitting on the edge
of her rush-bottomed chair, looking very
ill at ease. She was tired and hungry
and cold  for though the April sunshine
was on the convent garden, it did not
penetrate the thick walls sufficiently to
give a look of warmth to the polished
oak floor and the uncurtained casements
of the parlour. Added to which, Mrs
Bennett had failed in her mission, and
already anticipated with dread the welcome
that should await her return to
England. Mere Josephine, in her serge

dress and woollen petticoats and thick
shoes, looking as if she did not know
what it was to feel cold, was seated
beside her, scrutinising her face keenly
as she replied to her remarks, and forcing
Eliza Bennett, even against her will, to
speak the truth.

And so Mrs Barrington does not want
to have her daughter home for the present,
and she has sent you over here to say
so,' said the reverend mother briskly, as
she rattled her keys  a habit of hers when
she was annoyed by anything.

Well, ma'am, it would be more convenient
for my mistress, certainly, ma'am,'
stammered the servant ; * for, you see, Mrs
Barrington has just let her house for the
season and is going abroad, and she says
if Miss Fenella could remain at Ansprach
till the Christmas vacation  '

*' But she cannot,' interrupted Mere
Josephine, ' and I have already written
Mrs Barrington the reason. The doctor
has decided that an immediate change is

absolutely necessary for the child. She
has grown unusually fast during the last
twelve months, and though our Ansprach
is healthy enough on the whole, it is nota
, bracing place, and all young people
require change of air at times.'

Oh, surely  yes, ma'am. I wouldn't
think of contradicting you ; only it disarranges
my mistress's plans terribly
murmured the housekeeper.

Mrs Bennett continued Mere Josephine,
sternly, ' Miss Barrington has been
at Ansprach for five years without once
going home. She was only eleven when
you brought her to me, and she is now
sixteen. It is a most unusual thing, and
with an only child too. I should have
thought her mamma would have been all
anxiety to see her again.'

Oh ! yes, ma'am ! And, of course, my
mistress is very anxious  very anxious
indeed  to see Miss Fenella ; only the
rooms being let, and my mistress going
abroad, and having no one with whom to

leave the young lady, It makes It awkward,
you see  '

And why cannot Mrs Barrlngton take
her daughter abroad with her, Mrs Bennett
? '

Well, I don't know, ma'am ; I couldn't
answer for my mistress, of course ; but I
know she's going with a party, and her
orders to me were, whatever I did, to
persuade you to be so good as to keep
Miss Fenella over the midsummer vacation.'


I am sorry to refuse your request,
Mrs Bennett, for Fenella's sake ; but she
is out of health, and it is my duty to
send her away. I really believe she Is
happy here  as happy as she can be,
shut out from home ; but Mrs Barrlngton
has displayed such a culpable want of
Interest in her daughter, that she positively
knows nothing about her. Fenella
is a very clever girl  far too advanced
and deep-thinking for her years ; and, at
the same time, she possesses a very affectionate

and sensitive nature. I have, on
several occasions, pointed out to Mrs
Barrington the drawbacks she encountered
in receiving her education at Ansprach.
As she is not of the same faith as ourselves,
we have been restricted from
giving her any religious instruction. For
five years, therefore, she has been left
entirely to herself in such matters, and I
doubt if she thinks on the subject at all.
She will require very careful watching,
Mrs Bennett, if she is to steer through
the world with safety. You seem a sensible
woman. Do you think her mother
is likely to prove such a friend as she
will require*'

At this appeal Eliza Bennett produced
a pocket handkerchief, and commenced
to sniffle furtively.

Ah ! I know all the family well, ma'am,
and it's not for me to speak against them.
I lived with them before Miss Fenella
was born, and was with her poor papa
when he died. Such a fine gentleman 

six foot two, and in the Royal Navy 
and worshipped the very ground she
trod on. If he had Hved  but there !
what's the use of talking  but if the
dear child ever wants a friend, and I
can serve her, the Lord knows I will.'

It strikes me she will live to want
one, Mrs Bennett ; for she possesses the
most dangerous attributes with which a
young girl can encounter the world,  a
heart so large and warm and generous
that where it loves it cannot see a fault,
and a strong resolute nature that will act
upon its own impulses against all conventionality
or advice. But I forget how
long it is since you have seen her. I
will send for her at once.'

The reverend mother rang the bell,
whilst Eliza Bennett wiped her eyes
and said, 

Ah ! she was always a bright one
and a loving one was Miss Fenella !
Her poor papa used often to say that her
heart would lead her into more scrapes

than her head would ever help her out
of.'

I am afraid he was not far wrong,
Mrs Bennett ; but, at the same time, you
must remember it will depend entirely
on what treatment she gets now whether
Fenella will turn out a good woman or a
bad one. At present she is as innocent
as a girl of her age could possibly be 
too innocent, perhaps. When I think of
her entering the world without a guide,
I could almost wish she were less so.'

Let's hope she'll get a good husband,
ma'am, to keep her out of all danger,'
remarked the servant.

We will, although I do not think the
mere fact of having a husband is always
a specific against danger,' replied Mere
Josephine, when she had dismissed a
sister in search of her pupil. * And
what orders did Mrs Barrington give
you in case of my refusing to keep Miss
Fenella at Ansprach ? '

Well, my mistress did say, ma'am,

in case of Its being quite impossible, that
there would be nothing else to do, of
course, but for me to take the young
lady back with me. But I'm sure she'll
be very angry if I do.'

I am sorry for that, but I cannot help
it. If you had refused to take her back,
I should have sent her over in charge of
a sister. I will write to Mrs Barrington
to tell her as much, and Fenella
will be ready to start with you this
evening.'

Oh, dear ! oh, dear ! what will the mistress
say when she sees us!' wailed Mrs
Bennett. But at this moment a tap on
the door of the convent parlour was followed
by the entrance of a tall slight girl
in black  the same girl who had been
playing horses with the little ones in the
garden  who, advancing quickly, fell on
one knee, kissed the hand of the reverend
mother, and then stood upright before
her, waiting her orders.

Don't you know who this is, Fenella.''

said Mere Josephine, as she laid her hand
kindly on the girl's shoulder.

Fenella looked round at Eliza Bennett,
and even the servant was struck with her
appearance. She was like a fair straight
lily, fresh gathered from the garden bed ;
she might have stood as a model for the
patroness of the convent, the virgin saint
Barbara, whose heathen father butchered
her at seventeen for adherlnor to the
Christian faith. She was slender as a
willow, but with a form that gave promise
of unusual excellence in the years
to come ; her skin was like a snowdrift ;
her grey blue eyes looked out of an oval
face set In a framework of sunny brown
hair ; and from that sensitive mouth, with
Its tremulous, half-opened lips that betokened
a life of pain In this rough world,
gleamed firm white teeth that spoke for
the perfect purity of her constitution. She
was not handsome at this period, perhaps,
in the usual acceptation of the word ;
there was nothing flashing nor brilliant

about her ; she was nothing but a tail
white hly, half blown, with no consciousness
that life was anything but one long
summer's day. But it was a face that,
once seen, was not easily forgotten ; a
dangerous face, that changed its expression
twenty times in an hour  that could look
sad or gay, or anxious, or shy, or arch,
just as the humour caught it, and showed
every feeling on the surface without knowing
that it did so. In after years Fenella
Barrington was much more dangerous to
herself and others than any merely handsome
woman could have been. She became
fascinating! She developed that
fatal power to attract and win and hold,
which breaks more hearts and ruins more
lives than any other power has the capacity
to do. But she knew nothing of all
this as she stood in the convent parlour ;
it had not even stirred within her. She
was asleep  a white innocent lily with
folded leaves, wrapt in a peaceful dreamless
sleep, that made her think that to

VOL. I. B

live meant to be happy. How well it
would have been for her if she had never
waked !

Oh dear ! she's the very moral of her
poor papa cried Mrs Bennett.

At the sound of her voice, Fenella recognised
her.

Why, nurse, is that you ? ' she said as
she crossed the room rapidly to the old
servant's side. ' Why have you come
here ? ' Then a sudden fear flooded her
pale cheek with crimson. ' Mamma is
not ill, is she ? There is nothing the
matter with mamma ? ' she repeated in
an anxious voice.

No, no ! Miss Fenella, your mamma
is well enough ; it's you as we've heard
is not well, my dear, and indeed you
don't look over strong. And are you
glad to see me, miss ? '

Very, very glad, nurse ! You remind
me of my dear father, and of the days
when he lay ill in England. Oh, nurse !
why don't I go home to see mamma ? It is

five years since I came to Ansprach. Am
I to pass the summer at school again ?'

Eliza Bennett glanced at the reverend
mother, who answered promptly for her.

No, Fenella ; you will go to England
with Mrs Bennett to-night. Your mamma
knows you require change, and she has
sent for you. If all goes well, you will
be at home by this time tomorrow ! '

Fenella stood upright again, her face
glowing with that fatal excitement which
as yet she had felt so seldom, but which
was part of her nature, and she would
learn to recognise but too soon.

Going home ! ' she said, when she
could articulate. ' Home to mamma !  to
see mamma again !  and to-night ? Oh !
chere mere it is too delightful, I hardly
know how I shall bear it. Don't think
me ungrateful for all your kindness,' she
continued, with a rapid change of feeling ;
indeed  indeed, I shall never forget all
I owe to you ; but to be going home
to my own mother  to see her tomorrow

in a few hours  it seems as if it could
not be true.'

Mere Josephine smiled at the girl's
enthusiasm, kindly but sadly. She felt
intuitively the disappointment that awaited
her warm loving nature  the disappointment
that all true generous hearts experience
when they first come in contact
with the selfish world.

I do not grudge you your happiness,
dear child,' she answered, ' for I am sure
you will not forget Ansprach, nor the
lessons you have learned here.'

Forget Ansprach ! ' echoed Fenella ;
but how will that be possible . I shall return
to you after the vacation, chere mere'

I do not know what your mamma's
plans may be, Fenella. You are no
longer a child, remember. You are almost
a woman.'

The girl laughed in a light incredulous
way.

Me a woman ! Ah ! chere nere, you
are laughing at me because you know I

am such a hoyden, and love to be in
the gymnasium better than anywhere
else. A woman I why, it seems only
the other day that you began to teach
me French and German.'

You have learned a great deal since
then, my child. Your education may
almost be said to be finished, and I
wish, now that you are going to leave
us so suddenly for the great world, that
I had taught you a little more of its
ways and temptations. But you must let
your own sense of right be your guide.
Should I never see you again, Fenella' 
at these words the girl's features began
to work nervously  'should it be Heaven's
will that this parting is the last  ' But
the good mother was not allowed to
finish her injunction. Fenella's feelings
could not bear the strain. Remembrance
overpowered her, and she burst into tears.

What ! never to see you nor the dear
sisters again,' she cried ; ' never to help
you plant seeds in the garden, nor gather

flowers for the altar ; never to go In the
Ansprach woods on fete days, nor to
join in the processions with my schoolfellows
? Oh ! chere mere, I cannot, cannot
bear it. Don't send me away ! Let me
come back again ; I have loved you all
so dearly.'

She flung herself on her knees as she
spoke, and buried her face in the folds of
the reverend mother's dress, and her fair
hair fell about her shoulders in beautiful
confusion. Why did something in the
girls attitude of abandonment, or the falling
of her abundant hair, strike the good
nun with a resemblance to the prostrate
Magdalen, pictured on some of the convent
walls. The thought chilled her, and
she raised Fenella hastily.

Come, my child,' she said tenderly,
you must not give way like this. Surely
you forget that you are going home to see
your mamma ; and after so long an absence.
What would she think if she saw these
tears .- And here is poor Mrs Bennett,

who has had nothing to eat since arriving
at Ansprach this morning ! Go to Sister
Ursula and tell her to come to me at once.
And then arrange your hair tidily, and
wait for Mrs Bennett in No. 16. She
will join you there in a few minutes.'

Fenella kissed the reverend mother's
hand, and curtseying left the room ; but her
face had lost the look of joyful anticipation
that had irradiated it but a minute before.

You see what she is,' remarked Mere
Josephine, as the door closed behind her,
warm-hearted, impulsive, and excitable !
These qualities have been kept down with
us. We know their danger, and check
them as much as possible, but in the world
they will have full play, and if Fenella does
not find a good friend in her mother to
guide them aright, I fear they will cause
her much unhappiness. She will expect
too much from the world, Mrs Bennett.
She will think every one she meets is as
generous and frank as herself, and she
will be terribly deceived.'

Ah ! if her poor papa had only Hved,*
sighed Mrs Bennett, with an emphatic
shake of the head.

Mrs Barrington sees, I suppose, a great
deal of society.'

Well, it is not for me to talk of my
mistress's doings, ma'am ; but she just
lives in it and nothing else.'

Mere Josephine looked grave.

That will not be good for so young a
girl as Fenella,' she said.

No, ma'am ; and I don't think my mistress
would wish her to mix in it, neither.
You see Mrs Barrington is very young-looking
for her age, and very much admired,
and Miss Fenella here is so tall
and so much of a woman that  '

That her mother will be ashamed to
own her ! I understand,' rejoined Mere
Josephine promptly  so promptly as to
make Eliza Bennett fear she had said too
much.

Well, if it were not that her health
requires change, I should say Fenella would

be better here. However, I am sure you
must require some refreshment, Mrs Bennett,
so if you will follow Sister Ursula,
she will show you where you can get it.'
Sister Ursula, who had been waiting,
smiling at the door for some minutes, now
indicated that she was ready to play pilot,
and Eliza Bennett, who was but too pleased
to escape further questioning from the
reverend mother, followed her to No. 16.

'the sacred amulet.'

What a power there is in innocence ! whose very
helplessness is its safeguard : in whose presence
even Passion himself stands abashed, and
turns worshipper at the very altar he came to
despoil.'  Moore.

iERE she found Fenella awaits
ing her, standing composed
ig and thoughtful by the open
casement, and looking more like a
straight white lily than ever, with her
hair brushed smoothly behind her ears,
and her long eyelashes lying on her fair
pale cheeks. The table was spread with
a substantial meal of coffee and rolls and
cold meat, and the sister, having seen that

nothing more was required, withdrew, and
kept the servant and her young mistress
together.

Miss Fenella,' said EHza Bennett, as
she sat down to table, 'aren't you going
to take some breakfast ? '

Fenella opened her grey eyes.

Me, nurse ! Oh dear, no ! I had my
breakfast at six o'clock this morning, and
my dinner at twelve. What do you think
of that ? '

I never heard of such hours for gentlefolks,
miss. They wouldn't suit London
ladies at all'

And at what time shall I have my
meals in London, nurse ? '

Your mamma mostly has her breakfast
about this time, and her dinner at
eight in the evening. But I don't suppose
you'll go out to parties as much as
she does, miss.'

Oh, no ! I shouldn't wish to do so.
What should I do at parties, nurse ? I
have never been to one in my life ! I

don't even know what they do there ;
but it will be so sweet to creep out of
my bed again when mamma comes home
(I shall always lie awake till I hear her
step)  and come downstairs to help to
undress her and make her comfortable for
the night. My own dear mamma ! I have
never forgotten her face, Bennett, nor her
beautiful dark hair.'

Bennett, who knew all about the ' beautiful
dark hair,' which had mysteriously
changed by this time to golden, and had
experienced the sweetness of creeping out
of her bed to attend to Mrs Barrington's
requirements at two o'clock in the
morning, did not appear to join in her
daughter's enthusiasm on the subject,
and only remarked that it would not be
good for Miss Fenella, not being strong,
to have her rest disturbed after . that
fashion, and she didn't think her mamma
would allow it.

The girl looked disappointed.

I shall soon grow strong in England,'

she said, ' and I should love to wait upon
mamma.*

You will soon find other things to
think of, miss,' replied Bennett, with a
view to consolation. ' Your mamma has
me to wait upon her, and don't need to
trouble any one else. And you'll be getting
lovers before long, and making them
wait upon you.'

Lovers ! ' echoed Fenella ; ' do you
mean men to marry me ? Oh no ! I
shan't. I shall never be married. I
don't wish to. I shouldn't like it.'

Had she been less of a child and more
of a woman she would have blushed or
laughed a little at the idea, for it does not
take much to call up blushes in a young
girl's cheek at the mention of marriage,
even from one of her own sex ; but Fenella
did neither. She only looked at the servant,
straight out of her frank grey eyes,
as a child of four years old might have
done, and shook her head and repeated
emphatically, ' I know all about marrying,

nurse, and I'm sure I shouldn't like
it'

Eliza Bennett, in her quiet way, was
infinitely amused.

Why,- who could have told you all
about it, Miss Fenella?'

Oh, lots of people ! I have a great
friend here  honored St Just. Ah ! how
sorry I shall be to part with her. And
her sister Cecil is married to a man, and
Honoree says it is horrid. They quarrel
dreadfully, and Cecil hates him, and one
day he boxed her ears. No man should
do that to me ; and if I had my choice
I'd rather marry a woman, only they say
that's nonsense.'

I should think it was, miss  too great
nonsense to talk about.'

I won't say it again then, but I don't
know why it should be. Honoree and I
would never quarrel like Cecil and her
husband if we lived in the same house.
But if that is the case I shall never marry,
for I should not care to have a man for a



friend. They are rough, and they do not
care for the same amusements as osiris. I
am sure we should not aofree together.'

You'll change your opinion, Miss
Fenella, when you have seen more of
gentlemen. You don't know anything
about them now, though bad's the best,
I must say. But all young ladies marry
sooner or later.'

Oh no, nurse, not all ! The nuns are
ladies, but they never marry, and they are
very happy. And I should like best of all
to live with them. I mean to live with
dear mamma, and wait on her till she
wants me no longer, and then when she
has gone to heaven I will come back to
dear Ansprach and be buried with the
sisters in the convent yard.'

Oh dear me, miss, that is sorrowful
talking,' remonstrated Eliza Bennett, with
her mouth full of bread and butter.

Why ? ' replied Fenella, with evident
surprise. 'We often have deaths here,
because some of the nuns are so very old,

and you should see how pleased they are
to hear it is all over, and they are going to
Jesus and the Blessed Virgin for ever.
When one of the sisters die, the others
take turns to watch by her coffin till she is
buried, and I always coax chere mere tolet
me have my turn, although I am nota
Catholic. And oh, nurse ! ' exclaimed
Fenella, with a sudden outburst of prophecy
from her childish soul, ' I have
sometimes wondered if it would not be
better if I died too whilst I was at ,
and never went home to see
mamma and what they call the " world
again." '

But this was a line of argument with
which Eliza Bennett could not cope, and
which half frightened her, for it revealed
a nature deeper than any which she had
yet been called upon to fathom.

Please don't talk like that, miss, nor ask
me such questions,' she said nervously ; ' it
isn't right nor natural. I don't mean to
say as things mayn't seem a bit strange to

you In Audley Street after the convent,
but still they're your mamma's ways, you
know, and you must give in to them, and
not put her out, and then you'll be happy
enough.'

Put her out ! Do you mean vex her ?
Oh, no ! that I never will. How can
you think so for a moment. I am only
afraid that I may disappoint her, and that
she will not be able to love me as much
as I shall want her to do. Nurse, shall
I sleep in the same bed as my mamma .
Do tell me.'

Well, I hardly know what to say to
that, miss ; your mamma never cared for
any one sleeping alongside of her, so you
mustn't be vexed if you don't share her bed,
for, to tell truth, I don't think you will.'

Nurse ! ' exclaimed Fenella, as if struck
by a sudden fear, * wojit she love me ? '

There was so much energy in her tone
that the old servant was quite taken aback.

Bless your heart, miss, of course she will.
Whatever makes you ask me such a ques-vol.

I. c

/

tion. Why, all mothers love their children,
and you an only one too, and such a fine
grown young lady, and the very image of
your papa ; it would be against nature
entirely if your mamma weren't as proud of
you as proud can be.'

But it is so long since she sent for me,'
said Fenella mournfully ; ' five whole years.
I began to think I was never going home,
and the other girls would hardly believe I
had a mother. It made me feel almost
ashamed, nurse, and as if I had done something
wrong.'

Well, your mamma will make up for
it now, miss, never fear ! She has had
more than enough to worry her, my dear,
I expect, during the last few years, and
perhaps she thought you was better away
learning your books than knocking about
with her.'

Worried ! ' cried Fenella, with a startled
look. ' What can she have to worry her ? '

Eliza Bennett looked mysterious. She
longed to tell what was in her mind, but

she had been too well trained to turn
informer ; and the girl's eager tone of inquiry
made her more cautious than she
might otherwise have been.

Everybody has something to worry
'em,' she answered, ' and your dear mamma
ain't free from it, miss  no more than
others. There's always plenty of trouble
in this world.'

Do you mean she is sorry ? I never
thought of that ! Oh, I am so glad she
has sent for me to comfort her! I am
the proper person to comfort her. Am I
not, Bennett ? And I will  indeed, I will 1 '

Bennett, who was perfectly aware that
the last thing Mrs Barrington would regard
as an alleviation of her cares would
be the appearance of her tall womanly
daughter, here wiped her mouth in token
of having finished her breakfast, and was
significantly silent. She tried to appear
at her ease, but, in reality, she was full of
nervous apprehension, which amounted to
cowardice. She had been twenty years

in the service of Mrs Barrington, and
since her husband's death she had been
her housekeeper, lady's-maid, and humble
friend,  in fine, the recipient of all her
secrets. Mrs Barrington would not have
parted with her on any consideration 
she would have been afraid to do so ;
and Eliza Bennett knew it well ; and yet
she was so much under the thumb of
her mistress, that she had no will of her
own. She did not love her ; on the
contrary, she despised her for her heartlessness
and artifice. She derived no
particular benefit from remaining in her
service ; and yet, had her life depended
on it, she would not have left her,  nor
did she do so until the strange fascination
which Mrs Barrington exercised over
her was exhausted.

Fear is a much stronger motive power
to bind people together than love,  fear of
the world  fear of change  fear of themselves.
How many uncongenial couples
does it not link fast for life, and make

them jog on, afraid to rupture the unholy
spell that unites them, until death
causes the parting to be inevitable. There
was a subtle, secret magnetism in Mrs
Barrington for Eliza Bennett, which the
servant felt but could not analyze, and
the mistress wielded without knowing
whence her power came.

The rest of that day was spent, as far
as Fenella was concerned, in a very tearful
and unhappy manner. Five years is
a long while for any one to spend in one
place and with one set of people, and to a
young girl of sixteen it appears a lifetime.

Fenella ran from the farmyard to the
gymnasium, and the flower garden to the
chapel, and wept freely as she thought
she might never see any of them again.
She visited the kitchens and laundry
and class-rooms, and felt intuitively, as
she bade farewell to the sisters who had
surrounded her childhood with kindness
and care, and the schoolfellows
who had shared her pleasures and advantages,

that the happiest and most
peaceful years of her Hfe were over.
But the great trial to her in leaving
Ansprach was parting with her bosom
friend Honoree St Just.

Fenella was not a general lover. She
possessed a full, impulsive nature that
could rejoice in the sunshine and the
blossoms, and the singing of the birds,
and sometimes, when all the world
smiled at her, and her spirit seemed to
rush forth to meet it, her heart would
overflow and she would weep for very-gladness.
But though she felt deeply,
she was not sentimental. She had never
nursed sickly fancies after the fashion
of school girls. She was Impulsive and
emotional, but what she loved she must
look up to. Hers was a nature that all
through life would feel the necessity of
a passionate love  the necessity of a
friend whom she could worship  of someone
to whom she would be the very first,
in whom she could confide every thought

that came into and over-weighted her
active brain.

She was clever, but she was dependent
on others for sympathy. Left to herself
and her own thoughts, Fenella would
have sunk into a miserable being. And
for the last few years Honoree St Just,
who was much older than herself, had
been the depository of all Fenella's
half - fledged thoughts, and she felt
the wrench of parting from her terribly.
It was only by oft-repeated promises of
a speedy reunion at Honoree's house
in Germany, where she protested her
parents should invite Fenella to visit
her, that the young girls could be persuaded
to separate, and when at last
Eliza Bennett found herself with her
charge outside the convent walls of St
Barbara, she was afraid that Fenella's
grief would make her ill. But it subsided
sooner than she expected. These
impulsive natures suffer keenly, but they
do not suffer long, unless the wound is

incurable, and then may Heaven help
them, for they twist and writhe above
the extracted weapon, until death
mercifully closes the scene.

But to a girl of sixteen who had spent
the greater part of the last five years
within a convent garden, the mere fact
of travelling was an excitement and distraction
; and when the next morning
broke and they found themselves at
Calais, ready to cross over to Dover by
the midday boat, Fenella was able to
look at the scenes that passed around
her with dry eyes, and to comment on
them with all the natural liveliness of her
disposition.

But Eliza Bennett could not make
out her young lady. She was puzzled
to know what to answer to the extraordinary
questions she put to her. She had
never been brought in contact with such
a womanly child before. Fenella had
no shyness in her composition, and her
innocence made her afraid of nothing.

She would as soon have addressed a
stranger passing in the street as the
servant that walked beside her. They
had some hours to wait in Calais, and
they employed them in traversing the
town. As they came opposite a church
a wedding party issued from it, the bride
resplendent in her foreign finery  a bright
blue dress trimmed with velvet, and a
cap decorated with satin ribbons and
orange blossoms.

Who are those people, nurse ? ' demanded
Fenella, with interest. * What
have they been about ? Is it a first
communion ? '

Bless my soul, Miss Fenella, it's a
wedding ! Don't you see the flowers in
the bride's cap } '

Is it ?' indifferently; and then, after a
pause, she added,  ' Why do people go to
church when they're married, Bennett ? '

Why, to say prayers. Miss Fenella, of
course.'

Couldn't they pray at home ? '

 Well, I suppose so, but then there's the
marriage vows, you see. They go to the
parson, and he makes them swear they
will live together all their lives.'

What ! in the same house always ?
Why should they swear that ? Suppose
after a time they got tired of each other
and wanted to live in different houses,
what would they do then ? '

Oh, miss, you mustn't think of such
a thing. Marriage is binding for life, you
know, and when people have once entered
on it, they never dream of changing.'

Don't they ? Then why does the
priest make them swear not to . '

Eliza Bennett met Fenella's eyes fixed
upon hers, and resolute for an answer,
and had to think before she concocted one.

Lor ! my dear child, whatever would
your mamma say if she heard you ? Why,
they haven't taught you nothing at that
convent. Why do married people swear
to keep to each other ? Why, because it's
the law of the land, miss, as they should

do so ; and they'd be chopping and
changing all round if they hadn't something
to hold 'em together ; but when
they've made a vow, of course it's all right,
and they never think of such a thing

Fenella pondered on this mystery fora
minute or two, then she said, 

Do mothers take vows that they'll
always live with their children, nurse ? '

Dear me no, miss, their hearts keep them
to each other  it's nature, you see ; they
couldn't turn against their little ones anymore
than they could against themselves.'

Isn't marriage nature, then, and haven't
the married people hearts ? Wouldn't that
keep them together as well as going into
church and swearing ? '

I'm sure I can't tell you, miss ; you do
put such strange questions you quite flurry
me. But you'll be married yourself some
day, and then you'll understand all about
it. They look happy enough any way,
don't they ? See how the girl is smiling
at her friends  '

At that moment the wedding party
passed close to them, and one of the men,
struck by Fenella's face, remarked to his
companion, 

Mon Dieu ! quelle est belle ! la petite
Anglaise ! '

Eliza Bennett saw the look of admiration
that accompanied the words.

I hope that fellow didn't say anything
rude to you, miss ? '

She looked at her young mistress as
she spoke, and seemed to see, for the
first time, what she would become. The
lily was flushed with the excitement and
the fresh sea air ; a delicate pink glow
was spreading over her features, as if
the rising sun had touched the petals
of a flower  a glow that made her eyes
look bluer, her hair more sunny, her
parted lips like carmine.

The servant took in the fascination of
her appearance at a glance, and pulled
her to one side.

Come on, Miss Fenella, we mustn't

loiter like this ; ladles should never stand
about the streets ; besides, it's nearly
twelve, and we go on board at one. It
is time we were making our way to the
restaurant ; you must have a good luncheon
before we start'

She led the girl away as she spoke,
and they entered the restaurant. But
Fenella was too excited to eat ; her
loving heart was filled now with the
idea of meeting her mother again, and
she but half finished the bason of soup
which Bennett ordered for her. As the
servant, much confused by the foreign
coins with which her purse was filled,
bustled away to the counter to pay for
what they had consumed, Fenella's attention
was attracted by the figure of
a young gentleman, who leaned against
the side of the open doorway, and gazed
at her.

He was a tall, slight youth of about
two - and - twenty, and there was something
about his appearance that betokened

an Irish descent. His fine silky hair
and moustaches were of the darkest
shade of brown ; his blue eyes were
shaded by black pencilled brows, and
thick lashes that lay upon his cheek as
though he had been a child ; his delicate
nose and closed nostrils showed a refined
and artistic disposition, and his mouth
(or what could be seen of it), if weak
and pleasure-seeking, was very tender,
and had a certain melancholy droop at
the corners, that would have led a stranger
to believe its owner to be the possessor
of very deep feelings.

But what should a child like Fenella,
just let loose from school, know of the
subtle signs of physiognomy, when even
the oldest and most experienced amongst
us refuse to be guided by them. All she
saw was a very handsome young man,
whose eyes were fixed earnestly upon
her face, and her first thought was,
whether it was the quaintness of her
convent garb that had excited his curiosity.

The idea made her colour and
look conscious, and she turned slightly
to one side. But the mesmeric Influence
of the eyes, that never moved for a moment
from her face, forced her after a
while to meet them again, and her frank
childish glance was once more mingled
with his own. This time she noted the
melancholy of his expression, and wondered
what had caused it.

Is he in any pain or trouble ? Can
he want to speak to me ? ' she thought.

When Eliza Bennett returned to her
seat, Fenella communicated this idea to
her.

Do you see that gentleman who Is
looking at me, nurse ? ' she whispered.
I think he must want to say something.
Perhaps he is sick, or sorry. Shall I go
and speak to him ? '

Goodness me ! no. Miss Fenella! The
impudent rascal to go staring a young
lady out of countenance after that fashion.
I'll get one of the waiters to turn him

out of the restaurant, if he don't mend
his manners.'

'Don't say that, nurse! Indeed, he
is not rude ; he has only looked at me.
Oh ! I hope he did not hear what you
said about him.'

For the * impudent rascal,' perceiving
the advent of a middle-aged chaperon
with a flustered manner, had concluded
to shift his position for a while, and
sauntered into the sunshine.

'A good thing if he did, Miss Fenella,'
replied Eliza Bennett. * However, he
seems to have taken the hint, so I'll go
and see after the luggage. If you'll wait
here for me, you'll be safe enough.'

Safe ! ' echoed the girl ; ' safe ! why
what should happen to me ? ' and then
the servant left her again, and she leaned
her head upon her hand, and tried to
realise what she would feel when once
more within the embrace of her mother.
Then the young man, with the earnest
glance and the tender droop in his mouth.

noting that the coast was clear, returned
to his former position, and fixed his gaze
once more upon Fenella's face. She did
not raise her eyes, but she knew that
his were on her. She felt them, as one
feels the heat of fire, even through her
sheltering hand, and her nature stirred
uneasily beneath their influence.

He 7nust want to speak to me,' she
said to herself ; ' else why should he look
so earnestly at me. Perhaps he has had a
misfortune ; he may have been robbed
oi his purse, and be unable to pay his
passage home ; or he may be a stranger
who cannot speak the language and make
his wants known, and he sees I am
English and wishes me to help him.
How can I be so unkind as to take no
notice ' He may find no one else to
assist him. Surely that would not be
doing as I would be done by.'

At this juncture Fenella, moved by an
irresistible impulse, rose hastily from the
table and walked towards the door. The

VOL, I. D

young man, who had been so fascinated
by her appearance, thought that she was
offended by his admiration, and was about
to leave the restaurant in token of it.

He was a gentleman, and regretted
he had been so thoughtless, and so he
drew to one side respectfully as she approached
the threshold, and slightly raised
his hat. But what was his astonishment
when the childish figure stopped directly
in front of him, and two kind, fearless
eyes were raised innocently to his face.

Why do you look at me ? ' demanded
Fenella. ' Are you in trouble ? Can I
assist you ? '

The stranger blushed scarlet ; her quiet
question took him so completely aback
he had not a word to say for himself.
He could only stammer forth some awkward
thanks for her kindness, and a denial
that he needed anything. But Fenella
did not blush ; she only smiled.

I am glad it is nothing she said ;
I thought you wanted to speak to me

and then she returned to her seat without
any confusion, and sat down again
to wait for Eliza Bennett.

Meanwhile, had she felt annoyance at
the stranger's admiration, she could not
have taken a better means of preventing
his continuing a display of it. He could
not look at her again after the innocent
misconstruction she had put upon his
motives. He walked straight away from
the restaurant on board the steamer that
waited to take them to Dover. And ina
few minutes Fenella was claimed by
Bennett and hurried after him, and it was
not until she stepped on deck and caught
sight of him, again eagerly watching their
movements, that she had time to tell the
servant what had occurred.

Nurse,' she said, as she followed her
to the cabin, ' did you see that gentleman
that looked so hard at me in the restaurant,
leaning on the bridge as we came
on board ? He is going to England with
us. But he is not in any trouble, because

I asked him. I think he was
only looking at me to please himself, for
he said he was very much obliged, but
he did not want anything

Miss Fenella, you don't mean to tell
me you spoke to him ? ' exclaimed Eliza
Bennett in dismay.

Yes, I did ! I thought he might wish
me to interpret for him or something,
but he didn't. Don't you think he has a
nice face ? '

Goodness me, miss, you make my
blood run cold ; the idea of you speaking
to a perfect stranger, and a man too !
Why, he might be one of the swell mob
for ought we know. Oh, Miss Fenella,
don't you never go and tell your mamma
of what you've done, or I shan't hear
the last of it for having left you a
minute by yourself.'

But why should mamma be angry,
nurse '. It wasn't wrong.'

It was very wrong, indeed, Miss
Fenella ; it isn't the custom, and everything's

wrong that isn't the custom, and
young ladies can never learn that too
soon. However, you are but a child as
yet, and don't know any better, but you
won't do it again, my dear ; will you,
now ? '

Not if it's wrong' said Fenella quietly.

And then she allowed Eliza Bennett
to fuss over her and tuck her up with
shawls upon a sofa, where she lay for a
couple of hours, enduring the purgatory
of the ladies' cabin, and thinking what
a strange custom it was that forbade her
to speak to her fellow-creatures. Whilst
the servant, too nervous at the approaching
interview with her mistress to take
any rest, turned and tossed upon her
couch, and tried to invent arguments to
appease the threatened storm.

At last the steamer touched the Dover
pier ; and not in the best humour, Eliza
Bennett dragged her charge after her
up the steps of the gangway. As they
reached the top, they again encountered

the subject of their discussion, who had
mounted before them, and was leaning
over the railings gazing at Fenella.
Had the stranger smiled whilst gazing,
the girl might have thought with her
attendant he meant to be rude, but ashe
only fixed two grave eyes upon her,
she could not feel offended. But the
expression in that steadfast glance had
no such effect upon eliza Bennett. All
she read in it was pertinacity, which she
considered it her duty to crush. She
was a timid woman by nature, and, like
many timid people, when she made an
effort to be brave she became offensive.
She pulled Fenella past the young gentleman
almost roughly, as she exclaimed
in an audible voice, 

Well, / never saw such impudence.
I hope he'll know you again to swear to.'

At these words Fenella looked up,
startled and annoyed, and the stranger's
eyes again met hers. This time they
made her feel uncomfortable  she hardly

knew why, and she turned her head quickly
away. But not before the young man had
seen that she did not share the sentiments
of her companion.

By Jove ! What a sweet face he
thought, * and what a world of feeling
lies in those eyes ! I must get into the
same compartment with that girl if I
can.'

He ran along the line of carriages as
the idea struck him, but he was already
too late. Eliza Bennett had secured the
only vacant seats in a compartment for
Fenella and herself, and the stranger was
obliged to content himself with a smoking
carriage. Here he indulged freely in his
favourite occupation, and tried hard to
shake off the absurd fascination which
the memory of this girl exercised over him,
and for which he was ready to laugh at
his own folly. But he found the task
more difficult than he anticipated. As
the wreaths of smoke from his cigar
floated from him in ghostly rings of

cloudy blue, they kept on shaping themselves
into the form of an oval face, from
which gleamed forth two clear innocent
eyes, that almost seemed to look reproachfully
at him.  What nonsense ! '
he thought. ' What is there so different
in her from other women, that I can't
knock her out of my head ? She's nothing,
after all, but a half-grown schoolgirl.
Why can't I think of something
else ? ' Why, not indeed ! Who can tell ?
Was it his good angel that raised that
vision to warn him against what might
be ; or was it his bad angel that evoked
it for his greater condemnation in the
years to come, when he should remember
what had been and what was, and that
he had heeded nothing but his own selfish
gratification. He leapt out of the train
as soon as it reached the London station,
but the platform was crowded with passengers,
and in the confusion he missed
the two he sought to see. Luggage was
being examined ; porters were rushing to

and fro ; people were hustling each other
in their eagerness to be served first, and
whilst his eyes were still roving here
and there in hopes of gaining some clue
to the identity of the girl who had attracted
his fancy, Fenella and Eliza Bennet
were in a cab jolting along the streets
on their way to Mrs Barrington's apartments.


A mother's welcome.

What's this world ? Thy school, O Misery !
Our only lesson is to learn to suffer,
And he, who knows not that, is born for nothing.'

Young.

T was now several years since
Mrs Barrington had had either
the means or the disposition to
keep up a house of her own, and so she
Hved in furnished rooms in South Audley
Street, which fulfilled all her requirements
when she was in London, which was
seldom. She had been left in very comfortable
circumstances by her late husband,
but she had frittered away all the available
portion of her income until she vas really

seriously encumbered. The fact is, Mrs
Barrlngton had been a beauty and a
coquette, and much admired In her
younger days, and she considered she had
thrown herself away when she married
Captain Barrlngton. She had always Intended
to purchase a fortune at least, If
not a title, with her good looks ; and then
he had come In her light and blinded her
to her own Interests, and she had married
him and got neither. It had been a
source of constant grievance and many
quarrels between them during the captain's
lifetime, and when he died his
widow began to consider whether she
might not yet retrieve her youthful error,
and spend the rest of her days as the
beginning should have been. She was
still good-looking and not old, and had
many admirers. But these things do not
always mean marriage, and though Mrs
Barrlngton had not given up all hope. It
was certainly dwindling, and her temper
suffered terribly as the fact became more

and more patent to her senses. Of course
the first thing had been to get rid of
Fenella,  widows, with daughters as tall
as themselves, find it no use to look
young,  besides, it was so much easier to
talk of her ' sweet child ' and her ' dear
little girl from whom it was such a cruel
trial to be parted, whilst Fenella was safe
at Ansprach, and there was no chance
of her intruding her long arms and legs
into the midst of the conversation.

So the girl had been kept at school for
five years whilst the mother tried her luck
at a second throw of Fortune's wheel. But
as yet the hoped-for prizes had all turned
up blanks. For Mrs Barrington had overstepped
her mark. Instead of contenting
herself with the good looks that Heaven
had given her, she had supplemented them
with so much powder and rouge and hardy
that she had frightened the men away.
They would come and lounge in her ,
or take her to the theatre, or
meet her at Mentone or Wiesbaden by

the dozen, but they would not propose.
They treated her to presents and flowers
and opera boxes and everything but offers
of marriage, and they talked of her amongst
themselves as of rather a better sort of
courtesan, and that was all. No one of
them in his senses ever thought of making
her his wife, and the consciousness
of failure had begun to dawn upon Mrs
Barrington's mind and make her more ill-tempered
and fractious than ever. And
yet there was no doubt that she was
a very pretty woman  much prettier,
most men would have thought, than her
daughter Fenella ; but her face, like her
life, was a lie, and nothing is more patent
to the world than that. When Mrs
Barrington found that she had been
a widow for some years, and had no
chance of changing her condition, she
redoubled her energies to charm, and
wasted her money in the effort. She
spent a small fortune in dresses and
pigments ; passed half her time in foreign

watering-places, and at last committed
the fatal error of attempting to retrieve
some of her lavish expenditure at the
gaming-tables. At the moment Fenella
was returned on her hands, Mrs Barrington
was really more impecunious than she
had been for years. So she had let her
apartments in South Audley Street fora
good sum for the London season, and
was about to join her friend Lady Wilson
in passing a few months at Mentone.
There was another reason for her leaving
England in this company. Lady Wilson's
husband was still alive and well, but she
had a son of about five-and-twenty, a
moonstruck, aesthetic youth, who raved
on the subject of Mrs Barrlngton's golden
chevelure and ivory teeth (not knowing
that she kept the one in a bottle and her
dentist made the other), and the widow
believed that, with a little flattery and a
few tetes-a-tte, she might conquer the
fledgling baronet. He might not become
Sir Henry,' it was true, for years 

but still it was something to look forward
to, and time was waning, as Mrs Barrington
had been compelled at last to acknowledge
to herself.

Under these circumstances, It may be
supposed that the reverend mother's
letter, announcing that she must send
Fenella home at once, was the most
unwelcome news she could have received.
She had had Eliza Bennett up on that
occasion and confided to her all her
hopes and fears. She had conjured her
to go to Ansprach, and by hook or by
crook to induce the nuns to keep her
daughter, at all events until this eventful
season was past.

Then I shall either be enofagfed or
married to Mr Wilson, Bennett,' she had
said. ' It's a dreadful come-down, I know,
still, he will be the baronet some day If he
lives, and meanwhile, his mother will never
let him or his wife want for anything.
And you know, Bennett dear, that I'm
dreadfully hard up. How I am ever to

pay Madame Carrafine If I don't marry,
beats me altogether, and Masters has
threatened me with a suit for the carriage
hire if the account is not settled next
quarter. You must do this for me, Bennett
 it's a matter of life or death. Goto
Ansprach and persuade the reverend
mother to keep the girl there till Christmas.
I promise to have her home then, but
whatever you do, dont bring her back with
you, or you'll ruin all my plans.'

After which harangue, and fearing her
mistress's anger as she did, it is not
wonderful that Eliza Bennett positively
trembled as the cab approached South
Audley Street. Fenella, on the other
hand, was trembling also, not with fear,
but anticipation. ' My mother, my own
mother,' she kept on repeating with clasped
hands. ' Oh, Bennett, how long we are
getting to Audley Street ! Tell the man
to drive faster. I feel as if I must get
out and run until I reach her arms.*

It was now nearly seven o'clock in the

evening  one delay and another had made
them longer than they ought to have
been, and the April twilight had deepened
into dusk. Mrs Barrington was in
her dressing-room, with a very ill-tempered
expression on her countenance,
attiring herself for a dinner-party. She
wondered why Eliza Bennett could not
have managed to return home before, and
she was put out by the fact of having
to wait upon herself ; and so she was
venting her ill-humour by tearing laces
and wrenching off buttons, and using
lady-like expletives under her breath in
revenge for her own carelessness. At last
she heard a cab stop at the door.

There she is ! ' she exclaimed ; ' thank
goodness ! What I should do without
that woman . I don't know. I am a perfect
baby when she leaves me to myself.'

A heavy step came up the stairs, and
without any notice the door of her room
was thrown open. Mrs Barrington turned
at the sound with an expression of re-vol.

I. E

lief. Bennett was standing on the threshold.


So you've arrived at last,' she said.
I thought you were never coming home.
I suppose you've made it all right with
that old fool of a reverend mother  '

Bennett did not answer at once, but
advancing to the bed, threw her bonnet
and shawl upon it. She was trembling
violently, but Mrs Barrington was too
selfish to notice her distress.

You are going out again this evening,
ma'am,' she said. ' Let me help
you with your dress,'

She stood behind her mistress and commenced
to lace up her dress, as though
she had only made a journey from the
kitchen to the bedroom.

You have arrived in the very nick of
time,' laughed Mrs Barrington. ' I was
just wondering what had become of you,
and if I should send for Ann to help me
to dress ; but I shall be in plenty of time
now. I am engaged to Lady Wilson, but

we don't dine till eight. And so you've
settled it all with the convent people, I
suppose, and they'll keep the child till
Christmas ? What a relief ! I should have
gone out of my mind if they had insisted
upon sending her back.' 

But, if you please, ma'am,' stammered
Bennett, as she stood pulling the lace
together, ' I am sorry to say the reverend
mother wouldn't hear any reason, and I
was obliged to bring Miss Fenella back
with me, whether I would or no.'

What ! ' cried the affectionate mother,
who had not seen her only child for five
years, * do you mean to say that she has
returned with you now  that she is here

She Is, indeed, ma'am. I couldn't help
it. I had no alternative. The reverend
mother declared Miss Fenella required
change, and that if I didn't bring her to
England she would send her over in charge
of a sister. So I thought it would be
cheaper for me to comply ; and we came
third class all the v/ay. I knew it would

put you out terribly, ma'am, but I couldn't
help it  indeed, I couldn't.'

Bennett,' cried Mrs Barrington tragically,
as she sank into a chair, ' you have
ruined all my prospects.'
' Oh no, ma'am, don't say that ! pray
don't  for I'd lay down my life to serve
you at any time  as you know well ; but
this wasn't my fault, as Miss Fenella herself
will tell you, and when they insisted
on it, what could I do but bring her along
with me !'

But what am I to do with her ?' exclaimed
her mistress. ' Lady Wilson wants
to start on Friday, and the Folks are
coming into these rooms on Monday. It's
enough to drive me out of my senses. I
believe I'm the most unfortunate woman
that was ever born.'

And real tears of vexation and perplexity
began to roll down Mrs Barrington's
painted cheeks. The sight seemed to move
Eliza Bennett powerfully, and she flung
herself on her knees beside the lady's chair.

Don't, my dear mistress,' she said
pleadingly ; ' pray don't give way like that;
you might make yourself ill. I will think
of some plan for Miss Fenella, by which
she shan't interfere with any of yours ;
only don't blame me, dear mistress, for
what has happened, for I was as helpless
in it as the babe unborn.'

She grasped Mrs Barrington's hand and
kissed it as she spoke, but the selfish
creature pushed her away almost contemptuously.


There, there, Bennett, don't mess me,
for Heaven's sake ! You know how I hate
it. I suppose you couldn't help it, as
you say you couldn't, but it doesn't show
much wit on your part. All the reverend
mothers in the world wouldn't have made
me bring that child home against my will,
and you may take your oath of that.'

Eliza Bennett was beginning to murmur
something about her mistress being
so much cleverer and better and more
persuasive than herself, when the opening

of the bedroom door made her rise
suddenly to her feet. There, on the
threshold, stood Fenella, her cheeks burning
with excitement, her arms extended
in anticipation.

Mother ! dearest mother ! ' she cried
passionately.

Even Mrs Barrlngton was roused by
the appeal. She made several steps forward
and folded the girl in her arms.

My dearest child,' she said, ' is this
really you ? I was just about to send
Bennett for you. Why, what a woman
you've grown ; inches above me, I declare.
I don't think I should have
known you had we met in the street'

She kissed Fenella as she spoke, but
not warmly  Mrs Barrington never kissed
warmly. She did not know how to kiss.
She always presented her nose or a portion
of her jaw to the dearest friends
she possessed. Possibly the habit had
grown on her from a fear of spoiling the
dainty arrangement of rouge and powder

with which her face was embellished, but
it had become a custom from which she
never deviated. Fenella felt the coldness
of her mother's embrace, even whilst it
fell upon her cheek, and, worn out with
fatigue and excitement and disappointment,
she burst into tears.

Dearest mother ! ' she exclaimed, * don't
be angry with me for coming up before you
sent for me ; but I could not wait downstairs
any longer. I felt as if my heart
would burst with longing. Oh, mamma,
what a time it is since we met ! I thought
I was never going to see you again.'

That was a very silly thing to think,'
replied Mrs Barrington sweetly, as she
disengaged herself from the girl's clinging
clasp, which she feared would prove rather
detrimental to her dinner dress. ' Of
course I should have had you home soon,
dear Fenella, only it was not very convenient
just at present, as I am expecting
to go abroad in a day or two with
some friends.'

Oh, I will be no trouble to you, darling
mother,' said Fenella, smiling through
her tears. ' I will wait on you and be
your maid, and I can always sit at home,
when you go out, with my books or my
work. I shan't want any other amusement.'


I am afraid you would soon get tired
of that, dear,' said Mrs Barrington, drawing
down her lip complacently. ' And
I am not what I was, Fenella. I have
had much trouble and sorrow in this life
beside the loss of your poor papa, and
they have robbed me of the little spirits
I was possessed.'

Oh no, they haven't ! You look as
young as ever, mamma. Isn't it strange
that you shouldn't have a grey hair in
your head yet  but I am glad of it. I
shouldn't like my beautiful mother to turn
grey like other women.'

Silly child,' remonstrated Mrs Barrington,
with a smile. ' But you must be
very hungry ; you haven't had your tea

yet. Bennett, take Miss Fenella downstairs
again, and see what they may have
to give you. I think there were some
cutlets left from luncheon. And let the
child have a glass of wine  she looks
very thin and pale ; it will be better for
her than tea. And we will discuss the
subject we were speaking of just now
when I return home to-night.'

Don't send me from you, mamma,'
said Fenella entreatingly. ' Let me wait
here till you are ready to come down
too.'

But, my dear, I am going out to dinner.
I shall have to leave the house in
ten minutes.'

The girl's face fell.

Going out ! and on our first evening
too. Oh, I am sorry. Couldn't you put
it off and stay at home with me ? I have
so much to say to you, mamma. It is
so hard to part with you again so soon.'

I feel it too, my dear Fenella, I can
assure you ; but my engagement is almost

a business one, at all events of the utmost
importance, and I cannot possibly
postpone it. It is provoking, isn't it ?
but then I hardly expected you to-night,
and we can have a long talk together
tomorrow. Besides, you must be very
tired after such a journey, and should goto
bed early.'

May I sleep with you, mamma ? ' asked
Fenella eagerly.'

Mrs Barrington shrugged her shoulders
and glanced at her French bedstead.

My dear girl,' she replied, ' I am
afraid there would be no room for such
a Igng creature as you are in my diminutive
couch. What is her height, should
you think, Bennett ? She looks a perfect
grenadier to me. It seems quite impossible
she should be my daughter.'

'I should say Miss Fenella was a good
bit over n feet,' said Eliza Bennett.

I am five feet five inches,' interposed
the girl mournfully.

An awful height, my dear child ; just

three inches too tall for a woman. We
shall have to look out for a guardsman
for you. However, you won't look so
tall, perhaps, when you've filled out a
little, and get into decent frocks. How
those old nuns can let you go about such
an object I can't think.'

'All the convent pupils wear the same
dress, mamma.'

Well, I suppose so ; and it does well
enough for a hole like Ansprach. And
now you had better go with Bennett and
get your tea. You positively look as
white as a sheet.

Mayn't I stay and help you to dress,
mamma ?' demanded Fenella more timidly.
I am not at all in a hurry for my tea,
and I want to be with you to the very
last.'

But this would not have suited Mrs
Barrington, who had to put some fresh
layers of white and pink upon the
cheeks over which Fenella had incautiously
wept, before she could encounter

the lights of Lady Wilson's
drawing-room.

No, my dear, I couldn't think of it,
and there is positively nothing more todo,
for, as you see, Bennett has fastened
my dress, and I have only my cloak to
put on. Take Miss Fenella down with
you, Eliza,' she said, with a meaning
glance at the servant, ' and see that she is
made comfortable. And put her to bed
early  she must need rest.'

And am I to sit up for you, ma'am } '
demanded Bennett, whose eyes were red
for want of sleep.

Yes ; I think so ; I must speak to
you about this matter of going abroad,
and all the rest of it. I shan't be late ;
but if I am you can lie down on the
couch till I return. Good-night, my dear
child,' continued Mrs Barrington as she
presented her chin to Fenella ; ' mind
you sleep well, and we will see what we
can do about getting you some other
dresses tomorrow,' and in another minute

Fenella and the servant found themselves
on the landing with the bedroom
door closed behind them. They followed
each other to the dining-room in silence.
The girl's heart was so full she could
not trust herself to speak, and Bennett
did not know what to say to console
her. The comfortable meal was soon upon
the table, for Mrs Barrington was an
epicure in her feminine way, and loved
good eating and good service  but Fenella
scarcely tasted anything. Eliza Bennett,
after the belief of her class, pressed her
young mistress to eat and drink, as the
best cure for the disappointment under
which she saw she was labouring ; but
Fenella was sick at heart, and after having
swallowed a cup of tea, sat with folded
hands over the fire, thinking to herself.
She had listened eagerly at first for the
sound of her mother's footstep descending
the stairs, in hopes that Mrs Barrington
would look into the dining-room to
give her one more kiss, but such sentimentalism

was not in that lady's nature.
She had gone straight from her bedroom
to the carriage that was waiting
for her, and driven off to her friend Lady
Wilson, with but one thought disturbing
her mind  how she was to get rid of
the encumbrance that had been unexpectedly
thrust upon her. She was not
blind to the advantages of her daughter's
appearance. She had seen at a glance,
notwithstanding the unsightly convent
uniform, that Fenella would shortly be,
not only a woman, but a very handsome
woman. She had dreaded having some
awkward school-girl  all arms and legs,
red elbows and splay feet  thrust upon
her, but the reality was worse than the
anticipation. The lanky school-girl would
have been only a nuisance ; but this fair,
straight lily with her lovely, speaking
eyes and earnest manner threatened to
become a formidable rival. With all her
conceit and self-appreciation, Mrs Barrington
could not be blind to the fact that,

were her daughter seen by her side, she
would throw her charms considerably in
the shade : might even make young Wilson,
who was more in love with women than
with any particular woman, waver in his
half-formed allegiance to herself. There
was no doubt about it  if the widow was
to succeed in making a second marriage,
it would not be with Fenella standing
and looking on  and the puzzle was, how
to get rid of her.

Had there been plenty of money at hand,
the thing would have been easy enough.
Mrs Barrington would have sent her off
to some sanatorium or sea-side boarding
school, and said the dear child's health
required it. All difficulties vanish when
the purse is full. But she had barely
enough coin to accomplish her plan of
sharing Lady Wilson's housekeeping fora
few months at Mentone, and certainly
none to spare for the requirements of a
daughter, to keep whom it would take
as much as to keep herself.

At the Convent of Saint Barbara it was
all such smooth sailing. The nuns had
taken the girl in for the whole year, and
boarded and educated her for twenty
pounds, and had become so used to
Mrs Barrington's pleadings, for a little
indulgence in the matter of payment,
that they had ceased to press even for
that. But now they refused to keep
Fenella there any longer, and she supposed
they would be sending in their
horrid bill, and she would be compelled
to pay it, added to those of Masters and
Carrafine, and all the rest.

It was too provoking  enough to make
any woman curse the day when she had
become a mother ! And so fidgeting
and perplexed, Mrs Barrington went to
her friend's house, and looked so pensive
and mournfully sweet all through dinner,
that she very nearly brought young
Wilson to book the same evening, and
had it only been a little later in the
season, and she had been able to draw

him out upon a moonlit balcony, she
quite believed it would have been an accomplished
thing. Meanwhile, by means
of languishing glances and well-directed
sighs, she did her best to excite his
warmest interests ; whilst her disappointed
young daughter sat at home with the
servant, and tried to keep up an appearance
of cheerfulness, until it was
time for her to go to bed. But the
attempt could hardly be termed a
success.

Fenella talked of her convent life, and
the occupations she had pursued there,
and her voice faltered as she mentioned
Honoree St Just, and the probabilities
of seeing her again. The girl's grief at
parting with her friend was genuine ; but
there would have been no room for it
that night had she been in the possession
of her mother's new-found love to
comfort her. And, although she did not
yet acknowledge it to herself, the cold
disappointment and regret that were

VOL. I. F

weighing down her heart, were not for
her friends at Ansprach, but for the void
that had taken their place, the empty
home to which she had come, the sorry
welcome that had awaited her. She
chattered on of the kindness of the
nuns, and the love the little children
had borne her, and the fear she entertained
lest she should never meet
Honoree again, until her over-wrought
feelings reached their climax, and found
vent In an hysterical burst of tears.
Of course the servant declared she
was over-tired, and must go to rest at
once, and Fenella obeyed without demur,
and lay down In the room prepared
for her, with a weary sense of loneliness
and pain.

Eliza Bennett attended on her as her
mother ought to have done, and sat in
the room whilst the girl knelt down
and addressed her simple prayers to
Heaven.

Captain Barrlngton had been both loved

and pitied by his servants, and this one,
although she was so strangely devoted
to his frivolous widow, had not forgotten
Fenella's father, and felt all the more
drawn to the girl because of her likeness
to him. She waited till the last word of
the prayer had been uttered, and Fenella
had risen to her feet, and then she took
her in her arms, as if she had been her
own child, and laid her gently down in
her bed.

Don't you fret, my dear,' she whispered
compassionately, ' your mamma's a
bit flurried and put out to-night by our
coming in so suddenly, but she will be
better to - morrow. She'll come to see
things in a different light, and that what
must be must be ; and then you'll feel
more at home - like with her. The mistress
was always a hard one to move ; but
when she can't alter a matter, she generally
makes the best of it. So don't you
think nothing of her manner nor her
words, but go to sleep like a good child,

and she'll be very different in the morning.'


But all the effect of Eliza Bennett's
speech was to make Fenella cling to her
tighter and weep more convulsively. She
did not utter a complaint against her
mother or her reception. She only cried
till she could cry no longer, and her eyes
closed from sheer exhaustion. And then
Bennett kissed the fair, sweet face very
tenderly, and laid it down upon the pillow,
and watched by Fenella till there was
no chance of her waking again. Her
sympathies were roused on behalf of her
dead master's child, and, though she didn't
know how she should do it, and the mere
thought of such a thing made her tremble,
she was determined to plead her cause
with Mrs Barrington as soon as ever she
came home.

She took up her station in her mistress's
room for that purpose, but she had argued
the point with herself and nodded off to
sleep, and started up to recommence her

argument, and nodded off to sleep again,
at least a dozen times, before that selfish
little lady's latch-key was heard to
turn in the hall door, and she came
upstairs to rouse Eliza Bennett in good
earnest.

c!.m. f

fS%

'for self alone

I would cut off my own head if it had nothing
in it than wit ; and tear out my own heart if
it had no better disposition than to love only
myself.'  Pope.

RS BARRINGTON returned
home as cross as she could be.
In the first place, the absence
of the warm weather and the moonlit balcony,
which would certainly have brought
Mr Wilson to the point, had considerably
put her out; and then, as if to add fuel
to the flame, Lady Wilson had insisted
upon sending her husband. Sir Thomas,
to see her down to her carriage on coming

away, whilst she kept her son Henry
dancing attendance on some old women
upstairs. And thus Mrs Barrington had
missed saying the last few tender words
to him, which would have kept the flame
alight In his youthful breast until they met
again. And, Instead of having made an
appointment, he would probably come
blundering In to - morrow, just at the
wrong moment, and catch her tete-astute
with that child, Fenella, who was the last
person In the world she wished him to
see. Altogether, it was enough to provoke
a saint, and Mrs Barrington, not
having reached that climax of perfection,
was very much provoked indeed. As
she commenced to undress, and scattered
her jewellery and her false curls and her
flowers to every side of her, Eliza Bennett
saw that she was in for a very hot discussion.
And as soon as Mrs Barrington
was in her dressing-gown, and the
servant began to brush her hair, it commenced.


Bennett ! ' she ejaculated, without
further preface, ' I never thought you
could be such a fool.'

Indeed  indeed, ma'am, as I told you
before, it is not my fault.'

Where is that child ? What have you
done with her ? '

She is asleep, ma'am  in the little bed
in my room.'

You are sure that she is asleep, that
she won't hear us talking and come down
in the middle and interrupt our conversation,
or overhear it ? '

Quite sure, ma'am  she's been fast
asleep ever since nine o'clock. I've been
up several times,, but she never stirred.
She's just worn out, and no mistake.'

I daresay she is, and the sounder she
sleeps the better. Look here, Bennett,
we've never had any secrets from each
other, and I must speak plainly to you.
Fenella's coming home just now will be
my ruin.'

I was afraid you might think so, ma'am,

but I hope it won't turn out as bad as
that;

Don't talk rubbish ! What should you
know about it ? I tell you it will. I have
always spoken of her to the Wilsonss asa
very little girl  naturally  and I believe
if Lady Wilson were to see her looking
such a woman, she would use her as an
argument against her son marrying me.
And she isn't too well disposed towards
the idea as it is.'

 I'm sorry to hear that, ma'am. I
always thought her ladyship such a friend
of yours.'

Oh, a friend  yes ! like most women
are to each other  the jealous cats ! A
friend so long as I can be of use to her,
or make myself agreeable, but just the
reverse directly I interfere with her views
for her idiot of a son. But I mean to
marry him, Bennett, for all that, unless
something much better comes in the way.'

If you mean to do it, ma'am, you will,'
replied the servant. ' I should think there

was very few things you couldn't do if
you choose.'

And her mistress's power over herself
was so absolute that Bennett really believed
what she said.

Well, I'm not so sure of that,' said Mrs
Barrington, * but at any rate I mean to
try. But I shall never succeed if Fenella's
in the way. Her presence would spoil
everything. Very few men would care
to find themselves fathers  ready-made 
to a girl like that.

And yet she's a very handsome young
lady mused the servant.

Oh, it isn't a question of her looks,'
rejoined her mistress, fretfully, ' she'll be
well enough by-and-by, I daresay. I don't
see (considering she's my daughter) how
she can fail to be, but she's so tall and
womanly for her age. No one would
believe she was only sixteen. Besides
which, Bennett,' continued Mrs Barrington
in a more confidential voice, ' I am
not sure how Miss Fenella and I would

get on together. Those old nuns do put
such queer ideas in girls' heads ; she's
most likely full of fads about churches
and prayers, and the wickedness of
pleasure, and so forth, and I couldn't
stand a walking sermon about the house.
She'd be as bad as a death's-head and
cross-bones to me.'

But the reverend mother said that
Miss Fenella had no particular religion,
ma'am ; that she was neither a Protestant
nor a Roman Catholic, so I don't suppose
she troubles herself much on such matters.'

All the better, Bennett ; I am sure it
never does one any good. You remember
how the poor captain used to fuss
and fidget me about religion, and I'm
sure he didn't die any the happier for it
himself

Eliza Bennett had her own opinion on
this subject, but she did not dare to
express it before Mrs Barrington.

But, putting religion on one side,'
continued the lady, ' I could not have

Fenella with me at present. She Is just
the sort of girl to think a Httle rouge and
powder an iniquity, and to tell the first
person who came into the house that
I dyed my hair. And there are some
things in this world, you know, Bennett,
that we cannot speak about.'

Oh, certainly, ma'am  without doubt,
and Miss Fenella is, as you say, very
childlike in such matters. She asked me
this morning why people went into a
church to get married.'

Now just fancy a girl of sixteen being
such a fool. And that's the sort of person
people would expect me to drag over the
world with me. But I can't do it, Bennett,
and I won't. My mind is made up on
that score. I must get rid of her, at all
events till I return to London, and the
question is '' How ? " '

I suppose her aunts, the captain's
sisters, wouldn't have her on a visit fora
bit, ma'am,' suggested Bennett.

Good gracious me, no! I've been

afraid to tell them the girl was at a convent
; they would have declared I wanted
her to be a Roman Catholic. As if I
cared what she was. She might turn
Mahometan tomorrow, if it pleased
her and she didn't interfere with my
plans. But the Miss Barrington would
be more troublesome than herself. They
are a couple of fussy old maids, who
would have the whole story from her in
an hour, and then proclaim it to the
world. Oh no, Bennett, whatever happens,
Fenella's aunts must not hear she
has returned to Norland.'

Could you put her in another school,
ma'am, for a spell } Perhaps we might
find one by the sea-side, where Miss
Fenella's health would be looked after,
for I'm afraid she's not over strong.'

There again, Bennett ! the provoking
part of it is, I am so terribly hard up.
I haven't more than enough money to
take me to Mentone, and there are a
dozen things I ought to pay first  your

wages, for instance. I think I owe you
for nearly a year

Oh, don't give another thought to
my wages, dear mistress,' cried EHza Bennett.
' I can do without them very well,
even if I never see them at all. Think
only of yourself, ma'am, and what's the
best thing to be done with poor Miss
Fenella.'

You're a good creature, Eliza,' replied
Mrs Barrington ; ' really you are ; and
I don't know what I should do without
you. However, you shan't lose by it,
and of that you may rest assured, only
do your best to help me out of this
dilemma. You know I've more than
one string to my bow, and if Mr Wilson
proves to be no good, I shall turn my
thoughts to Colonel Ellerton. He is
not so rich as Mr Wilson will be, but
what he has is his own, and he is not
dependent on the caprices of his mother.'

And he need not be ashamed of having
Miss Fenella as a daughter, ma'am

interposed Bennett, ' for he is old enough
to be her grandfather.'

I am not sure that a man's aee makes
him less particular on such points,' said
Mrs Barrington, ' and at any rate I should
prefer even Colonel Ellerton not seeing
her whilst matters are unsettled between
us. But there is no chance of that, as he
is abroad. See how conveniently things
had arranged themselves for me, Bennett.
Colonel Ellerton has been passing the
winter in Mentone, the very place to
which I am going with the Wilsonss, so
that if one man fails me, I have only to
take up with the other, for the colonel has
been my most devoted admirer for years.'

I know that, ma'am, but then who
isn't ? ' murmured Eliza Bennett.

And then this stupid girl is thrown
back upon my hands to spoil it all. But
I cannot allow it. Her interests, as well
as my own, demand that I make some
sacrifice in the matter, and however much
I might wish to keep her with me, she

must stay behind. I have neither the
money nor the power to take her abroad.'

What can we do with her ? ' questioned
the servant with knitted browns.

I have thought of a plan, Bennett !
It will entail enormous inconvenience on
me, but some one must suffer in the
matter. I must part with you for awhile,
and you must take Fenella to your own
home in the country, until I can have you
both back again.'

The first thought that struck Eliza
Bennett on this announcement, was horror
at the idea of separating from her mistress.

Oh, don't send me from you, ma'am ! '
she exclaimed, as she stood behind Mrs
Barrington s back with the uplifted brush
in her hand ; ' what on earth would you
do without me ? Who is to brush your
hair and keep it a nice colour, and to
alter your dresses and mend your linen .'*
Who will wait on you and see you have
all your little comforts around you ? You'll
never get on without me, ma'am, who

have served you for so many years, and
as for myself,' continued Bennett, in a
faltering voice, * why, the last two days
have been bad enough, and what I
should do missing you for weeks, I'm
sure I can't tell.'

'Well, I know it will be hard, Eliza,
awfully hard, you don't suppose I don't
feel it,' returned Mrs Barrington ; ' but
what on earth are we to do ? They won't
keep the girl at school, and I can't take
her with me, and I can't leave her here,
and I don't know a soul to send her to.
Now, with you and your people she will
be safe, and I think I have heard you say
you come from some place by the sea.'

Yes, ma'am, from Lines - cedwyn in
Wales, and my brother's farm isn't a stone's-throw
from the water ; but it isn't a place
for a lady to lodge in, ma'am. They're
only poor folk when all's said and done,
and I doubt if they have a bedroom that's
fit to put Miss Fenella in.'

Nonsense, Bennett! any place will do

VOL. I. G

that contains a bed to lie on. Do you
suppose she has been accustomed to luxury
at the convent ? Why, they bring them
all up as hardy as can be. The only
question is, what your brother would expect
for keeping the child and you, and
whether he would want to have the money
down, or consent to wait for it ? '

Oh, don't think twice about the money,
ma'am ! My brother Benjamin is my only
living relation, and he'll be but too glad
to see me in the old house again for a few
weeks. And Miss Fenella's bit and sup
won't make them nor break them, and
they'll be willing enough to bide sour own
time for the payment. But what I'm
thinking of, ma'am, is yourself. What will
you do without me ? '

I must do without you,' replied Mrs
Barrington, with the air of a martyr. ' A
mother is constantly called on to give up
something or other for her child, and I
must give up you. Perhaps Lady Wilson's
maid will help me a little, when I

tell her the necessity of the case. I shall
say the doctors forbid my taking Fenella
abroad, and ordered her into Wales for
change, so I was compelled to leave you
to take charge of her. That will be a
plausible story, which no one can find
fault with.'

'Miss Fenella at my brother Benjamin's
at Ines-cedwyn,' said Bennett, in an incredulous
voice ; ' I can hardly believe it
will come true. You mustn't deceive
yourself, ma'am. We call it a farm, but
it's a poor place  no better than many a
labourer's cottage  and from what I hear,
my brother hasn't been doing very well
of late years. His wife Martha is a thrifty
body enough, and will do all she can to
oblige ; but it will be coarse food and
living I'm afraid for the young lady, and
she won't have a soul to speak to but
myself.'

Who else should she want ? ' demanded
her mistress rather snappishly ; ' you're
making a ridiculous fuss over the matter,

it strikes me, Bennett. The child can
take down her books if she likes and goon
with her lessons, but I think she had
much better spend all her time in the open
air. Don't forget she goes there for her
health, Bennett, and let her be on the
beach all day long. As she wants change,
let her have it. It would add to all my
other troubles to have a long doctor's bill
for her attendance.'

If Miss Fenella goes with me to Ines-
cedwyn, ma'am, I'll do all I can to make
her strong ; you may depend on that,'
replied Bennett. 'It's a fine bracing
place, and so lonely that you can bathe
off the beach without a machine, and the
young lady will be able to roam about
just as she pleases. No harm will come
to her there.'

That's just what I want for her,' said
Mrs Barrington, with a sigh of relief.
Take her where she'll grow strong, and
no one will see her. And then when I've
settled my own matters, I'll have her

home and Introduce her into society. She
ought to marry well, by-and-by, Bennett !
and so she will If I marry well myself.
But, under present circumstances,
I have no Inclination to take her about
with me.'

And I don't think she'd care for It If
you did, ma'am. Miss Fenella don't seem
to me like a young lady as would care
much for balls and parties.'

Ah ! dreamy and romantic, I suppose,
like her poor father. The worst disposition,
Bennett, with which a woman can
enter the world. It blinds her to her
own interests, and makes her go gaping
like a fool, after some impossibility which
she never attains. I thought her voice
sounded rather sentimental, and I hate
girls who are always ready to cry. You
must try and knock that out of her when
you are down at Ines-cedwyn. Talk
to her sensibly about money, and the
impossibility of living In this world without
It, and I daresay you will do her a

deal of good. She ought to have some
sense on the subject, since she is my
daughter.'

I am afraid those nuns have learned
her very little that is useful,' replied
Bennett, shaking her head as she remembered
the episode of the morning.
Miss Fenella is as much of a child for
her age as ever I see ! '

Well, we mustn't be too hard upon
her,' said the mother sweetly  having
gained her point she felt uncommonly
sweet again ; ' perhaps she inherits that
from me too. Poor Captain Barrington
always said I was the greatest child he
knew, and Lady Wilson really said this
evening  and you know how cruel women
generally are about each other  that she
could not believe I was more than thirty.'

You didn't undeceive her, I hope,
ma'am '. '

Oh no ! I didn't say anything one
way or another. I wouldn't tell a falsehood,
you know, for the world. I only

remarked I hoped it would be a longtime
before I looked as much  but trouble
was a terrible thing to age women. I
really think Lady Wilson likes mie, Bennett.
She kissed me twice this evening.'

I am sure she does, ma am  in fact,
she must. Who can help it ? But with
respect to Miss Fenella. I suppose you'll
break the news of her going to Ines-
cedwyn to her '. '

I don't suppose there'll be anything
to break, Bennett. She ought to be very
pleased to go. It's just the place to suit
a young girl. I shall tell her the doctor
has ordered it, and there is no gainsaying
his opinion. And now I think we had
better go to bed. It is past three, I
declare ; and all the packing must be
done tomorrow.'

Will Miss Fenella and I start before
yourself, ma'am ? '

I think not. There is no need forme
to part with you before I am absolutely
obliged. And now tuck me up

like a good woman and leave me to
sleep. I'm as tired as I can be.'

The woman arranged her mistress in
bed as carefully as though she had been
an infant ; covering her lightly with the
laced counterpane, and drawing the curtains
round her head. Then she stooped
and kissed the slender fingers that lay
outside the bed-clothes. Mrs Barrington
felt the silent homage, and lifting her
hand patted Eliza Bennett's face condescendingly.


You're a good creature,' she murmured
sleepily ; ' a very good creature. I don't
know what I should do without you,' and
the servant's heart thrilled as she felt
the touch and heard the words, and she
crept away with the glamour of her mistress's
spirit stronger upon her than ever.

RELUCTANT FEET.

Standing with reluctant feet,

Where womanhood and childhood meet.

S'j' EN ELLA did not see her mother

on the following morning until
she descended to the breakfast-room,
but their meeting then seemed to
atone for everything that had gone before.
Mrs Barrington was looking her
best, for she had no intention of letting
her young daughter into her secrets too
soon. Eliza Bennett had already arranged
her golden-tinted hair into its many twists
and curls, and a pale blue cashmere dress



g gown, trimmed with swan's - down,

greatly enhanced the effect of the powder
on her delicate complexion, and the touch
of carmine she had applied to her lips.

Oh, mamma, how beautiful you look ! '
was the girl's first greeting, and the admiration
was genuine. Mrs Barrington's
style and attire were so totally opposed
to anything she had been accustomed to
see at the convent, that Fenella thought
she was the rarest, daintiest vision of
beauty that had ever burst upon her
sight. She had always considered her
friend Honoree pretty, because she loved
her ; but Honoree's looks became commonplace
by comparison with those of
her mother. Mrs Barrington was not
displeased at the compliment. She was
so vain that all flattery was welcome to
her, even when it came from the lips of
an inexperienced child, fresh from her
convent school. She bridled and smiled,
and told Fenella she was a silly girl to
say such things of an old woman whom
no one else considered worth looking at.

*An old woman, mamma! How can
you say so ? ' cried her daughter. ' Do
you know, my greatest wonder is to find
you still so young ? I don't know what
I can have been thinking about, but I
really expected you to be quite middle-aged,
and perhaps have grey hair by this
time.'

Foolish child,' murmured Mrs Barrington,
though rather consciously.

Yes ; am I not ? I suppose it is because
I have been away so many years
that I make such a mistake. And another
thing, mamma, I always fancied
your hair was dark. I used to tell the
girls at school that my mother had dark
hair. I. seem quite to have forgotten it
was golden  and such a pretty golden
too  the prettiest colour, I think, that I
have ever seen. How could I be so silly
as to forget it ? '

Children have usually short memories,
and take all sorts of fancies into their
heads,' replied Mrs Barrington, with a

visible Increase of colour. ' I daresay
you dreamt It, my dear. But let us take
our breakfast, for I have to go shopping
this morning.'

How delightful that will be,' chattered
Fenella, as she poured out the tea.
There was a girl at Ansprach who lived
In London, and she used to tell us so
much about the shops. Are you going
to buy me some new dresses, mamma ? '

I don't know, my dear,' said Mrs
Barrlngton.

She had come downstairs determined,
before breakfast was over, to tell her
daughter of the absolute necessity of her
going to the sea-side ; but somehow, looking
into those fearless grey eyes, the
task became more difficult than It had
seemed to be.

I am not sure whether you will require
new dresses till the summer Is
over,' she went on ; ' for I have several
that can be altered nicely for you, and
you will be at a quiet sea-side place where

your convent uniform will do as well as
anything else.'

Shall we ?' exclaimed Fenella eagerly ;
oh, I am very glad of that ! To be at
some quiet place with you, where we shall
be always together, and there will be no
tiresome balls and parties to take you
away in the evenings, will be just like
heaven, won't it ? And we shall be able
to bathe, and to sit on the beach all day,
and li Bennett will cut out my frocks, I
will make them myself  I love work, and
chere mere used to say I was the quickest
worker in the school.'

So ran on Fenella, never doubting but
that wherever she went, her mother would
go too. For what other reason than to be
with her had she been sent home from
Ansprach. But Mrs Barrington did not
immediately respond. Practised deceiver
as she was, she required a little time, in
order to frame a politic reply.

I don't think you need trouble yourself
about the work, my dear,' she said

after a pause ; * Bennett will do all that
you require, and I want you to enjoy
yourself, and get all the strength you can
during your visit to the sea. You will
never be able to stand a London life,
Fenella, if you don't grow strong. I shall
want you to go to balls and parties with
me by-and-by, and that is very fatiguing
for anybody. And, of course, you must
bathe  every day  and be in the open air
as much as you can. You have evidently
been shut up too much at Ansprach.'

Don't you like bathing, mamma ?'

No, my dear ! it doesn't agree with me,
nor the sea-side either I I am generally
ill there.'

Fenella's face grew ominously grave.

Oh, mother, don't go then ! What
does my health signify in comparison with
yours ? Besides, I am really stronger
than I look  and now I am with you
again, I am sure I shall be quite well.
We mustn't go to the sea, mamma ; I
shall be wretched if we do.'

My dear, I have already . taken a
doctor's opinion on the subject, and he
says it is absolutely necessary you should
have the benefit of sea air. At all risks,
therefore, yotc must go to the sea.'

The tears started into Fenella's eyes.
A suspicion of the truth darted on her.

Come, come, I must have no fretting,'
said her mother, as she rose from
table ; ' we have all to make sacrifices
sometimes in this world, dear, and you
will never find me backward, I hope, insetting
you a brave example. And now
I must leave you for my shopping.'

Mayn't I go with you, mamma ? '
pleaded Fenella as she resolutely swallowed
an ominous feeling that had risen in her
throat. ' I will be ready before you are ! '

Mrs Barrington looked the girl from
head to foot.

I would take you directly, Fenella, but
not this morning, my love, you see you
are scarcely suitably dressed to drive
about town. Besides, I am going out

on a very uninteresting errand, and shall
visit none of the fine shops your schoolfellows
spoke to you about. My business
lies entirely with house-agents and coach-builders.
But if you feel inclined for a
walk, Bennett shall take you into the
park, or down Regent Street, where you
will see all the prettiest things in London.'

No thank you, mamma,' replied the
girl, in a disappointed tone. ' If I can't
go with you, I would rather stay at home
till you return.'

'Just as you please, my dear. I shall
be home to luncheon,' said Mrs Barrington,
as smiling sweetly she tripped up to
her room. On the threshold she met
Eliza Bennett.

'Just fancy!' she exclaimed. 'Miss
Fenella's taken it into her head to sulk
because I refused to let her accompany
me out driving this morning. As if I
could be seen with a girl dressed up such
an object as she is ! But if she's going
to turn out sulky, there'll be an end of

all peace between us, Bennett. I hate
a sullen temper. Her poor father had
it, you remember ; and what words it
made between us! It was bad enough
from a husband, but I never could endure
it from a daughter.'

I don't think Miss Fenella is sulky,
ma'am,' replied Bennett ; ' but I fancy*
she's a little disappointed at finding things
different from what she expected.'

'Different! How different?' snapped
Mrs Barrington.

She hasn't seen much of you since
she came home, ma'am.'

How could she expect to do so when
I have all these engagements ? Give me
the black satin cloak, Bennett, and the
velvet bonnet.'

Shall you be gone long, ma'am ? '

No ; I shall be back to luncheon.
I am going out early on purpose to beat
home when Mr Wilson calls. He is
sure to look in this afternoon. And
mind, Bennett, if any one comes whilst

VOL. I. H

I am away, they are not to be admitted.
Say I am out, and shall not be back
till three o'clock. Do you understand ? '

Yes, ma'am  only, did you not say
I was to go to French's this morning
about the cleaning of your lace ? '

Of course ! and so you must go, or
it will not be done in time. How provoking
! You ought to be here to answer
the door in case of visitors.'

Can't Mrs Watson do it, ma'am ?'

She is so stupid ; she never understands
an order.'

I'll make her understand, ma'am ;
it's easy enough. No one is to be admitted
on any account, and Miss Fenella
will be quite happy with her books whilst
I'm away. I shan't be gone more than
half-an-hour.'

'Very well, Bennett. I leave it to you,'
said Mrs Barrington, as she descended
to the carriage in waiting for her.

The servant saw her drive away,
and then returned to the breakfast-room,

where she found Feiiella in a very dejected
attitude, looking out at the leads
from the back window.

'Come, Miss Fenella ! ' she exclaimed.
I have to go out on a little business
for your mamma, and you must try and
amuse yourself whilst I am away. There
isn't much to see in this room, but if
you'll go into the drawing-room, there's
a nice fire, and the piano, and plenty of
picture-books, and as soon as I come
back I'll dust it and set it in order
against the mistress has company in the
afternoon.'

Fenella's sad face brightened. Bennett's
words had suggested that she might
be of some use.

Is mamma going to have company ? '
she exclaimed. * Let me set the drawing-room
in order for her, Bennett. I can
do it just as well as you. We always had
to make our beds and keep the dormitories
clean at St Barbara. Will you give mea
duster and a brush, and let me be of

use to you and mamma ? ' she said, with
a pleading look, as she approached the
servant's side.

Of course I will, if it will give you
any pleasure, miss,' replied Bennett ;
'although it don't seem quite the right
thing for your papa's daughter to do.
Still, I don't suppose your mamma will be
angry, and that's the main point.'

I will run and get my apron,' said
Fenella, and a few minutes after Bennett
left her busily engaged dusting the books
and ornaments in the drawing-room.

Mind,' said the servant to the owner
of the apartments, as she passed her in
the hall on her way out, ' if anybody calls
whilst I'm absent, you're to say Mrs
Barrington won't be back till three. Do
you understand ? '

Well, it's not particularly difficult to
understand,' muttered the woman, who
didn't like being dictated to by a servant.

Meanwhile Fenella, having dusted all
the china and pictures, and looked through

the photograph albums (where the only
portrait she recognised was that of her
father), remembered the piano, and opened
it to try Its tone. One of the girl's chief
talents lay In music. She was too young
to be a finished Instrumentality, but she
possessed a soprano voice of unusual
purity and power, which had been assiduously
cultivated by the Sisters of St
Barbara, in order that she might perform
in their choir.

To hear Fenella sing was like listening
to a thrush at early morning carolling in a
lilac bush ; her voice was so fresh and shrill,
it reminded you only of a bird that sang
because it could not help singing. It
lacked as yet the modulation that comes
only with culture and experience, but it
had that in it which every year would
lessen  the sound of nature and youth
and gladness that could not be restrained,
and yet moved the listener to tears in
remembering what he had lost. The girl
knew few sonofs and fewer ballads. Such

compositions spoke of earth rather than
heaven, and had been condemned by the
good sisters as dangerous. But she had
a glorious stock of hymns and anthems 
the grand old Catholic hymns for which
the masters of their art had not considered
it infra dig, to compose the music, and
with which the most solemn acts of
Faith of the Church were intimately associated.


As Fenella opened her mother's piano,
the desire to sing came over her, and
without preface she placed her hands upon
the notes and brought out some such
chords as Rossini loved to handle, or
Mozart create. And then her pure,
young voice rose in unison, and a solemn
chant sounded through the rooms that
made the woman in the hall pause with
her broom in her hand to listen. It was
not often (if ever) that such sounds had
floated through these apartments. Mrs
Barrington was no musician ; she kept her
piano for the use of her friends rather than

herself, and such chords as were usually-struck
from it were of a decidedly secular
not to say unholy  nature. So the
woman in the hall leant on her broom
and said, ' Well, I never ! '

At that moment a gentleman came up
the front steps and stood at the door 
which was open.

Is Mrs Barrington at home?* he inquired.


No, sir, she ain't ; and she won't be
home till three o'clock.'

The visitor paused.

Surely that is Mrs Barrington's piano
that I hear ? ' he said. * Are you quite
sure she is out ? '

'Quite sure, sir  at least so her servant
told me just now. But I think
that's the young lady as is playing the
pinner.'

What young lady ? '

Miss Barrington, sir; she came home
yesterday from school.' i

Mr Henry Wilson (for it was he)

stood and deliberated with himself for a
moment. He had heard that the fascinating
widow, who occupied most of his
thoughts at the present time, had a
daughter, but he had always imagined
she was a little girl of five or six years
old. Everything connected with Mrs
Barrington was naturally interesting to
him, and he suddenly conceived a desire
to see the little girl and judge for himself.
So he turned to his informant and
said, 

'If Miss Barrington is at home, I will
go upstairs and leave my message with
her.'

This proposal not in any way infringing
(as the woman thought) on Eliza
Bennett's admonition, she led the way
to the drawing-room, and opening the
door, announced Mr Wilson as ' a gentleman
to see your ma, miss,' and retired,
leaving him in the presence of
Fenella.

The girl rose from the piano as he

appeared, but was in nowise abashed by
his entrance. She only made him a
slight reverence (after the porte fashion
in which foreign children are educated),
and brought forward a chair for his
acceptance, which Mr Wilson, colouring
scarlet, seized from her hand with alacrity.
Then he seated himself awkwardly
enough  the unexpected appearance of
this fine young woman so entirely upset
his mental equilibrium  whilst Fenella
sat opposite, calmly waiting to hear him
address her.

I think I must be mistaken,' he
stammered at last. * The person who
admitted me said Miss Barrington was
at home, but it is quite impossible that
you can be the daughter of my friend
Mrs Barrington.'

Fenella looked puzzled, and knit her
white brows.

Because I am not so pretty as she is,
do you mean ? ' she said ingenuously.

Oh, Miss Barrington, how could you

suppose such a thing ? No, indeed ! but
I imagined  I had an idea that Mrs
Barrington's daughter was quite a little
girl.'

Had you ? How funny. Did mamma
never tell you, then ? I know I am tall
for my age, but I was sixteen last birthday,
so I ought to be tall, ought I not ? '

Yes, indeed,' replied Mr Wilson; 'and
you are really, then, Fenella Barrington ? *

Yes, I am Fenella. I came from the
Convent at Ansprach yesterday with our
maid Bennett, but mamma and I are soon
going away again to some place abroad
where I can get well, for I am not very
strong. Mamma has gone out on business,
but she will be back to lunch. Do
you want to see her 't '

I did call for that purpose, but I am
very well pleased to see you instead.'

Ah, now ! you are laughing, I am
sure. I know I cannot be a bit like
mamma to any one. She is so beautiful
and so good.'

I quite agree with you ; but there
are different sorts of beauty in the world
Was it your voice that I heard singing
when I entered the house ? '

At this question Fenella did blush,
but she answered frankly, 

Yes, it was I  '

Would it be too much to ask you to
sing again ? I love music dearly.'

Do you ? But I don't think you
would care for mine. I don't know
any songs  only hymns and chants.'

But sacred music is the most glorious
music in the world,' said Mr Wilson.

If you think so, I will sing again,'
replied Fenella quietly, and she sat
down to the piano, and her fresh young
voice runof out the notes of an air
from Mendelssohn's Hymn of Praise.

'It is charming!  delicious! How I
should like my mother to hear you ! '
exclaimed her visitor, when she had
concluded.

I don't think mamma would like me

to sing before company,' said the girl.
She says I am too young for parties
yet. And who is your mother ? ' she
added naively.

She is called Lady Wilson, and is
a great friend of Mrs Barrington's.'

Then, perhaps, I may be allowed to
sing to her ; I cannot say. Are those
flowers for my mother ? ' she continued,
looking at a hothouse bouquet that Mr
Wilson carried in his hand. He had
intended them for an offering to the
fair widow, but somehow his fealty
wavered, and he thought he should like
to give them to her daughter instead.
He was a man of the world, and to
utter a white lie was no difficulty to him.

'No!' he answered boldly, as he held
them towards her. ' I brought them
for you.'

Her look of childish delight repaid
him for the onus he had taken on
himself. The improbability of the circumstance,
when he had confessed himself

unaware of her being in London,
never seemed to strike her.

Did you really ? ' she exclaimed, as
she buried her face in the roses and
hyacinths and stephanotis of which the
bouquet was composed. * How kind of
you to think of me  and when I love
flowers so dearly. But I shall give
them to my mother. You won't mind
that, will you ?  because I have nothing
to give her that is really my own, and
it seems so hard not to be able to give
to those we love. If I had thousands
and thousands of pounds, I would spend
them all upon my mother.'

You are very fond of your mother,
Miss Barrington.'

Of course I am ; and I have no father,
you know. My papa died when I was
only ten years old. Have you seen his
likeness ?'

I don't think I have,' said Mr Wilson,
rather uneasily, the virtues of the late
Captain Barrington not having formed

the usual topic of conversation between
the widow and himself.

Fenella dropped her bouquet, and flew
for the photograph book.

Here he is ! ' she exclaimed, as she
presented it open to her visitor. ' Hasn't
he a nice, good face ? Some people think
I am very like papa, and I am always so
proud to hear them say so. And he was
clever too, as well as good. And my poor
mother has had to live without him all
this time  isn't it sad for her ? '

Very sad,' replied Henry Wilson, not
knowing what else to say.

Bennett thinks that is the reason
mamma has kept me so long at ,'
resumed Fenella, in a mysterious
voice, * because I remind her too painfully
of papa ; but I hope she won't love me
the less for that, now that I have come
home again.'

And are you not going back to school,
Miss Barrington ?'

No !  never, I think ; for as soon as I

have grown strong and well, I am to go
out to balls and parties with mamma. I
don't know whether I shall care much for
them, but I shall love to go with mamma
everywhere, and look at her when I am
not speaking to her. It is so very, very
long, you see, since we have been together.*


I can quite understand your pleasure
at the reunion,' replied Mr Wilson, rising ;
and now, I think, I have intruded on
your time long enough, Miss Barrington,
and had better take my leave.'

Won't you wait to see mamma ? ' demanded
Fenella. * She will be back to
lunch.'

Not this morning, thank you. Will
you give Mrs Barrington my kindest regards,
and say that, if quite convenient
to her, I will look in tomorrow afternoon
to let her know the final arrangements
for our starting on Fridays'

Are we all going together, then ? ' exclaimed
Fenella brightly. * Oh, that will

be very nice ! and I shall be able to sing
to you whenever you wish me to do so.'

I shall claim your promise until, I am
afraid, you will regret having given it,' he
answered, and then he bowed himself out
of the room, and left Fenella smiling and
nodding above her bunch of roses and
hyacinths.

What a nice, kind man 1 ' she thought
as the door closed behind him. * If all
mamma's friends are like him, I shan't
be frightened of meeting them. But I
must put my lovely flowers in water, lest
they should fade before she returns.'

Meanwhile Henry Wilson went back
to his mother's house with somewhat of
a cloud upon his brow, which she was
not slow to detect. For Lady Wilson,
though a hard woman, was a good mother,
and this was her only child.

Henry,' she asked, * what is the matter
with you '. ' and he answered, 

Nothing ! don't bother me,' after the
manner of men.

But Lady Wilson was not to be put off
in that way.

Mrs Barrington is at the bottom of
this,' she said; 'it's no use your trying
to deceive me. There is always some
worry about that woman now-a-days, and
I wish she had been at the bottom of the
sea before I had consented to her making
one of our party to Mentone.'

I've not even seen Mrs Barrington this
morning,' replied her son.

But you have been to her house !
Whom did you see ? '

I saw her daughter, '

Her daughter ! What ! has she got
that child home ? What does she intend
to do with her ? She can't bring her to
Mentone. I hate children in the house.
They upset everything.'

But she isn't a child,' interposed Mr
Wilson, who was only too glad to have
an opportunity of retailing his news.
' She is quite a young woman, and twice
the size of her mother ! I never was so

VOL. I. I

astonished in my life. She sings charmingly,
and told me she was sixteen on
her last birthday.'

Sixteen last birthday,' repeated Lady
Wilson, as she made rapid mental calculations.
And then she turned round and
pounced upon her son.

Henry ! haven't I told you again and
again that Mrs Barrington is much older,
than she looks ? '

I daresay she Is. What does it matter
to me ? ' he answered consciously.

Well, I hope it doesn't matter, but it's
the truth. She's nearer forty than thirty
in fact, I shouldn't be surprised if she's
more than forty ; those niminy-pining
women with dolly features always manage
to keep their looks to the last. And so
the girl's a young woman, is she ? Why,
her mother has always spoken of her as
if she were still in frilled trousers and
frocks.'

Yes ; she looks very young, of course,
and her hair hangs down her back ; but

she's nearly as tall as I am, and she talks
as composedly as if she'd been *rout" all
her life. She's deucedly pretty too, mother,
though not at all like Mrs Barrington.'

She's none the worse for that snapped
Lady Wilson ; ' however, pretty or not, I
can't have her at Mentone, and I shall
write and tell her mother so. Our party's
made up  it was with the greatest inconvenience
I could squeeze Mrs Barrington
in, and a fifth person will upset everything.
Five people can't go in a carriage, nor an
opera box, nor a coupe ; it would split
us into two parties at once, and I won't
have it. If Mrs Barrington has decided
to take her daughter abroad, they must
go by themselves. Give me my blotting-book
and inkstand, Henry, and let me
write and settle this matter at once.'

You won't say anything to make Mrs
Barrington think we don't want herl remarked
the young man, as he complied
with his mother's request.

I shall say just what I told you  that

we can't make room for the girl ; that is
all. I know you are very partial to the
widow's society, Henry,' she continued
pointedly, ' though I sincerely trust there
will never be anything but friendship between
you ; but you must see that, if she
takes her daughter abroad, you will not
enjoy even that unmolested. Did Miss
Barrington appear to know anything of
her mother's plans ? '

Yes ; she spoke of it as a settled thing
that she was to accompany her abroad for
the sake of her health.'

What impertinence ! and without consulting
me ! ' replied Lady Wilson, as she
commenced to write her letter. * However,
Mrs Barrington shall soon know
my mind on the matter.'

Let me see what you have said,'
pleaded her son, as he leant over her
shoulder.

Certainly. I wish to have no secrets
from you, Henry.'

He read the note through, and sighed.

Is it not right?' demanded his mother.

Yes ; I don't see what else you could
have said. Miss Barrington's presence
would certainly prove a great kill-joy to
the party.'

Ah ! my son,' said Lady Wilson, as
she looked up affectionately in his face,
perhaps, did I consult my own interests,
I might put myself out of the way to
receive this young lady, for her mother
is not a favourite companion of mine.
But I want you to see this woman as
she is in her own home, Henry  selfish,
vain, and worldly  and when you have
done that, I will leave the issue of it to
your own good sense.'

Hush, mother,' he said gently ; ' don't
discuss her faults  it gives me pain ! '

I know it does ; so does the surgeon's
probe when it touches a secret wound.
But I cannot believe, Henry, but that
you would rather know the worst before
marriage than after, and this note will
help to show it you. Mrs Barrington has

been separated for five years from her
only child, who returns home  (how it is
that she has returned is a mystery to me) 
just in time to interfere with her mother's
plans of pleasure ! Let us see which the
widow prefers  her daughter or herself!
There is little doubt which she should
prefer, and, I think, even you will acknowledge
that a bad mother is scarcely
likely to make a good wife. Oh, Henry,
Henry ! twenty-five and forty  '

No, no, mother ; she cart be forty ! '

My boy, I tell you she is. Why, that
would only make her twenty-four years
old when this girl was born, and  '

Give me your note and I will see
it is sent at once,' cried her son, as he
seized the letter and left the room, to
avoid further discussion of a subject which
was beginning to make him feel ashamed
as well as miserable.

BANISHED.

What sudden angers this ? How have
I reap'd it ? '

Shakespeare.

Lisa BENNETT'S errand
occupied more time than she
had calculated upon, and she
returned home but a few minutes before
her mistress. She was still in her room,
taking off her walking things, when Mrs
Barrington entered the house. Fenella
was on the landing, ready to greet her
mother, the bouquet of flowers which
Henry Wilson had given her held tightly
in both hands behind her back.

Guess,' she cried gleefully  ' guess,
mamma, what I have for you ? '

Mrs Barrlngton was even more amiable
than she had been in the morning. The
agent who had let her apartments had
spoken in the highest terms of the probity
of the incoming tenants, and had even
handed her something on account ; and
she had met an old admirer, Sir Gilbert
Conroy, who had expressed himself delighted
at the encounter, and promised to
call on her before she left town. So she
was quite in the humour to enter into her
young daughter s gaiety.

How can I guess, you silly girl V she
replied, smiling. ' Besides, it's only some
trick or other. I know what you children
think fun. But if it's a mouse, Fenella,
I warn you not to show it to me, or I shall
go into convulsions. I never could endure
mice, nor black-beetles ; and I remember
once when your father (who was always
doing something stupid) put a cockchafer
on my arm, I nearly had a fit.'

Oh, mamma dear ! do you think I
would be so silly as to frighten you, or
give you anything nasty ? Look at my
present. That won't make you go Into a
fit, will It ? ' And as Fenella spoke, she
thrust the bouquet of roses and stephanotis
under her mother's nose.

At first Mrs Barrlngton was simply surprised.
She could not Imagine whence
the girl had procured such flowers.

I hope you haven't been spending your
money on me, Fenella,' she said ; ' for I
know how expensive hothouse bouquets
are at this time of the year. And your
purse cannot be too full, my dear ; I am
quite aware of that  '

Fenella laughed.

Mamma dear, I haven't got a sou ;
though, if I had thousands and thousands
of pounds, I could not find a greater happiness
than spending them on you. No,
I didn't buy the flowers ; and you must
guess where they came from, though I
suppose you never will.'

I am sure I shall not, my dear ; so you
had better tell me at once.'

But try, mamma  try repeated the
girl, as she followed Mrs Barrington and
the bouquet to the drawing-room. ' Think
of where they would be most likely to
come from.'

Were they left at the door for me ? '
demanded her mother quickly.

Fenella shook her head, smiling, all unmindful
of the storm which would gather
and burst in a moment, and scatter all her
gaiety to the winds.

No, no  nobody left them ; but I see I
must tell you, mamma. It was a gentleman
who called to see you who gave me
the flowers, and he said he had brought
them expressly for me. Wasn't it kind of
him ? But I told him I should give
them to you ; for I would much rather you
had them than myself. And, indeed, I
would.'

Mrs Barrington turned pale.

What gentleman ? ' she gasped.

Mr Wilson. He said his mother's
name was Lady Wilson, and he made
me sing to him, and he wants me to
go and sing to her ; but I said I must
ask your leave first, as I was not sure
if you considered me old enough yet to
sing before company.'

Mrs Barrington dropped the bouquet
on the table, and rang the bell violently.

Where is Bennett .- ' she demanded, ina
harsh voice. 'What was she about to
allow such a thing '. ' and then, without
waiting for an answer, she ran to the
door and called, ' Bennett ! Bennett !
where are you ? come here at once,' at
the top of her voice.

Fenella stood a little apart, frightened
and amazed.

What is the matter ? Have I done
wrong ? ' she said, in a timid voice. But
her mother took no heed of her quiet
supplication.

Where is Bennett } ' she demanded
again, with a stamp of the foot, whilst

the angry colour mounted to the very
partings of her hair.

EHza Bennett had heard the voice,
and interpreted its meaning. She ran
downstairs without her cap, and stood
before her mistress.

Is anything wrong, ma'am ? ' was her
first interrogation.

What were my orders to you on
leaving this house ? ' exclaimed Mrs Barrlngton
fiercely. ' Didn't I say that no
one was to be admitted during my absence
1 What is the use of my giving
orders if they are not obeyed  if there
is no more attention paid to my wishes
than if I was a cipher in my own
house ! '

But, indeed, ma'am, I don't understand,'
replied Bennett, trembling. ' I
gave your orders most particular to
Mrs Watson, the very last thing before
I left home, and she promised to
attend to them ; and I left Miss Fenella
busy dusting the drawing-room ; and I've

heard nothing of any one having been
here whilst I was away ! '

You never hear anything, nor see
anything  you're no use to me at all,'
cried her mistress angrily, and then she
turned on Fenella. ' And what did you
mean by asking the gentleman upstairs !
Do you suppose a child like you is a
proper person to receive my guests ?
It's a piece of insufferable impertinence
on your part, which may lead to all
kinds of mischief.'

Indeed  indeed, mamma,' said Fenella,
in a faltering voice, ' I did not ask him
up. I was singing at the piano, when
a woman opened the door and showed
the gentleman in. I couldn't turn him
out, could I ?  and when he had brought
me those beautiful flowers.'

Don't be rude to me, miss returned
her mother sharply, 'for I won't stand
it. And I don't believe Mr Wilson
brought the flowers for you at all. He
didn't know you were in existence, and

never should have except for this blundering
piece of folly.*

As these vords revealed one of the
traits in her mother's character, Fenella
turned white, and shrunk farther from
her. She was a child in her ignorance
of the world and its ways, but she had
been reared in a school that taught
her to distinguish truth from falsehood,
and a righteous anger from intemperance.


You don't mean to say, ma'am,' murmured
Bennett confidentially, 'as Mr
Wilson have been here ? '

Yes, I do ! What's the good of your
whispering in that absurd manner ? All
the town will know it before long. He
has been in this room sitting with that
child, and making her sing to him  and
receiving all her confidences, I suppose,
in exchange. I'd bet anything she told
him her age. Didn't you, now ? ' turning
to Fenella.

Yes,' replied the girl, in a low, sad

voice; *he asked me. How could I help
telling him ? '

You hear what she says, Bennett ?
The very thing I wished to avoid has
come to pass, and all through your idiocy,
or that of Watson, Send for that woman
to come to me at once. If I'm not to
have my orders obeyed, I shall give up
her rooms as soon as the season's oven'

Don't you think it's best to keep this
to ourselves, ma'am ? ' suggested Bennett,
gravely.

Obey my orders, and don't attempt to
dictate to me ! ' exclaimed her mistress,
who, once in a rage, refused all counsel,
and completely lost sight of policy.

In another minute Mrs Watson stood
in the doorway.

Mrs Watson ! didn't you understand
Bennett to say that no visitors were to
be admitted during my absence this morning?'


No, I didn't,' replied the woman sullenly.


Don't presume to answer me in that
tone. Bennett says she gave you the
order distinctly.'

She did nothing of the sort,' replied
Mrs Watson ; ' because, in the first place,
I don't take orders from servants, and in
the second, what she said was that if anybody
called I was to tell 'em you wouldn't
be home till three. And so I did.'

So it was your fault,' said Mrs Barrington,
turning upon Eliza Bennett.

Oh no, ma'am. I'm sure Mrs Watson
must have mistaken my words, or
forgot them, for I remember I told her
most particularly.'

Look here, Mrs Bennett ! ' interrupted
the woman of the house. ' I didn't mistake
your words nor your meaning ; but
if I had, it would have made no difference,
and for this reason  that I refuses
to be a party to any underhand dealings,
and if a gentleman or lady asks civilly to
walk upstairs and leave a message, why,
I shall let 'em do it so long as this house

belongs to me. And I take this opportunity
to tell you, ma'am,' she continued,
turning to Mrs Barrington, * that I don't
care for your ways of going on, and you
must tell your own lies in future, for
I won't tell no more for you  and so
there I '

With which emphatic ending Mrs Watson
unceremoniously left the room, and
slammed the door after her.

'Did you ever hear such insolence?'
cried Mrs Barrington, relapsing into tears
of rage. ' And this is what yozt, have
brought upon me, Fenella, with your
abominable forwardness and stupidity.'

The girl left the corner where she had
been listening with horror to the quarrel
between the landlady and her mother,
and coming forward, threw herself on her
knees beside Mrs Barrineton's chair.

Oh, mother, mother ! ' she said, with

a ring of despair in her youthful voice,

'tell me if I've been wrong, but don't

say I was forward or impertinent, for

VOL. I. K

indeed I only acted as I thought you
would wish me to do.'

Be good enough to get up,' replied
Mrs Barrington, in a cold, selfish tone.
I am not used to melodramatic, and
do not understand them. If you think
that, because you have come home, one
of your duties will be to receive my
visitors and worry them to death with
your nonsensical talk, you are very much
mistaken. However, it will not occur
again ; I shall take good care of that !
Bennett, go and see if luncheon is on
the table. This business has perfectly
upset me.'

Oh, mamma ! won't you say a kind
word to me ? I feel as if my heart was
breaking,' sobbed Fenella, as she rose
from the position she had assumed.

I really don't know what I have to
say,' replied Mrs Barrington, in the same
hard tone. 'If, as you declare, you committed
this folly ignorantly, you have no
need of my forgiveness ; but your conduct

has put me to the greatest Inconvenience,
and done yourself no good, as
you will find out by-and-by.'

The selfish woman perceived already
that the incident would pave the way to
her getting rid of her daughter, with a
more plausible excuse than she had yet
been able to devise. At the same time,
she did not know what harm mioht not
have been done to her cause with Mr
Henry Wilson, and was proportionately
anxious and harassed.

Bennett, who felt herself to be In disgrace,
and was about as low-spirited as
Fenella, here announced, In a subdued
voice, that the luncheon was on the
table, and the mother and daughter walked
Into the dinner-room.

It was a miserable meal. Fenella,
who hardly knew now wherein she had
offended, ate nothing ; and Mrs Barrington,
although her temper had not destroyed
her appetite, consumed her cutlets
and sherry In distressing silence. Before

the luncheon-table was cleared, a letter
was handed to her by Eliza Bennett,
who had recognised the writing in fear
and trembling.

From Lady Wilson ! ' exclaimed Mrs
Barrington, with an ominous frown. * I
thought as much. Be good enough to
remain and hear what she says, Bennett.
I wish both you and Fenella to know
what you have brought upon me by your
disobedience and ingratitude.'

She broke the seal as she spoke, and
having first perused the note to herself,
commenced to read it aloud, with interpolations
of her own rendering.

'''My dear Mrs Barrington,  My
son tells me that he has just seen your
daughter, who informed him that she
was about to accompany our party to
Mentone  "

There now ! Didn't I say, Bennett,
that that child's coming home would be
my ruin ? Going to Mentone indeed !

Who ever told you such a thing, and
how dare you invent falsehoods on your
own account [ Is that the training you've
received at the convent  to tell lies ? '
cried Mrs Harrington coarsely, as she
turned upon her shrinking daughter.

I never Mentone Mentone, mamma.
I said I was going somewhere abroad
with you for the sake of my health, as
you told me this morning.'

I never told you any such thing, miss ;
don't attempt to foist your inventions
upon me. Now, what does the woman
say more ?

" I shall be sorry to upset any plans you
may have made for yourself and Miss Barrington,
but I am afraid I cannot possibly
make room for any further addition
to our household. You know how limited
the accommodation of the Villa Abracci is.
Of course, we can hardly expect you to
separate from your daughter, especially as
you have not seen her for so many years.
Therefore, if you wish to give up your

engagement with me, do not hesitate to do
so, as Miss Russell will be only too happy
to take your place. Had Miss Barrington
been a child, we might have managed
to squeeze her in ; but my son tells me
she Is quite a grown-up young lady, so
that I feel compelled to let you know my
dilemma at once. I will call tomorrow
morning and receive your answer.  Yours
sincerely, Margaret Wilson." '

You see ! ' exclaimed Mrs Barrington
emphatically, as she finished her friend's
note, and brought down her closed fist
upon the luncheon-table,  ' You see, perhaps
now, both of you, what you have
done. Lady Wilson tries at once to get
rid of me  wants to put that red-haired
Miss Russell in my place  just because
the girl's got two thousand a-year, and
on the score of Miss Barrington being
'quite a grown-ztp yotmg lady''  (the
one thing on earth I wanted to keep from
the woman !)  she thinks I shall wish to

resign my engagement with her ! But
Lady Wilson will find that I am rather
too sharp for that. And she is coming
here tomorrow morning to receive my
answer  which means that she is coming
to look at that gawky girl, and then
run round to tell everybody she knows
that Miss Barrington is twenty if she is
a day. But I will circumvent her good
intentions. She shall have her answer
from me at once ! '

Mrs Barrington rose from the table as
she spoke, and going to her desk, hastily
scribbled the following words, 

Dear Lady Wilson,  Your son must
have entirely mistaken what my little girl
said to him this morning. How do you
suppose that anything would make me
wish to break through my engagement
with you ? Besides, I couldn't take F'en-
ella abroad with me if I wished it, as
Dr Melville says it is imperative she
should go to the sea-side this summer, and

she starts for Wales under the charge of
her old nurse tomorrow afternoon. She
has grown too fast for her age, poor child,
and requires a more bracing air than Mentone.
With my kindest regards to your
circle,  believe me, dear Lady Wilson,
yours very truly,

Rosin Barrington.'

When Mrs Barrlngton had finished this
note, she read It aloud for the benefit
of her daughter and servant, and then
ordered Bennett to despatch It by a
messenger at once.

And bring me the railway guide from
the drawing-room table,' she added. ' If
there Is a train to Ines-cedvvyn this afternoon,
you will have to start by It.'

Fenella had listened to her mother's
note In silent amazement. That she was
to be separated again from her, and sent
away In charge of Eliza Bennett, had never
entered her head before. As the railway
guide made its appearance, and Mrs Barrington

began to search through Its pages,
she watched her proceedings through a
mist of tears, but she said nothing.

Ines-cedwyn  Ines-cedwyn  let me
see,' mused Mrs Barrington, as though
the matter were one of no concern to
her Listeners. ' Yes, there is a train
starts from Haddington at four o'clock,
and reaches Lynwern (that's the nearest
town, isn't it, Bennett ?) at ten. You
must bundle your things and Fenella's
into your boxes as quick as you can,
and be off to Haddington in time to
catch it.'

But  two hours  ma'am ; it's no time
to get ready in,' stammered the servant.
Besides, Martha won't be prepared for
our coming. I only wrote to her this
morning ; and Lynwern is a good three
miles from our part of the country.
Hadn't we better wait till tomorrow . '

'Certainly not! If I had thought
you had better wait till tomorrow, I
shouldn't have told you to go to-day.

Do you take me for a fool, Bennett ?
I think both you and Fenella must,
from the way in which you treated me
this morning ; but it will be the last time,
you may depend upon that

Oh, mother ! ' cried Fenella, finding
her voice in her extremity, ' pray don't
send me away all alone with Bennett.
Let me go back to Ansprach instead.
I am no trouble to them there. The nuns
love me, and Honoree was very unhappy
when I had to leave her ; and if I had
thought it was for any one but you, I
don't think I could have borne it. Please
send me back to the convent. I shall
never get strong away from everybody
who cares for me  ' and here Fenella's
courage broke down, and she wept piteously.


Bennett came round to her side of the
table, and patted the girl's hand, whilst her
mother looked on in cool indifference.

Don't talk of impossibilities,' she said
presently ; * and pray don't make such a

horrid noise, Fenella. You positively
deafen me. As for Ansprach, you are
not likely to see that again. I consider
that the reverend mother has behaved
most impertinently In sending you home
when I said I vIshed you to remain
there ; and I shall certainly not trouble
her any more in the matter. And there
is nothlnof to make a fuss about. You
are going to a beautiful place by the seaside,
under the charge of Bennett, who
will take every care of you ; and as the
medical opinion is that you must have sea
air, you ought to be very grateful to have
so much trouble taken on your account.
But I must say I don't think gratitude
is one of your prominent qualities. You
must take after your poor papa in that
respect. Instead of remembering the
sacrifice / am obliged to make in giving
up Bennett's services to you, and having
to wait on myself, and the expense I
shall be put to in paying for you at
Ines-cedwyn, you cry and howl as if

I were doing myself a benefit In sending
you there. But I am used to Ingratitude
in this world concluded Mrs
Barrlngton, with the air of a martyr, ' and
am no longer surprised at It.'

Come, my dear,' whispered Bennett,
soothingly, to Fenella ; * If you wish to
please your mamma, you'll just take
things quietly, for no crying will alter
them. And If we are to start by four
o'clock, why, I shall want every bit of
your help to get the things Into the
boxes In time.'

At these words the girl rose, and
brushing her hand across her eyes, followed
Bennett silently from the room. She
did not give another glance to the place
where her mother sat. Her last selfish
speech had revealed more to her daughter
than she had ever wished to know ; and
some great hope In her life which she
had cherished for years past, seemed
suddenly to have been overthrown and
crumbled into dust.

As Bennett and Fenella disappeared,
Mrs Barrington felt rather mean and
small. It was an ignoble way by which
to have gained a victory, and she experienced
more of the feelings of the
conquered than the conqueror. But she
consoled herself with the idea that it was
absolutely necessary that she should take
some stringent measures in order to secure
her own success in life.

Of course the poor child thinks I am
hard,' she pondered, ' for it is impossible
I can explain my motives to her ; but
it is for her sake as well as my own,
and she will thank me for it by-and-by.'


Yet though she argued thus, Mrs Barrington
did not follow her daughter upstairs
to offer any consolation in the shape
of soothing words or caresses. Truth to
say, she was afraid of Fenella. The girl
looked her so steadily in the face, she
could not tell falsehoods easily in her
presence, and was continually on thorns

lest her remarks should evoke so straightforward
a question that she should find
great difficulty In replying to it. But
had Mrs Barrlngton known It, she need
not have been afraid of Fenella's frankness
now. The girl was too unhappy and
too subdued to have questioned anything
her mother might have said to her. She
helped Eliza Bennett to pack their boxes
and arrayed herself In her travelling
costume In complete silence , and Mrs
Barrington did not see her agaln until
she stood before her, ready for departure,
and uttered In a low voice, 

Good-bye, mamma.'

Her mother started from her seat.

Dear me ! Is It really time for
you to go ? Has Bennett sent for a
cab?'

Yes, ma'am,' replied the servant ; ' and
the boxes are on, and we have only
half-an-hour to catch the train, so the
sooner we are off the better.'

With the cab waiting at the door, and

the luggage actually on the top of it,
Mrs Barrington could afford to become
sentimental.

Good-bye, my sweet child,' she said,
as she kissed Fenella's face. 'It is sad
to have to part again so soon ; but it is
for your health, you know, and we must
submit for that reason. And I am sorry
that anything disagreeable should have
occurred in the short time we have been
together, but it was all the fault of that
stupid Mrs Watson, and I shall take good
care to let her know it. Good-bye, dear
Bennett,' she continued, as she shook the
servant by the hand ; ' mind you look well
after my child, and bring her back tome
quite strong again. I shall write to
you as soon as I have any settled address,
but we are likely to be moving about
for the first few weeks. You have sufficient
money, have you not, to last you
a month ?  and I will send you a remittance
as soon as the tenants pay their
first instalment.'

Eliza Bennett was visibly affected at
parting from her mistress.

Oh, my dear lady ! ' she exclaimed, as
she kissed the hand extended to her ; ' it
is sorrowful work to think I shall not see
you again for so long a time. But you
will write to me, madam, will you not,
and let me know how you are, and how
you manage without me ? '

Of course I shall, you silly creature,'
rejoined Mrs Barrington, with real tears in
her eyes. ' Come, give me a kiss. That
is right ; and don't set my little girl a bad
example. One more good-bye, Fenella.
And now run away, both of you, for I
cannot bear the strain much longer.'

She sank into a chair as they obeyed
her orders, and put her cambric handkerchief
to her eyes, whilst Eliza Bennett
was compelled to lift the corner of her
shawl to wipe away the tears that were
running down her cheeks. As the cab
set off, she considered it necessary to
apologise to Fenella for her emotion.

I can't help it, miss,' she said, * though
I daresay you will think I am very foolish,
but I've waited on your dear mamma, as
I may say, day and night for the last
twenty years, and she's so used to turn
to me for dressing and everything that I
don't know what she'll do now I'm gone,
and I'm sure I shan't rest at night for
worrying myself about her. But I'm
afraid you must think I'm a poor creature
to give way after this fashion, but I
shall be all right again in a minute or
two.'

For Fenella was sitting by Bennett's
side, with the same dry eyes with which
she had witnessed her mother's affected
farewell. Her heart had received a shock
from which it would not easily recover ;
and her short sojourn in South Audley
Street already began to assume the appearance
of some ugly dream. She said
nothing in answer to the servant's appeal,
but the tightened grasp she laid upon her
hand proved she was not without feeling
VOL. r. L

Bennett felt for her young mistress's disappointment,
and thought it only natural
at first that she should be unable to speak
of it. But when they were in the train
for Ines-cedwyn, and had performed half
the journey, and Fenella had neither made
a remark upon what had happened in
London nor asked a question concerning
their destination, the servant began to think
her reticence was unnatural and alarming.

Miss Fenella,' she said suddenly,
aren't you going to speak a word tome
all day } Do you know where we are
going, miss ?  to my brother Benjamin's
farm in Ines-cedwyn. It will look a poor
place to you, I'm afraid, after that big
convent ; but we'll manage to make you
comfortable, and you'll get plenty of fresh
sea air, which is what your mamma says
you want most. Do try and cheer up a
bit, my dear, and take an interest in
what's going on around you. It's sad work
for both of us, I know, but we must try
and make the best of it'

Bennett,' said Fenella, raising her
solemn eyes to the servant's face, ' you
must explain one thing to me. Why
has mamma sent me away ? I want to
know the real truth about It.'

They were the only occupants of the
carriage they travelled In, so Bennett had
no hesitation In answering, 

Well, miss, I think you ought to know,
for you are not a child any longer, whatever
the mistress may choose to say, and
I am sure I can trust you not to tell your
mamma that I said anything about It.'

I am not likely to have the opportunity
of repeating It,' replied Fenella Ina
sad voice.

Well, miss, the long and the short of
It Is, you are too much In your mamma's
way.'

In mamma s zvay ? ' echoed the girl,
with open eyes.

'Yes, Miss Fenella. You see your
mamma Is quite young looking still, and
has her own pleasures and occupations.

and a grown - up young lady like you
would be apt to Interfere with them. I
saw that from the beginning  indeed,
you would have spoiled all her plans
if she had kept you by her. So I
really don't blame her for sending you
away, though I wish she had shown a
little more heart in the matter.'

But how could I spoil her plans 
my own mother's plans? Does she think
I would have been so wicked or mischievous
as that ? '

My dear, you're so innocent I hardly
know how to talk to you. But has It
never struck you that the mistress might
marry again ? '

Fenella looked aghast.

What ! Have another husband, nurse ?
But my father was her husband.'

Of course he was  whilst he lived ;
but now he's dead, the mistress is at
liberty to do as she pleases, and most
people's surprise is that she hasn't
married again long before this.'

Does mamma want to be married
again ? ' cried Fenella in horror.

I don't suppose she'd marry if she
didn't wish it, miss ; and of course it's
uncertain even now. But perhaps it
will help you to understand why she
felt you to be in her way. Few gentlemen
would care to marry a lady with
such a tall daughter as you are.'

But she must tell them ; they must
know some day,' said Fenella.

Ah ! so they will, perhaps, when it's
too late to mend matters,' quoth Bennett
oracularly. ' But then it won't signify
what they think. I shouldn't wonder if
you had another papa, miss, before ever
you see your mamma again.'

Another papa ! ' echoed Fenella. ' Oh
no, nurse, that is impossible ! Mamma
may have another husband, but I can
never have another father, and  and  if
she has, we shall be further apart than
ever,' she added in a choking voice.

No, miss, you mustn't think that. Fm

sure the mistress would have been very
fond and proud of you, if there hadn't
been none of these bothering gentlemen
to come between you. It's a great pity,
but it was just the very awkwardness time
of any that you could have been sent
home. I told the reverend mother so,
over and over again, but she was determined
to have her own way, and you
see what trouble she's given us.'

It wasn't her fault,' said Fenella, ' if
chere mere had thought  I am sure if
she had known how my presence would
worry mamma, she would have kept meat
Ansprach sooner than let me come
home only to be sent away again. I feel
like an orphan, Bennett  as if there was
no one in all the world who ever cared
for me, except my father, and he is
gone. Oh, how I wish that I could goto
him!'

Don't speak like that, my dear,' said
Bennett soothingly. ' I shouldn't like even
your papa to hear you ; I feel as if it

would vex him so. And Tin sure, after a
bit, that you'll be very happy at Ines-
cedwyn. There is no beach there, not
to speak of, Miss Fenella, but such a beautiful
strip of sand  fine yellow sand, that
shines In the sun like gold. And the
trees, they grow almost down to the
water's edge. It's very quiet. Is Ines-
cedwyn, but a fine place for fish. I suppose
there's as much fish taken there as
ever goes to the London market from one
place ; and it's so plentiful, they manure
the land with It. And the people there
all ride donkeys. Do you like riding
donkey-back, Miss Fenella ? I shall get
my brother to borrow a side-saddle for
you ; and then you will be able to go long
jaunts by yourself, for Ines-cedwyn's such
a lovely place. You can do as you please
there ; and, as you may fancy, I'm a bit
past donkey - riding. Oh, don't look so
scared and white, my dear ! You'll make
yourself ill  Indeed you will ; and if you
take to fretting for what can't be helped,

all the sea air in the world won't do you
a bit of good.'

But the only answer Eliza Bennett's
eloquence produced was the stifled cry, 

Oh, nurse ! if she had only loved me a
little  the least little bit  I would have
died for her ; indeed, indeed, I would ! '

IN A NEW WORLD.

The bridegroom sea
Is toying with the shore, his wedded bride ;
And, in the fulness of his marriage joy,
He decorates her tawny brow with shells,
Retires a pace to see how fair she looks,
Then, proud, runs up to kiss her.'

Alexander Smith.

WONDER if any one who
reads these pages will recognise
Ines-cedwyn  not under
that name assuredly, nor perhaps in the
same hemisphere, but as a place existing
somewhere in this wide world, where men
and women have met and loved and suffered.
In the disguise under which it is
here represented, it was a fishing hamlet

only, the scanty population of which lived
by the labour of their own hands. There
was no almighty squire of Ines-cedwyn to
rule the people by his frown, and hunt
over the springing wheat to the ruin of
the farmer ; no noble landlord to keep a
bullying agent to represent him, and
force the tenants to make Improvements
they could not afford, at the risk of having
their leases cancelled. Ines-cedwyn was
too humble a place to enjoy such privileges,
which some said was so much the
better for Ines-cedwyn. Its land was too
near the sea to be worthy the attention of
any but the smallest farmers ; and the
majority of the cluster of humble dwellings
that called themselves by Its name
were inhabited by fishermen.

Lynwern, which was three miles off,
was becoming quite a fashionable watering
- place ; and occasionally its visitors
found their way over to Ines-cedwyn, but
they never stayed there. One person,
indeed, a city merchant, had once thought

he would like to build himself a retreat In
Ines-cedwyn, where he might fly when
sick of the world and its society, and
enjoy the pleasures of solitude and meditation.
So he purchased part of the rights
of the beach, and erected a villa on the
very sands, not a stone's-throw from the
water, and In memory of some old associations
with a sojourn in the East, had
named it ' The Beach Bungalow.'

This had happened years and years
before ; the merchant had soon grown
tired of his plaything, and the ' bungalow
' was In ruins. Agents had tried
to let it for him, but no one had been
found willing to take it. For in the first
place, those who desired to live comfortably
in Ines-cedwyn were obliged to have
all their provisions sent over from Lantern
; and In the second, the merchant
had had the ' bungalow ' built after his
recollection of Its Indian counterpart,
which made It an Inconvenient residence
for the changeable climate of Wales. It

consisted of three rooms only, all facing
the sea ; but with a wide bricked verandah,
which was of the same length
and breadth of the rest of the villa, shading
them In front. A small kitchen and
wash-house had been built out, at some
little distance behind, but were now
reduced to nothing better than sheds.
Indeed, the whole of the ' bungalow '
presented a most forlorn appearance.
The windows were broken or gone, the
doors were off their hinges, the roof leaked
like a cullender, and the birds of the
air made It their habitation. Added to
all this, it had the reputation of being
haunted, which was supposed to give
It the only interest it possessed In the
eyes of the visitors of Lynwern, who
sometimes made picnic parties to Ines-
cedwyn. In order to lunch on the floor
of the ruined bungalow.

It stood all alone on a long strip of
golden sand, which stretched on either
side as far as eye could reach. This

stretch of sand was the glory of Ines-
cedwyn, and the villagers often grumbled
at the superior popularity of Lynwern,
and wondered how ladies and gentlemen
could perse a shingly beach that cut
their shoes and boots to ribbons, to a
place where they might walk for miles
when the tide was out, with as much
ease as in their own drawing-rooms.
And when the tide came in, what a stave
and gentlemanly tide it was. It never
made much racket even in the wildest
weather, for the waves soon found they
had nothing to buffet against, and were
compelled to run up the sands, a little
more hastily than usual, perhaps, but still
not in a manner to frighten the most
timid looker on, though they had been
known on one or two occasions to wash
right through the ' Beach Bungalow,' and
out on the other side.

But it was spring now, and a remarkably
warm spring, and the Ines-cedwyn
tide had never been seen to greater

advantage. The waves were mere ripples
on the water, and they broke Hke music
and ran in upon the yellow sands like
cream, leaving behind them upon every
visit unbroken pink - lipped shells, and
perfect branches of green and yellow
sea-weed, which they had carried on
their quiet breasts from foreign shores.
The fishermen said there never had
been finer weather nor calmer seas in
the memory of all Ines-cedwyn, and day
after day the fishing smacks put out from
shore and returned laden with their
shining spoils.

Benjamin Bennett, Eliza Bennett's
brother, took no part in such proceedings.
He was a farmer on a very
small scale, or at least they called him
so in that part of the country. He was
the owner of a small patch of arable
land, from which he procured a tolerable
crop of hay ; and he had a large
market garden, the produce of which he
carried daily into Lynwern. In fact in

England he would have been termed a
market gardener. He had a horse and
cart and a cow in the shed, which did
duty for a stable ; five or six pigs fatting
in the stye ; a considerable number of
cocks and hens, and a pretty little flower
garden. His cottage consisted of some
half-dozen rooms, furnished poorly but
decently, for his wife Martha was a notable
woman, and they kept a girl to help
in the house and farm work. They had
no family, and so they had managed to
save a small sum of money, and Mr
and Mrs Bennett were considered to be
amongst the most thriving and respectable
inhabitants of Ines-cedwyn. Their
cottage was situated about half-a-mile
from the sea, in the centre of the village,
and a broad piece of marshy land lay
between it and the beach.

Here all was green and leafy enough,
and one might have thought a hundred
miles separated the flowery little hamlet
from the briny ocean, though a suspicious

smell of tar and rope pervaded most of
the fishermen's dwellings.

On the evening on which Eliza Bennett
and Fenella travelled down from London
to Lynwern, Martha and Benjamin, all
unmindful of the proximity of their nearest
relation, had retired to rest even earlier
than usual, for their cow had presented
them with a calf that morning, and they
had sat up all night with her in anticipation
of the event. But they would have
sat up a second night with alacrity, had
they Imagined Eliza was so close at
hand.

They were very proud of Eliza and
her doings, and each time a letter reached
them in her writing, they were not satisfied
till they had read It out to all the
village. She represented the 'genteel'
portion of the family to their ignorant
minds. They were never weary of hearing
of the grand doings of her mistress
(and none of Mrs Barrlngton's doings
suffered in importance by passing through

Eliza's hands), nor of the foreign places
to which her maid accompanied her.

Think of our Eliza being at Paris, and
seeing the Emperor and Empress!'
Martha would exclaim ; * why, she'll be too
much of a lady to speak to us when she
comes this way again ; ' and Benjamin
would answer, 

Nonsense ! nothing of the sort, Martha !
'Liza's my sister, born and bred, and
she'll never forget It ! Why, haven't she
been to H Italy and the Pope o' Rome,
and up the mountains, and I don't know
where not, and writes just as affable
after it as if she'd never stirred from Ines-
cedwyn ! '

Well, let's hope she'll come back to
the hold place some day,' the hospitable
wife replied, * and give us a treat of her
face. Why, it must be a dozen years and
more, Ben, since she and you met'

That it is, wife, and she's my only
relation, as you may say, so it seems a bit
hard ; but never mind, it's a long lane as

VOL. I. M

has no turning, and 'Liza '11 be with us
agen afore we goes 'one. Mark my
words.'

The good couple often talked after this
fashion, and they had been speaking of
her the very evening that she arrived
there. Martha told Benjamin, as they
were retiring to rest, that she had had a
dream about his sister the night before.
And I'm sure we're going to hear something
of her, for our family is remarkable
for dreams, and mine allers come true.'
What did ye dream then, Martha ?'
Why, Ben, it was just when our poor
Cowslip seemed a bit easier, and I was so
tired I nodded off  and what should I dream
but that I was stumbling over that piece
of waste land in the dark, and I knocked
up against some one, and I calls out,
*' Who is it ? " and, to my surprise, it was
the voice of your sister 'Liza, and she says
to me, "Take this," she says, and puts
something into my arms, and I could feel
that it was a baby ! And I should have

dreamed a deal more,  only you shook
me by the shoulder, and I woke up, and
haven't had time to think of it again till
just now.'

Benjamin Bennett was much amused at
his wife's vision.

'eliza with a baby!' he said; 'that
would be a rum start  I fancy she's past
that sort of thing, old woman ! for she
never did seem to take the men's fancy for
marriage, even when she was young.'

It shows your ignorance of dreams, if
you think to take them just as they're
presented,' retorted his wife somewhat
offended. ' I never supposed as Eliza
would be married, but she's coming' to some
misfortune nevertheless. A child is as
bad a thing to dream of as you can well
have.'

Well, I 'ope poor 'Liza ain't in any fix,'
said Benjamin, as he settled himself In bed,
'cos she's my only sister, and I couldn't
see 'er suffering' without suffering' myself.'

In course not,' responded Martha, and

in a few moments the worthy couple were
fast asleep.

It was past midnight when they were
roused by a violent knocking on the front
door with a stick.

Benjamin Bennett,' cried a voice several
times in succession, ' get up, will ye  there's
some one as wants your assistance.'

Hark to that, Ben ! ' exclaimed Martha
as she started up in bed. * What must be
done now ? Cowslip must have been
taken bad again.'

Throw up the casement and ask 'im
his business,' said her husband.

The woman obeyed.

Who's there ? What is it ye want
with Benjamin Bennett at this time o'
night ? Why ! Tom Asher, is it you ? '

'Yes, Mrs Bennett, it's me, sure enough,
and I've got bad news for you. There's
Bennett's sister as was coming on here
has fell down and hurt herself, and I want
'im to get out the horse and cart to fetcher
home.'

What ! ' screamed Martha. * Bennett's
sister ? Are you mad, man ? Why, EHza's
in London with 'er mistress.'

Well ! I don't know her, not likely ;
but she says as 'ow she's Bennett's sister,
and she asked me to fetch 'im to her :
and she's got a young lady there too, and
they're both in sad trouble to be sure.'

Where are they . ' cried Martha breathlessly.


In the Beach Bungalow. I passed
'em on the road, and carried 'er in therefor
she can't move another step, that's
certain. She's broke her foot or summit,
to my mind.'

By this time both husband and wife were
fairly roused and hurrying on their clothes.

You get out the horse and cart, Ben,'
said Martha, ' whilst I run down to the
bungalow as hard as I can, and if you
overtake me you can pick me up. But
you can never drive fast over them ruts.
Only to think of our 'Liza being in such
a plight, and broke her foot too. Bless

my heart! Now, didn't I tell you as misfortune
was coming' ? But why has she
got a young lady with her, and at this
time o' night? It's all a muddle to me.
However, I'm ready, and I shall go
straight across the common as fast as
my legs will carry me.'

Martha was as good as her word, and
arrived breathless at the ruined bungalow
before her husband's horse and cart
had traversed the uncertain road. Here
she found Eliza Bennett stretched on the
floor of the verandah in evident pain,
whilst Fenella, white as a sheet with
alarm, sat patiently beside her waiting
for help.

Bless my soul ! what's this ? ' cried
Martha, as she bustled up to them. ' Why,
'Liza, my dear, who'd ever have thought
of seen' you, and what have you done to
yourself Fell down and hurt your leg.
Well, your brother '11 be along with the
cart in no time to take you home, and
right glad we are to see you, though you

have given us such a start. And the
young lady too  this isn't the time of
night for her to be sitting' on these cold
stones. However came you both to get
in such a plight '. '

Oh, Martha ! ' said Bennett, between
her groans ; ' I do feel putting upon you
like this more than I can tell, but the
mistress is going abroad, and wanted me
and Miss Fenella here to spend the time
with you and Ben, which I knew you'd be
agreeable to ; and I wrote you a letter
this morning to say as we were coming
on Friday. But my mistress altered her
plans, and so we had to start sooner, and
came off from London by the four o'clock
train.'

Yes,' continued Fenella in a sad voice,
and we didn't reach Lynwern till ten,
and I am afraid it is all my fault, for Bennett
thought we had better sleep there ;
but it seemed such a beautiful night, and
I said I should like a walk, so we left our
boxes at Lynwern, and set out to walk

to Ines-cedwyn. And just as we had got
opposite here, Bennett's foot slipped on a
stone in the road, and she has hurt it so
she can't stand. But a man met us, and
he carried her in here, and said he would
go on and tell you about it.'

Ay ! that was Tom Asher ; and so he
did, miss. Ben and I couldn't think what
had happened when we heard him a-
knocking' at the door. We had been asleep
for a good three hours. And where is it
you've hurt yourself, 'Liza  is it here ?'

As Martha administered a kindly, but
not over-gentle touch to the injured member,
Bennett could hardly keep herself
from screaming.

Oh ! don't handle it please, Martha !
I've given it such a wrench I feel as if
'twas all alive. Just to think of my doing
such a stupid thing, and the very minute
I've come back to the old place too.'

But you couldn't help it, Bennett,'
expostulated Fenella ; ' it was all my fault
for teasing you to walk.'

'Wasn't no fault of yours, Miss Fen-ella,
my dear, so don't think it. 'Twas
just an accident, and the Lord's doing,
and such things is not to be prevented by
any thought nor care.'

You're right there, 'Liza, and I daresay
it won't turn out to be much. You've
sprained your ankle  that's what it is, and
I don't know anything as is more 
than a sprained ankle ; but a day
or two's rest '11 put it all right again.
And I hope you've come for a long spell,
now you have come, my dear, and will
give yourself time to get fat and 'earth
in the mountain air.'

At this juncture Benjamin and Tom
Asher arrived, and after the first greetings
had passed between the brother and
sister, they prepared to lift Bennett into
the cart. Whether the injury she had
sustained was dangerous or not, it was
exceedingly painful, and she fainted as
they carried her away. Martha took
Fenella under her charge, and prepared

to follow them as quickly as she could
across the marshy common.

This is a sad beginning to a holiday
for you, miss she said, when she found
that the girl walked by her side in utter
silence ; ' but you mustn't take it too much
to heart. 'Liza must lay up for a day or
two, and I daresay it won't turn out as
bad as it seems. I'll put cold bandages
round her foot as soon as she is comfortably
settled. Them sprained ankles
are nasty things to bear, but they always
yield to rest and cold water.'

 Do you think it is nothing worse thana
sprained ankle ? ' asked Fenella timidly.
As soon as it was done she fell right
down, and couldn't get up again.'

 I daresay she did, miss. That's generally
the way with 'em, for the agony's
fearful. However, we shall be able to
tell better when we've got 'Liza into bed.'

The carrying of poor Bennett up the
narrow cottage stairs ; and the undressing
of her was a terrible business, and

she fainted more than once during the
proceeding, but when laid in Martha's bed,
and revived by a Httle brandy and water,
she declared she was, comparatively speaking,
comfortable, and became all anxiety
for the welfare of her young mistress.

Do you go and lie down, dear Miss
Fenella,' she urged ; ' you look like a ghost,
and I know you are as tired as you can
be  and well you may, at past one o'clock
in the morning. I shall have no rest till
I know you are in bed.'

No, indeed, Bennett, you must let me
watch by you to-night. What does it
signify if I am tired when you are in
such pain ?'

Now, my dear young lady,' interposed
Martha, ' Ben and me is used to this sort
of thing, and you must let us do it.
Why, only last night we was up for
seven hours giving warm mashes to
our red cow, Cowslip. And I couldn't
go to sleep again now, not if you was
to pay me ever so  could I, Ben ? He

knows the wakeful habit I am, miss.
And so now, if you please, you must
let me take you to your bed, though
it's a poor sort of a room for a real
lady like yourself to lie down in.'

Fenella followed her homely hostess to
another room, on the same floor, where
a small truckle bedstead and a painted
chest of drawers formed all the furniture.

'Isn't fit for the likes of you,' remarked
Martha, as she ushered her into it ; ' but
'tis the best wee have, miss, and the
Queen couldn't give you more.'

And I shall be much more comfortable
in it than if I were with the Queen,'
replied Fenella, with the true courtesy
that sets our inferiors at their ease, as
she prepared to take possession of the
humble-looking couch.

She slept on it nevertheless, for she
had not yet reached the age when trouble
keeps us waking ; but with the earliest
signs of dawn she was in Bennett's room,
to inquire how she had passed the night.

She heard that she had been in great
pain and very feverish, but both Martha
and herself declared that the cold water
bandages and rest would do all that was
required for the injured limb.

I am so sorry I can't get up and see
after you to-day, Miss Fenella/ said Bennett
with anxious eyes ; ' but Benjamin is
going to Lynwern with his vegetables,
and has promised to call for our boxes
and brine them back with him. So if
you can amuse yourself on the beach,
my dear, till they arrive, perhaps you
will, and tomorrow, I hope to be able
to hobble about a bit and see after
you.'

Bennett, you mustn't talk like that,'
said Fenella ; ' I shall do very well by
myself, and you must lie still until you are
quite recovered. But I wish I could get
some paper and ink, that I might write
and tell mamma about you.'

Miss Fenella ! I couldn't hear of such
a thing. What! go to worry your dear

mamma just as she's setting off on her
journey. What's to-day ? Thursday !
Why, she couldn't get your letter till she
was on the very point of starting, and
what good would it do, miss ? It would
only upset and fidget her. You wouldn't
expect her to come here and see after
me  would you ? '

/ would, Bennett, if you had left me
and met with such an accident.'

Ah ! you, miss ! well, you're different
from your mamma in many ways, and
you're but a child you see. No one would
expect a lady to give up her plans for a
servant. So I wouldn't have her worried
for the world, and 'isn't worth it either,
for I shall be all right again in a few days.'

But you will send for a doctor, won't
you, Bennett ? ' urged Fenella.

Both Bennett and her sister-in-law,
sitting by the bed, began to laugh.

A doctor, miss ! and for a sprained
ankle ! bless your heart  no,' said Martha ;
that's not the way we manage in these

parts ; why, if we was to send off to
Lynwern for the doctor everything we
felt a bit ill, there'd be no end to his
coming and going. I can't call to mind
as there's been a doctor in Ines-cedwyn
since Mary Wills died of the typhus fever,
and then her husband said as 'twas stood
money throned away, and he'd much better
have kept it to help bury her. Oh no,
miss, we don't want no doctors here,
and we'll do well enough without him,
never you fear ! '

Fenella did not feel quite easy under this
decision, but she was too young to oppose
it. She spent the morning in wandering
about the premises in a listless manner,
making acquaintance with the poultry and
the pigs and the new-born calf, but directing
many an anxious glance, nevertheless,
at the latticed window of the room where
Eliza Bennett lay.

Martha, sitting behind the flapping
blind, watched the girl's proceedings, and
remarked on them to her sister-in-law.

Lor', what a pretty creature, and such
a feeling' 'art, too ! I'm sure, if you washer
equal, 'Liza, she couldn't be more
careful over you. How proud her ma
must be of her. Ain't she, now ? ' '

Well, Martha,' replied Bennett, whose
loyalty was sorely tried In answering the
question, * you see the mistress is very
'ransome herself  particular 'ransome ; so
perhaps she don't think so much of beauty
as we do. And Miss Fenella and she
have been apart a good bit of late years.
Young ladies must be educated, you see ;
and It can't be done as well at home, so
they don't know so much of each other as
they might.'

That seems strange ; don't it, now ? '
returned Martha. * I never had a child,
as you know ; but if I had, I don't think
Ben nor me would have known how to
make enough of it. We often says so
'mongst our two selves.'

But you mustn't fancy but what the
mistress thinks a deal of Miss Fenella/

interposed Bennett eagerly. * That's why
she sent us down here, though it was a
great inconvenience to herself, because my
young lady looks so pale, and has grown
 so fast

She do look very peaky,' said Martha
sympathisingly ; * my master was saying' so
this morning.'

And her mamma wants her to be out
in the sea air as much as possible, Martha
all day long if she can  so do show her
the way to the beach after dinner, and
let her go and sit on the sands.'

'That I will, 'Liza; and I think it will
be best for your sake to keep the house
as quiet as possible, for you look a bit
feverish to me. Close your eyes and try
to sleep, my dear, and I'll go and see
after the young lady's dinner, and send
her out for a walk.'

Accordingly, when the early meal was
concluded, Martha broached the subject
to Fenella.

If you take my advice, miss,' she said,

VOL. I. N

you'll put on your hat and take a stroll
down to the sea. It will be beautiful
there this afternoon, for the tide '11 be
up at five o'clock. And 'Liza she wants
to go to sleep, so I wouldn't disturb her
if 1 was you, but just set off and enjoy
yourself, and come back when you feel
disposed for it.'

Oh, I should like to go if I may,'
replied Fenella, with a pink flush on her
cheeks, * and if you are sure Bennett
won't want me ; but which way is it,
Martha ? '

Why, straight across the common,
miss, to where you see that streak of
blue  that's the water. And it'll bring
you out close to the place where poor
'Liza fell last night  "The Beach Bungalow."
'

'The Beach Bungalow!' repeated Fen-ella
; ' what a strange name ! Why is it
called so ? '

I don't know, I'm sure, miss, unless
it is as the person who built it felt

he had made a bungle ; but any way
that's how it's known amongst us. It's
an unlucky place, to my thinking, and I
always fancy as every misfortune as 'happens
to our folk, seems to have that
bungalow mixed up with it  and, you see,
'Liza missed 'er footing just opposite.
I often tells Ben as I wish somebody
would take and pull it down. And
they do say,' continued Martha mysteriously,
' as it's haunted into the bargain.
But perhaps that's a matter I oughtn't to
speak to you on, or maybe you have
no fear of ghosts.'

Oh no,' replied the girl indifferently ;
if there are such things, they wouldn't
hurt me  why should they?'

'Twould be a good job if every one
had your sense, miss ; but, you see, they
haven't, and so the place has got a
regular bad name in Ines-cedwyn, and none
of our people would go past it after
midnight unless they was obliged. But
whether you believe in spirits or not.

In a New World.

don't you have too much to do with the
Beach Bungalow, for it'll bring you bad
luck as sure as my name's Martha Bennett.'


I will only go and sit in the verandah ;
that won't hurt me,' said Fenella, with
a smile as she walked away.

A VOICE IN THE NIGHT.

As I trembled, look'd, and sigh'd,
His eyes met mine  he fix'd their glories on me ;
Confusion thrift me then, and secret joy,
Fast throbbing, stole its treasures from my heart,
And, mantling upward, turn'd my face to crimson.'

HERE was none of the mischievous
joy of a girl set at
liberty to follow her own devices
in her demeanour, as she traversed
the distance that lay between the cottage
and the sands, with her head bent and
her eyes fixed on the ground. For,
perhaps, in all her short life, Fenella had
never felt so lonely and uncared-for as

she did that afternoon. She had often
grieved during her school days because
she did not go home to see her mother ;
but the separation between them at that
time was as nothing compared to the
gulf that divided them now  a gulf
which, some instinct told the girl, would
never be bridged over but by the conventionalities
of society.

She soon reached the ruined villa, and
sitting on the floor of the open verandah,
with her feet upon the sand, she leaned
her cheek against a stucco pillar, green
with the damp of time, and gave herself
up to thought. Had she been less sad,
the scene around would have excited all
her interest, even in its solitude ; it was
so unlike anything to which she had been
accustomed. Before her lay the broad,
still ocean, and there were few moving
things about to break the sense of isolation
it engendered. Two or three boats
were drawn up upon the sand ; in the
distance several more might be seen floating

on the quiet waters ; and to the right
a faint trail of blue smoke, curling along
the horizon, showed that the little steamer
had started with its daily freight from the
pier at Lynwern.

Fenella had seated herself with her
back to Ines-cedwyn ; had she turned
her head she would have seen that the
green slope down which she had wandered
was the foreground of a range of chalk
hills that sheltered the little village from
the winter gales. She would have seen
that the vegetation, such as it was, grew
almost to the water's edge ; that sheep
and donkeys and cattle browsed peacefully
upon the common ; that to the
right of her, though hidden by a cliff,
lay Lynwern, the town from which she
had walked the night before, and to
the left was a great landslip that had
rolled almost into the sea, and was still
crowned with the wild apple orchard it
had carried with it.

But her heart was too full just then to

see the wild beauties of the place to
which she had come. The tears were
too near her eyes for her to see anything
distinctly. She kept them fixed
upon the blue water, which broke with
monotonous fidelity upon the golden sand,
and ran back again with a subdued murmur,
leaving a trail of froth and scum
to mark its way.

Fenella believed, in her loneliness, that
she had arrived at the very climax of
all suffering  that there could never be
anything worse for her to bear than she
was bearing then. All her friends seemed
to have retreated from her as the sea retreated
from the sands, but with no hope
of return. She had been parted from
Honoree St Just and all her convent
friends, and she had received nothing in
return with which to fill up the vacancy
their loss had made in her heart, and
life seemed cruelly hard to the girl. Her
love for her mother and her mother's love
for her had been the dream of her youth.

She had believed in it as in the mercy
of God. She had returned home ready
to lean her whole weight upon it as on
the staff of her existence, and it had
snapped like a reed in her hand. And
even Bennett had failed her ; even poor
Bennett, though it was not her fault,
was absent at this crisis, and preferred
Martha's attendance to that of her young
mistress.

No one wanted her  that was Fenella's
prevailing thought that afternoon. Everyone
would get on better without the
trouble of her presence ; she might as
well be out of the world altogether. It
was a dangerous thought to indulge in 
a dangerous moment in which to present
any new interest to fill up the void in
the girl's aching heart. She felt so forlorn
that she would have been thankful
to a dog for showing her any sympathy.
And a dog was the first to do it.

Fenella had been so absorbed in her
own melancholy thoughts that she had

not observed that a little boat had come
in at a short distance from where she sat
that is, the boat had come in as near
as it could through the shallow water,
and its occupants had jumped out, and
waded through the ankle - deep tide to
shore. And one of the occupants, being
very short and bandy-legged and impetuous,
had wetted himself from head to
foot, and now came bounding forward 
some doggish instinct telling him he
would be welcome  and, with pricked
ears and shining eyes, ensconced his
dripping little body behind the shelter
of Fenella's black skirt, and from that
ambush barked vociferously at his approaching
master.

The girl started from her reverie ; then
perceiving the friendly disposition of the
intruder, she put out her hand and patted
the wet coat of the little terrier.

Trap ! Trap ! come back, sir ; come
back ! Do you hear what I say to
you 1 ' was shouted in an authoritative

masculine voice ; but Trap only wriggled
his small red body about, and declined
to have another sea-bath, as he imagined
his owner was desirous of making him.
Then a young man in boating gear strode
up to Fenella's side, and seizing the little
terrier by the nape of the neck, flung him
to some distance on the sand.

Oh ! don't hurt him ! ' cried the girl ;
poor little fellow, he didn't mean to do
any harm.'

The gentleman's soft felt hat was
crushed in one hand in a moment.

You are very good to say so,' he
replied, * but the brute has wetted your
dress.'

Fenella blushed.

'It is only an old frock,' she said
ingenuously ; ' he cannot hurt it. May I
take him on my lap ? ' for Trap had
ventured by that time to crawl back to
his master's feet.

Trap will be but too much honoured,'
replied the young man, as he lifted the

little animal and deposited him in Fen-ella's
open arms. Then he said, ' I hardly
hoped we should have met again so soon,
and least of all should I have thought
to meet you here.'

At these words, and at the sound of his
voice, the girl started.

You don't remember me,' he continued,
as he met her look of frank amazement,
neither had I any right to hope you
should do so ; but I have a better memory,
you see. ** / know you again to swear,
tor '

As he repeated Bennett's indignant
remark, Fenella recognised him as the
young man whom she had accosted at the
Calais restaurant, and who had crossed
with them to Dover. The colour rushed
to her pale cheeks in a flood of crimson,
but all she said was, 

How funny ! '

What is funny ? '

That you should be here, in this
very place,' said Fenella shyly.

But I think it is funnier that you
should be here, or at least that you
should have walked over here so soon,
for I suppose you are staying at Lantern.'


No ; I am living at Ines-cedwyn with
my nurse, but she has hurt her foot and
cannot come out with me.'

The stranger put on a look of proper
concern.

I'm very sorry to hear it ; I hope
she will soon be better. When did you
arrive ? '

Only yesterday ; we were in London
first with my mother.'

Well, I came straight through from
Dover, for my people are staying at Lantern,
and they wished me to join them.
I have been all the winter in Paris.'

'Have you? for your holidays*' demanded
Fenella, as she caressed the little
terrier, who had now seeded himself fora
comfortable nap in her arms.
The gentleman laughed.

Not exactly  though it is something
like it. I belong to the army, and I
am home on leave.'

The army ! ' repeated the girl wonderingly.
' Oh, then you are quite grownup!'


Nearly,' he replied, still laughing. ' I
am twenty-two.'

His laugh was so pleasant and boyish,
and his whole demeanour so friendly ashe
stood with one foot upon the floor of
the verandah and looked down upon her,
that after a while Fenella ventured to
look up at him. He was an exceptionally
handsome man, and to her unsophisticated
eyes he appeared to be the handsomest
she had ever seen. She thought so
from the first moment she met him  she
thought so to the very last. His power
over her would have been, eventually perhaps,
as great had his features been plain,
but it would not have asserted its sway
so rapidly. There is a magic in beauty
which few minds are strong enough to

resist. As the girl's eyes met his, her
lids were lowered, and he felt that his influence
had commenced.

May I tell you,' he said, bending down
to her, ' how pleased I am to have met
you again, because I want to thank you
for your kindness ? '

What kindness ?'

Why, in speaking to me at the restaurant,
and asking if you could help me.
Do you think I did not appreciate it, or
that I am such a bear as to be ungrateful .''

I thought perhaps you couldn't speak
French,' stammered the girl. ' Some
people who go abroad can't ; and I had
just come from the convent, so I wanted
to help you. But Bennett scolded me
dreadfully about it. She said I had done
very wrong indeed, and I am afraid she
would say I was wrong in speaking to you
now,' continued Fenella, as she looked
around her rather fearfully.

Who is Bennett ?'

 The woman who was with me. She

was my nurse once, but she is mamma's
maid now, and I am under her care
here.'

And do you always believe what Bennett
says to you, then ? '

 Not always, perhaps ; but wasn't she
right ? Do you think I ought to have
spoken to you ? '

I think, if you had not, I should have
missed knowing one of the most admirable
traits of your character. It is not always
wise, certainly, for a young lady to address
a stranger, but I should think you might
be safely left to follow your own instincts.
Besides, I hope you saw I was a gentleman,'
he added, rather proudly.

No ; I never thought about that,' replied
the girl. ' I was afraid you were in
trouble  that is all ! But I am glad I was
mistaken.'

I daresay your nurse is a very good
sort of old woman,' continued the young
man, ' but she can't know much of the
rules of society, can she ?'

'I suppose not; but no more do I. I
have never been In society yet.'

All the better for you. Keep out of It
as long as ever you can. Society Is a
huge sham  a community whose religion
Is to tell lies ; and when a girl wants to
be honest and follow the Inclinations of
her own kind heart, as you do, they tell
her It Is not proper, and society will never
allow It.'

If that Is true,' sighed the girl, ' I hope
I shall never go Into society ; and anyway
It will be a long time, for I am only
sixteen. But my mother likes It very
much, I think.'

Will you forgive me If I ask you something
very strange } ' said her new friend
presently. ' I want to know who your
mother Is, and what your name Is ? '

Fenella laughed softly.

Oh, how funny ! we have been talking

together all this time, and we don't even

know who we are. If you had gone away

and forgotten to ask me that question, I

VOL. I. o

should never have known. It would have
been all like a dream, wouldn't it ? '

I don't think so. I don't think I
could have been contented to remember
it only as a dream. I should have come
back again to ask you that question.'

The look he threw at her as he pronounced
the words made Fenella's eyes
droop again.

My name is Fenella Barrington,' she
said, in a low voice, ' and my mother is
Mrs Barrington.'

And have you no father } '

No ; he died a long time ago.'

There was silence between them for a
minute, and then the stranger said, 

'You don't ask who I am,  perhaps
you don't care to hear.'

Won't you tell me ? ' rejoined Fenella
simply.

Certainly I will. I am Geoffrey
Doyne, and I belong to the 30th Hussars.
Don't I look like a hussar ? '

No ; I think you look more like a

boatman said the girl, smiling. * When I
saw you first to-day, I was in hopes you
were a sailor.'

Why  in hopes ? '

Because my father was a captain in
the Royal Navy, and I love sailors for
his sake.'

Then I wish I were one.'

But weren't you allowed to choose
which you would be?'

Certainly I was.'

And you preferred to be a soldier ? '

I did.'

Then why should you wish to change ? '
said Fenella, with open eyes. ' I daresay
it is nicer to be a soldier, after all  it
must be so hard to go away to sea from
all whom you love ! '

Soldiers have to do that sometimes,
too!'

Yes ; there seems nothing but parting
and sadness in this world.'

But you are too young to say that.
Miss Barrington.'

Am I ? I am not too young to think
it

Are you going to make a long stay in
Ines-cedwyn ?' was the next question he
asked her.

I think so, but I am not sure. My
mother has gone to Mentone, and she
sent me here because I am not very
strong, and the doctor said I required
sea air. But it is very lonely, isn't it ?
I would rather have gone with my
mother,' said Fenella, with tears in her
eyes.

How Geoffrey Doyne would have liked
to have the privilege of consoling her !

It is dull,' he answered, * even at Lantern.
I can't imagine why my people
chose to come here, but I have an invalid
sister who cannot stand a noisy watering-place,
and as my leave will soon be up,
they wanted to see something of me before
I go back again.'

Back again ! ' reiterated his companion.

'Yes, to India; the 30th is at Keram-

pore at present. A horrid hole ; I couldn't
stand it, and so I got eighteen months'
leave to England.'

And is this better than Kerampore ? '

I hope it will be. I shall pass most
of my time fishing. I have hired that
little boat for the season. I have been
out since eight o'clock this morning.'

'And why did you land at Ines-
cedwyn ? '

I cannot tell you ; a happy intuition
guided me, I suppose ; but the sands
looked inviting, and our arms ached with
pulling. However, I promised to get back
to dinner. Do you live far from here ? '

Bennett and I are staying at her
brother Benjamin's cottage in the village,
half-a-mile from this. It is such a strange
little place, you would laugh to see it,
and there is sand on the floor instead of
a carpet.'

That must be rather pleasant this
warm weather ; and I suppose you will
be as little as possible in the house.'

Yes ; my mother's orders were that I
was to be on the beach all day long, so
Bennett says I am to bring my work
and books down here every day.'

That will be charming. I envy you.
And this old tumble-down house makes
a convenient retreat from the sun. I
wonder to whom it belongs . '

'To nobody, Martha says,' replied
Fenella ; 'and the people of Ines-cedwyn
won't come near it at night because they
declare that it's haunted.'

'What fools!' laughed Mr Geoffrey
Doyne ; ' they will mistake you for a
ghost if they see you here. Miss Barrington.'


Fenella laughed too.

I should like to frighten them and keep
them all away,' she said ; ' and then I
would sweep out one of the rooms, and
bring down a table and some chairs, and
make a little house where I could come
and sit and have tea whenever I liked.'

'And wouldn't you ask me in to tea

sometimes, Miss Barrington, If I came
this way?' pleaded Mr Doyne.

Yes, if you came this way,' she answered
gravely; 'and little Trap too. He
should have a saucer of milk all to himself,
for I think he is a dear little fellow.'

Since you admire him, I wish I could
leave him with you, for he is not a particular
favourite of mine,' said Geoffrey
Doyne ; ' he belongs to one of my sisters,
and I think him a great nuisance, especially
in the boat when I am fishing. But
as you are good enough to approve of
him, I will bring him over to see you
again some day, if I may ? '

Thank you,' said Fenella, as she patted
the dog's rough coat. At this juncture the
boatman approached them, touching his
hat.

I beg your pardon, sir, but if we're to
get back to Lynwern by six o'clock, we'd
better be going,' he said to young Doyne.

All right, Tugwell, I am ready. Goodbye,'
he continued, turning to Fenella, who

had risen to her feet. ' I am so glad we
have met again ; I hope it won't be for the
last time.'

She did not echo his wish, but she put
her hand in his as confidingly as a child,
and then she stooped down again and
patted the little dog.

Geoffrey Doyne waited with his hat in
his hand until her farewells were concluded
; then, with a bow and a smile, he
whistled to Trap and turned away.

Fenella watched him and the boatman
as they strode over the wet, glistening
sand to the boat, which they pushed into
the water. Then the man got on board
with the dog under his arm, and with one
bound Geoffrey Doyne went over the gunwale
after him. Fenella saw his lithe,
graceful figure standing in the boat as the
man pushed off from shore ; his face was
turned towards her, and he waved his
hat once again in the air before he took
the oar and settled down to his work.
She watched the long powerful strokes

that bore the Httle bark away from Ines-
cedwyn, and when it had rounded the cuffs
that hid Lynwern from her sight, she felt
somehow as if the sun had suddenly set,
and the evening air was chilly. And yet
there was a glow about her girlish heart
that it had never experienced before  the
first consciousness that comes to a woman
of being appreciated by the other sex.
Fenella's life had not been worse than
wasted (as so many school-girls' lives are
in the present day) by dreaming and talking
of possible lovers. Her ideas on all
such subjects were very crude and childlike
; still the womanly instinct was strong
within her  the yearning to love and to
be loved  and only needed the touch of
Nature to make its presence known.
That first meeting with Geoffrey Doyne
caused it to stir in its sleep  stir as a
heavy sleeper might, when some unexpected
sound makes him move and murmur
for a moment uneasily, and then sink
off to rest again.

For some time after the young man had
left her she sat in the same place, gazing
at the sea, over which the setting sun was
now shedding rays of ineffable glory ; sat
there, reviewing each glance of his eyes,
each tone of his voice, and thinking how
nice and pleasant it was to have a friend
to talk to, and how much she wished that
Mr Doyne lived in Ines-cedwyn, in Benjamin
Bennett's cottage, and she could
see and talk with him every hour of the
day  it would make the place so much
less dull for her and Bennett. With this
remembrance came the wonder what her
nurse would say when she heard that
Fenella had again spoken to a gentleman
who was a stranger to her. But then he
wasn't a stranger now (so the girl argued) ;
he knew her name, and she knew his 
Geoffrey Doyne ! It was a pretty name,
Fenella thought ; and she said it over
several times softly to herself,  ' Geoffrey
Doyne ! Geoffrey Doyne ! Geoffrey Doyne ! '
She was afraid Bennett might be angry

and scold a little, but she quite made
up her mind that she must tell her
of the meeting. There was no deceit In
Fenella's nature ; If ever she concealed a
thing during her lifetime, it was In deference
to an opinion which she considered
superior to her own. She did not relish
the idea of confessing this second piece of
imprudence on her part to her old nurse
(because it was the second, Bennett would
consider it all the more culpable) ; still
Fenella never dreamt of not confessing It.
It was nearly seven o'clock when at last
she could persuade herself to give over
dreaming and take her way homewards.
As she rose and left the ruined bungalow,
she turned and cast a fond look back
to it  a look that seemed to say, ' I
will return  and he will return ! I love
you for the happiness you have given
me.'

Ah ! the blindness of her Ignorant heart,
she had better have cursed each stone
of which it was composed. But had an

angel barred her path that evening ; had
Michael himself, the Head of all the
Heavenly Hosts, stood In her way with
his shining sword, and told her It would
be better for her had she laid down and
died upon those stones before she left
them, with the joyous hope of return
filling her eyes with a light that had never
beamed In them before  that It would be
better for her If the boat that bore Geoffrey
Doyne to Lynwern never reached Its
destination, but sunk with him and her
faint remembrance of him beneath the
waves,  would Fenella have believed
even the Archangel of God Himself?
No ; she would have called him hard,
and cruel, and unsympathetic ; would have
accused him of envy and malice, and all
uncharitableness  and clung to her Ideal,
although there was but the merest outline
of a fancied god to cling to. But, pour
the poison once Into the opened veins,
and all your efforts to extract It afterwards
will prove unavailing. So is It



with a fatal passion. Let it once  only
once  mix with the current of the heart's
blood, and it will never again be dissevered
until that current is stopped by
the chill hand of Death.

IN WONDER-LAND !

'Women are poor things : they are like swallows
numbed in the winter ; the hand that warms
them and lifts them up, puts them in the breast
without trouble.'  Ariadne.

"ENELLA reached the cottage
with her head filled with the

unexpected encounter that had
taken place, and ready to rush into Bennett's
presence and tell her all about it,
but Martha met her at the door with a
portentous countenance that made herat
once ask what was wrong.

'Well, miss, I'm sorry to say as poor
'Liza's been took worse this afternoon,

and I've been obliged to send into Lynwern
for the doctor, and I was just looking up the
road to see if there was any signs of 'im.'

What is the matter with her ?' exclaimed
Fenella. ' How is she worse ? Why didn't
you send for me ? '

Well, miss, what would have been the
good of that  spoiling your pleasure and
all for nothing, as the less people about in
sickness the better. 'Liza wasn't so well
this morning'  I see that plain enough ; but
this afternoon she went right off her head
with pain, and her leg swelled dreadful, so
I thought the sooner Dr Redfern saw 'er
the better. And when Benjamin came
home with the cart, I sent him straight
back to Lynwern again to tell the doctor,
and I expect it won't be long now afore
we see 'im.'

Will he come in the cart ? ' demanded
Fenella.

Bless you, no, miss. He'll drive over
in his own gig  he's quite the gentleman,
is Dr Redfern.'

Let me go up and see poor Bennett
she would like to see me ! ' said the
girl, as she attempted to pass into the
cottage.

Better not, miss, please, If It's all the
same to you. I give 'er some tea just now,
and she seemed a bit easier, and dropt off
to sleep, and I wouldn't have 'er roused
before the doctor come, for anything.'

So Fenella sat down on one of the
wooden chairs in the sanded parlour, with
a heart full of apprehension. But it was
all for the sick woman upstairs ; she never
thought twice of herself, nor what would
become of her if Bennett were going to
be really ill, and she were left stranded ina
place like Ines-cedwyn, far from everybody
that belonged to her. She kept on
thinking how the accident could have been
avoided, and blaming herself that it had
ever occurred, until the rattle of wheels
outside the cottage door announced the
doctor's arrival from Lynwern, and Martha
obsequiously ushered a portly and authoritative

looking individual through the little
parlour and up the narrow stairs.

The doctor threw a glance towards Fen-ella
as he passed her, and started as he did
so. He could not imagine what such a
fair, delicate girl could be doing in Benjamin
Bennett's cottage. But he had no
time for questions before he found himself
in the presence of his patient.

'Hullo! what's this!' he exclaimed, ashe
examined the injured limb. * Why, the
woman's broken her leg  what were you
thinking of not to have sent for me before ?'

Broke her leg, sir ! ' cried Martha,
who was trembling with fright at the
news. * You don't never mean to go to
tell us that ! Dear, dear me ! Why, we
thought it was nothing worse than a
sprained ankle ! '

Sprained ankle ! Rubbish ! There's
no more the matter with her ankle than
there is with yours. She's broken her
leg, I tell you. It's a simple fracture, and
would have been a trifle if you'd sent for
VOL. I. p

me at first, but I can do nothing with it
now

Lor' bless me, sir ! you don't mean to
say as it's to be broken all my life ? ' said
poor Bennett, with eyes of horror.

No, no ! Nonsense ! But I mean I
can't set it till this swelling has subsided.
Why, your leg's like a bolster ! You
must have suffered a great deal of
pain.'

Oh, I have, sir  dreadful ! '

Yes ; and you have a bit of fever into
the bargain. Now, look here, Mrs Bennett.
You must keep your sister-in-law
perfectly quiet and perfectly still till I've
got that leg down to its proper size.
Don't let her be worried about anything,
and don't you talk too much, but feed
her on slops, and leave her alone I'll
give her a fever-draught now to make her
sleep, and I'll look in again tomorrow
morning. Good evening to you,' and Dr
Redfern turned on his heel and walked
downstairs again. As he entered the

parlour, Fenella was standing by the table,
with a face full of anxiety.

Is she better?' she inquired. 'Will
she soon be well ? '

The old doctor looked at her with interest.


Yes, yes ! ' he said soothingly. ' Don't
alarm yourself, my dear. She'll soon be
all right again, and I'm coming to see her
tomorrow morning.'

Oh, I am so o-lad ! I am so thankful ! '
replied Fenella fervently.

Dr Redfern regarded her with curiosity.
He did not like to ask her what possible
connection there could be between herself
and the woman he had been summoned to
see, but when he had climbed into his gig
again, he stooped down and addressed
Martha Bennett, who had accompanied
him to the door.

'Who's that young lady in the parlour
? ' he whispered.

That's Miss Barrington, sir, 'Liza's
young mistress. She had just brought

her down here for the sea air when she
broke her leg in this terrible manner.'

Ah ! I see  I understand,' replied the
doctor, as he gathered up the reins. ' Well,
keep her out of the sick-room. I must
have no talking there.'

No, doctor ; certainly not. And you'll
be over in the morning, sir?'

Yes ; about ten o'clock. Good-night.'
And away drove the doctor to Lynvvern.

Here's a sad business, miss,' said
Martha, as she returned to Fenella's side.

Poor 'Liza's been and broke her leg,
and it can't even be splintered till all that
nasty swelling s gone down.'

Fenella's distress was genuine.

Oh, poor Bennett ! ' she exclaimed.

What pain she must have suffered ! And
she wouldn't let me write to my mother,
and now it is too late ! '

How's that, miss ?'

Because mamma leaves London tomorrow
morning, and we don't know
where she is going. She said she would

write to us when she was settled, but
that may not be for a long time.'

Well, never mind, miss. Your ma
wouldn't have been no manner of use here,
and we'll take good care of 'Liza, never
fear. It's done, and it can't be helped.
So, as soon as I've made 'er comfortable,
I'll come down and lay the supper, and
then we'll all go to bed and have a good
night's rest.'

Mayn't I go and bid Bennett goodnight
? ' pleaded the girl.

Well, it must be good-night then,
miss, and nothing more, for Dr Redfern
gave particular orders there was to
be no talking' of any sort, so you must
please to remember that.'

Fenella did remember it. She crept
into her nurse's room on tip-toe, and
gave her one kiss upon the forehead.

Bennett's eyes sought those of her
young lady gratefully, but she was in
too much pain to speak. So there was
no opportunity  no possibility, indeed 

of Fenella Informing her of the encounter
she had had with Mr Geoffrey Doyne upon
the sands.

Dr Redfern was punctual to his appointment
the following morning, and,
finding his patient still in a high fever,
he stayed and applied leeches to the inflamed
leg ; but it was still quite impossible
to do anything towards re-setting the
broken bone. He was employed for nearly
an hour in Bennett's room before he descended
again to the parlour, where Fenella
sat by the open casement with her work.

And why are you not down on the
sands this beautiful morning, young lady?'
he demanded facetiously, as she rose to
greet him.

I was waiting, sir, to hear your report
of Bennett,' she answered.

Ah ! your nurse, is she not ? '

Yes ; she was my nurse, and sometimes
I call her so still'

'Well, I'm afraid it will be a long job
you know  a very long job. She's at an

awkward age to go tumbling about In this
fashion  bones don't set so readily after
forty as before  and she is rather of an
inflammatory disposition. She'll have to
be kept very quiet, and for some time
too ; and I should advise you, Miss Barrington,
to write and let your friends know
my opinion at once.'

But  but  ' said Fenella, with her
eyes downcast, ' I can't do that, because
I don't know where my mother is ! '

You don't know where she is ! ' repeated
the doctor, with surprise.

No, sir; for she starts to-day with a
party of friends for the Continent, and
will be moving about for some time.
She does not even know herself where
she will be, and she told us not to write
until we heard from her.'

'Just so; but Mrs Barrington could
not have anticipated your servant meeting
with such an accident. It makes it
very awkward for you, young lady. What
will you do in this outlandish place alone ?

If you had only been at Lynwern now,
you might have found some amusement ;
but this village is dulness itself. Have
you no other friends except your mother ? '

Fenella blushed.

Oh yes, of course I have ; only I
don't know them, and I would rather
not write to them. What could any one
do for me ?  unless it were to take me
away from Ines-cedwyn ; and I would
not leave Bennett on any account. I
must nurse her until she is well again.'

Very good ; if that's your decision, you
must abide by it. You'll be quite safe
here ; there is no doubt of that. Only
you must understand one thing, Miss Barrington.
If you wish to see your nurse
recover quickly, you must leave her alone.
Don't go into her room ; don't remain in
the cottage more than you can help  the
quieter the house is the better. Take
your work and books down to the beach,
and stop there all day. It'll do you good
as well as her, for you are not over strong.

Now, I can see you are a sensible girl,
and I'm sure you understand me.'

Yes, I understand you perfectly, and
I will do all I can to aid her recovery.
When will you be able to set her leg and
stop that dreadful pain } '

I hope to do It this evening or tomorrow
morning, if the leeches do their
duty And now I must run away, and
don't let me catch you in the house when
I come back again.'

He drove off laughing, and Fenella
felt comforted by the circumstance. If a
doctor laughed, she thought there couldn't
be anything very serious the matter with
his patient. So she took a book from one
of the boxes that Benjamin Bennett had
brought over from Lynwern the day before
; and as soon as Martha had given
her the midday meal, which she dignified
by the name of dinner, she put on her
little black hat and cape, and strolled
down to the sands.

As she went along, did Fenella think of

the stranger whom she had met there the
day before ? Possibly ! but she certainly
never expected to see him again so soon.
When she had passed the ruined bungalow,
and came within full sight of the open sea,
she was almost as much surprised to perceive
his figure stretched full length on the
sands, with his felt hat over his face to
shelter It from the midday sun, as she had
been on the first occasion of their meeting.
For why had he come back so soon, she
asked herself  so very soon  to such a
stupid place as Ines-cedwyn ! Mr Doyne
evidently did not hear her approach  her
footsteps left no sound behind them on the
yielding sand  but Trap did. Trap, with
the unerring canine instinct that puts
our human perceptlveness to shame, had
pricked his ears for full half-a-mlnute
before the girl appeared ; and as he
caught sight of her, he stirred and
whined with eagerness to salute his new
acquaintance.

What's that, old boy ? ' said Geoffrey

Doyne, as he tilted his hat from off the
corner of one eye.

In another moment he was on his feet
bareheaded, and besprinkled with sand ;
and Trap, given the cue, was barking
vociferously, and wheeling round in airy
circles of delight. Fenella's cheeks had
suddenly bloomed like the rose.

Oh, how funny you look ! ' she exclaimed
childishly  'just as if you were
covered with brown sugar ! 

This is very hard upon me,' said Mr
Doyne ; ' we have met but twice, and each
time your first remark has been, '' How
funny ! " '

Fenella laughed, and sat down on the
sand.

But so you are, you know ; and so is
Trap  the funniest little dog I ever saw.
Just look at him now, all covered with
sea-weed.'

Yes ; I ventured to bring him over
again to see you. Miss Barrington, since
you were kind enough to give me leave ;

and we have been waiting for you such a
time, more than two hours. Haven't we,
Trap ? '

But how did you know I should be
here at all ? ' demanded Fenella, with open
eyes. * I didn't say so, Mr Doyne.'

Perhaps not ; but I hoped so, and you
see my hope has come true. " All things
come to him who knows how to wait." '

But where is your dear little boat ? '
said Fenella. * I don't see it anywhere.'

The dear little boat, as you call it, is
in harbour at Lynwern. I rode over to
Ines-cedwyn this morning.'

You rode ! ' exclaimed Fenella  * on a
horse ? '

The young man laughed.

The Hussars are not in the habit, generally
speaking, of riding anything but
horses, Miss Barrington.'

 No, no ; of course ! How stupid you
must think me,' said the girl, colouring ;
but I have been so long shut up at ,
that I seem to know nothing.'

What do they ride at Ansprach ? ' he
asked  ' cows, or donkeys ? '

Oh ! now you are laughing at me, Mr
Doyne ; but I suppose I deserve it. Why,
we never rode anything at Ansprach, of
course. There was nothing but the convent
there. You never saw nuns riding
on donkeys, did you ? How funny they
would look ! '

Or a fat old lady abbess on a cow ;
that would be funnier still,' suggested
Geoffrey Doyne.

Fenella took all he said au pied de la
lettre.

We did not call them '' lady abbesses "
at Ansprach,' she answered ; ' they were
called 'reverend mother," or '' chere
mere ; " and they were very good to me 
oh ! very, very good. I shall never forget
all their kindness as long as I live.'

Her loyal heart would not permit even
a shadow of ridicule to be cast upon its
absent friends, and Geoffrey Doyne saw
and appreciated the feeling.

'You were happy at the convent,' he
said.

Yes, I was, in a way replied Fenella,
with some hesitation ; ' but school can
never be quite like home, you know ; and
five years was a long time to be away from
my mother.'

Do you mean to say that you never
came home for five years } ' demanded the
young man, in surprise.

Fenella was afraid she had gone too
far ; she had no wish to betray her
mother.

It was inconvenient,' she stammered ;
I mean, it was impossible for mamma to
have me home. She was busy, you see,
and moving about, and I had my education
to finish.'

And now you have only been with her
for two days,' said Geoffrey Doyne.

The girl bit her lip to prevent the tears
starting to her eyes, and looked nervously
away from her companion.

How warm the sun is,' she said irrelevantly,

' and how lazy It makes one feel.
I meant to be very studious to-day and
read Moliere, but I don't seem inclined todo
anything.'

Geoffrey Doyne knew too much of the
world to be taken in by her apparent
indifference. As she tried to divert his
attention from the subject under discussion,
he was summing up the absent mother's
character. ' Selfish and worldly,' he
thought, 'and jealous of her daughter's
budding attractions. And so she may well
be, by Jove ! ' But all he said was, 

Were you going to read. Miss Barrington
? I was going to draw. What two
busy people we are. Happy thought !
suppose you read to me whilst I sketch
that fishing smack.'

But my book is in French,' said Fen-ella.
' Le Malade imaginaire, by Moliere.'

All the better ! I love plays, and
French plays above all others.'

Do you speak French, then . '

I do. Not quite so well, perhaps, asa

young lady fresh from a convent school ;
but still I speak It.'

And will you speak it with me ? ' cried
Fenella, clasping her hands. ' That will
be delightful. I cannot bear English, it
is so rough on the tongue.'

I will speak anything with you that
you will allow me,' said Geoffrey Doyne ;
and from that moment most of their conversation
was carried on in French.

Fenella commenced chattering it at once;
all her hesitation vanished as she indulged
in the language most familiar to her, and
a new vivacity appeared to add a charm
to her conversation. Her speaking looks,
her little foreign gestures, her volubility,
delighted her companion. He seemed to
have suddenly called a statue to life by
his ' happy thought.'

Let me see your drawing,' commenced
Fenella rapidly. ' Ah ! how beautiful it
must be to draw like that! It is quite
perfect  it is ravissante. Now I, for my
part, cannot draw at all  is it not stupid ?

I only sing and play. Do you sing, Mr
Doyne ?'

Yes ! I am fonder of singing than
drawing ; but I cannot get much practice
out in India.'

How is that ? '

We move about so often, and just as
some lady has got into the way of accompanying
my songs, she is whisked off
to another station.'

How provoking! I have been taught
to accompany from sight, and can do it
easily. If we lived near each other, I
could always accompany you, and sing
with you too. Would it not be pleasant } '

It would be too delightful. How I
should like to hear your voice. Couldn't
you sing me a song whilst I draw ? '

Fenella drew backward.
'Oh no! not here; every one would
hear me.'

Where is every one ? ' said Mr Doyne,
smiling, as he looked from right to left at
the solitude that surrounded them. * But

VOL. I. Q

never mind, we will go to the landslip
tog-ether some day, and there, perhaps, I
may persuade you to sing me a song.
Have you walked over there yet ? '

No ; but Martha Bennett says it is
very pretty just now  all covered with
apple blossoms.'

Yes ; it was an orchard of wild apple
trees, and one night the whole concern
tumbled into the sea. Half of the
trees are uprooted, but they blossom still.
Shall we go and picnic there some
day?'

 * What is a picnic ? '

'A dinner in the open air, under the
trees. I will bring it over in my boat
from Lynwern, if you'll be there to eat
it with me.'

Oh, how lovely it would be  a dinner in
the woods ! ' cried Fenella. ' And Martha
gives me such nasty dinners too,' she
added confidentially, ' bacon and beans 
only fancy!  and Irish stew  oh, not at
all nice ! I don't like them. But I am

not sure if Bennett will let me dine at
the landslip with you.'

Never mind Bennett ; she's not to be
worried, you know ' (for Fenella had given
him the account of her servant's increased
illness), 'and I will take the very greatest
care of you, Miss Barrington.'

I know you'll do that', she said, with
bright, confident eyes.

The young man gazed at her admiringly
; at that moment there was no more
guile in his soul than hers.

How much you looked like poor Edith
when you said that,' he ejaculated, with
a sigh.

Who was Edith, Mr Doyne ? '

She was my sister  my favourite sister
and she died two years ago, whilst I was
in India.'

Oh, that was very sad ! Cannot you
bear to talk of her ? Shall I say no more ? '

Say what you like. I don't think you
could wound me. But the subject is a very
tender one.'

You loved each other ? ' said Fenella
softly.

We did  most truly ; as much as a
brother and sister ever did. She was my
world, and since she has left me I have
had none.'

But you will meet her again ? '

Yes, I feel that  I know it  but these
life partings are very bitter, and heaven
seems such a long way off.'

You have other sisters ? '

Yes ; I have three ; but none like
Edith. She was my confidante my counsellor,
my true friend. I went to her in
all my difficulties. She saved me from so
much folly and weakness. No one cares
for me as she did, and she has left me.
Sometimes I feel as if it were too hard
to bear.'

He bent his head over his sketching-block
as she spoke, that she might not seethe
moisture that bedewed his eyes ; for
Geoffrey Doyne's nature was a very sentimental
one  weak, emotional, and easily

impressed for either right or wrong. His
soul was filled with a sort of poetical,
dreamy religion, that on occasions could
raise him to the heights of enthusiasm, but
was seldom strong enough to shield him in
the hour of temptation.

Fenella longed to comfort him, but she
was too inexperienced to know how. She
could only suggest gently, 

'But your mother, Mr Doyne  you
have still your mother to go to in your
trouble ? '

He shook his head.

My mother died before I can remember
her. Had she lived she might have
been to me what my sister was. But
I am not happy enough to have a
mother ! '

Fenella was shocked that she had
touched on such a theme, but she could
not retrieve the error. At the idea of his
unhappiness and loneliness, so akin to
her own, her soft eyes beamed with the
tenderest sympathy. Geoffrey Doyne,

sitting beside her on the sand, with his
handsome profile clearly defined against
the sky, looked such an embodiment of
melancholy that her heart yearned to tell
him that she too knew what it was to lose
a mother. He seemed to discern her
feelings, for in another moment he had
turned to address her.

I know that you pity me,' he said. ' I
am sure that you can understand what
it is to look for love and not to find it
for  (forgive me if I am too bold)  you
too are motherless ! '

The girl did not reply, but her hand
dropped at her side. He laid his own
upon it.

Will you come down here tomorrow ? '
he asked. ' Will you let me hear your
voice again and see your face ? Will you
let me feel if my troubles are too hard to
bear  that some one will be here for me to
tell them to ? '

Yes,' said Fenella simply. ' I will be
here.'

Had Geoffrey Doyne entertained a deep
design against her heart, he could not
have thought of a better plan by which to
effect its subjugation.

Come and tell me everything,' she said
softly, ' if it comforts you in the least
degree to talk ; for I too am lonely and
very sad ! '

He raised the hand he held lightly
to his lips, and laid it by her side
again.

That is a compact,' he replied. ' We
both need consolation. We will try and
console each other.'

He looked at her. There was no
thought of coquetry in her heart. All was
clear there as the light of heaven. Yet
with that innocent invitation she had
sealed her fate.

Sympathy  pity  a kindred grief !
Could three ties more powerful be found
to knit two young hearts in a bond that
should never more be broken ? Many
meet and are attracted to each other in the

midst of merriment, to the sounds of music
and laughter, midst the braying of trumpets
and the proud revelry of success.
But such may part as easily. Those only
who are drawn together by a mutual
sorrow find it impossible to free themselves.


THE DAWN BREAKS.

Let me but bear your love  I'll bear your cares.'

Shakespeare.

oiiTgOFFREY Done's father
was a country gentleman, and
a justice of the peace for Buckinghamshire.
He was a selfish old person,
who seldom consulted anything but his
own Inclinations, and as he professed a
strong aversion to the sea-side, he never
accompanied his family in their summer
excursions. As Margaret Doyne, however,
his eldest daughter, was quite old enough
to take the charge of her younger sisters,
the absence of their paternal parent was

considered rather In the light of a blessing
than otherwise, especially as he was
wealthy, and never denied them the means
of enjoying themselves so long as they
did not trouble him. They were not left
entirely alone either. Their elder brother,
Michael Doyne, who was in the law, ran
down occasionally from town to see how
they were getting on at Lynwern; and
now they had their handsome Geoffrey at
home for the next month or six weeks, to
act as their chaperon in such excursions as
they could not take by themselves. But
Geoffrey had not given satisfaction in this
particular. He was continually going
away for five and six hours at a time, rowing
about in the boat he had hired  and
what was worse, he refused to take his
sisters with him.

The first time that Michael Doyne
visited them after Geoffrey had arrived at
Lynwern, he found Margaret full of complaints
of the younger brother's selfishness
and neglect.

It really is too bad of him, Michael,
she said. ' He knows how tied I am to
home, and he might take Cissy and Amy
out with him occasionally. But he goes
away by himself, morning, noon, and evening.
He might just as well not be in the
house at all for what we see of him.'

'Where does he go to?' inquired Mr
Doyne.

I am sure I don't know He says he
goes fishing, but he never brings home
any fish. He talks a good deal about
Ines-cedwyn, a village a few miles from
here, so I suppose he goes there ; but he
is extremely reticent about his doings.'

I hope he's not got into any scrape,*
remarked her brother.

Scrape ! my dear Michael, what sort
of a scrape ? '

There Is but one sort of scrape for a
dreamy fellow like Geoffrey, Margaret, and
that's a feminine one ! '

My dear Michael, said Miss Doyne
reproachfully, ' I know there used to be

trouble enough with Geoffrey about such
things in the days gone by, but surely
there's no fear of it now that he's engaged
to Jessie Robertson.'

What has his engagement to do with
it ? He doesn't care for the girl. He
never did ! '

'Oh, Michael, it's terrible to think of!
What prospect of happiness can there befor
him in such a case .' '

As much as matrimony usually brings,
my dear. I really don't think it much
signifies how it begins. It generally ends
in the same way,  we have citations
served for upwards of four hundred divorce
motions for the next sessions ! '

Pray don't mention such horrid things
to me. You had better talk to Geoffrey,
and find out what mischief he is after
now. That would be much more " to
the purpose.'

Not I ! Geoff is old enough to manage
his own affairs without any assistance
from me. But I'll put him in mind

of his responsibilities with regard to Miss
Robertson, in case he should have forgotten
them.'

Accordingly, at the next meal they took
together, Michael Doyne broached the subject.
He was the last man in the world
who should have done so. He was a hard,
practical lawyer, who looked at everything
in life from a strictly business point of
view, and had no sympathy with romance
of any kind. Consequently, he and his
younger brother had seldom been able to
get on together.

By the way, Geoffrey,' he commenced,
as he pushed the decanter across the table,
I dined with the Robertsons last week,
and Jessie was very anxious to ascertain
how much longer we intended remaining
at Lynwern, and if you were going to
stay with them in Blenheim Square on
your return.'

'Well, yes; I suppose I shall. I've
told her so all along,' replied Geoffrey
indifferently ; * but we don't want to leave

Lynwern yet, surely, when the warm
weather is just setting in.'

Margaret means to remain over June,
but her plans need not interfere with
yours.'

I never supposed they would.'

And I really think you owe something
to Jessie Robertson. She appeared hurt
that you had not seen her on your way
through from Paris ; and, considering you
had been absent for three months, it
was rather peculiar.'

I like to be peculiar,' rejoined the
younger brother ; ' but, joking apart, what
would have been the use of it '. The
London season has not begun yet, there's
nothing stirring in town, and I shall have
more than enough of it before it's over.'

Upon my word, Geoff,' interposed
Amy, ' I must say you are cool. Fancy,
speaking in that way of the girl you are
engaged to marry ! Jessie ought to feel
flattered. After three months' absence,
you have not sufficient interest in seeing

her to make you halt twelve hours on your
journey

My dear Amy, men don't treat these
matters in the ridiculous fashion of your
sex. Jessie and I must get used to separation,
else what should we do when I
return to India next October ?'

And is not the wedding to take place
before you go ? ' inquired Margaret.
When Mrs Robertson spoke to me on
the subject a few weeks back, she seemed
to look upon it as a settled thing.'

Geoffrey's face flamed with excitement.

Most certainly not!' he exclaimed emphatically
; 'and I made Mrs Robertson
understand that thoroughly when I consented
to the encraoement. It was on the
condition that we were not to be married
till I returned from India again. The old
woman knows that as well as I do.'

And for how long are you lik ;ly to
be away this time ? ' demanded Michael
Doyne.'

I don't know  two or three years 

what does It matter ? Any way, I'm not
going to lose my liberty before I start.'

Poor Jessie,' said Cissy, laughing. ' I
wonder how much of your heart will be
left by the time you return to her.'

Don't talk nonsense,' replied her
brother crossly, as he turned away.

But at any rate, Geoffrey, whenever the
marriage is to take place, you are engaged
to the girl, remember that ; and you can't
get out of it,' said Michael Doyne.

Who wants to get out of it ? ' asked
Geoffrey.

I don't wish even to suggest such a
thing, my dear fellow ; but it is as well
under the circumstances to keep the
family in good-humour, isn't it ?'

I am not going out of my way to do it,'
said Geoffrey ; ' and if they begin to worry
me, I shall cut the whole business.'

They will never let you do that,' replied
his brother quietly ; ' they are too proud of
the connection. The old lady boasts of her
daughter's engagement wherever she goes.'

An exclamation not too complimentary
to the ' old lady ' burst from Geoffrey's
lips.

Whatever you feel on the subject of
your engagement, I wish It wouldn't make
you forget yourself,' remarked Margaret
coldly.

I beg your pardon, Margaret, but It Is
enough to make any fellow swear to hear
that his private affairs are being canvassed
In this way. Why were women born with
tongues V

It's a pity you have one yourself, or
you couldn't have entered into a contract
that appears so distasteful to you ! '

There you go ! that's the way you
women run on ! Who ever said it was
distasteful to me '. Now, I suppose you'll
have that piece of news all over Lantern
before tomorrow morning ! ' retorted
her brother.

It's no use quarrelling in this fashion,'
said Michael Doyne ; ' and as for Lynwern
being informed of your private affairs,

VOL. I. R

Geoffrey, you must know your sisters have
no acquaintance here to tell them to. But
the danger, I fancy, lies more in reticence
than in repetition. If you give yourself
out publicly as an engaged man, no harm
will be done.'

He looked at the younger man so steadfastly
as he pronounced the words, that
Geoffrey immediately suspected he knew
something of the truth.

How can I give myself out as an
engaged man,' he answered, colouring,
when I know no one to give myself
out to ? Do you want me to make a
confidant of Tugwell, the boatman ; or
of the landlady of the lodgings ? '

Michael noticed the increase of colour
in his brother's face, though he professed
not to do so.

Of course,' he replied, in an indifferent
tone, ' if you know no one, it cannot
signify. But I think it would please
the Robertsons if you were to run upto
town for a couple of days to see

them, even before you leave Lynwern.
It would look polite and attentive,
wouldn't it ? '

Yes ; I'll think about it,* replied
Geoffrey, as he rose from table.

It was luncheon they had been sitting
over, and the hour was two o'clock.

What are you going to do this afternoon
?' asked Michael.

Fish,' replied the other laconically.

You seem to do nothing but fish,'
said his brother. ' You have been in
Lynwern nearly three weeks, and Margaret
tells me that during that while
you have only taken your sisters out
twice.'

I came down here for sport,' replied
Geoffrey. * I didn't come for the purpose
of towing a lot of girls about ! I can't
go pottering over rocks looking for anemones
and all that sort of rubbish. And
when I don't fish, I like to ride about the
country.'

Well, I suppose you must have your

own way,' said Michael, 'but don't get
into any scrapes. By the way, is there
much fish at Ines-cedwyn ? '

Geoffrey's handsome face crimsoned.

*Why  at Ines-cedwyn V he stammered.

Only that it's the nearest point, and
Margaret says you have spoken of the
place.'

Oh yes, yes, there are ! it's a fishing-hamlet,
you know ; but I go for the pleasure
of the thing, you know, and don't
care so much about the spoil.' And with
a laugh that was intended to be careless,
Geoffrey Doyne strode away. The
lawyer looked after him till he was out
of sight.

Whether you care about the spoil or
not, you've got a fish more there than
you've any right to have, my boy,' he
thought ; * however, it's no affair of mine.
You have a wonderful faculty for getting
into scrapes, and you must learn to get
out of them the best way you can.'

Meanwhile Geoffrey took his way down

to the harbour, where Tugwell was waiting
for him with the Httle boat, in the
steerage of which lay a hamper which
the boatman had been previously ordered
to fetch from the Lynwern Hotel.
It was a glorious afternoon in May ; nota
cloud flecked the pure blue of the sky,
not a ripple showed itself on the surface
of the water, and Geoffrey had meant to
be so happy, for he had at last persuaded
Fenella Barrington to picnic with him on
the landslip, and was going to meet her
there. But the unpleasant conversation
that had taken place over the luncheon-table
had somewhat embittered his cup
of pleasure.

He had now for more than a fortnight
held almost daily intercourse with the
girl at Ines-cedwyn. With the exception
of a few occasions on which he had done
duty with his sisters, he had met her every
afternoon upon the golden sands, and
talked with her until the evening shadows
warned them to seek their respective

homes. They had become such fast
friends that he had spoken to her of
almost everything that passed through
his mind  except his engagement with
Jessie Robertson.

Several times it had been on the tip of
his tongue to tell her, and something had
prevented him. Something in the tender
light of the clear eyes bent upon him,
something in the frank confidence with
which he was treated, made him reserve
his own. The words would not come ;
they had died upon his very lips. He
had told himself it was not necessary that
Fenella should learn the fact ; that she
was but an acquaintance from whom he
should soon again be parted, and perhaps
for ever ; there was no need to cast a
shadow on their pleasant intercourse.
But something in his brother's way of
mentioning the subject that afternoon had
placed it in a different light before him.
It had opened his eyes, perhaps, to his
own feelings in the matter ; any way, he

had come to the conclusion that he owed
it to his girl friend and himself to tell her
the truth. But the idea made him very
melancholy ; it did more, it made him
nervous.

Tugwell did not know what had come
to the master that afternoon. His young
muscular arms seemed to have lost half
their power, and his tongue  generally so
voluble and pleasant  to have relapsed
into silence. The journey to Ines-cedwyn
took half again as long as usual, and
when at last they pulled up alongside
of the landslip, the boatman had had a
great deal more than his fair share of
labour.

Geoffrey Doyne, ever generous, seemed
to acknowledge the fact, for he was unusually
liberal that afternoon.

Pull the boat round to the cliffs, Tug-well,'
he said, * and when I want you
again I'll go up to the public house and
give you a call. I don't think I shall be
going back till this evening.'

And then he carried the basket of provisions
up to a grassy knoll, and sat down
under the shade of an apple-tree, and
wondered  whilst the white and pink blossoms
fell about his handsome head, and
crowned him like a young god of Spring
in what words he had best break the
news of his engagement to Fenella.

Meanwhile the girl, ardently anxious
for the moment that should bring her
face to face with him again, was standing
in Eliza Bennett's bedroom looking out
through the honeysuckled casement. The
servant was now convalescent, that is to
say, she could sit up in bed, but Dr Redfern
would not yet permit her to put her
foot to the ground.

And just to fancy. Miss Fenella,' she
was saying, *that it is a fortnight and
more since we came to Ines-cedwyn, and
here I am still in bed like a log, and of
no use to any one. It's enough to make
a woman lose all patience  it really is ! '

But, Bennett, you are so much better ;

you will soon be able to get about again
now,' replied Fenella. ' The doctor said
this morning that another week or two
would see you in the garden.'

It is not of myself I'm thinking, my
dear ; it's of you ! I shouldn't fret if I'd
to lie here another month, for Martha's
as good as she can be to me ; but it's so
lonely for you, poor lamb, and that's what
puts me out. Whatever you do with yourself
all day long in this solitary place, I
can't think.'

Fenella turned scarlet.

Oh ! I am quite happy Bennett  
Indeed I am ; and I think it is the nicest
place I ever was in.'

Do you, now ? Well, you haven't seen
much as yet, that's true ; but though Ines-
cedwyn's my native village, I never heard
anybody speak of it like that. And do
you find anything to amuse yourself with
here, Miss Fenella? any shells, or seaweed,
or such like ? I am afraid you must
be so terribly dull.'

No, Bennett, I am not dull ; I assure
you I am not.'

Martha tells me you're so good, you
give next to no trouble ; but you mustn't
keep out of the house for our sakes, you
know, miss, though the beach Is pleasant
than the cottage this weather, I daresay.
What do you do there ? Do you take
your books and work on the sands ? '

Fenella looked more and more uneasy
as the catechising proceeded, but she
answered, 

Yes, Bennett, always  I work there
every day.'

And do you ever get any one to speak
to, miss } I know there's only boatmen
and children about here, but do you ever
have a talk with them about the weather
and the fishing ? '

Yes, often.'

'That's right. I'm glad you're not too
proud for that, Miss Fenella, for it's dull
work never to hear the sound of one's
own tongue. And you can talk with whom

you will In Ines-cedwyn. You can't come
to any harm here. But there's another
thing I want to say to you, miss. Don't
you think it's strange we've never had
a line from your dear mamma ? '

At these words Fenella's face lowered.
She had ceased to think of her mother
with the softness with which she had
regarded her all her life hitherto. She
recognised the utter want of maternal
feeling which had condemned her to her
present position, and it had hardened her
heart against her. Others loved her 
strangers offered her sympathy and kindness.
Why did her mother alone withhold
them from her ?

I did think we should have heard from
her before now,' resumed Eliza Bennett,
though I know the mistress hates letter-writing
above everything. But she promised
to write from Mentone, and she
must be there by this time.'

I daresay she has forgotten all about
us,' said Fenella, shrugging her shoulders.

Perhaps she means to leave us here for
the rest of our lives.'

Oh ! don't say such things, miss, please,
of your dear mamma  as if she'd ever goto
do such a thing ! '

I shouldn't much mind if she did,'
rejoined Fenella blithely. 'I am so
happy in Ines-cedwyn, I never wish to
go away again.'

Eliza Bennett regarded the girl with
astonishment.

Lor, Miss Fenella!' she exclaimed,
who'd have thought to hear you talk like
that? But I'm glad you're happy here,
my dear, for I'm sure the place agrees
with you. You're not the same young
lady that came here. I don't believe
your mamma would know you again.
You're getting quite stout, and blooming
like a rose.'

That's because Martha takes such
good care of me,' replied Fenella, blushing
; ' and what do you think she has
done to-day, Bennett 1  made me a lovely

little pie and a plum-cake, and I am going
to have a picnic up at the landslip as
soon as she has packed them up for me
Then you'd better go at once, miss,
for It's past your dinner-hour already.'

I know It Is, but I don't feel hungry,
the air, and the sky, and the sea are
all so beautiful. I am too happy to be
hungry. Kiss me, dear old Bennett ! I
think you love me, don't you ? Ah ! how
I wish  '

What do you wish, my dear ? ' demanded
the servant wistfully. She could
not understand the new mood that had
come over her young mistress. Fenella
seemed to have altered in some way, and
yet she could not say how. * What is
it you want, miss ? Is it anything I can
do for you ? ' she repeated.

No, no, Bennett ; It Is nothing  it
was only a thought. I have everything
I want In this world  I wish for nothing
more. Good-bye ! I must run now and
get my basket,' and In another moment

the servant heard her go singing gaily
down the pathway to the sea.

Bless her heart ! ' she said to herself ;
what a little It takes to make us happy
when we're young. But I never thought
the dear child would have got over it
so soon.'

But though Fenella sang as she went
to meet Geoffrey Doyne at the landslip,
and her face was crimsoned with expectation
and her grey eyes beamed with
excitement, she was not entirely at her
ease. Her interviews with him had become
the greatest joy of her life, but they
were overshadowed by the fact of their
being kept secret. Fenella's nature was
open as the day  to conceal anything was
a real pain to her ; but circumstances had
made her refrain from mentioning Geoffrey
Doyne's name at the cottage until it had
become impossible to do so  until the
very thought of him was sacred, and
had the power to cover her with confusion.
Yet still the girl was unconscious

why it should be so ; still she spoke of
him to her own heart as only the dearest
friend she had ever met.

Three weeks of constant and unbroken
intercourse  what can they not effect in
the mind of a young and susceptible
woman ! For they had actually been
potent enough to do this : without her
knowing it, they had transformed Fenella
Barrineton from a child to a woman, and
accident had but to tear the veil from
her eyes to make her see herself as she
really was. During these three weeks
Geoffrey Doyne had unbosomed himself
of his deepest thoughts to her, had shown
her the richest treasures of his freshly educated
mind. They had conversed together
of poetry and nature and art and religion
the misty, emotional religion which he
affected, made up of heaven and angels, and
everlasting love  that species of ecstatic
impossible paradise to which lovers who
are parted by fate in this world, are so fond
of looking forward, and the half child, half

woman had listened as to the utterances
of a god, and gradually warmed to life
and awakened to the call of nature
beneath the influence of his sweet words
and sweeter voice. He had never spoken
to her of love  natural, earthly love  or
her suspicions with regard to her own
state of mind might have been aroused.
He only spoke of friendship  an immutable,
indivisible friendship, which was to
last for time and eternity and prove the
salvation of them both. He had prayed
her to stand in the place of his lost
sister Edith to him ; to be his consoler
and counsellor and second self; to become,
in fact, that which it is impossible for a
woman to be without being more  the
bosom friend of a man !

But Fenella was too unworldly to doubt
the reason of his proposal ; she saw nothing
absurd in the idea ; it appeared
both holy and feasible to her, and had become
the gladness of her life. She never
stopped to ask herself how long it would

last, and what she and Geoffrey Doyne
would do when he left Lynwern, and she
went back to her mother in South Audley
Street. She only knew that the present
was in her grasp, and it was beautiful ;
and she went to meet him at the landslip
without a doubt but that the
horizon of her life would always be as
blue and smiling as it was now. There
was only one little cloud to mar her
pleasure  she wished that Geoffrey would
come up to the cottage and tell Bennett
that they knew each other. Perhaps the
gloom in his own mind that day made him
more readily recognise that all was not
quite smooth with her, for after the first
hot flush that rose to Fenella's face on
greeting him had subsided, he asked her
if anything was the matter.

Nothing! what should be the matter
she answered, 'when the sun is shining
so splendidly, and the birds are singing
all round us, and we are going to eat our
dinner together under these beautiful trees '

VOL. I. s

There is only one thing that could make
me happier.'

There now ; I knew there was one
thing. You see you can't deceive me,
Fenella,' he said, as he gazed into her
speaking face. ' Come, now ; what is it ? '

You will call me silly, Mr Doyne,
because we have spoken of it so often
before ; but I do wish that Bennett knew
that we met each other.'

Why don't you tell her, then ? '

But perhaps she might be angry, and
never let me see you again ! ' said Fenella,
with a drooping lip.

Ah ! that's it, you see ; it's Bennett
versus Geoffrey Doyne, and the weaker
must go to the wall.'

Oh, don't talk so ; you won't go to the
wall ! ' said Fenella, as she unpacked the
baskets and spread out their contents upon
the grass. Her childish delight at the
liberal provision her friend had made
for their comfort  at the delicate raised
pie, and the cold chicken and salad, and

the bottle of champagne  for awhile lulled
the whispers of her uneasy conscience.

Oh, how kind of you, Mr Doyne !
What a beautiful dinner  and tarts too !
Who told you I liked raspberry puffs ?
And here is a box of chocolate creams !
You are a good boy ! I shall never,
never forget our picnic under the landslip
trees.'

She spread the cloth which he had
brought with him, and laid out the meal,
with all the delight of a child at play.

And now, where will you sit ? ' she
said, when her preparations were concluded.
' Will you stay where you are,
and I will sit opposite to you ? That is
right ; now aren't we cosy sitting here,
one at each end of the table, just like
Martha and Benjamin at dinner  eh, Mr
Doyne ? '

She threw a gleeful glance at him as
she spoke, and caught the troubled expression
in his eyes. In a moment her
own face became overcast.

Now it is my turn to ask what is the
matter!' she exclaimed. 'Have I said
anything wrong ? Is it I who have made
you sad ? '

No, indeed, Fenella ; it is not in your
power to do that ; but let us have our
dinner first, child, and talk afterwards.'

He exerted himself to be cheerful during
the meal that followed, but it was the
girl that chattered and laughed the most
of the two. She was so happy to think
that Bennett was better, and the sun
shone, and Geoffrey was there. To her
innocence it appeared as if life could
never give her anything better than she
possessed at that moment. When the
dinner was concluded, he asked her
permission to light a cigar. He felt
somehow as if he could speak to her
better if he were not obliged to lookin
her face ; and Fenella took out a
strip of work which she was embroidering,
and sat down by his side.

Why do you think that Bennett would

be angry at your meeting me upon the
sands ? ' he asked abruptly, when there
had been the silence of a couple of
minutes between them.

Oh, I don't know  perhaps she might
not be ; but she was angry because I
spoke to you at Calais, you remember ?
She said it wasn't proper, and that no
young lady would do such a thing.'

I know she did ! She was speaking
from a conventional point of view, and
in the main she was right. But with
respect to our particular case : I suppose
you know why she would be afraid to
give her sanction to our meeting each
other, and what she would be afraid
of.'

No, I don't,' replied Fenella frankly.

Well, it's very foolish, of course, but it's
the general idea, and Bennett is only a
servant. Her objection to your meeting
me in this way would be simply because
she would imagine I should make love to
you.'

But you don't,' said the girl, with her
eyes fixed on her work.

No, I don't ; and I want to tell you for
what reason. I want to explain to you,
my dear little friend, why her fears would
be perfectly groundless, why  In fact, /
could not make love to you even if I wished
to do so ; and that is because I am already
engaged to be married. And so I'm as
harmless a fellow, you see, as you could
meet In a day's march !'

Fenella did not answer him. She never
stirred, nor looked up, and her face was
shaded by a broad-brimmed hat, so that
he could not see her eyes. But after a
pause, she said, In a low voice, 

I don't quite understand !'

Don't you ? I thought I spoke plainly
enough. I said (what I wish I had not to
say) that I have entered into an engagement
from which I see no means of extricating
myself I told you once, dear, that
I was not a happy man. This is the chief
cause of my unhappiness : I am engaged

to a girl whom I don't love, and can't
love, and never shall love, and all my
life is spoiled in consequence.'

A look of divine pity beamed from
Fenella's eyes.

Oh, I understand  I comprehend,' she
cried. ' You were betrothed to her as a
child, and now you find you cannot love
her ! I have heard of such things before,
and I am very, very sorry.'

She dropped her work as she spoke, and
came to his side, and placed one of her
hands upon his own.

Is there no way out of such a trouble T
she asked softly.

The young man's hand closed upon hers
like a vice,

None, dear child,' he answered ; * there
is no remedy for it. But you do not
quite understand me, Fenella. This betrothal
was my own doing. I was drawn
into it, it is true, against my better judgment,
but I sealed it of my free will. I
am the only one to blame in the matter,

and that is what makes it so hard to
bear ! '

Tell me all about it,' said the girl, with
trembling lips.

When I came home from India a year
ago, I paid a visit to the house of Dr
Robertson, an old friend of my father's.
He has seven daughters, and I had known
them all from children, and thought no
more of romping with them than with my
own sisters. But one day, to my astonishment,
the mother, Mrs Robertson, informed
me that her daughter Jessie had grown to
care so much for me, that if I didn't mean
to marry her, she would break her heart.
I was very angry at the idea at first, but
they talked me over, and as I didn't want
to make a quarrel between the families, and
they all seemed to think I ought to propose
to the girl, I did so, and it was
settled. But I have been very wretched
about it ever since.'

'Is she pretty . ' asked Fenella, in a
low voice.

Yes, rather ! ' replied Geoffrey, in the
depreciating tone in which a man of the
world invariably speaks of one woman's
charms to another.

And fond of you ?' went on the girl.

Oh yes ! there is no question of that.
She is very much attached to me,' he said,
somewhat conceitedly.

And yet you don't love her ! '

I do not, Fenella. I never did love her
in the way you mean  and now I seem
less able to do it than before. We are
utterly insulted to each other. We can
never be happy together, and I feel that
I would rather die than marry her.'

Mt is very sad for both of you,' said
Fenella quickly, and she said no more.

Geoffrey Doyne was annoyed at her
reticence. Had she reproached or blamed
him ; had her voice but faltered, or a few
tears fallen on her embroidery, she would
have afforded him an opening to tell her
what a dangerous charm her society possessed
for him, and how (since he had known

her) the thought of his engagement to Jessie
Robertson had become more objectionable
every day. But Fenella had no such
ordinary female artifices at hand by which
to force a confession of love. She was
afraid of betraying what she felt to him ;
and her only refuge was in silence. But
as she sat there, apparently absorbed in her
work, the music of the birds, and the waves,
and the summer breeze sighing through
the branches, seemed to have floated
far away, and her head was filled with a
whirring, barring sound instead, and her
heart felt cold and heavy, and sick to death
with a longing that was akin to despair.

At last the silence that reigned between
them became Insupportable. Geoffrey
Doyne had twisted and turned about upon
the grass, and whistled, and done everything
he could think of to attract her
attention, without success.

Are we never going to talk to each
other again ? ' ne exclaimed impatiently.
I shall wish I had bitten out my tongue

before I mentioned this abominable business
to you, if it is to make any difference
to our pleasant intercourse.'

At the sound of his voice Fenella roused
herself.

What nonsense you are talking,' she
said, with affected gaiety, as she threw
her work to one side. ' You make no
allowance for people wanting to rest their
tongues a little after dinner. Now, I
suppose, the next thing we must do is
to pack up this hamper again. Well, Mr
Lazy, am I to do all by myself? Give me
those plates, please ; they must go at the
bottom, or the eatables will be spoiled; and I
will put Martha's little pie and cake in with
them, lest she should ask me what I had for
dinner. You must give them to Tugwell,
Mr Doyne. They will do for his supper,
or he will keep them for his little children.
That is done. Oh, how heavy it is! I
don't think I could carry it if I tried.'

No, no ; of course you could not,' said
Geoffrey Doyne. ' We will leave it here,

and Tugwell will fetch it down to the boat
himself. But what is the matter with you,
Fenella ? are you cold ? ' For the girl had
sat suddenly down on the grass again, and
was shivering.

I don't know ; I think I am. It seems
a little chilly,' she answered vaguely.

We have been sitting still too long,
that is the fact,' said the young man.
We must not forget that, though it is so
warm, it is not summer. Let us walk
along the shore, Fenella ; a little exercise
will do us good.'

He stretched out his hand to her as he
spoke, and she suffered him to lead her
away. The road they chose was not the
one that led to Ines-cedwyn, but lay along a
barren shore on the left side of the landslip.
Here, after the space of a few
minutes, they found themselves utterly
alone. They were not even within sight
of the village, and the sea-gulls, wheeling
every now and then across their path, were
the sole living creatures they encountered.

They walked for a little while, side by side,
with their eyes fixed upon the ground, and
their tongues apparently fettered ; but presently
Geoffrey Doyne approached nearer
his companion, until his arm stole round
her slender waist.

Fenella,' he whispered, in a voice in
which an older woman would have detected
the underlying passion  * Fenella, will you
ever be less my friend than you are now ? '

Never, Geoffrey, never.'

Thanks, dear. You won't let what I
told you this afternoon, then, make any
difference in our affection ? '

 Oh no ! Why should it ? '

For I need your friendship all the more
for that,' he continued. ' I shall turn to
you for comfort in all my troubles. I shall
come to you when everything goes wrong,
that you may tell me what is best to do.'

Yes, if I can  if I am able,' she answered.
' But you are so much older and
wiser than I am, Geoffrey ; you can never
need me to tell you what is right'

I shall need you always, Fenella  all
through my life. You have promised,
you know, to stand to me in the place of
Edith  to be my sister and counsellor
and friend, and to fill up the gap in my
lonely heart.'

'And indeed I will,' replied the girl.
*You must always think of me as your
sister Fenella.'

But her voice trembled a little, despite
all her caution, as she pronounced the
words. Even a sister does not always
care to have her affection divided with
another.

There is no love so beautiful and
holy in this world as the love between a
brother and sister,' continued the young
man, with a view to mutual consolation.
'It is the purest, closest friendship of
which our mortal natures are capable. It
is devoid of jealousy ; it is totally unselfish,
and it desires nothing so much as
the good of the person whom it loves.
There can be no higher feeling upon

earth, Fenella. It is next door to the
loves of the angels

Yes ; I never had a brother, as you
know, but I have always felt so.'

But you have a brother now, darling.
You will never cease to think of me as a
brother, will you ? ' asked Geoffrey Doyne.

Oh no ; I hope not ; but  but  '
But what, Fenella ? '

You will be going to India very soon,'
she faltered.

The young man looked grave.

That is true ; and it will be a terrible
trial for both of us. But life, Fenella, is
made up of trials, and love like ours
was given to help us bear them with
the greater patience.'

I know that ; but it is so far away,
and you might die there, Geoffrey, and
then I should never see you again.'

You mustn't say that. If you love meas
much as I love you, nothing can ever
really part us in this world or the next.
I heard once, Fenella, a most charming

theory from the Hps of a man of science,
and I have never forgotten it. His belief
was, that since the angels are perfect
beings, and no mortal, even in a purified
condition, can be so, our future state will
consist of a dual existence  that is, it will
take a man and woman to make one angel ;
and thus, from our stronger nerves and
qualities, joined to your softer, sweeter
natures, will spring a perfected being.'

How beautiful ! I wonder if it is
true ! ' exclaimed Fenella.

I love to think it is so,' continued
Geoffrey Doyne ; ' and should it be, will
you not hope, dear, that you and I may bethe
two true friends to be thus incorporated
into one .''

Oh, Geoffrey ! yes,' she whispered.

It was now evening, and the stars had
commenced to enamel the dark blue sky.
The young man pointed them out to her.

Look at the Pleiades, and Orion, and
Charles's Wain, Fenella,' he said. ' What
lovely homes there must be, ready waiting

for us, beyond those stars ; and what a
Httle while it will seem, after all, before we
get there. And what rest, what peace we
shall enjoy, after having passed through
the waves of this troublesome world.
Fenella, my darling sister, will it not be
better to preserve our love, unstained by
any thought of earth, until that moment,
than to soil it by contact with human
jealousies and passions here below ? '

She did not half understand the meaning
of his words, but she knew intuitively
that he wished her to sayjyi", and so she
said it.

In that world,' he continued, with his
arm encircling her girlish figure, and his
eyes, filled with passion, fixed upon her
face,  ' in that world, my dearest, where
all is peace and purity, we will belong
to each other for ever and ever, and no
living soul shall have the power to come
between us.'

VOL. I.

AWAKENED.

What is it that love does to a woman ?  without it
she only sleeps ; with it alone, she lives.'

Ariadne.

ET although these young people
had arrived at such a satisfactory
conclusion with regard to
the attitude they were to maintain towards
each other through life, they did
not seem any the happier for the arrangement.
They grew less joyous, less confidential,
less friendly after that revelation
on the landslip than before. They
continued to meet upon the sands of
Ines-cedwyn. Not a day passed that

Fenella Barrington did not find Geoffrey
Doyne waiting for her by the Beach
Bungalow ; but though they greeted each
other kindly, and talked with alacrity of
everything that was most indifferent to
them on earth, there was something between
them which had not been there before
 unrecognised but felt  and it marred
all their enjoyment.

Fenella would sit in the verandah of
the ruined villa for half the morning,
stitching away as if her life depended
on the rapidity of her work; whilst
Geoffrey would lie upon the sand, face
downward, pitching the pebbles about,
and whisking to himself in a sort of
discontented undertone; and their mutual
attempts at conversation drifted again
and again into silence.

On several occasions the girl introduced
the subject of his engagement to
Jessie Robertson, and tried to make him
talk of her personal appearance, and
surroundings, and the circumstances by

which they had been drawn together.
But she found the subject a very unpalatable
one. Geoffrey growled, and
grumbled, and bewailed his fate, and
sometimes even launched into imprecations
which frightened his companion.
Everything seemed out of gear with
him. He never alluded to his own
marriage but with the greatest distaste ;
and he teased Fenella on the subject of
hers until he nearly betrayed her into
tears.

I shall never marry, Geoffrey she
kept on repeating. ' I have always said
so, and I mean to keep to my word.'

Oh no, you won't, child ; everybody
marries sooner or later, and you are too
pretty to remain an old maid. When
I return from India, I shall find my
adopted sister a big lady  wife to a
lord, perhaps, or some swell in Parliament,
and too grand to remember the
brother she picked up on the Ines-
cedwyn sands.'

Oh, Geoffrey, as if I could ever forget
you ! ' Fenella faltered. ' But indeed
you are mistaken. I mean to live with
my mother and Bennett all my life, and
then some day perhaps  perhaps  '

Perhaps what ! dear ? '

I was going to say,' continued the
girl, as she resolutely swallowed something
in her throat, ' that some day perhaps,
Geoffrey, when you have  you have little
children, they may learn to love me as if
I really were their aunt.'

Geoffrey Doyne gave vent to an oath
that rung out discordantly upon the still
summer air.

Forgive me, Fenella,' he pleaded. ' I
shouldn't have said that,  but I wish you
wouldn't talk in that way ! It will never
come to pass, you know ; it can't  it must
not  it is impossible!  Good Heavens!' exclaimed
the young man suddenly, as he leapt
to his feet and paced up and down the sand,
I believe that I shall go out of my mind.'

But one morning towards the close of

the week he met her, with a face from
which all the perplexity and doubt had disappeared
as if by magic.

Congratulate me, my dear girl ! ' he
exclaimed, as he ran up to meet her.
I am so happy ; such a load has been
taken off my mind. I am the most fortunate
man in the world.'

What has happened, Geoffrey ? ' she
demanded in surprise.

There was no mistaking the joyousness
of his demeanour, the glad light flashing
from his eyes, the new life that seemed to
pervade his whole being. But whence
had it come  what had occasioned it ?
No idea of the truth entered her mind.

Come inside the bungalow,' he continued
; ' I have grand news to tell you,
and we must be alone.'

He dragged her into one of the empty
rooms as he spoke, and perched her on a
window-sill, whilst he stood in front of her.

Fenella, dear, I am a free man !  say
that you are as glad as I am ! '

A free man ! Geoffrey, what do you
mean ? '

I could not bear my position with
regard to Jessie Robertson any longer,
Fenella. It was growing more irksome,
more distasteful to me each day. I felt
that I was living and acting a lie, and so
at last I made up my mind to write and
tell her so ; and she has released me 
released me from my engagement of her
own free will  and I am a happy man
once more.'

What did you say to her ? ' asked
Fenella, trembling. Even in the delight
of hearing that Geoffrey Doyne was free
again, even in the whirl of the wild
thoughts that swept through her mind at
the announcement, she could still feel for
her rival ; she could stop to consider how
much the renunciation would hurt her,
and if she was to be a sufferer by the
arrangement.

What did you say to her } ' she
repeated.

I just told her the truth  that I
thought we had been in too great a hurry
in the matter ; that marriage was a very
solemn business, and once done there was
no undoing it ; and I was sure we should
never be happy together. Of course I
couldn't say I wouldn't marry her,  no
man of honour could do that,  but I put
things before her in a proper light, and
left her to take the initiative, which she
has done.'

And is she glad too ? ' asked Fenella.

I think she sees the sense of it  in
fact, she must. Any way, she sent me back
my letters this morning, with one or two
presents I had been fool enough to give
her  which, of course, is as good as telling
me the engagement is cancelled. And
so I am free, child, quite free, and you
have not yet congratulated me.'

She did not write a single word to
you . ' said Fenella wistfully; ' not to say
she was glad or sorry ? Isn't that very
strange, Geoffrey } '

I don't think it is. She could hardly
have said she was sorry (that would have
been infra dig. for a young lady), and, on
the other hand, it would have been very
rude to say she was glad. No ! in my
opinion she's done just the right thing,
and I didn't credit little Jessie with so
much sense. She simply returned my
letters and presents  that was dignified
and decisive ; and when I saw them, I was
the happiest fellow in Christendom.'

He took both her hands in his own ashe
spoke, and squeezed them, and tried
to look into the eyes which she kept fixed
upon the ground.

Fenella,' he whispered presently, ' don't
you know zuhy I am so happy at getting
my release ? '

Because you didn't love her,' replied
e girl in a low voice.

There is another reason than that, my
darling  an insurmountable obstacle to
my ever learning to love her  because all
my heart and soul are devoted to another

woman. Oh, Fenella, you know who that
is ! Say with me that you are glad.'

She raised her eyes to his. He was
looking at her with ineffable tenderness,
and his arms were extended towards her.
With a cry that was half joy and half
astonishment she flung herself into them.

Oh, Geoffrey ! ' she exclaimed, ' how
could I be anything but glad when it
half killed me ? '

His strong arms closed about her light
form and twisted it round, so that her face
lay uppermost upon his breast.

My darling,' he murmured, in a voice
full of passion  ' my own, own darling !
I have never loved anything in this world
as I love you ! '

His eyes gazed straight into her eyes,
and his handsome head drooped lower and
lower, until his burning lips baptized her
lips with the first kiss of love. Between
fear and excitement, Fenella burst into a
rain of tears, and hid her face upon his
breast, whilst he continued to kiss the

crown of her head, and the fair hair that
fell like a veil of gold about her, and tried
to soothe her agitation.

I believe I loved you from the moment
we met he said. ' Do you remember
how I gazed at you both at Calais and
Dover, and made old Bennett angry ? I
could not take my eyes off you ; I felt
somehow as if it were my fate to
look at and remember you. And when
we met upon these sands, I knew I was
not mistaken. From that day, my darling,
I have been miserable  miserable to
think that I was fettered by that wretched
engagement, and bound in honour not to
tell you all I felt. I tried to console myself
a little by pledging eternal friendship
to you ; but it was a sham, Fenella, and
we both knew it was. I cannot be your
brother ; you cannot be my sister. We
must be much more to each other  or
we must be nothing at all.'

Fenella shuddered.

Oh, Geoffrey ! what Is this that has

come over me ? I feel if you were to
leave me that I should die.'

I shall never leave you, my dearest.
We know each other's hearts now, and we
must not be separated again. You will
not refuse to share my lot, Fenella. You
will come with me to that horrid hot India
we have so often talked about together,
and be my companion, and my friend,
and my wife to our lives' end  will you
not?'

A beautiful hot flush spread itself allover
the girl's fair face.

Your wife ! ' she repeated, with a sort
of gasp,  ' your wife, Geoffrey ! Oh, I
am not worthy ! '

She had no need now to ask why one
man and one woman should promise to
keep to each other for evermore. Love
had taught her all that. The jealousy
of love had seized upon her heart, and
made her* feel that if she could not have
this wonderful new-found treasure to herself,
she would not have it at all. But to

be worthy of so much happiness  that was
another question.

Not worthy ! ' echoed her lover, as he
strained her again to his bosom ; * then
who is ? Fenella, you are the one only
woman in the world for me ! I love you,
my darling, with all the strength and
fervour of a man's first real love, and
were Heaven to snatch you from my
arms tomorrow, the void you would leave
in my heart could never be filled by any
other being ! It is /, my love, who am
not worthy to possess your purity and
innocence ; but I will hold it, nevertheless,
until my life's end

The girl looked up at him through eyes
that swam in tears, like dew washed violets.

And only a month ago,' she murmured,
I was so ungrateful and so silly, I thought
that no one would ever care for me again.
I felt as if my life was already over,
and I should be lonely and miserable to my
death ! And then you came, Geoffrey,
and everything seemed to change ! The

sun shone, and the birds sang, and the
roses blew, and I became a different girl
altogether. Was I asleep before, or was
I dead ? I feel as if the old earth had
gone away from me and I was in
another world ! Has it gone away,
Geoffrey, and is this heaven that we are
living in now ? '

Yes, my darling, it is ! It is the
heaven of love  the best heaven God has
bestowed on man ; and whilst we have it,
we need no other. Fenella, I have given
you my heart and soul ! What will you
give me In exchange ? '

My life', said the girl faintly. * You
gave it to me, Geoffrey. I did not live
until I saw you. Take It back again
and do what you will with it'

And in those words Fenella betrayed
the fact that her childhood had passed
away from her for ever. Love had forced
the blossom of her womanhood into premature
fruition, beneath the heat of Geoffrey
Doyne's words and glances. The

man who first makes a woman realise the
fact of her sex, who makes her feel she is
the weaker and the subjugated one, who
asserts himself (by right of love alone) her
master  that man will rule that woman's
life, let who may come after him. The
feminine nature, like the masculine, may
love many times, but it succumbs but once.

But when the first rapturous feeling at
the discovery of their mutual affection had
somewhat subsided, Fenella's thoughts
flew back again to her absent unknown
rival.

Are you smi'c' she said to Geoffrey,
*that Miss Robertson will not be very
unhappy about this? Is it possible she
can give you up without pain ?'

The young man laughed.

I don't believe she will care two straws
about it,' he replied. ' You mustn't think
she loves me as you do, Fenella. She
could not understand such love as ours,
so don't trouble your dear little head about
her! I daresay she will be disappointed

at first, but It will soon blow over, and
she will forget all about it and look out
for somebody else.'

Then she could never have been worthy
of you said Fenella indignantly, ' and I
will not be sorry for her any more ! Oh,
Geoffrey ! it seems very wonderful that this
has come to pass ! Do you know what
I have prayed for, every day since that
miserable afternoon on the landslip when
you told me you were engaged to her ? '

No, dearest ; how should I ? '

That you might not marry her !  I hope
it was not wrong,' she continued timidly ;
but it seemed so dreadful to me that you
should take her into a church and swear
to love her all your life, when you knew
that you didn't love her at all. It wasn't
for my self y you know, Geoffrey. I knew
you loved me, but I never thought you
would want to marry me ; but I felt so
ashamed and so sorry that you should
have to tell a lie, and to God too ! For
it would have been a lie  wouldn't it ? '

It would Indeed, my darling. I should
have perjured myself (as thousands do)
for fear of what the world would say of
me.'

That swearing In church Is dreadful,'
resumed Fenella thoughtfully ; ' it Is
positively wicked. It ought not to be
allowed.'

But you'll have to swear In church
for me, you knov/,' said Geoffrey, laughing.

She grew scarlet.

Oh yes ! but that will be quite another
thing.'

'How so?'

Because I have sworn already  In
my heart. The church can't make any
difference to me. I shall always be
true to you, Geoffrey, as long as I live.'

My darling girl, how sweet of you to
say so ! Yes ; that Is just what I feel
myself, Fenella. Love is the true marriage.
You are mine already  my own
wife  and no one shall ever take you
from me.'

VOL. I. U

Then they began to discuss ways and
means, and what the higher authorities
would be Hkely to say to their intentions.

I must see your mother on the first
opportunity,' said Geoffrey Doyne. * When
is she Hkely to return home ? '

We don't know at all ; we have not
even heard from her yet.'

Well, if she remains much longer
abroad, I must go over and find her.
We have no time to lose, my darling.
I must leave England in October.'

Suppose mamma were to say *' No " .' '
said the girl, trembling.

I don't think she's likely to do that,' replied
Geoffrey Doyne ; * for without wishing
to seem conceited, Fenella, I am nota
bad match, and that Is the reason the
Robertsons were so anxious to secure me
for Jessie. I have a very fair income
of my own, inherited from my mother,
and my prospects are excellent. Added
to which, my father is a wealthy man and
a liberal one, and would make me an

allowance during his lifetime if I needed
it. So there is no fear of my not being
able to keep you in a proper position.
And your mother, you say, is not rich ;
and she is not very fond of you ? '

No,' said Fenella, shaking her head,
she is not at all food of me. I think
she will be very glad to get rid of me.'

And I shall be very glad to take you
off her hands ! ' exclaimed Geoffrey playfully.
' But come, my darling, we must
have no tears ; never mind who doesn't
love you now, so long as I do'

Oh, Geoffrey !' she cried, sobbing, * promise
-promise that you'll always love me,
for I have no one in the world but you.'

And he called God to witness that he
would be true to her so long as they both
had life.

'And now we are really married,' said
Fenella, smiling through her tears. ' That
is the same as you will say in church 
isn't it, Geoffrey ? And you asked God
to hear you too.'

Yes ; I can never say any more than
that he answered ; * and I can never feel
any more, Fenella ; and may God deal
with me as I keep my word to Him!
And now, my dear girl, may I ask you
a favour ? '

No, don't ask me a favour, Geoffrey.
Orders me to do something, so that I
may feel that I am really going to be
your wife

Very well, if you will have it so,' he
said, smiling. ' I order you, then, my
darling, not to make a confidante of your
servant in this matter, until I have communicated
with Mrs Barrineton.'

I am not to tell Bennett anything
about our engagement ? '

I think it will be better not. She is
only a servant, you see, and servants will
talk. And then she will probably come
prying down here after us, and spoiling
all our enjoyment. She is up again  did
you not tell me so ? '

Yes, but I am afraid she will not be able

to walk for some time yet. Dr Redfern is
going to bring her a pair of crutches tomorrow,
so that she may get about the
garden ; but she is dreadfully weak, poor
things ! She has been in bed now for five
weeks.'

Geoffrey looked properly concerned.

Yes, it has been a bad accident for her,
but a lucky one for us ! If she had always
accompanied you to the sands, who knows
if we should ever have been allowed to
pursue our acquaintance  eh, Fenella ? '

Oh, Geoffrey, is it not wicked to be glad
for what makes other people unhappy ? '

Well, we didn't break the old woman's
leg, dear, so I don't think we need trouble
ourselves about that. And I think, since it
has gone so far without her knowledge, that
it would be a pity to tell her now. In fact,
your mother has undoubtedly a right to the
first intelligence. And I think, my darling,
our love is too beautiful and too sacred a
thing to be told to everybody we meet 
don't you ?'

The look she gave him in return was
sufficient answer. Geoffrey Doyne might
rest assured that from that moment he
would sway every action of her life.
Hearts such as Fenella's are not given
by halves. He left her shortly after this,
having made an appointment to take his
sisters out walking.

I think it will be as well for me todo
duty with them occasionally now, as I
don't want to arouse their suspicions before
this matter is properly settled,' he said;
and I know they think I have some
attraction over at Ines-cedwyn as it is.
But I cannot part with you like this, my
darling. I must see you again before I
sleep! If I ride over this evening after
dinner  say at eight o'clock  could you
manage to run down and meet me at the
landslip ? It will be beautifully cool by
that time, and we have not been there
since that miserable afternoon. Ah ! how
different it will look to us now.'

Of course I will come,' said Fenella

confidently. * Why should I not ? Bennett
never asks me where I am eine. Yes,
I shall love to sit there with you  in that
very same place, Geoffrey, under the stars,
and  thank God ! '

So they parted, full of youth, love, and
trust in each other and themselves, pledged
to meet again when the veil of evening
was being drawn as a shroud across the
land and sea.

There was no one to control Benefactions
; no one to question her comings
and goings ; no one even cognisant
of the burning secret that filled
her heart. Bennett, worn out with the
unusual exertion of leavings her bed, had
gladly retired again, and Martha and
Benjamin were busy with their poultry
and flowers. So the girl  who had
but this one great love to consider, who
had found her world in Geoffrey Doyne 
went down alone, under cover of the dusk,
to meet her lover.

And as she reached the spot where

they had picnic-ed together, and he
had crushed her heart with the intelligence
of his engagement to Jessie
Robertson, she saw the lithe, graceful
figure she had grown to love so
well  the figure that should haunt her
restless dreams for many weary years to
come  waiting to receive her, and sprang
forward with a cry of joy to greet him.
Geoffrey Doyne strained her to his heart
for a few moments ; then, with his arms
still round her girlish form, he led her
through the leafy bower. So might Paul
and Virginia have wandered beneath the
banyan leaves of the West Indian isles ;
or, rather, so might Adam and Eve have
explored their new-found paradise, without
a thought of the serpent that tracked
their footsteps.

CHAPTER I.

FOR EVER, .

PACK

I

CHAPTER IL

IN A STRAIT, .



CHAPTER III.

DESERTED,



CHAPTER IV.

OVER,



CHAPTER V.

SIR GILBERT Convoy,



Contents.

CHAPTER VI.

SMOOTH WATERS,

J-AGE


CHAPTER VII.

A REVELATION,



CHAPTER VIII.

THE INDISSOLUBLE LINK, .



CHAPTER I.

FOR EVER.

It is the same together or apart,
From life's commencement to its slow decline :
We are entwined ; let death come slow or fast,
The tie which bound the first endures the last.'

Byron.

jg O describe the feelings of Fenella
Barrington at this period would
be almost impossible. Not because
no one has ever felt so deeply as
she did, but because such thoughts are not
to be adequately portrayed in black and

VOL. II. A

white. Arraigned before the judgment of
the world, they would appear foolish, romantic,
overstrained, and perhaps culpable ;
to each Individual heart alone, according
to the circumstances under which they
found it, must they answer for the consequences.
Fenella's heart was in an exceptional
condition when the passion of
love overtook and conquered it. In the
first place, she was very young ; and
youth, like charity, ' believeth all things
and loveth all things.' She was too
ignorant of human nature to doubt its
truth  too ignorant of life to distrust Its
possibilities. And In the second place, she
was very lonely and unhappy. She had
no watchful parent to shield her innocence
; she had not even any one to call
her to account for her actions. She was
free as the air, unguarded as the birds
that flew in it, unloved as the most friendless
waif that was ever forsaken by its
natural protectors.

Disappointed and alone ! What girl

under such circumstances could be expected
not to answer with the whole
strength of her nature to the call of love ?
Her heart was so empty of affection  it
yearned so for it  that it would not have
been strange had she succumbed to the
appeal of any fellow-creature who desired
to show her kindness  least of all to that
of Geoffrey Doyne. For there was a fascination
about him that was far above
any physical attractions he may have possessed
 a fascination which every woman
felt who crossed his path, and many were
left to rue. His tender eyes, and sensitive
mouth, and dreamy poetical nature
made him appear the most sympathetic
and warm-hearted of human creatures ; as
indeed he was  whilst the humour lasted.
But there were two formidable foes in his
breast to war against his better feelings,
and usually to overcome them, and these
were a want of moral courage and a great
love of self.

Geoffrey Doyne generally wanted to do

right, and, as a rule, he generally did
wrong. His head told him the proper
thing to do, but his heart failed him at
the very moment he called upon it for
support and courage. So he was the
worst possible guide that could have been
found for a young and susceptible girl
who loved him ardently.

Fenella would have proved far the most
trustworthy of the two. Her innocence
made her the better fitted to lead the way,
had she not loved him so blindly as to be
incapable of believing him to be in the
wrong.

The reverend mother had said of her
to Eliza Bennett, ' She possesses the
most dangerous attributes with which a
young girl can encounter the world,  a
heart so large and warm and generous,
that where it loves it cannot see a fault,
and a strong resolute nature that will acton
its own impulses against all conventionality
or advice.' And the reverend
mother was right. Fenella was that most

dangerous combination  a child in experience,
and a woman In feeling. In her
eyes Geoffrey Doyne was simply perfection
; and from the day he said he loved
her, she yielded herself up to his control
in everything. She looked on him rather
as a god than a man. She could not
understand how It was that so perfect a
creature condescended to dwell amongst
ordinary mortals. The air he breathed,
the flower he touched, the ground he
trod on became sacred to her from mere
contact with him. Hers was not the
frivolous, giggling, open-mouthed admiration
of a school-girl ; it was the silent,
awe-struck adoration of a woman ! She
would sit for hours absorbed in the contemplation
of his features. Each movement
of his supple figure was a poem to
her, each tone of his voice a melody, each
glance from his eyes a dream of heaven.
She hung upon his words as if they had
been inspired ; and his touch, however
careless, had the power to thrill her with

vera

pleasure that was next door to pain.
A few days of intimate communion, of
mutually - confessed and openly - avowed
passion, made Geoffrey Doyne her ruler
her inspiration  her very life.

And he knew it but too soon. He saw
that the girl had become his slave 
morally and physically ; that he had but
to lift his little finger to command her
obedience ; that with a glance of his eye
he could direct her actions or sway her
mind. And he loved her for It in return.
Let him have justice done him at this, the
fairest portion of his life. There Is no
question that he loved her I Although he
was not sufficiently heroic, nor high-minded,
nor courageous to rank her
purity and child-like trust in him above
his own selfish gratification  although his
religion was not potent enough to gain the
mastery over the more natural religion of
love  still he loved her ! Fenella was the
first woman who had ever touched his
heart, as he was the first man who had

ever attempted to win hers. Her face
was not more charming, perhaps, than
many he had met with before ; her talents
(if of a high order) were crude and undeveloped
; her love for himself, though
deep and glowing, was no more than he
had a right to expect from the other sex.
But she was the first whom he had ever
loved ; and there is a magic charm in
those words, the first. The first kiss, the
first woman, the first child, the first disappointment,
the first death ! Can any
future joy or sorrow equal these ? They
are events that stand alone in our lives :
they can never be repeated ; once gone,
they are gone for ever ! In all the rest of
his life, though Geoffrey Doyne might love
a dozen other women, and swear a thousand
oaths of fidelity to them, he would never
love in the same way he loved Fenella
Barrington. More, he would never feel
the passion of love in his breast, even
though it. burned ten times as strongly as
it burned for her, without giving one short,

quick sob of remembrance to the girl who
gave him her whole heart, and placed her
very life in his hands, upon the sands of
Ines-cedwyn ! And if he could forget 
if his mortal nature proved so weak 
Heaven is still above us all, watching,
noting, jotting down on tablets of stone
each crime we commit against the heart
of a fellow-creature, to hold them up
before our eyes to all eternity. The time
will come when we shall be unable to
forget !

After the day on which they discovered
their mutual affection, Fenella Barrington
and Geoffrey Doyne met, if possible, more
frequently than they had done before.
Each morning found them on the sands
together, or if the young man pleaded
an unwelcome engagement with his sisters,
it was only to impress upon Fenella
the double obligation of meeting him
when the evening shadows should have
fallen on the landslip. Ah ! those dangerous
moments spent beneath the soft

veil of dusk  when they sat side by side
upon the golden sands, and watched the
stars come out upon the summer sky,
and their fresh, young voices rose up in
unison to heaven in the thriving notes
of some love melody, or the more solemn
tones of an evening hymn ; when their
hands lay fast locked in one another's,
and Fenella's head was pillowed on her
lover's breast, till she heard no sound
but the throbbing of his heart answering
to her own. And they talked of
the future  that glorious and apparently
certain future, when they should always
be together, and have no need to steal
out, under cover of the evening, to meet
each other on the sands.

It was provoking that, as yet, Geoffrey
had been unable to write to Mrs Barrington
and make a formal proposal for
her daughter's hand, because but one
letter had been received from that lady,
dated from Genoa, and averring the intention
of her party to move about fora

few weeks in the South before they
settled down In Mentone. But that was
of Httle consequence  so the lovers told
each other  because as soon as Mrs Barrington
was settled, Geoffrey would go
over and see her, which would be far
better than writing  and they could not
be happier than they were.

It was now the end of June ; two
months had slipped away in this sweet
courtship, and every day might bring
the letter to say that Fenella's mother
was settled at Mentone.

Eliza Bennett was up and about again.
She had even discarded the crutches with
which Dr Redfern had provided her, but
her leg was still stiff, and she had not yet
ventured to walk as far as the beach.
But some rumours had reached her ears
of the company in which her young mistress
so constantly indulged. Of course
the boat and fishermen had seen the
courtship from the beginning. Tugwell,
who had so often to put up at the public

house, would have told them of it If they
had not had eyes to see it for themselves.
But It was nobody's business to carry the
news up to Benjamin Bennett's cottage.
If the young lady liked to amuse herself,
what was the odds to Ines-cedwyn? besides,
Eliza Bennett was ailing, and there
was no need to worry her with a parcel of
tales about nothing. So the men told
the women to hold their tongues, and
consequently it was some time before
anybody spoke of Fenella's doings out
of their own circle.

But when Eliza Bennett had so far
recovered as to be in the garden, and
Martha had more time for gossiping with
her neighbours, they let their tongues
loose, and asked her to satisfy their
curiosity with regard to the handsome
stranger that came over to Ines-cedwyn
In his boat every day, and if he was going
to marry the young lady from the cottage
who sat for so many hours with him in
the Beach Bungalow. Of course it was

all news to Martha, and she ran open-mouthed
with it to her sister-in-law.

'Only to think, 'Liza,' she exclaimed,
'what Windy Williams has just told me!
Miss Fenella's got a beau, and such a
fine lookin' feller too. They've bin
meeting' each other at that there nasty
ruined bungalow for weeks past, and
having fine times, I warrant. Tugwell
says the gentleman lives at Lynwern,
but he's not sure as he's got his name
properly. Only to think of your young
lady ! Well, sooner or later they all
does it.'

Eliza Bennett was at first incredulous.

I don't believe it,' she replied ; ' the
Ines-cedwyn folk must talk of something.
I daresay Miss Fenella may
have exchanged a word or two with
the gentleman on the sands ; but as for
having' a beau, why, Martha, she's that
innocent, she don't know what it means !
She'd run away more likely if any one
were to say more than " good-day " to

her. You don't know my young lady ;
she's the bicraest child of her aee I
ever saw.'

Is she, now?' replied Martha meditatively.
'Well, I should have said the
same myself when she first come here ;
but d'ye know, 'Liza, she's a deal changed
lately  more fidgety like, and don't eat
hearty, and allays a-jumpin' up and down
from her seat, with, her colour coming' and
going' like a flame o' fire. Ben ain't
very far seen' as a rule, but he told me
only last week as he thought there was
something' up with her.'

Why didn't you tell me before ? '
exclaimed her sister-in-law, in evident
distress.

Why ! what would ha' been the good
o' that  a' worrying' you for nothing' when
you're ill ? '

'But I'd have spoken to Miss Fenella,
and found out the truth of it, Martha.
For she's one of the best young ladies
you ever see ; she's like a lamb for obedience,

and Yva sure she'd no more go todo
the thing that is wrong than she'd fly ! '

Who said she had ? ' cried Martha.
Lor' bless my heart, 'Liza ! leave the
poor child alone. If she is having a bit
of fun with the young feller, what harm ?
There's little enough to amuse her down
here, Lm sure, and she'll be all the better
for it. You wouldn't go and spoil her
game by making' a fuss over it, would
you ? '

No ; not if there's no harm, Martha ;
certainly not! but, you see, Miss Fenella's
very young and easily led, and there's
no knowing what a gentleman might
get to say to her, seeing she's so pretty,
I must say I do distrust 'em, one and
all ; and my mistress would never forgive
me if any harm came to the young
lady.'

'Lor', 'Liza! how you do run on,' said
Martha. ' I shall be sorry I said anything
about it next. Ain't a pretty girl
like that never to have a sweetheart ? and

what harm do you think could come to
her with a real gentleman ? He'll only
tell her a few lies, and she'll be none
the worse for 'em ; so don't you go and
fret over it now, or you'll make yourself
ill again.'

Eliza promised she would not ; but she
could not dismiss the subject from her
mind, for her dread of Mrs Barrington's
possible anger made her imagine all sorts
of danger, to the girl under her charge.

If it hadn't been for this stupid leg,'
she thought to herself, ' I'd have been
everywhere with Miss Fenella, and no
one couldn't have spoken to her without
my knowledge. And now Martha comes
to speak of it, there has been a great
change in her lately. She's more excited
and forgetful like; and sometimes
she's as gay as a lark, and at others I've
seen her staring up at the sky with the
tears on her face, and yet with a smile
on her mouth. There's something very
strange about it all. How can I have

been so stupid as not to see it before !
But this leg has put everything else clean
out of my head.'

It was past nine o'clock when this
conversation took place, and Fenella had
gone down to the beach as usual, about
an hour before. Under the new point of
view from which she now regarded her
young lady's wanderings, Eliza Bennett
grew fidgety at her absence.

I wonder what she's about this
evening?' she thought presently. 'It's
too dark to see anything on the
beach at this time o' night, and Miss
Fenella must know that supper's ready
and waiting for her. I wonder if
I could manage to get as far as the
bungalow. I've a good mind to try ; and
I shan't feel easy now if I don't look a
bit more after her.'

Martha had gone to assist her husband
in the coward, and there was no one
to combat Eliza's desire, or tell her it
was foolish to attempt to do so much.

So she put on her bonnet and shawl, and
taking a stick in her hand, commenced to
hobble slowly In the direction of the beach.

Meanwhile Fenella and Geoffrey
stood together in one of the rooms of
the ruined villa. They were looking
serious, but scarcely sad. Hope and trust
were too strong In them for sadness.

Oh, Geoffrey,' Fenella was saying, * Is
it true ? Must you really go ? '

I am afraid I must, my darling. I
have received a most imperative letter
from my brother Michael (that's the
lawyer, you know, Fenella), urging me
to go up to town and see him at once,
on the most Important business. I can't
imagine what it is  something to do with
money, I suppose. I don't think Michael
would call anything else "important;"
but, any way, I must go, and I shall start
tomorrow mornlno.'

And when will you be back, Geoffrey ? '

As soon as ever I can, my darling ; you
may rest assured of that. And meanwhile,

VOL. II. B

I shall write to you every day. What will
old Bennett say when she sees the letters ? '

'Never mind Bennett! She may be
surprised, but she will not attempt to Interfere
with them. She is only my servant,
Geoffrey. You do not suppose I would
allow her to come between you and me ? '

Dear me 1 What an independent
young woman you have grown ! Who
would imagine this was the same little
girl that blushed scarlet each time I looked
at her but two short months ago ? '

You have made me a woman,' said
the girl with one of the scarlet blushes
he alluded to. ' I feel now as if I should
have courage to stand up against the
whole world if it attempted to come between
me and the love you bear me.'

*You shall never be put to the test,
my Fenella. Nothing shall ever divide
our love. I wish to goodness that letter
would come from your mother, and then
the matter would be settled.'

And if  if she should be angry, and

refuse her consent to our marriage ? *
faltered the girl.

Then we are to be married without
her consent  is it not so ? Why, Fen-ella
! do you think any earthly power
could divide us now ? '

She clung to him with a force that was
almost painful.

*0h no, no! how could it? But, Geoffrey,
I wish  oh, how I wish !  thatwe could have
been married before you went to London

My sweetheart, so do I. There is
nothing I long for more than the day
when we shall go to church and do all
that dreadful "swearing" you are so afraid
of. Only, I am afraid it must not be in
Lynwern. It would not be fair to you,
nor your mother, nor any one, Fenella.
Let me write to her first, darling ; it cannot
be long now before you hear again ; and
then if she raises any objection (which I
think most unlikely, I shall not hesitate a
moment to carry you straight off before
her eyes and marry you in the first church

we come to. So be patient, my love, and
trust to me, and all will be right by-and-by.'

And nothing  nothing shall ever divide
us ? ' she repeated, still clinging to him.

Nothing, so help me, God T he answered.
And that oath was registered in
heaven, and remains there to this day.

They sat together on one of the windowsills
for some time longer, with their arms
interlaced and their heads close together,
talking such sweet nonsense as the world
laughs at because it has no heart to
understand, but which makes up the sum
of happiness in this mortal life.

And what am I to send my darling
from London?' demanded Geoffrey. 'In
all this time I have not given you one
present, because there was nothing worthy
of you in Lynwern ; but now you must
have something to remind you of your
lover. What shall it be, sweetheart ?  a
locket or a ring ? '

I don't want anything,' she said bashfully,
' hut }'ou.'

Oh, you've got me fast enough, my
child,' he answered, laughing ; ' but come
now, answer my question. Will you have
a ring ? '

She shook her head.

No ; not till you give me that one
Geoffrey.'

That won't be long first, my darling !
You'll be wanting to get it off again
twelve months afterwards  you'll be so
sick of it and me.'

Don't  dont ! ' she murmured, as if
smitten by a sudden pain.

May I send you a locket, then, Mrs
Doyne . ' he continued playfully, for he
saw her spirits were sinking ; ' a great
big gold locket to put your husband's
hair in, and sleep with under your pillow
every night until you see him again  for
I know that is what you silly girls do
when you've got a lover.'

At this proposal her face brightened.

Yes ; I should like to have a locket
very, very much, dear Geoffrey ; and

I will wear it as long as ever I
live

Then he rose suddenly, and said that
he must go.

Past ten o'clock, I declare, my dearest,
and I have to be up at eight. God bless
you, my Fenella ! God keep you for me !
Oh, this parting is an awful wrench,
though it is but for so short a time.'

The girl did not say much, but her face
went suddenly as white as a sheet, and
she clung to him as though her arms
would never be unlocked again.

You will come back soon . ' she whispered,
trembling like a leaf.

Very, very soon  in a week at latest 
most likely in a couple of days. Don't
shake so, my darling ! remember we are
pledged to each other for life. Surely,
Fenella, you have not one doubt of me ? '

/ trust you as I artist God,' she
answered solemnly. They were her last
words  their farewells had been exchanged

o

already ; in another moment he had broken

from her clasp, and was gone. Fenella
watched him as he strode across the sands
and pushed off in the Httle boat that was
waiting for him. She kissed her hand in
the moonlight again and again, but he was
too far off to see the signal ; then, with a
sound that was half a sob and half a sigh,
she turned away. As she did so she saw
something glittering on the dusty floor 
something lying in a streak of moonlight
shone like a diamond beneath her feet.
It was one of Geoffrey's sleeve-links that
had fallen from his cuff as he embraced
her  a twisted thing of enamel and gold
that Fenella had often noticed on his
wrist before. With a cry of joy she
pounced upon it, and hid it in her bosom.
She did not know till that moment how
much she could prize anything that had
been his ; she could not realise how bitter
separation between those who love, can be,
till she had tasted it. As she prepared to
return to the cottage, a dark figure in the
doorway of the bungalow made her start.

Bennett ! ' she exclaimed, in the same
moment, ' is that you ? Oh, how you
frightened me ! I never supposed for a
moment you could get down so far. But
how you are shaking ! I am sure it has
been too much for you.'

Miss Fenella,' said the servant, as she
sat down on the verandah floor to recover
herself, ' I came to see after you, my dear !
Do you know as it's past ten o'clock, and
the supper's been on the table this hour
and more ? It's too late for a young lady
to be out by herself, and in such a lonely
place as Ines-cedwyn.'

Why, nurse, I thought its loneliness was
the very thing that made it safe. This is
not the first evening I have been on the
sands till ten o'clock, and Martha never
spoke to me on the subject, or told me I
was wrong.'

No, Miss Fenella ; 'isn't Martha's
business to speak to you ; and I've been
in bed, you see, and knew nothing' about
it ; but I'm afraid as your mamma wouldn't

think it was right. And  if I may make
so bold, miss  who was that gentleman
who parted with you just as I came upto
the back of the house ? '

Fenella was startled by the question,
but she was too proud to attempt to deny
the truth.

That was a friend of mine, Bennett  a
gentleman who often comes over to Ines-
cedwyn. You need not worry yourself
about him. It is all right, and mamma
will say so, too, as soon as she hears it.'

Is he a friend of your mamma's, miss ? '

Yes ; that is, he doesn't know her yet,
but he soon will. He is the friend of all
of us, nurse  the very best friend we ever
had.'

I am glad of that, my dear ; but I hope
he won't come here again till he's seen
your mamma. Because it isn't quite the
proper thing, you know, for a gentleman to
meet a young lady so often, and at all sorts
of odd times. It makes people talk, Miss
Fenella, and that's not good for any one.'

What was it in the girl's face that made
the servant half afraid of saying even as
much as she did ? A new light, a new
dignity, something she had never seen
there before, seemed to settle on Fenella's
brow, and relegate Eliza Bennett to her
proper position. She could not speak to
her young mistress now as she had done
on the journey from Calais to Dover.

Bennett,' said the girl presently, ' I
daresay it may seem strange to you,
because you do not understand ; neither
can I give you any explanation till I have
seen my mother. But you may make your
mind easy on one score  the gentleman
has gone away, for the present. He will
not be back again, most probably, until we
have heard from Mentone ; and then everything
will be right. And now, let me take
you home, dear nurse. I wish you hadn't
come down here after me ; I am so afraid
you may have hurt yourself There ! lean
on my arm as hard as ever you like ; you
cannot tire me ; and we will go home together.

And, please, don't speak to me
again about the  I mean, about the subject
you mentioned just now, because I can
say nothing until I have seen mamma, and
then you will understand that all your fears
are groundless. Lean harder, dear nurse ;
that Is remit. I am strong enough to bear
your weight and my own too.'

IN A STRAIT.

Men have many loves; their true names are  or Vice
or Vanity, or Feebleness or Folly.'  Ariadne.

Geoffrey Done had but
spoken the truth when he said
that his brother's letter was a
most imperative one. It had contained
as sharp a summons as it was possible to
send a man : 

Come up to London as soon as ever
you receive this,' it ran. ' I must see you
at once, and on business of the utmost
importance.'

The brothers had inherited money at
the death of their mother, which was invested
in stock, and under the management

of Michael Doyne, and Geoffrey naturally
thought that his presence was needed on
account of some selling-out or buying.
His brother did not seem to him to
have a soul above money. He could
not imagine his troubling himself on
any other matter.

He went up to town by an early train
the following day, and the same idea was
in his mind as he entered the lawyer's
office.

What's up now ? ' he said, as he encountered
Michael's portentous countenance.
* Have Persians fallen, or Hudson's
Bay gone up ? I do wish you could
manage these matters without my interference,
Michael. You know how I detest
business, and how perfectly I am satisfied
that you know a great deal more about
it than I do.'

But this is unfortunately a matter
which I could not settle on my own
authority,' replied his brother gravely.
Come into the inner office, Geoffrey. I

cannot speak to you unless we are perfectly
alone.'

This looks ominous,' cried Geoffrey
gaily, as he ensconced himself in an armchair
and flicked the dust off his dainty
boots.

It is ominous,' replied the other, 'and
I trust you are not going to make a jest
of it. It is likely to cause trouble enough
before long, unless I can bring you to
reason.'

'What are you driving at?' said
Geoffrey.

Simply this  that Dr Robertson called
at my office yesterday morning and gave
me a piece of information that horrified
me.'

The younger brother changed colour.

Well, go on,' he said carelessly ; ' what
had the old gentleman to say for himself? '

You know, Geoffrey, as well as I do.
He came to tell me that you had broken
off your engagement with his daughter
Jessie.'



It is not true ; it was Jessie who broke
off her engagement with me.'

I cannot believe it, Geoffrey. Dr
Robertson came to me in the greatest
distress. He said that both he and his
wife had observed that their daughter was
out of health and spirits for some weeks
past, but that they had not connected the
circumstance with your engagement until
they noticed that all correspondence had
ceased between you. Then they questioned
Jessie, and the truth came out  that
you had written to her some time back,
and said you didn't care for her.'

Not exactly that,' replied Geoffrey; 'but
I told her I did not care for her as I ought
to do for the woman I was going to make
my wife ; and that's the truth, Michael. I
dont care for her, and I never shall ; and
under the circumstances, it would be perfectly
absurd my marrying her ! '

'You should have thought of that before
you proposed to her,' remarked
Michael drily.

I did ; but I was drawn into it. You
know I was as thoroughly *' hooked" by
the old woman as ever a man could be.'

Perhaps you were  that is your own
business ; but having been *' hooked," as
you call it, you must submit to be
Manded."'

Do you mean to say, then, that you
consider I am bound to marry Jessie
Robertson ? '

I do, most decidedly.'

What ! after she has sent me back my
letters and presents ? '

That has nothing to do with it, Geoffrey.
The poor girl sent them back because she
was ignorant how else to act. Had she
consulted her parents, they would not have
permitted her to do so. Jessie would set
you free as it is ; but Dr and Mrs Robertson
are quite of a different opinion. They
won't let you off so easily.'

They intend to keep me to my word ? '
I am afraid there is no doubt of it. The

doctor might be talked over, but you know

what his wife Is. He says she is furious,
and declares that, If you refuse to keep to
your engagement with Jessie, she will sue
you for a breach of promise ; and that's a
sort of thing our family could not allow,
you know, Geoffrey.'

The younger man sat silent and sullen,
with a face of the deepest perplexity.

I must get out of it somehow,' he said
presently. * You are cleverer than I am,
Michael ; can't you help me ? '

I don't see my way to It, Geoffrey.
You proposed to the girl of your own
accord, and the engagement has been
made public. What earthly excuse can
you have for getting out of it?'

Why, that I don't love her, and that
I won't marry her. No; by George! I
won't, if I hang for it ! '

There's another woman in the case,'
remarked his brother casually.

Yes, there is,' said Geoffrey.

Some girl at Ines-cedwyn ?'

Who told you that ? '

VOL. II. c

I heard of it when I was down at
Lynwern. Well, I daresay it will be hard
lines, Geoffrey ; but you must give her
up. You can't marry them both

I won't marry Jessie Robertson,' said
Geoffrey stoutly.

You 7nust, man  you must ! Don't
talk nonsense ; try to look at the matter
in a reasonable light. After all, it's only
a toss-up between them, and why should
one girl suffer more than the other ?
There are certain social laws, you know,
Geoffrey, which we cannot break with
impunity, and this is one of them. Your
honour is Concerned in your keeping your
engagement, and you cannot cancel it
without disgracing the whole family. For
our sakes, therefore (if not for your own),
you must do the right thing by Jessie
Robertson.'

My honour may be concerned elsewhere
as well,' rejoined Geoffrey, in a
somewhat lowered voice, ' and my happiness
as well as my honour. Michael, I

will pay any forfeit, or incur any penalty
they may choose to put upon me ; but I
cannot, and I will not, marry Jessie. I
will cut my throat first.'

No, don't do that,' said his brother,
as if he had proposed a thing of every-day
occurrence. ' I don't approve of marriage
myself as a rule, but I think of the two
courses it would be the preferable one to
pursue. Little Jessie isn't half bad, you
know, when you come to think of it ; and
if you would only believe me, my dear
fellow,' he continued, as he laid his hand
on his brother's shoulder, ' one woman
will be just the same to you as another
when you have been married for three
months.'

Ah ! that's what you think of it,' said
Geoffrey ; ' it shows how much you know
of the matter.'

Is this young lady at Ines-cedwyn, then,
so very handsome ? '

'No.'

Clever ? '

Not particularly so.'

'Rich?'

Certainly not'

Then what's the great attraction in her,
that you should wish to break the heart
of a good little girl like Jessie Robertson
for her sake ? '

It is one that I don't think you'd understand,
Michael,  / love her!'
The lawyer laughed.

My dear boy, I've heard you say the
same thing so often before. Excuse me
if I think you could manage that (if you
tried) with any one of the sex.'

At any rate, I don't intend to try it
with Jessie Robertson.'

Michael Doyne looked grave ; he did
not like this determined refusal on the
part of his brother. It looked so much
as if (for once) Geoffrey were in earnest.

Well, look here ! ' he said suddenly ;
if you really want to get out of this scrape,
Geoffrey, you can only do it by persuading
the old people to let you off. Suppose you

meet me at the Robertsons' this evening to
talk the matter over ? Will you do so ? '

I shall tell them the truth,' said Geoffrey.
' I shall tell them I'm in love with
somebody else, and they must think what
they like of it.'

Perhaps that will be the best plan, after
all,' replied his brother ; ' but, at any rate,
you must see them. It was only by promising
to summon you to London that I
dissuaded the old man from following you
to Lynwern.'

Was it so bad as that ? ' asked Geoffrey,
startled.

'It was, indeed! They're in a rare
state in Blenheim Square, I can tell you,
and would have written straight off to the
pater if I had not promised a lot of things
in your name, which I trust you will be
found ready to fulfil. I hardly know how
the pater would take this, Geoffrey. The
Robertsons are his oldest friends, as you
know ; and he would be quick to resent
an affront to them. I'm not sure but

what it might militate against your future
prospects !'

I can't help it if it does said Geoffrey,
with a sigh. ' I am not going to blast all
my happiness for life to please anybody.'

Ah ! that's only talking replied his
brother carelessly, as he bid him goodbye,
and told him not to fail to keep his
appointment in Blenheim Square at nine
o'clock.

Geoffrey strolled towards his club, ill at
ease. He did not waver for a moment
from his determination, but he was afraid
he might have trouble in keeping to it.
He would have had little fear of being
able to make Dr Robertson see the
matter in a sensible lloht, but the doctor
was unfortunately a cipher in his own
house, where Mrs Robertson reigned
supreme ; and Geoffrey (in common with
the rest of mankind) stood terribly in awe
of her.

He tried to divert his thoughts and while
away the time by purchasing the promised

locket for Fenella  a gold locket with a
wreath of laurel on It In blue enamel  (was
it prophetic of her future destiny ?)  surrounding
the emblems of Love and Faith
and Hope. Geoffrey thought the design
a pretty one, and bought the trinket on
the spot. Fenella would think of him
when she saw the laurel  the laurel which
grows to adorn the head of heroes ; and
the cross and heart and anchor were
emblematic of her own feelings  feelings
which he had called God to witness should
never be wounded through his means.

It was something to do to buy the locket,
and have a piece of his hair put in it, and
see it packed and addressed to Ines-cedwyn,
and to picture the Innocent delight of the
receiver when it reached her hands the
following morning. But still hours intervened
before he could set off to keep his
appointment In Blenheim Square, and the
men who met him at his club, and ' chaffed '
him on keeping out of town at the best
season of the year, could not Imagine what

had come to Geoffrey Doyne  he was so
distract and peevish, not to say rude, in
the irritation caused by his perplexity and
doubt. When at last he reached the house,
Michael was ready to receive him in the
hall.

I thought it better for me to come here
first, and smooth matters over a little,' he
said as his brother entered.

I almost wish now that I had written
instead,' replied Geoffrey. ' However, I
am sure that Dr Robertson is too sensible
not to understand my motives.'

I am afraid the doctor is out,' said
Michael Doyne. ' However, you will see
Mrs Robertson, and it is all the same
thing.'

He knew it was not the same thing,
and so did his brother, but it was too
late for remonstrance. Geoffrey was
already on the threshold of the library,
where Mrs Robertson sat in state to
receive him.

To say that this lady was a conglomeration

of all the most ferocious
mothers - In - law that ever existed, is not
to say too much. Her sharp tongue and
vixenish temper were well known In the
circle of her acquaintance, and she joined
them to an obstinacy that was unequalled.
It was she alone who had insisted upon
Geoffrey Doyne being brought to book
for his defalcation, and forced to fulfil
his promises to her daughter. Good old
Dr Robertson might have shaken his
head over his faithlessness to his dying
day, but he would never have dreamt
of insisting that he should marry the girl ;
and Jessie herself, although she Inherited
somewhat of her mother's spirit, was too
young to have made such good use of
it. But Mrs Robertson was above such
petty scruples. Jessie was one of seven
daughters, and this young man, who had
the most excellent prospects, had formally
entered into an engagement to
marry her, and now wanted to back out
of it, and her mother was determined to

know the reason why. So she sat, enthroned
in her husband's arm-chair, ready
to receive the culprit  her sandy hair
drawn tightly off her forehead, as though
to say she would admit of no compromise,
and her hard steel-grey eyes
fixed on him with the look of an inquisitor.


Geoffrey Doyne, though with some
hesitation, advanced in the old way, and
held out his hand.

No, thank you, Mr Doyne,' she said
tartly ; ' not until this most unpleasant
business is settled between us. Be good
enough to seat yourself. I am glad your
brother is here to be witness to what
passes at our interview.'

Geoffrey flushed to the temples, but he
did as she desired him.

My brother is here as my friend, Mrs
Robertson,' he replied. ' Otherwise he
can have no possible concern in my private
affairs.'

I don't know that, Mr Doyne,' said

his hostess. * Did you come here as our
friend, it might be so ; but under the
circumstances, I should think very few
gentlemen would be found willing to take
your side.'

Do you mean to insinuate, madam  '
commenced Geoffrey hotly ; but Michael
came between them as mediator.

Mrs Robertson he said, * I persuaded
my brother to come here tonight
that we might have an explanation,
not a quarrel ; and I do not see how recrimination
can help the cause on either
side. Will you hear what he has to say
in extenuation of his conduct, or would
you prefer to be the first to speak ? '

I wish to say first what I think of
him,' replied Mrs Robertson.

Let it be so, then. Geoffrey, you
see the justice of this. Mrs Robertson
is not only a lady and your hostess, but
she stands in the position of the injured
party. Let me ask you, therefore, to
listen patiently to whatever she may have

to say, and you can justify your own
action In the matter afterwards.'

'Which, I should Imagine, Mr Geoffrey
Doyne will find it most difficult to do,'
interposed Mrs Robertson.

No such thing, madam,' broke in
Geoffrey warmly. * I have the best
possible excuse  '

But Michael came again to the
rescue.

Patience, my dear fellow  patience !
You will never arrive at a satisfactory
conclusion unless each consents to hear
what the other has to say.'

Geoffrey sank into his chair again ;
and Mrs Robertson turned her back on
him without ceremony.

You will excuse me, Mr Doyne,' she
said to the elder brother, * if I prefer,
for the present at all events, to address
myself to you. The case stands simply
thus. Last year Mr Geoffrey Doyne
stayed for a month In our house, and I
trusted him Implicitly in the company of

all my daughters, with whom he appeared
on the best of terms  '

Of course I was. I romped with
one as much as the other,' interposed
Geoffrey.

But Mrs Robertson took no notice of
the remark.

After a while, however, I perceived
that he admired Jessie above the rest ;
Indeed, on several occasions I had seen
familiarities take place between them  '

She used to come and sit on my
lap whether I would or no,' grumbled
Geoffrey.

So I considered it my duty as a

mother,' continued the lady, waving her

hand, as though to wave the younger

brother off into infinitesimal space, 'to

ask him his intentions with regard to

her, and was greatly astonished to find

that he had no intentions whatever.'

'Of course I hadn't  never thought of

< >

such a thing,' said Geoffrey.

But you ought to have thought of it ; it

was most reprehensible replied his brother,
frowning.

I am so glad you see it in our light,
dear Mr Doyne,' rejoined Mrs Robertson
; ' for it is hard, after so many years
of friendly intercourse have subsisted between
the families, to think of a rupture
taking place now. The dear doctor
feels it keenly. The suspense has quite
aged him.'

Oh, it must not be,' said Michael decidedly
; and Geoffrey felt a chill run
through him at the words.

Of course I remonstrated with your
brother,' resumed Mrs Robertson, ' as he
will do me the justice to acknowledge,
and pointed out to him the harm he had
done our dear girl, and the misery he had
caused her. And then Dr Robertson and
his father both spoke to him ; and the
issue was, that he proposed formally to
my husband for Jessie's hand (we have the
letter now, Mr Doyne), and the engagement
was ratified between them. Of course

our friends all know of it ; we never dreamt
for a moment that Mr Geoffrey Doyne
could be so base to go back from his
written word ; and the poor child has been
actually making the linen for her trousseau
for the last three months. When, the
other day, as I was questioning her on
her altered looks and spirits, she burst
into tears, and, to my ainazeme7tt, told me
that It was all over between them ; that
Mr Geoffrey Doyne had sent for his letters
and presents to be returned to him, and
that he had been cruel enough to write and
tell the dear girl that he had never cared
for her, and that he refused to marry
her,  the basest, cruellest, most heartless
conduct I ever heard of in my life,' continued
Mrs Robertson, trembling with
anger, ' and after the kindness and hospitality
he had received at our hands too !
But it cannot be allowed, Mr Doyne. I
will not sit by quietly and see my poor
child pine away in consequence of such
treachery. Your brother must fulfil the

engagement he entered Into with her, or
she shall have public compensation for his
desertion. The world shall not have It In
its power to say that we boasted idly of
our daughter's expectations.'

Am I to be allowed to speak now ? '
demanded Geoffrey, who had with difficulty
kept quiet during the last part of
this harangue.

'If Mrs Robertson has quite finished
said his brother coldly.

I have said all I wish to say,' replied
the lady, ' and no explanations Mr
Geoffrey Doyne can offer me In return
can ever excuse his conduct to my
daughter.'

Perhaps not In your eyes, madam,'
said Geoffrey ; ' but you have appealed to
the judgment of the world. I am glad
you have done me the justice to acknowledge
that I never had any Intention of
proposing to Jessie until you forced me todo
so. And therein lies my greatest fault.
I should have resisted your arguments

then as I do now. I have made the
task doubly hard by delay. Ever since
I yielded to your wishes in that respect,;
I have seen how wrong I was to do so
Each day has convinced me, more and
more, that I am not, and I never was
in love with your daughter, and that, if
I marry her we shall only make each
other miserable for life. It was with this
conviction that I wrote to her a month
ago  telling her the truth. I did not say
I would not marry her, neither did I
ask her to return my letters or presents.
I said just what I have told you  that
I had not considered sufficiently before I
made that proposal of marriage to her,
and that I did not care for her so much
as I ought to do. And if that is being
base and dishonourable in your eyes, ijt
is not in mine. I consider I should
have been much more to blame had I
-married her without telling her the truth.' .
Unfortunately, you see, Geoffrey, ijt
is not what you think, but what the world

VOL. II. D

will say about the matter remarked
Michael gravely; * and there is no doubt
that a thing of this kind militates against
a girl's prospects in life

Militates against her prospects ! ' cried
Mrs Robertson shrilly ; ' I should think
it did  it ruins them ! Do you suppose
I am going to let my daughter be pointed
at as having been jilted  and by you! 
she ended, with withering scorn.

Would you prefer her, then, to marry
a man who does not love her ? ' retorted
Geoffrey.

That is of little consequence,' replied
the lady. * No men care for their wives
(as far as I can see) in the present day.
The mere fact of their being their wives
is sufficient to make them indifferent !
But my daughter is of a very different
disposition from you. She is amiable
and affectionate and loving, and I will
not see her heart broken and her future
prospects spoiled for any man alive.*

If you knew all, Mrs Robertson resumed

Geoffrey, colouring, *you would
see that you could not break her heart
more readily than by marrying her to me.'

You had better make a clean breast
whilst you are about It,* suggested his
brother.

Perhaps you are right. Well, then,
Mrs Robertson, my objection to renewing
my engagement with Jessie does not
He wholly In the fact that I do not care
sufficiency for her to make her a good
husband. There is a stronger reason
than that  a more Insurmountable one.
I am In love with another woman ! '

He said the words slowly, as though
they contained an argument to quench
all her maternal hopes. But they had
only the effect of making her more angry
and determined.

And do you call that an excuse ? ' she
exclaimed ; ' it is an aggravation of your
offence. You are in love with another
woman, and so my daughter is to go to
the wall ! My Jessie is to be deprived

throughout life of all you had promised to
give her, because you have taken It Into
your head to set up some one else In her
stead. But you will find It Is not quite so
easy to chop and change in that manner,
Mr Doyne. You have pledged your word
to my daughter, and you must redeem
it  or give her such compensation as
the law may award her.'

You will surely not bring this matter
into court ? ' cried Geoffrey, with horror.
You will never drag your daughter's name
through the newspapers as the plaintiff ina
breach of promise case ? '

Mrs Robertson saw her advantage, and
clung to it.

We certainly shall,' she replied, * unless
you think better of the insult you have
offered us. The doctor and I have talked
this matter over, and he has left it entirely
in my hands. He is no more disposed to
sit by quietly, and see Jessie's heart broken
without an effort to save her, than I am.'

But how can you improve the affair by

making it public ? You should consider
your daughter's feelings,' said the young
man, in evident distress. He did not perceive
that the agitation he evinced was the
weakest card he could play into her hands ;
nor did he pfuess that the threat she used
towards him had been suggested by his
astute lawyer brother.

That is our business,' replied Mrs
Robertson coldly, ' and we shall do what
we consider best for our child without
any reference to her feelings. Neither
do I think you are the proper person to
remind me of my duty in that respect, Mr
Doyne, considering the very little regard
you have shown towards them yourself.'

What ann I to do ? ' demanded Geoffrey,
in a low voice, of his brother.

You'll have to stick to it, my boy. I
don't see any way out of it,' replied
Michael, in the same tone.

I cannot  it is impossible. I will die
first,' said the younger man, in a voice of
despair.

Well, Mr Doyne,' exclaimed Mrs
Robertson after a short pause, * Is it of
any use our prolonging this Interview ?
Mr Geoffrey does not appear to be disposed
to do what Is right and honourable
in the matter, and therefore It only remains
for the doctor and myself to take
the steps that seem best to us. And the
first thing, I believe, my husband proposes
to do is to go down and have an interview
)vlth your father at Ryelands.'

Might I ask you, my dear Mrs Robertson,
as a personal favour to myself,' said
Michael Doyne, in his blandest voice, ' to
allow Geoffrey a couple of days in which
to think over what you have said to him ?
I feel convinced that, if you will do so, we
shall have arrived at some satisfactory
conclusion by that time. For my sake,
Mrs Robertson  will you do It for my
sake ? '

Well, Mr Doyne, for your sake I will ;
for I know we have your good wishes,
although we appear to have lost those of

your brother. In a couple of days, then, I
shall expect to hear from you ; and meanwhile
I shall say nothing to my daughter,
nor take any more decided steps in the
matter. Good-night, dear Mr Doyne;
whatever happens, I shall always feel that
you have proved yourself a true and faithful
friend to us,' and shaking hands with
the elder brother, Mrs Robertson swept
out of the room without vouchsafing one
glance towards the spot where Geoffrey
stood, silent and dejected.

Come on, Geoff said Michael briskly,
as soon as she had disappeared ; ' we
had better be going home ; it is no use
our remaining longer here.'

The younger man followed him mechanically
to the hall door. His brain was
in such a whirl he hardly knew what he
was about.

What ann I to do ?' he repeated, in a
confused manner, as they walked through
the square together.

'Well, to tell you the plain truth.

Geoffrey, I only see one thing for you
to do, and that is to renew your engagement,
and marry the girl, and take her
back to India with you

*You forget the other,' said Geoffrey
gloomily.

No, I don't, my dear boy. I see the
mess you're in as plainly as you do. But
the other is a matter of feeling, Geoffrey,
and this is a matter of right. Tell mea
little about this young lady at Ines-
cedwyn. Are her parents staying there ? '

No ; she is with a servant.'

You haven't said anything to them
about marrying her, then ? '

Not yet'

It's only been a little spooning affair
on your own account, eh ? '

Yes ; I suppose you'd call it so.'

Well, then, my dear Geoffrey, there's
no question about the matter. You must
break it off'

I cant do that, Michael.'
' You can, if you choose.'

I cannot. There are reasons  '

Oh yes ! I understand all your reasons
before you tell me. You like her much
better than this one ; in fact, you're
over head and ears in love vith her,
and you want to marry her, and take
her out to India. That's it now, isn't
it ? Well, I allow that it is very hard,
and, as I said before, I daresay it will
cut you up to have to part from her and
marry Jessie Robertson instead ; but it
must be done, Geoffrey. There's the long
and the short of it. Your honour demands
the sacrifice, and respect for your
family demands it. We can't have our
name dragged through a breach of
promise case, and connected with that
of the Robertsons. It would be too
disgraceful. I don't believe my father
would ever speak to you again. And
then, there's something to be said for
Jessie into the bargain. The girl's
awfully fond of you. The doctor says
she's so changed by your behaviour,

that you'd hardly know her ; and I
don't see why she should be made to
suffer any more than the other one.
You can't keep your word to both, that's
clear ; and Jessie Robertson will bear
the more open disgrace of the two, if
you break with her. Now, do go home
and try to think it over in that light.
Some one must bear the brunt of your
folly in any case ; but if you persevere
in your present determination, we shall
all have to bear it, which isn't quite fair
upon us.'

Geoffrey did go home  miserable, undecided,
and almost hopeless. Still, he
trusted that something might turn upto
help him out of his difficulty  that
Jessie's parents might relent, or the girl
herself refuse to renew their engagement.
Surely, he thought, if he told her to her
face he didn't love her, she would never
hold him to his word.

Meanwhile there was no reason that
his poor trusting Fenella should suffer

for his fault. Time enough for her to
learn the worst when the worst came.
So he sat down and wrote her a long
loving letter (such as he knew she would
carry in her bosom all the day), and told
her he was afraid his business would detain
him in town longer than he had expected ;
but he did not mention what that business
was. And when he had finished
the letter, he laid his head down upon
the paper and burst into tears.

It is impossible,' he kept on repeating
to himself. ' I cannot  I must not desert
her. Not stow  O God ! not now.

His task would have been much easier
if the other girl had not cared for him
also, but he knew too well that she did
care. It had been his flattered vanity
at her evident affection that had drawn
him into the noose that galled him now.
Still he thought, if all other means failed,
he must make an appeal to Jessie's generosity
to set him free. He did not know
that her temperament was of so jealous

a nature, that the very plea he urged
for liberty would be an Incentive to her
to bind him closer. When the two days
of grace were over, he was as distracted
and undecided as ever, and Michael had
the greatest difficulty In persuading him
to put In an appearance In Blenheim
Square.

The meetlnor this time, however, was
of a more friendly character. Dr Robertson
was present, and Michael Doyne had
already consulted with the parents on the
most politic step to be taken.

*We have no wish to appear harsh or
oppressive, my dear young friend,' commenced
the doctor, who had been previously
' coached ' by his wife what to say ;
but we have our child's happiness to
consult in this matter, and I am bound
to tell you that It Is very seriously concerned.
Mrs Robertson and I have, therefore,
after mature deliberation, come to
the conclusion that Jessie Is, after all,
the proper person to decide whether the

engagement shall continue or not, and
we shall leave it entirely in her hands.'
Geoffrey's face flushed with hope.

Do I understand you, sir, that Miss
Robertson and I are to settle this business
by ourselves, and that you will
abide by her decision, whatever It maybe
? '

Yes ; that Is our wish, Mr Doyne.
After all, It is hej happiness, and not
oztrs, that is at stake ; and If she tells
us she has released you of her own
free will, wee shall take no further steps
in the matter.'

Thank you  thank you a thousand
times,' said Geoffrey fervently. ' Does
Jessie know I am in the house ? May
I see her now ? '

Yes ; I have prepared my daughter
for the interview,' replied Mrs Robertson,
with a grim smile, as she preceded the
young man out of the room.

Geoffrey followed her briskly, his heart
throbbing with hope. He thought he should

have no difficulty in making Jessie understand
how much better it would be for
both of them to be free.

Mrs Robertson led him to the drawing-room
and opened the door.

'Jessie, my dear she said quietly,
*here is Mr Geoffrey Doyne, who wishes
to speak to you.'

Then she retreated, and left the young
people together.

Now, until that morning Jessie Robertson
had been entirely ignorant that she
had any rival to dispute her possession
of Geoffrey Doyne. She had accepted
his letter just as he wrote it, and had
never lost hope that he would find out
he had been mistaken, and return some
day and ask her to take back those
presents, and give him a place in her
affections once more. And she was quite
ready to do so, for, truth to say, he had
never lost that place. His handsome face
and figure had made an irrevocable impression
on her mind, and if she did not

love him with all the ardour of Fenella
Barrington, she loved him to the utmost
power of her nature  and no one can
do more. The rupture of their engagement
had been a great shock to her, and
the disappointment had left its traces on
her features  had darkened the lines beneath
her eyes, and washed the colour
from her rosy cheeks.

Mrs Robertson had seen all this ; she
knew that the girl looked pathetic and
pretty, and the young man was emotional
and easily impressed ; and she trusted a
great deal to the effect Jessie's altered
appearance would have upon him. Besides,
she had, as she said, prepared her
daughter for this interview. She had
hinted at the possibility of some low-born
rival as a means of rousing the girl's
jealousy, and then she had implored her,
for the sake of Geoffrey Doyne's family
(no less than for his own), to be firm, and
bring him back to his allegiance. He
would thank her for it afterwards (the

mother said), when he knew his own heart
better, and could rate her devotion for him
at its true value. So Jessie came forward
rather timidly, it is true, but still very
affectionately, and much in the old style,
and lifted her tearful blue eyes to his
face.

I knew you would come back,' she
murmured. ' I knew you would remember
our old affection some day. Mamma said
it was impossible that you could quite
forget me.'

For a moment he almost forgot his
mission in looking at her pale cheeks and
attenuated figure.

* Why, Jessie,' he exclaimed, ' have you
been ill ? '

Yes  a little. What does it matter ? I
fretted, of course  I could not help fretting
; but I shall be all right again now.'

Do you mean to say my letter caused
this ? Oh, what a brute I am ! ' cried
Geoffrey.

Don't say that,' replied Jessie softly, as

she sat down beside him. * You did it for
the best, I am sure.'

I did indeed. I thought it would be
less dishonourable to cancel our engagement
than to let you marry me without
knowing the truth. For I am not worthy
of you, Jessie, and since we have been
separated I have thought so much more
seriously of such things. Marriage is a
very solemn contract, is it not ? And it
would be unjust to let you enter into it
with any one who does not love you as
you deserve. Don't you agree with me ? '

But I always thought you loved me
more than I deserved, Geoffrey,' she said,
in a low voice ; ' for, after all, what is therein
me to love ? '

There is everything  everything to
make a man happy, if he were not only
too great a fool to appreciate it, Jessie.'

But you made me quite happy,' she
whispered.

Did I ? I am afraid I should not make
you happy for long. I own an atrociously

VOL. II. E

bad temper, Jessie  irritable and easily-put
out ; and I am a selfish, heartless sort
of fellow at the best. You would have
wearied of me in no time, and then there
would have been no remedy for either of
us. It was better to put a stop to it before
it was too late, wasn't it ? '

I should soon have grown used to your
tempers, Geoffrey  all men have them,
mamma says  and I never thought you
heartless ; at least, not until you sent me
that letter.' And then she began to cry.

Jessie, did that letter hurt you so very
much ? '

Oh, terribly,' she said, amidst her sobs ;
how could It be otherwise when I had
made up my mind we were to be married
so soon, and half my things were made,
too, and I had asked my cousins to be
bridesmaids ? And now  now it seems
as if everything in the whole world was
over for me, and I should never be happy
again  never ! '

Oh, don't cry  for Heaven's sake, don't

cry ! ' said Geoffrey despairingly, ' and let
me try and think what is best to be done.'

They sat silent for a few moments,
whilst Jessie caught her breath, and
dabbed her eyes with her pocket-handkerchief
Then Geoffrey said gravely, 

Jessie ! I thought  and I think still
that we shall never be happy as ran
and wife ; but your father and mother
consider that I have gone so far in
proposing to you, that I have no right
even to suggest such a thing as altering
our minds, and that it must rest
with you to decide whether our marriage
takes place or not.'

I would much rather it took place,'
sobbed the girl.

Listen to me,' went on her companion,
' and don't decide in a hurry.
Remember the whole happiness of our
lives depends upon your answer. I am
compelled to tell you  in justice to you
and to myself  that I do not love you
as I ought to do. In fact, Jessie, I 

I  (don't be angry with me for saying
it)  but I  care for somebody else ;
and that fact alone would make my
marriage with you a sacrilege and a
blasphemy which I do not dare to contemplate.'


She did not answer him, and after a
while he proceeded, 

Don't you think it would be very
wrong of us to marry under the circumstances,
Jessie ? Don't you think it
may be the wrecking of both our lives
to know there is such a barrier between
us ? Don't you think it would be more
honourable in the sight of God and man
for us to go our different ways in the
world, than to take vows upon ourselves
which we know it is not in our power
to perform ? '

He paused, waiting for and expecting
her acquiescence ; and had the girl
followed the natural instincts of her
womanhood, she would have told him
he was right. But the hint he had

given her of his love for another, vague
and undefined though it was, had raised
the worst feelings of which Jessie
Robertson was capable, and made her
resolve, at all hazards, to claim him for
her Own. He should never, never (so
she said to herself) be free to go and
marry that other woman, and leave her
to be laughed at or pitied by all their
acquaintance. She loved the man, but
she loved herself better, and she was
determined if possible to keep him by
her side. So all she answered was, 

/ could fulfil them, Geoffrey, easily
enough. Nothing could be difficult forme
to do that was done for you.'

By heavens ! ' he exclaimed, driven
to desperation by her quiet perseverance,
' do you mean to say that you
would stoop to marry me when I tell
you plainly that I do not care for you ? '

Yes, Geoffrey, I would ; because you
will care for me some day. I am sure
you will.'

And with the knowledge that I lovesome
one else ? '

It is not pleasant for me to hear, of
course,' said Jessie, ' but you will get
over it in time  and you were engaged
to me first.'

Then I am to understand,' rejoined
the young man gloomily, ' that you desire
me to hold to this engagement, of which
I have told you frankly I am weary ? '

Because you fail in your promises
to me, is that any reason I should fail
also ? ' she replied. ' I should consider
myself bound to you, Geoffrey, whether
you deserted me or not.'

And this is your final decision ? ' asked
her companion, with white lips.

How could I come to any other ? I
should only be telling a story if I said
I did.'

Jessie ! I told Dr and Mrs Robertson
that I would abide by what you said.
Think once more ; for God's sake, think
before you answer me ! Remember it is

the happiness or misery of our whole
Ives upon which you are deciding. Are
we to be married to each other  or are we
not ? '

He hung upon her reply as the criminal
in the dock hangs upon the decision of
the jury, and she gave It with apparently
as little personal feeling.

If you ask me, Geoffrey, I can only
say what I have said before. Yes. If I
hadn't wished to marry you, I should
never have consented to be engaged to
you. I don't change my mind every
other day, as you seem to do ! '

God forgive you ! ' was trembling on
his lips as he regarded her, but with an
effort he altered the words. * Be It so,
then ! ' he said, between his teeth ; and
then, without another look, he turned
upon his heel and quitted the house,
leaving Jessie Robertson to announce to
her father and mother the determination
at which she had arrived.

DESERTED.

Castillo ! Oh, how often has he sworn
Nature should change the sun and stars grow dark-e'er
he would falsify his vows to me ?
Make haste, confusion, then ! Sun, lose thy light !
And stars, drop dead with sorrow to the earth !
For my Castillo's false.'

Otway.

?MHE long-expected letter from
Mentone, addressed to Eliza
Bennett, arrived but a few
days after Geoffrey Doyne had quitted
Ines-cedwyn. Lady Wilson's party had
finished their wanderings for the present,
and were settled in the Villa Abracci, but
the event did not seem to have fulfilled
the expectations of Mrs Barrington, who

complained bitterly of all her surroundings.
The heat was intolerable ; the house had
not sufficient accommodation ; that odious
Miss Russell had joined their party, and
was making herself most conspicuous with
Mr Wilson ; poor dear Colonel Alderman
had died suddenly of bronchitis the week
before ; and those brutes of agents had
written from London to say that the tenants
in South Audley Street wished to
give up the rooms at the end of three
months. In fact, poor Mrs Barrlngton's
star was decidedly in the descendent.

Only fancy ! ' she wrote, ' those wretches
giving up the rooms in July  the very
month of all others when nobody wishes
to remain in London. I made sure they
would renew their agreement until Michaelmas.
I think it is most inconsiderate
of them, not to say dishonest  for there
is no chance of my letting the rooms
again. And what are we to do with ourselves
in London at that time  you and
I and Fenella ? We shall be roasted alive.

I should remain here, of course, or go onto
some Weller place, only I am afraid
I shall not be able to afford it. I hope to
goodness you and the girl are not running
into any expense that you can possibly
avoid, for all my money has gone in railway
fares, and the people here change
their dresses so many times a day, I
haven't half enough clothes to wear. 1
consider that Lady Wilson ought, at the
very least, to offer to pay my expenses
back to England, for she has quite brought
me here on false pretences. The weekly
expenses are much higher than she said
they would be, and she has given the best
bedroom in the house to that hideous
Anna Russell  after saying she couldn't
receive Fenella, too. Such deceit ! And
the son is exactly like his mother  stingy
and false ! I hate them both. I was
dreadfully distressed to hear about your
leg. You really should be more careful.
It is selfish of you to go falling about in
that way, when you know how I depend

upon your services. What would you
have done if I had required you to join
me at Mentone ? It's just a chance that
I did not. Lady Wilson's maid is a fool ;
she can't dress hair a bit, and the old
woman is so selfish, she will hardly ever
let her do any sewing for me. I often
wish I had Fenella here to help me with
needlework. I hope you or she will write
soon and let me hear that your leg is
healed aoain. I couldn't stand crutches
about the house. And I'm sure I've had
trouble enough already. You may fancy
the shock dear Colonel Ellerman's death
was to me. So sudden and so sad ! And
he's left every halfpenny he possessed to
his sister, too ; it makes me so mad to
think of it. However, I suppose it's the
will of Heaven. I am glad to hear your
account of Miss Fenella's looks. It is
just as well one of the family should enjoy
good health. I feel ill and weak enough
myself. I am sure this place doesn't agree
with me, and Lady Wilson is the worst

housekeeper I ever met. The dinners are
simply not fit to eat'

EHza Bennett was as distressed by the
receipt of this letter as if she took every
word of it for gospel.

Your poor dear mamma ! ' she exclaimed
; ' what worries she has in this life,
to be sure ! And to think that I am not
with her, too ! that is the cruellest part of
it. Not that I could hope to be of much
good (being only a servant), but still
it's hard for a lady who's been used to
have every comfort about her, to wait on
herself, and eat dinners she don't fancy ;
isn't it, Miss Fenella ? '

Mamma might have had us both with
her if she had wished it ; it's her own fault
that she's alone ! ' replied Fenella, with
her eyes fixed upon the summer sky, and
her heart filled to the very brim with
Geoffrey Doyne.

Lor' ! Miss Fenella, you seem to have
grown very cold-like lately,' remarked the
servant. ' You fretted so at parting with



your mamma, I thought you'd be all in a
flutter at the idea of meeting her again.
Wouldn't you like to go back to London,
miss ? '

The girl's face flushed with the sudden
joy of expectation. London was the
happy place that held her lover.

To London, nurse ! Oh yes, I should ;
very much indeed. But is there any
chance of it } '

Well, I should say from your mamma's
letter as there was every chance, my dear ;
for here we are in the middle of July, and
even if she don't come back herself, someone
must go and look after them rooms
as soon as they're empty.'

Let me write and tell mamma that we
will look after them,' cried Fenella impulsively,
' and then she needn't come home
any sooner on that account. Let us go
back to London together, nurse  you and
I ; it will be ever so much nicer than
Ines-cedwyn.'

Eliza Bennett looked in the girl's telltale

face, and thought to herself. ' That
there chap's in London, I'd take my oath
of it ; ' but all she said was, 

You can write what you please to your
mamma. Miss Fenella ; but we couldn't go
back, at any rate, till the end of July, for
the parties don't give up the rooms till
that time.'

And her young mistress turned from
her with a sigh, to console herself by
writing a long letter to Geoffrey Doyne,
in which she informed him of her mother's
permanent address, and begged him to
lose no time in acquainting her with the
news of their engagement.

The letters which came and vent so
constantly at this period, no less than the
gold locket which Fenella wore next her
heart both night and day, had not escaped
the notice of Eliza Bennett, and they
made her feel very uneasy. She could
not be quite sure of what was going
on beneath her eyes  whether it was a
mere childish folly, not worth a second

thought, or something more serious, that
would raise Mrs Barrington's anger. The
amourettes of that lady herself had been
so profuse and vicarious, that she had
somewhat dulled thereby the sense of
propriety in the breast of her servant ;
and Bennett was really unable to decide
whether her mistress would ridicule
her fears or blame her imprudence on
the score of Fenella's sea-side flirtation.
Yet she could not help observing that
the girl had grown more thoughtful since
the young man's departure, and she had
detected her on more than one occasion
crying quietly to herself She had heard
her talk in her sleep, too  murmuring
broken sentences and loving words, as
she lay flushed on her pillows, with her
fair hair falling on her shoulders, and
the child-like tears still trembling on her
lashes. And yet, withal, Fenella seemed
so happy and so well, it was difficult to
believe that anything grieved her. So
Bennett comforted herself with the idea

that, if her young lady had had a little
love affair, she'd soon forget all about it.
Girls had many such, as a rule, before
they settled down in life ; and, at any
rate, the gentleman had left Ines-cedwyn
that was one blessing  and it couldn't
be long now before her mamma came back
to England to look after her herself.

Meanwhile, Fenella was what she
seemed  as happy as she could be
apart from. Geoffrey. For these great
loves pay heavy penalties for the bliss
of being ; they render separation an
agony. But the tears which Bennett
saw upon her sleeping face were not
those of distrust, nor of fear. They
were the natural outcome of a new-born
excitement, that found its best relief in
painless weeping. The days of separation
were irksome to bear, but they
were not intolerable ; for Fenella had
a firm belief in their speedy termination,
and each one brought her some fresh
assurance of Geoffrey's love for her.

For here the man's courage had utterly
failed him. He knew he had pledged
himself to do that which should kill all
the new-born blossoming hopes in Fen-ella's
breast, as certainly as a knife
drawn across her throat would destroy the
fair young life she had given up to him.
He knew that in a few weeks at the
furthest, she would hear that, that would
desecrate him in her eyes for evermore
; that would make him appear
falser and more cruel than anything she
had ever dreamt of; that would destroy,
not only her belief in him, but in God
and Heaven, and even a hereafter. He
knew all this, as surely as he knew
that he was committing the basest
action of his life in deserting her ; and
yet he had not the courage to strike
the fatal blow, and let her learn the
worst at once. He continued to write
to her, and without a hint that he
had renewed his engagement with
Jessie Robertson. He told no further

VOL. II. F

falsehoods, it is true ; he ceased to
allude to their own marriage, or their
future life ; but he told her she was his
world, and that without her he should
be miserable ; and Fenella could imagine
the rest. To be Geoffrey's world was
sufficient for her happiness, and, naturally,
she continued to believe that all
they had spoken of together would
follow. The only shadow on her joy
was their prolonged separation, and that
was soon to be put an end to.

Mrs Barrington's first letter from
Mentone was speedily followed by another,
equally querulous, in which she
told her daughter and servant that she
had had a violent quarrel with Lady
Wilson, who was, without exception,
the most jealous, cross-grained, interfering
old cat ' she ever met with, and
affirmed her intention of returning to
England as soon as ever the rooms in
South Audley Street were ready to receive
her, ordering Bennett and Fenella

at the same time to take up their abode
there before herself.

The agent tells me she wrote, ' that
the creatures will go out on the thirty-first.
You had better, therefore, travel
up on the first, and I will join you
on the second or third. I wouldn't sleep
in my room until you have seen it is
thoroughly cleaned and set in its usual
order, for any earthly consideration.'

To see the colour that flew into Fenella's
face at this intelligence was a revelation.
She glowed like a carnation at the very
thought.

On the first, Bennett ! We are to goto
London on the first of August ! ' she
exclaimed ; * only five days more. What
shall I do to make them pass away ? '

 You seem very anxious to leave poor
Ines-cedwyn, miss,' remarked Bennett
curiously. ' I'm afraid you've changed your
mind about it since you first came here.'

The girl turned her grey eyes, in which
the tears had suddenly risen, towards the sea.

Dear, sweet Ines-cedwyn ! ' she murmured,
* with Its singing waves and golden
sands. Can It ever seem less lovely tome
than It does now ? Oh no, nurse !
I have not changed my mind, and I am
not ungrateful. I shall always remember
Ines-cedwyn as the place in which the
happiest days of my life were passed ;
only  only,' she added, a little wistfully,
I do want to go to London now.'

Well, my dear, I hope as you won't
 disappointed in It, but it's very hot
and dusty at this time of the year,' grumbled
Bennett, as she turned away.

Yet when the first of August arrived,
and Fenella found herself once more in
South Audley Street, with all the rooms
in that delightful state of dirt and confusion
in which lodgers are accustomed
to leave them, and Bennett out of temper
at the prospect of the work before her,
she still went singing about to that unheard
accompaniment of music in her
heart.

Geoffrey was not there to meet her,
it is true (how could he be ?), but he was
close at hand, and she had received a
letter from him, not twelve hours before
she left Ines-cedwyn, full of love and
tender allusions to the past. And she
had written in reply to say that she was
there, actually there, in the same town
with him ; and it could not be long  it
was impossible it could be long  before
he held her in his arms. Mrs Barrington
arrived to her time  dusty, dishevelled,
and decidedly cross. But she could not
restrain her surprise at the first view of
Fenella.

Good heavens ! ' she exclaimed, * what
have you done to the child, Bennett ?
Why, she's developed to a woman ; and
what a lovely colour she has ! I must
say it, my dear ; your complexion would
put the whole of Fiver's shop to shame.
It is positively like nothing but lilies and
carnations.'

Oh, mamma ! I am so glad you think

I am improved,' said Fenella, with a bright
blush, as she knelt beside Mrs Barrington's
chair. ' I have been so happy down at
Ines-cedwyn ; I think that must be the
reason that I look so well.'

It's the mountain air and the smell
of the sea, ma'am,' put in Eliza Bennett,
rather hurriedly ; * it must be, for I am
sure Miss Fenella has had no other doctors
whilst you was away.'

Well, I wish I had had the same
doctors myself, for I'm worn to death with
my trip,' replied her mistress fretfully.
Do get up, Fenella ; you're dragging my
dress to one side, and I'm too tired to
bear the weight of your arms upon my
knees. I'm sure I wish I had never left
London. I've lost all the fun of the
season, and now I suppose we shall have
to vegetate here whilst everybody is
away at the sea-side.'

.ewe shall manage to amuse ourselves,
mamma, surely,' said Fenella, smiling, as
she thought of the occupation which was

in store for both of them, In preparing
for her wedding with Geoffrey Doyne.

You don't know what you're talking
about, child. Everybody is out of town
at this time of the year, and the place is
so hot and dusty, you can hardly stir out
of the house. However, we must bear
it as best we can, for there's no alternative.
I can't go through the trouble and
worry of letting the rooms again, and if I
did so, I don't know where on earth we
should go.'

Oh no, mamma ! don't think of it,*
cried Fenella. 'We shall be very happy
here  I am sure we shall  and there's
no knowing what may turn up to amuse
and occupy us.'

But when Mrs Barrington found herself
alone with her favourite servant, she told,
a very different story.

Bennett,' she said confidentially, * I
didn't like to say too much before the
girl (for girls are always so conceited
about their personal appearance), but I

never was so startled in my life as
when I saw Fenella. I couldn't have
believed three months would make such
a change in any one. She's positively
lovely ; I have seen nothing to equal her
in Paris or Mentone ! And so fresh too ;
it's what the men run after now-a-days,
freshness ! I shall let these rooms again
as soon as ever I can, Bennett, and take
her abroad.'

Let the rooms again, ma'am ! ' echoed
Bennett. * I thought as you said you
had decided against it ? '

So I did at first, you old goose ; but
don't you see I shall have a better chance
of marrying that girl now than at any
other period of her existence. Three
months ago no man would have looked
at her  she was a child, a stick, a nonentity
! But now they would just rave about
her. She has unfolded like a rosebud
opened this morning. She's in the first
flush of girlhood, and yet she's a woman !
You can see it by her eyes. I never was

so astonished In the world before ! What's
done it, Bennett? Has she had a love
affair at Ines-cedvvyn ?'

Oh, dear no, ma'am ! ' gasped Bennett,
trembling from head to foot under the
dread of discovery.

Ah well, I suppose it's nature ; but
I must say she's lovely, though I'm her
mother. Whom does she take most
after, Bennett  me, or the poor captain ?
I was always the fairer of the two, you
know.'

Oh yes, ma'am; and Miss Fenella
favours you wonderfully, especially about
the skin. I don't know as I ever saw
such another skin as hers ; it's like
white satin.'

And her figure's very fine too ; and
men think so much of figures now-a-days.
Everybody can have a pretty face who
knows how to *' make up " properly ; but
you can't have a good figure in an evening
dress, unless Heaven has given it to
you. It would be an immense thing forme

if I could marry Miss Fenella welland
without delay, Bennett  an immense
thing. It would just save me from ruin,
and nothing else. And she ought to go
off! Dressed in white and silver, or
white and gold, she would look splendid !
glorious ! I believe I could turn out
that girl so that no one could come
within a mile of her ; and it would be
worth my while to do it, at any price !
How can we manage it, Bennett.' Do
ransack that good old head of yours, and
find out some means by which we can
carry on the war for a few months longer,
until I have introduced her at Trouville
or Baden, or some of those places where
the best men go. And she speaks French
so perfectly, that she might marry a
foreigner and a title  one of those rich
nobles who frequent the watering-places
through the autumn months  and I should
get her off my hands and out of my way
at the same time.'

Yes, yes ! my dear lady. We will

manage it. Never you fear,' replied the
servant, in a soothing tone.

She generally treated her mistress as
if she were a teething child that required
conciliation ; but the only childish
thing about Mrs Barrington was her
refractoriness. In all other things Eliza
Bennett was as spun silk in her hands.

You're so tired with your journey,
ma'am,' she continued. * You mustn't
think of anything now but getting rested.
And you've had nothing to eat to-day,
so to speak, and yet you turned against
your dinner ! Shall I run out and get
you a little lobster with a dash of salad,
and a glass of champagne, and see if
that will tempt you to pick a bit ? '

Yes, if you like, Bennett,' returned
the lady languidly, ' for I really don't
feel as if I could keep on my legs much
longer.'

Lie down, my dear mistress,' exclaimed
the servant anxiously, ' and
don't move till I've brought you something

to eat. There ! let me loose your
hair, and give you a fan and the eau
de Cologne. And would you like Miss
Fenella to sit with you, ma'am, whilst
I'm away ? '

No, Bennett, thank you. I shall do
very well. I feel as if I were at home
again, now I have you to cosset me and
look after me. I'm a poor creature, and
cannot live without love.'

The servant's plain face glowed with
ardour.

You will always have mine, my
dear, dear lady,' she replied.

*Ah well, I hope I may, Bennett
; but the world is very ungrateful,
and the best friends change sometimes.
You would be surprised to seethe
alteration in those horrid Wilsonss.
The old woman hardly spoke to me
the last week I was in Mentone ; and
as for her son, his behaviour was positively
disgusting. He and that odious
creature Anna Russell used to leave

the house directly after breakfast, and
never reappear till dinner-time. It was
most improper, as I told his mother, and
then we had a fight about it. I can't
stand that sort of people, Bennett ;
they're low-bred and presuming, and
directly they find a cause for quarrel,
their bad blood comes to the front. I
shall never call upon Lady Wilson again.'

No, my dear lady ; I hope you won't.
You've been too good and condescendingly
to her already. And you mustn't
think no more of Mr Wilson either.
He ain't worthy of the likes of you!'

Dear me, no ! Of course that's allover.
And poor Colonel Ellerman too.
It's enough to upset a woman (isn't it,
Bennett ?) losing two of them so near
together, and so unexpectedly ! '

Ah ! there's as good fish in the sea
as ever came out of it, ma'am ; and,
please the Lord ! I shall live to see
you riding over the heads of such people
as the Wilsonss yet.'

'Well, If I can only get Miss Fenella
married and out of the way, I think I
shall have as good a chance as any.
By-the-bye, Bennett, as you go for
the lobster, you might as well look in
at the agents, and tell them to put the
rooms on their books again. Say I'll
let them on any reasonable terms, for I
know I can't get a high rent at this
time of the year. But I'm determined
to take that girl abroad, Bennett, if I
pawn my jewellery to accomplish it.
After all. It would be worth my while,
for I could get it out again as soon
as ever she was married.'

Filled with this new idea, Mrs Barrington
became so friendly and confidential
with her daughter, that Fenella (remembering
her first reception) was agreeably
surprised. She did not know the little plot
that was hatching beneath her mother's
flattering notice of her beauty or her
talents. She believed it to be genuine.
And so, in part, It was. Mrs Barrington

could not live without some excitement,
and Fenella's Improved appearance had
suggested a new excitement to her. Having
a handsome demoiselle a marier to
take about and add a fresh attraction to
her own society, was a different thing
altogether from being annoyed by the
presence of a half-formed school-girl, whom
no man would wish to own either by marriage
or adoption. And the notion having
once entered her head, she became crazy
to put It Into execution.

Fenella was pleased and startled, at
first, by her mother's cordiality towards
her ; but as the days went on without
bringing tidings of Geoffrey Doyne, her
spirits began to sink. She had not the
slightest doubt of her lover, but her heart
was filled with every sort of fear for him.
Was It possible, she thought, that he had
never received her last letter from Ines-
cedwyn ? Was he still sending his to the
old address . and was Martha too stupid
to forward them to London . Could hebe

ill, or djnng ?  (the ignorant imagine no
greater calamity than death can befall
those whom they love)  or had his family
refused their consent to his marriage, and
was he afraid to come and break the news
to her ? These, and a hundred other
doubts that made her heart sick with
apprehension, surged and swayed through
Fenella's bosom, until she felt as if she
must seek Geoffrey out at all hazards,
and learn the truth. But that the truth
could involve anything worse than annoyance,
or delay, never entered her mind.
How could it  with Geoffrey ?

Her mother and she kept very close
to the house during those few days of
suspense. Mrs Barrington (who was
naturally lazy and untidy) never appeared
en granite tenue unless there was something
to be gained by it, and considered
a soiled dressing-gown the proper costume
to wear during a month when nobody was
likely to call, and there was no object in
showing herself abroad. She sat indoors,

therefore, all day fanning herself, and making
calculations for her proposed autumn
manoeuvres ; whilst Fenella read novels
from the circulating library, or the contents
of the newspapers, aloud to her.

One evening during the first week they
spent in London, the girl was sitting with
a very heavy heart, trying thus to amuse
her mother. She had stolen out that
afternoon, and slipped a letter in the post
herself  imploring Geoffrey to let lier
know at once whether he had received
the news of her arrival in town. And
now she felt almost numbed by the suspense
of waiting for an answer, as if life
or death hune on the chance of her receiving
it by return of post.

I think that story's abominably stupid,'
said Mrs Barrington presently. * The
man's a stick, and the woman's a goody.
Don't you think so, Fenella ?'

Eh ! what, mamma ? Oh yes, I do ! '
exclaimed Fenella suddenly, as she caught
the meanings of her mother s words.

VOL. II. G

I don't think you're enjoying it much
more than I am, my dear, and I don't
wonder at it,' resumed Mrs Barrington.
The last chapter has been a perfect sermon,
and I hate preaching, especially in a
novel. Suppose you read me the paper instead
? I haven't had time to look at it today.
You'll find the Standard ow that table.'

Fenella put down the novel and rose to
fetch the paper, with that heart-sickening
suspense (which those who have experienced
the feeling will best recognise)
still uppermost in her mind.

Let's have the epitome of news,' said
Mrs Barrington, as the girl reseated herself.
' Or stay, Fenella ; read the list of
marriages and deaths first. Not the
births, my dear (nobody cares about
births except the people concerned ; they're
much too common) ; but you see lots of
names amongst the marriages and deaths
of people you have heard of, though )ou
may not know. Just run over the names
as they stand, Fenella ; that will be quite

enough. Dear me ! I wish my sight were
not so weak by gas Hght. It makes me
feel quite an old woman to be so depend
dent on others.'

The girl began to read as she was
ordered :  Adams  Messiter ; Arbuthnot
Clive ; Barclay  Smith ; Cadogan  v
Matthews; Doyne  Robertson. And
there she stopped. :

Go on, my dear,' said her mother
somewhat impatiently.

But Fenella did not go on. Her eyes
were staring in a blank vacuous manner at
the following words : 

'August 3rd, at the Church of St Mary

le Strand, by the Rev. , Geoffrey

Doyne, Lieut. Hem. XXX. Regiment of.
Hussars, second son of Jasper Doyne, J. P.,
of Ryelands, in the county of Bucking->
hampshire ; to Jessie, fourth daughter 'of
James Robertson, M.D., of 44 Blenheim
Square, W.C.'

Mrs Barrington could not stand the
suspense. } ,

Do go on, Fenella/ she repeated
irritably ; ' it drives me wild when people
stop in the middle of reading in that way.
Whatever have }'ou got there  anything
interesting ? '

But all the answer she received was
conveyed by the sound of a heavy fall.
Fenella had fainted on the floor. At this
sight Mrs Barrington became terribly
alarmed. She was a woman who lost all
presence of mind in an emergency.

Bennett ! Bennett ! ' she screamed, flying
to the doer, ' come down here at once.
Miss Fenella has fainted.'

The servant was in the room in a
minute, and kneeling beside the unconscious
girl.

Why, bless my heart alive ! ' she exclaimed,
'how did this happen .''

I don't know, I'm sure,' wailed Mrs
Barrington ; ' she was reading the Standard
to me only a minute ago, when she
suddenly fell on the floor. Oh dear! oh
. ear ! I hope she's not going to take to

fainting it's the most tiresome habit a
girl can have ; you never know when it'll
come on. Did you see anything of this
in the country, Bennett?'

Bless you, no, ma'am ! And don't goto
frighten yourself ; it's only an accident.
Young ladies will faint sometimes. It's
the heat of the weather most likely, or
Miss Fenella has over-tired herself. We
must lay her down flat, that's the best
way ; and please to give me the eau de
Cologne and your fan, and I'll soon bring
her to.'

But though Eliza Bennett made every
effort to restore Fenella to consciousness,
twenty minutes elapsed, and still the girl
lay, rigid as stone and white as a broken!
lily, prostrate upon the ground.

I don't like this, ma'am,' said Bennett,
shaking her head as she found her restoratives
had no effect. ' I am afraid it
is more than an ordinary swoon. Don't
you think we'd better send round for Dr
Metcalfe.''

' It sii7ely Q2SiX. be necessary,' replied her
mistress. ' Oh ! don't tell me there's more
trouble in store for us, Bennett, and I'm to
have a doctor's bill added to my other
worries. Dash some more water in her
face. I'm sure she blinked last time you
did it. Perhaps she's only shamming.
Girls will sham sickness, you know, sometimes.
They think it's interesting ! '
Miss Fenella ain't shamming,' said the
servant indignantly ; ' and indeed, ma'am,
you must please to send Mrs Watson for
the doctor, for I can't take the responsibility
of this on myself any longer.
Mrs Barrington was frightened into concession,
and the medical man, who lived
close at hand, was soon in the room, fie
raised Fenella's head and looked in her face.
'Cut her dress and her laces,' he said
curtly.

Oh dear, sir, they're as loose as they
can be!' remonstrated Bennett.
'. * Be good enough to do as I tell you,'
was the reply ; and when she had obeyed

him, he lifted the girl upon the couch, and
laid his ear upon her chest.

That will do,' he said presently, as he
rose to his feet ; ' and now, where is her
bedroom ? I will carry her up to bed.'

Bennett led the way, and Dr Metcalf
lifted the girl's slight figure in his arms,
and followed her. The mother was left
behind, wringing her hands in feeble
lamentation.

I hope to goodness this is not the
beginning of an illness,' she thought selfishly,
' for it will ruin all my plans if
Fenella goes and loses her good looks
just as she requires them most.'

Presently she heard Dr Metcalfe's footstep
descending the stairs again, and
waited near the door in expectation of
his entering to give her further information
about her daughter. But he passed
her landing and walked straight out of
the house.

Such extraordinary behaviour,' as Mrs
Barrington said to her servant a few

minutes later ; 'just as if I had no concern
in the matter, and wasn't even the girl's
mother! But what did he say upstairs,
Bennett ? Is this fainting fit a mere
accident, or is it likely to occur again ?
I shall go mad if she takes to having
them as a regular thing.'

Oh no, ma'am ! it won't be as bad as
that ; but I'm bound to say the doctor
looked grave about it, and he'll see Miss
Fenella the first thing tomorrow morning.
It was terrible to watch her come-to, ma'am.
I thought she was going out of her mind.
But the doctor w her a powerful sleeping
draught, and she dropped off like a
child. But I don't think he likes the
looks of her at all'

'It is / that shall go out of my mind
with all this worry,' cried Mrs Barrington.
However, I don't believe she can be
really ill with that lovely colour, and I
daresay Dr Metcalfe is making all the fuss
he can over it, just to run up a bill. It's
the way with those doctors  once get

into their hands, and you never get out
again.'

I am afraid I must go back to Miss
Fenella now, ma'am,* said Bennett ; * for
the doctor's orders are that she's not to
be left for a minute, and she's to stay in
bed till after he's seen her tomorrow.'

Of course,' replied Mrs Barrington
petulantly. ' I knew how it would be.
I'm to lose you now, and wait on myself,
I suppose. Oh ! these children ! these
children ! what a plague and a nuisance
they are, to be sure ! '

But the affectionate mother enjoyed a
good night's rest, notwithstanding her
anxiety, although her servant sat beside
her daughter's bed until the morning.
The report she then made to her mistress
was anything but reassuring.

I can't make Miss Fenella out at all,
ma'am,' she said ; ' she opened her eyes a
good while since, but she's never turned
in her bed, nor spoken a word to me.
She looks fixed like, and I do hope the

doctor will keep his promise to come and
see her.'

The doctor did keep his promise, and
at ten o'clock Bennett tapped again on
her mistress's door.

Dr Metcalfe is here, if you please,
ma'am, and he's seen Miss Fenella, and
he'd like to speak a few words with you
before he leaves the house.'

Very well, Bennett ; just tie a ribbon
in my hair, and give me that blue shawl.
You must tell the doctor I'm en deshabille,
you know ; but I've been too terribly
anxious about the dear child to think of
my dress.'

Mrs Barrington repeated something to
the same effect when the doctor entered
her room, but was unable to extract a
compliment from him in return. He took
all her excuses literally.

You have every cause for anxiety,
madam,' he answered gravely, ' and I am
afraid that what I have to tell you will
increase instead of diminish it. I am

sorry to say that I find Miss Barrington
in a very unsatisfactory state of health.
I believe she has spent this summer away
from you ? '

'Yes; I sent her to Ines-cedwyn, a
most charming place in Wales, under the
charge of my own maid, who was formerly
her nurse. I thought the dear girl required
sea air, and so I forced myself to
make the sacrifice of parting with her.
But it is one of the healthiest spots in
the world. Surely she cannot have contracted
any illness there ? '

Miss Barrington's present attack,
madam, is more mental than physical,' replied
Dr Metcalfe, ' but I can tell you the
cause from which it has sprung. You must
not think I am meddling with your private
affairs in speaking plainly, but I consider
it my duty to let you know the truth.'

He posed himself opposite to her, with
one arm leaning on the mantelpiece, whilst
he entered into a detail of Fenella's symptoms.


Mrs Barrington listened to him In
silence  an angry and indignant silence 
feeling with each word he uttered that
the fabric of her hopes crumbled Into
smaller atoms. Fenella with une nffai7e
de coeur ; the girl for whom she had formed
such ambitious projects, breaking her
heart for some nameless nobody In the
wilds of Wales ; her daughter, struck to
the ground by some stupid flirtation
that had made Itself patent to the eyes
of the first stranger she had called into
prescribe a soothing draught. It was
too disappointing, too humiliating. At
the Idea of it Mrs Barrington went pale
beneath her rage, and trembled from head
to foot.

I am afraid I have wounded you,' said
Dr Metcalfe kindly, as he concluded, * but
it was impossible to help doing so. Asher
mother, I considered It only right that
I should speak openly to you.'

Oh yes ! of course  of course,' stammered
Mrs Barrington ; and then she

added, ' I was just thinking of taking her
abroad.'

The doctor caught at the idea.

The very best thing you could do for
her, Mrs Barrlngton. You must be aware
that in these cases change of air and scene,
and a Httle seclusion  unless, indeed, any
attachment the young lady may have
formed might be brought to a happy
issue instead. But I am sure I need not
hint at such alternatives to you. Your
own heart and your affection for your
daughter will prove better guides in such
a contingency than any advice you could
receive from strangers.'

But all Mrs Barrlngton said was, 

I conclude there will be no further
need of your attendance, Dr Metcalfe, and
we shall leave town as soon as possible.'

Certainly, madam ! I had no intention
of calling again. May I express a
hope of seeing you and Miss Barrlngton
at some future time, and under pleasant
circumstances } '

He gave her his hand as he spoke,
and she thrust a fee into it.

But it will be the last,' she thought
angrily, as he disappeared ; ' never shall
he cross my threshold again after what
he has said to me to-day.'

She sat for some time where the doctor
had left her  too paralysed, apparently,
to move or speak. The first thing that
roused her from her reverie was the
sound of the opening door. As it turned
on its hinges, Eliza Bennett's face
peeped wistfully into the room.

'Is the doctor gone, ma'am?' she
demanded.

The question seemed to goad Mrs
Barrington into action. She sprang to
her feet, and confronted the terrified servant
with the face of a fury.

'Is the doctor gone?' she repeated.
Yes, he is gone ; and do you know
what he came to tell me ? That you
have been faithless to the trust I reposed
in you, and that whilst I thought that

wretched girl upstairs was safe under
your care, you let her go rushing allover
the place by herself just as she
chose, and making love to every cockney
tourist that came in her way.'

*/, ma'am  /?' gasped Eliza Bennett,
panic-stricken by the accusation. ' Oh,
don't go to say that of me, ma'am, when
you know I was laid up in my bed, unable
to lift hand or foot for five weeks
at a stretch, and knew no more of what
was going on outside than the babe unborn.'


Then you ought to have known,'
thundered her mistress, ' or set some one
else to look after her! You've behaved
most treacherously to me, and all the
harm that comes of this will be laid at
your door.'

But what has Miss Fenella done,
ma'am ? I'm sure if a young lady like
her is not to be trusted on a beach
alone, who is ? '

What has she done ? It is you who

should be able to answer that question.
Whom did she meet ? Who did she
see down there ? What man has dared
to make love to her ? That is what I
want to know.'

Bennett's thoughts flew at once to the
gentleman in the Beach Bungalow  the
letters and the locket ; but she considered
it her duty to Fenella to stand firm to
her ground.

Nobody, ma'am,' she answered ; ' that
Fm sure of! How shots there be, when
Ines-cedwyn's such a lonely place .' We
were the only visitors there this summer.'

You'd better first hear what Dr Metcalfee
has told me,' replied her mistress ;
and she repeated the statement of the
medical man for the benefit of the
servant.

Bennett's face became as white as
chalk during the narration.

Will you still insist in maintaining
that you know nothing of the matter ? '
demanded Mrs Barrington angrily.

I don't believe It's true  and I know
nothing about it,' repeated the servant
stoutly.

I'll see If the girl Is as obstinate as
you are,' exclaimed her mistress, darting
upstairs.

Bennett, fearing the scene that might
ensue between the mother and daughter,
followed her quickly, and reached the spot
as soon as she did.

Fenella was standing In the centre of the
room, supporting herself with one hand
against the Iron railing at the foot of the
bed. The dressing-gown she wore was
not whiter than her complexion ; her hair
was tossed in the wildest confusion over
her breast and shoulders ; her grey eyes
had a scared and piteous look In them,
as if she had just awakened from some
hideous dream. It was evident that she
had guessed, or overheard, the substance
of the communication which Dr Metcalfe
had made to her mother.

Mrs Barrlngton advanced upon the

VOL. II. H

trembling girl with the air of a
virago.

Well !' she exclaimed, In a shrill, coarse
voice (it Is astonishing how coarse the most
delicate and apparently well-bred women
can be when their tempers are raised),
are you not ashamed to stand there
staring at me in that brazen way, when the
whole town is ringing with your disgrace ?
Do you know what the doctor has told me ?
Oh, don't pretend to shrink, and be extra
modest, after the bold manner in which you
have been conducting yourself. You're a
nice young lady to be trusted to go about
alone, flirting with every low fisherman
you may meet upon the beach ! Tell me
the name of the man who dared to make
love to you at Ines-cedwyn, you innocent
piece of goods ! you  '

But Fenella did not speak. She continued
still and rigid as a figure of marble,
with her eyes fixed upon vacancy.

Do you hear what I say to you ? '
screamed Mrs Barrington. 'Tell me the.

name of the man who presumed to make
love to my daughter (though he never
vould have done so if you hadn't given
him encouragement), and I will have him
whipped through the streets like a hound.
Henry Wilson would do it for me, if he were
not a cur himself or Colonel Ellerman,
only he's dead. Good heavens ! what did
your father mean by dying in that stupid
manner, and leaving us to look after such
things for ourselves ? Why haven't we a
man to fight our battles for us ? But you
shall tell me the name of that fellow, or I'll
shake it out of you.'

Still the girl's mouth did not unclose,
and Bennett, who was watching her anxiously,
saw her white teeth press upon her
under lip until she made the blood come.
It was evident that she was resolved to
keep her own secret.

Oh ! you're obstinate, are you ? ' exclaimed
Mrs Barrington, 'and you will try
to defy me ! You think you can bring all
this trouble upon our heads with impunity ;

that you can go tumbling about the house
and fainting, and being threatened with a
brain attack, for the sake of some (disgraceful
love affair that you ought to be
ashamed to think of; and I'm to pass it
over, and take you to my arms again,
and say you're a very good girl ! I'll tell
you what I say, and that is that you're a
born idiot ! Just as I was going to take
you to Paris or Brussels, too, and introduce
you to society ! And now, you may be ill
for months, you ungrateful, wicked girl !
But I am not going to be fooled by
you ! You shall tell the name of that
man, if you die for it.'

She advanced threateningly upon the
passive figure of Fenella as she spoke,
and Bennett laid her hand upon her
arm.

She's really ill, ma'am,' she whispered.
Pray be careful what you do to her ; you
may bring on another attack.'

But her mistress was in no mood to
accept advice. She shook off Eliza

Bennett's touch as if it had been that
of a scorpion.

Leave me alone ! How dare you interfere
? ' she said angrily. ' I shall
deal with my own daughter as I
choose ; ' and then she turned again
upon the girl. * Do as I order you ! '
she exclaimed. ' Tell me the name of
your lover at once, or I'll strike you!'
and, lifting her arm, she brought it
down with her utmost force against the
white, sad face that confronted her.

Fenella did not utter a word of
entreaty or remonstrance. She only
shivered violently as the blow descended,
and, sitting down upon the nearest
chair, passed her own hand in a sort
of wondering way across her eyes and
forehead.

Oh, Lor', ma'am ! you do frighten
me ! ' said Bennett. ' Let her be, my
dear lady, at least for the present.
She ain't in a fit state to listen to
you ; indeed, she ain't ! '

It's evident whose side youre on,'
replied her mistress witherlng-ly ; ' but
you'll do the girl no good by your
partisanship, and that I can tell you.
She has behaved In a manner to
disgrace us all ; and If she were dead
and cold In her coffin, It would bethe
best thing that could happen to
her.'

Then, for the first time, Fenella
found her voice.

Oh, mother ! mother ! ' she walled,
< pity me.'

But she might as well have appealed
to a stone.

 Pity you!' repeated Mrs Barrington,
with a sneer. ' Despise you, you mean.
You won't find many to pity you for
having ruined all your prospects In life.
They will only laugh at and ridicule you
for being such a fool. But if this lover
of yours Is a gentleman, and can be
called to account for his treachery to
you, he shall. If you want me to pity

you, you must tell me his name ; and,
as your mother, I command you todo
so.'

But Fenella had again relapsed into
silence. Eliza Bennett tried the effect
of coaxing.

Come, my dear,' she said ; * I daresay
it'll be hard-like, but you'd better
confide everything to your mamma. She's
your best friend, Miss Fenella, and it's
useless trying to keep the truth back
from her.'

The girl shook her head.

It wouldn't be any good,' she said
simply.

'Nonsense!' replied Mrs Barrington.
A child like you is no judge of such
matters, and, as Bennett tells you, I
am your best friend. Come, Fenella,
tell me this man's name, and if things
can be set right between you, they
shall. I am sorry I slapped you, but
you really are too provoking. However,
I'll look over everything that has

passed between us, If you will place
confidence In me now.'

And Mrs Barrlngton, who was Intensely
curious in the matter, lowered
her head so that her daughter might
whisper in her ear.

It would be useless repeated Fenella,
in a low voice of pain.

Why useless ? Your obstinacy surpasses
anything I have ever seen fora
girl of your age. I tell you it is
not useless. What makes you persist
that it Is so ? '

Because  because he is maniedy
said Fenella, with an effort that seemed
to drag at her very heart-strings.

married !' screamed Mrs Barrlngton.
*The disgraceful, dishonourable creature!
And yoUy you shameless girl ! what did
you mean by letting a married man
make love to you ? I never heard of
such abominable iniquity In all my life
before. Here ! have I lived to the age
of thirty years, or a little over, and

travelled about the world, and seen all
sorts of people, and it is left for my
own daughter, a child of sixteen, to
initiate me into the horrors of vice !
Bennett, get me a glass of wine ! get
me brandy ! get me anything that may
help me to drown this terrible remembrance
! Or, stay ! Let me leave the
room. I cannot breathe this atmosphere
any longer ! A najried ina7i !
That I should have lived to hear such
a thing! I, who have had but one
aim throughout my sorrowful life  to
keep myself and my child unspotted
from the world. May Heaven forgive
you, Fenella ! '

And with this solemn adjuration, Mrs
Barrington swept out of the room.

As soon as she had quite disappeared,
Eliza Bennett advanced to the side of
her young mistress. Fenella was seated
where her mother had left her  still,
white, and silent, with her piteous grey
eyes staring at the opposite wall. The

servant laid her rough hand on the girl's
soft fingers.

Pray to God, Miss Fenella,' she said
gently. ' He loves you, my dear ; He
will hear you. Pray to Him, and maybe
prayer will bring you comfort.'

Fenella lifted her eyes to those of the
old woman wearily.

Is there a God, nurse ? ' she asked.
'/ doubt it. The reverend mother in
the convent used to tell me to pray to
the good God, and He would protect
me from all harm ; and I have prayed
to Him regularly, morning and evening,
since. But I think He must have stayed
behind in the convent, nurse. I don't
think He came out into the world 
with me.'

OVER.

'She had fallen in her own sight  not because he
had loved her, but because he had left her.'

Ariadne.

N the heart of the Wallon there
Hes a Httle village called
Sainte Pauvrette, which is a
mass of flowers and sweet-smelling herbs
in summer, and a mass of snow and ice
in winter. It possesses no baths, no
mineral springs, no objects of historical
interest  nothing, in fact, wherewith to
tempt a visitor except its climate and its
flowers. Tourists who know something
of the country, and wish to get out of

the beaten track of overdone cathedrals
and exhausted picture - galleries, go to
Salnte Pauvrette in the warm weather,
when the hillside is covered with lemon-scented
thyme and feathery sorrel and
ruddy clover, and the surrounding country
is redolent of lilies and roses and
honeysuckle ; but no one ever dreams of
remaining there throughout the winter.
When the snow falls, Sainte Pauvrette is
left to the few peasants who till its fields
and pray in its dirty little chapel. The
wooden building that calls itself a hotel
is boarded up and left to take care of
itself ; and the residents who have rooms
to let, lock the doors and retreat to the
lower regions, burrowing like moles until
the sunshine shall tempt them to the
upper world again.

But one day not two months after the
events recorded in the last chapter, the inhabitants
of Sainte Pauvrette were astonished
by the arrival of two English ladies,
who, with their maid, took up their quarters

In one of the small furnished houses that
had just been vacated by the summer visitors,
and appeared disposed to settle themselves
down there for the winter. The season
of Salnte Pauvrette was oven; the autumn,
with Its usual risk of fever and malaria,
was close at hand ; the rooms for hire
had been cleaned and shut up for the
next six months  and the people of
Salnte Pauvrette would as soon have
expected their patron saint to appear
among them, and demand lodgings for
the winter, as to see any more visitors.
The circumstance was so unusual and
startling that It caused endless talk
amongst the villagers, and Madame
Regnier (who was the lucky person tolet
her house to the new-comers) began
to think she must be under the especial
care of Providence, and that a miracle
had been performed In her behalf. But
the strangers  Mrs Barrlngton, Fenella,
and Eliza Bennett  kept entirely to
themselves, and did not appear disposed

to satisfy the curiosity of their neighbours.
The tradespeople, who were
chiefly small farmers, selling their own
milk, bread, vegetables, and poultry, tried
their best to extract some Information
from Eliza Bennett, but she was invulnerable.
Either she could not or she
would not understand what they said to
her, and never did more than haggle
with them over the prices of their merchandise,
and carry off her bargains in
her market basket. But the ladles were
often seen about the village, and many
were the conjectures made as to the reason
of their sojourn there.

The young lady was sick. Salnte
Pauvrette decided that point very
speedily. And It was supposed that her
mother had brought her to the village
for the sake of her health. The peasants
soon grew to recognise and smile at the
sweet, sad face of Fenella as she passed
amongst them, and to talk of the girl
who sat sometimes motionless for hours

on the hillside, looking at the horizon
with a weary, impassive expression that
made their hearts ache.

There were rumours, too, that the
mother and daughter did not get on
very well together, and Madame Jeanne,
the proprietress of the wooden hotel
(whose offers of accommodation Mrs
Barrlngton had peremptorily refused),
had a good deal to say to her neighbours
on the subject of that lady's treatment of
Fenella.

Ma foi ! ' she would exclaim, as she
lounged against the outside wall of her
house, knitting stockings of coarse yarn,
and surrounded by a bevy of women, all
knitting as If their lives depended on it, 
ma foi ! but I wouldn't be the daughter
of that Englishwoman for a great deal.
She has a tongue the length of a cow's
tail ; you may hear it from one end of
Sainte Pauvrette to the other. And it's
my belief that when she gets into a rage,
she beats her ! '

You don't mean to say that ! ' cried
her neighbours, as they drew closer.

Madame Jeanne nodded her head oracularly.


But I do ! The screams that came
from that house the other night were
fearful. You might have thought there
was murder being committed there, and
so I told the English servant  bah ! what
an were she is ! with never a smile nora
pleasant look on her face  and she said
her young lady was subject to hysteria.
But I don't believe that. The mother
beats her ! take my word for it'

The young lady certainly looks very
sad,' interposed another woman. * She
has the face of an angel, and the air of a
martyr. I was watching her yesterday morning.
She sat for two hours on the bench by
the ruined chapel without moving. And in
this cold weather too ! It is not natural that
a young girl should neither jump nor run.
But I do not think she could be merry if
she tried. She has a face full of care and

sorrow. And she cannot be more than
seventeen or eighteen years old.'

It is Madame sa Mere that gives her
that face,' rejoined Madame Jeanne. ' She
is a fury, a virago, a devil, that woman,
and capable of anything that is bad.'

She pays the rent regularly, and they
are quiet and respectable tenants,' said
Madame Regnier, who was naturally on
Mrs Barrington's side, ' and you only
spread these tales about them, Madame
Jeanne, because they would not take
rooms in your wooden hotel. And they
were quite right too! It is draughty
enough in winter to kill a delicate
demoiselle like Miss Barrington. But you
have no right to speak against them on
that account ; and if you say more, I will
inform Pere Antoine of your behaviour,
and have you openly rebuked for scandal.'

Bah, pig ! ' cried Madame Jeanne, opening
her black eyes at Madame Regnier,
with a moue of disdain ; ' go to  ! Tell
the priest and whom you will ; but all
VOL. II. 1

your talking will not alter matters. Everybody
in Sainte Pauvrette has heard the
quarrels that go on in that house ! It was
only the other day that mademoiselle ran
out of it bareheaded, with a great angry
red mark across her face, and would
have traversed the village so, had not
the ogre servant appeared and pulled her
indoors again. They ill-treat la petite
I tell you ! She is sick and ailing, poor
child  consumptive, most likely, like all
those English ; and they make her miserable.
I have seen the tears pouring
down her face like rain. It is a pity she
has no father to defend her ! A man is
bad enough when he takes a spite against
you, and knocks you about ; but, ma foi !
he is nothing to a woman. A bad woman
is a devil, and nothing less, and your
Madame Barrington is a bad woman,
and I say it !  eh, Madame Regnier ?
You had better go at once and tell Pere
Antoine so, and I'll repeat it to his face.
What d'ye make of that ? '

She pays her rent regularly,' grumbled
Madame Render, * so it's not my place
to speak against her. And as for the
rest, Madame Jeanne, we must each think
what we choose about it'

Whatever they chose to think could
hardly have been worse than the reality.
The autumn and winter months which
she passed in Sainte Pauvrette were such
a tumultuous mixture of anger, strife, reproaches,
and hopeless misery, that Fenella
Barrington, through all the rest of her
weary life, could never look back upon
them without a shudder  as a man who
has passed days and nights of suspense
tossing about the cruel ocean, livings in
the very shadow of death, and beaten
upon by all the storms of heaven, might
look back and wonder he still lived to
tell the tale.

Her mother's conduct to her at this
period was the very refinement of cruelty.
Had she only struck the wretched girl 
as she too often did to satisfy her own

feelings of rage and disappointment  it
would have been as nothing compared
to the sneers and reproaches and abuse
cast at the absent, which were so much
harder to bear. And Fenella could not
say a word in defence of herself or him.
She was condemned to sit and hear it all
in silence, whilst she pressed her hands
upon her aching bosom where the image
of Geoffrey Doyne (though shattered into
fragments) was still cherished as the holiest
thing she had ever possessed.

How often, whilst the villagers of Sainte
Pauvrette watched her sitting on the hillside,
motionless for hours, she was longing
to die  praying, in a sort of half-conscious
way, that God would send down His
Angel of Death to take her out of a
world which had opened upon a scene of
so much perplexity and trouble for her.

But Fenella hardly knew what she
really wished for. The present and the
future were alike blanks. All she knew
for certain was that Geoffrey Doyne had



passed out of her life  that he belonged
to another woman  that she should never
see him again, nor hear his voice ; and
the mere fact of this knowledge was too
wonderful a mystery for her to fathom.
For she did not even know how it had
happened, or why. Not a line, not a
sound, had reached her since she had read
the public announcement of his marriage ;
and sometimes she would wonder, in a
vague, childish way, if it had been alla
dream, and pinch her arm, with a sad
smile, to see if she were real. But then
remembrance would rush back upon her 
rush back with a feeling of shame and
horror that would flood her pale cheeks
with crimson, and retreat as suddenly,
leaving them white with despair.

Eliza Bennett felt deeply for her young
mistress during her illness. Though the
people of Sainte Pauvrette found her
curt and harsh of speech, she only assumed
that manner to cover her emotion.
She could hardly trust herself to think

Over.

of Fenella, far less to speak of her. Had
she been left to her own devices, she
would have been the tenderest of nurses
and comforters to the forlorn and unhappy
girl, but Mrs Barrlngton would
not permit it. She had her own reasons
for keeping up a sense of her ingratitude
and folly in Fenella's breast. She wanted
to force her daughter to throw off the
disappointment and depression under
which she laboured, and make her thankful
to rush back into the world as soon
as she was strong enough to do so.

She tried to explain her motives to
Eliza Bennett, but though the servant
was afraid (in consequence) to show all the
sympathy she felt for her young mistress,
she could not approve of the harshness
Mrs Barrington displayed towards her.
She often attempted to stand between the
mother and daughter on the occasion of
those sad quarrels, which had made
themselves patent to the ears of Sainte
Pauvrette : but she found that her interference

only made matters worse, and her
best plan was to preserve neutrality.

One terrible night, however, when
the frosts of December and January had
covered the country with a pall of white,
and the snow lay several feet deep in
the lower parts of the village, an altercation
 which commenced (on Mrs Barrington's
part) with covert sneers and
words of contempt, and culminated in
loud tones of anger and several smart
blows  had nearly proved the end of
poor Fenella's troubles.

She stood before her mother, half
fainting from fear, and without a word
to say in self-defence, until the indignities
offered her, and the abuse cast
upon one whom (though unnamed) she
could not hear reviled with impunity,
sent all the blood in her body rushing
to her brain, and deprived her of the
mastery over her senses. With a loud
cry to God for mercy, and before Mrs
Barrington (being alone) could prevent

the action, Fenella had flown bareheaded
from the house, and flung herself into
a sluggish stream, half ice and half water,
which ran in front of it.

Then Mrs Barrington was thoroughly
alarmed, and screamed to Eliza Bennett for
assistance ; and all the neighbours were
roused by the disturbance, and brought
lanterns and lighted pine torches to help
in the search.

They had not to go far. The senseless
figure of Fenella was soon found  thrown
violently across the mixture of ice and
muddy water of which the winter stream
was composed ; and being wrapped up ina
blanket by Bennett, was carried back to
the house and placed in bed. But the
inhabitants of Sainte Pauvrette had plenty
to say of the occurrence afterwards, and
Madame Jeanne was not backward in
giving her opinion on the matter.

Did I not tell you what that Englishwoman
was ? ' she exclaimed next day,
when it was openly announced in the

village that the poor young lady was lying
dangerously ill of a brain fever. ' A pig !
a devil ! for all the fine yellow curls that
she keeps in a box, and the pretty pink
colour she would have us believe to be her
own ! She has used that poor demoiselle
shamefully ever since she came here, and
now she wants to kill her  that is my
belief ! Else why does not she have a
doctor to see her in this fever ; and why
has she sent away the ogre, Mademoiselle
Elise, just when she wants her help most ?
Oh, but you need not stare at me in
that manner ! I only tell the truth, and
Madame Regnier cannot deny it, although
she is so anxious to make out her tenant
to be everything that is good. Mademoiselle
the were left Sainte Pauvrette this
morning by ten o'clock. I met her walking
on the road to Arniers to catch the
diligence, with her large basket on her
arm ; and when I asked her the reason
of her journey, she replied she had business
to do for her mistress in Arniers.

But she has not returned, mes dames  she
has not returned ; and meanwhile la belle
petite Hes in bed with an attack of the
brain, and no doctor is sent for to attend
her ; and College, who has been engaged
to do their housework, is not permitted to
go into the room, of which the door is
kept locked by her mother. But if she
dies,' continued Madame Jeanne, with a
threatening shake of the head,  * if that
beautiful young lady dies, without help or
assistance, and after all the cruelty she has
been subjected to, / shall say it is murder,
for one  let who will be the other.'

Meanwhile what the irate hotel-keeper
said was true. Eliza Bennett had gone
that morning to Arniers ; more, she had
crossed to England. She and her mistress
had been closeted all night with the unfortunate
girl who had been rescued from the
mud and the ice, and who only returned to
consciousness to fall into a burning fever,
and rave deliriously of the troubles which
had occasioned it.

This is the cHmax,' said Mrs Barrington,
with a look of despair, and as if the
climax had not been in a great measure
brought on by herself ' We must lock the
door of her room, Bennett, and let no one
but ourselves pass in and out. She talks
in French, and I would not have these
ignorant creatures overhear what she says
for any mortal consideration.'

The two women consulted long and
earnestly on what was best to be done in
the matter ; and when the morning dawned,
the key unturned in the lock of Fenellas
door, and Eliza Bennett, creeping out of
it, with a white and troubled face, went
up to her own room, and attired herself in
her walking things.

In the space of a few minutes her mistress
followed her, with a large basket on
her arm.

You will travel as quickly as ever you
can,' she said, as she placed some money
in her hands, 'and return to us as soon
as possible. This fever is sure to abate

in a few hours, and I shall not keep
Fenella here one day longer than Is
absolutely necessary.'

Return to you, my dear mistress ! '
exclaimed the servant ; ' why, what else
should I do ? Am I not taking this
journey entirely for your sake and that of
the dear child ! Keep her as cool as
possible, ma'am, and don't let her have
anything but slops and fever drinks till
I come back. I will be with you at the
end of a week again, without fall.'

Mrs Barrlngton sat down and began
to cry feebly.

I don't know what I shall do without
you,' she walled ; ' It's horrible to sit and
listen to her ravings and reproaches ; but
I am sure It Is best that you should goto
England at once, and then the business
will be over. But you are a dear, good,
valuable creature Bennett, and I shall count
the minutes till you come back again.'

She kissed the servant on both cheeks
as she spoke, and Eliza Bennett went on

her way rejoicing. She crossed to Dover
the same day, and was at Ines-cedwyn
by the following evening. It was evident
that the business she had been entrusted
to transact for her mistress was, in some
manner, concerned with her brother Benjamin,
and the place where Fenella had
made that fatal acquaintance in the ruined
bungalow, which brought ill-luck to all
who meddled with it. There was no
necessity for Eliza Bennett to remain in
Ines-cedwyn after she had obtained the
information which she came to seek. She
was anxious to rejoin her mistress, and
the associations of her birthplace had become
distasteful to her.

She had adhered faithfully, however,
to the business upon which Mrs Barrington
had sent her to England, and
been careful not to say a word about her
young lady's illness, or the cause. She
was, therefore, considerably startled the
next morning, as she was preparing to
leave the cottage, to hear Martha say, 

By the way, 'Liza, do you remember
the talk as there was here last summer
about Miss Fenella having got a beau ?
Well, I expect that young feller's bin
hanging' about here again in hopes of
getting' another sight of 'er. / don't
know 'im, of course, no more than Adam,
but Tugwell the boatman says he has
met 'im several times in Lynwern ; and
the day before yesterday, when I came
back from Freshpool (where I had gone
about some eggs), my servant girl told meas
a gentleman had called to see me, and
seemed quite put out like by my being
from home. He was a fine-lookin' feller
too, the girl says  tall and 'ransome ; and
it may have been 'im, and it may not,
but it seems likely  now don't it ? '

Eliza Bennett turned white and red
under this exordium, as if she had been
accused of having a ' beau ' herself.

It ain't of much consequence one way
or the other,' she replied, trying to speak
indifferently ; ' my young lady looks higher

than that comes to. You don't suppose
she would think twice of a beau as she
picked up on the Ines-cedwyn sands?'

Lor, no ! In course not ; only I thought
I might as well mention it to you. Well,
good-bye, 'Liza, and thank you for thinking
of us In this matter, and thank your
mistress, too, for ,the recommendation.
And I shall hear from the parties, I suppose,
in a few days. I'm glad to have
'ad this peep at you, though you don't look
over and above well, to my mind ; but I
'opes you'll get over safe to your ladles,
and that It won't be long afore you're all
back in England again.'

Oh yes ! we shall be home in the
summer, never fear ! Good-bye to you,
Martha,' said Eliza Bennett, as she set off
to walk to Lynwern.

She plodded along the country road,
over ruts hardened by the ice and snow,
with her head bent down upon her bosom,
and her mind filled with her sister-in-law's
communication.

I'd like to catch him hanging' about any
place as we was In,' she thought indignantly
; ' Fd .let 'im know what was what
the dirty, mean, sneaking scoundrel, to
go and leave a poor girl in that way, and
cause us all this misery ! I only wish I
had the handling of him ! Fd make him
pay for his whistle.'

She was so absorbed In her dreams of
revenge that she stumbled up against
some one in the road, before her brother
Benjamin's cottage was out of sight, and
had to draw back with a demand for
pardon.

It Is of no consequence,' replied a
sweet, grave voice ; ' but I think I am
speaking to Mrs Bennett, am I not ?'

The woman looked up quickly. Before
her stood a gentleman  young, handsome,
tall and upright  a gentleman whom she
had never seen before except by the uncertain
light of the moon, but whom she
recognised at once. It was, in fact, Geoffrey
Doyne ; and so great In the magic of

beauty, and a superior station, and another
sex, that, as Eliza Bennett looked at him,
all her deep-laid plans of revenge melted
into thin air.

No, sir she answered, in a voice that
palpably trembled, ' I am not Mrs Bennett;
I am her sister-in-law, Eliza Bennett

Eliza Bennett ! ' he repeated quickly ;
is it possible ? Are you the person  the
maid  that accompanied a young lady
down to Ines-cedwyn last summer?'

Yes, sir, I am,' said Eliza stoutly.
(' He's very handsome, the villain ! ' she
thought to herself, * and he's got a winning
way with his tongue, drat it ! but he
shan't get any information of her whereabouts
out of me  not if he was to drag
me at the tail of four wild 'orses.')

Oh ! then you can tell me where she
is ? ' exclaimed Geoffrey Doyne excitedly.
Give me her address, I beg of you, in
Heaven's name ! I have a particular 
a very particular reason for wishing to
obtain it'

VOL. II. K

The servant looked him full In the
face.

And I may have a particular reason,
sir, for wishing to keep It from you ; for, if
I'm not greatly mistaken, you are the same
gentleman that used to meet my young
lady down on the sands here last summer.'

Geoffrey Doyne's eyes fell before hers.

Yes,' he answered, in a low voice, ' I
am the same.'

Well, may God forgive you for it,' said
the woman, ' for / can't. You've ruined
her life as surely as ever a man ruined a
woman ! And I brought her up from a
baby ; she is like my own child to me.
You might as well have killed me at the
same time ; I couldn't have felt it more,'
and Eliza Bennett caught up her woollen
shawl to wipe away two large tears that
were rolling down her cheeks.

At her words Geoffrey Doyne became
pallid with fear.

Killed her ! ruined her ! ' he repeated
vehemently, as he caught the servant by

the arm ; * In God's name tell me what
you mean ! Is she ill  is she dead ?
What have I done ? If you don't put me
out of this suspense, I shall go mad ! '

They were just opposite the Beach
Bungalow as he spoke. Eliza Bennett
glanced at it significantly.

Come in here, sir,' she said,  * I don't
want the whole village to hear what I've
got to say to you  and I'll tell you what
you've done.'

She led the way into the ruined villa,
and Geoffrey Doyne followed her, sick at
heart with remorse and apprehension.

May I make so bold, sir,' began Eliza
Bennett, as soon as they were sheltered
from observation, * as to ask if  so be
you're married 1 '

Yes ! ' he replied ; * I am.'

And what's the good, then, of your
hanging about Ines-cedwyn to try and
see my young lady 1 What could you
say to her  how could you look at her,
if you did meet ? '

Oh, I don't know  I cannot tell ! ' he
exclaimed wildly. ' Only the separation,
the silence, the want of seeing her is
more than I can bear. If you will only
tell me where she is, or take a letter to
her, that I may have one word of kindness,
one word of pardon in reply, I
fancy I could bear the rest with fortitude.
Mrs Bennett, I ought to have gone back
to India long ago. My leave was up
in the autumn, but I got an extension,
only for this  to find out her address
and see her once before I go. Then I
will leave England and trouble her no
more.'

You will never get your wish through
me, sir,' said Eliza Bennett, 'for I'll
neither tell you where she is, nor carry
any notes between you. You've done
her enough mischief already, and you've
put it out of your power to do her any
good. The best thing you can do now,
for her and yourself, is never to write
to her nor see her any more.'

But does she ever speak of me ?
Does she remember me ? ' he demanded
eagerly.

'Remember you ! ' echoed the servant,
in a tone of contempt. ' I should think
you'd given her enough cause to remember
you, in this life and the next
too ! But there are different sorts of
remembrance, sir, and if my young mistress
is the lady I take her for, her
best remembrance of you will be one of
hatred and of scorn ! '

 I deserve it,' he answered brokenly.

And so you do,' said Bennett, with
the want of delicacy that usually characterises
her class, ' and so you'll say
twice over when you've heard what I've
got to tell you.'

And thereupon she gave him an account
of Fenella's mental and bodily
sufferings during the autumn and winter,
sparing no detail that might add to the
colouring of the picture, and winding up
with a description of her attempt at

self-destruction, and the brain fever that
had succeeded it.

And now, what do you think of
yourself, sir ? ' she said, as she concluded.
' You're a nice sort of gentleman,
aren't you, to ask me to carry notes to
that poor suffering angel, and rake up
all her troubles afresh, just as she hasa
chance maybe of getting over them.
We'd never have known your name even,
if it hadn't been for her delirious ravings ;
but we shan't forget it in a hurry, you
may take your oath of that ! And don't
you attempt to come nigh her again,
sir  not for the rest of your mortal life,
for I do believe her mamma would tear
you limb from limb if you did.'

Geoffrey Doyne during her relation
had shown every symptom of the deepest
feeling. His brow had flushed darkly
with shame, his nostrils had quivered,
his lips grown white, his whole frame
shaken with emotion. And now that it
was concluded, all he seemed able todo

was to lean against the window-sill,
whilst the words, 'My God! my God!'
seemed to be wrung from the very depths
of his tortured heart. His suffering was
so self-evident that even Eliza Bennett
could not help pitying him.

Don't take on like that, sir,' she said
soothingly ; ' it won't mend the past,
and the best thing we can all do now
is to try and forget it. I don't know,
I'm sure, as I've done right to tell you
so much ; but it'll be safe with you,
and I thought as you ought to know
what my young lady has gone through.
Maybe it will save others, for you gentlemen
don't seem to stand at nothing
when you've set your mind upon a thing.
But I didn't mean to upset you like
this, sir, and I beg your pardon if I've
gone too far.'

No, no ! I should wish to have
known it,' he said huskily ; and then he
pulled out several pieces of gold from
his waistcoat-pocket, and tried to thrust

them in her hand. But she put them
back again proudly.

No, Mr Doyne. I couldn't take your
money, thank you ; not even if I'd done
anything to deserve it, which I haven't.
But I hope you'll give me your promise
before you go never to try and write to
Miss Fenella again. Don't make the
harm you've done, worse, sir. You've
got your own lady to consider and to
look after now, and you can't do no
good to mine ! Will you promise me
this .? '

Yes  I promise ! ' he said, in a broken
voice.

And please not to walk alongside of
me to Lynwern either, sir ! Meeting of
you has upset me more than I care to
think of, and I'd like to be alone for the
rest of the journey.'

I will respect your wishes,' replied
Geoffrey Doyne quickly ; and then, raising
his hat, as if she had been his equal, he
left the ruined bungalow, and strode along

the cliffs in the opposite direction to
Lynwern.

EHza Bennett looked after him for a
few moments before she pursued her
own way.

Well, he may be a villain, but he's a
fine-looking gentleman,' she thought as
she dried her eyes, ' and they would have
made a handsome couple. What a thousand
pities it is that Miss Fenella couldn't
have him. But there ! it's always the way
in this world. Them as ought to come
together, don't ; and them as 'ages each
other like poison, is tied for life. The
more I sees of marriage, the more thankful
I am as I was never tempted into it ! '

She pursued her road to Lynwern after
this, and proceeded on her journey back to
Sainte Pauvrette. And a few hours later
Geoffrey Doyne followed her to London,
and walked into the presence of his wife.
They were living at an hotel, preparatory
to going back to India. There was no
lack of love on the part of Mrs Geoffrey

Doyne towards her husband, and (except
when dark thoughts of Fenella Barrington
interposed between them) he usually returned
her ebullitions of affection with a
certain degree of interest. It is difficult
for a young and ardent nature not to
evince some feeling when clasped in the
arms of a pretty woman who has every
right to expect an adequate return.
And Geoffrey Doyne had a very affectionate
disposition. His fault was that
he loved too much, not too little. He
was passionate, moreover, and easily
moved ; and to be caressed, and flattered,
and made much of, was almost a
necessity to him. But on this occasion
his wife found all her artifices to attract
his notice, failures. He had been absent
nearly a week, on some business of which
she had not the faintest idea ; and yet
when he returned home, instead of beincr
glad to see her again, and anxious to
hear what she had been doing in his
absence, he was morose, gloomy, and

dejected, complained of every dish that
appeared on the dinner-table, and scarcely
spoke a dozen words to her during the
evening. Had she indulged his mood
and left him to himself, she would have
been rewarded by seeing the cloud gradually
pass away (at all events, to outward
view), but Jessie did not understand how
to treat her husband.

That phantom of a former love, which
he had once mentioned to her, was ever
coming between them now, and she was
always quick to ascribe his varying moods
to regret that he had married her. For
six months they had been husband and
wife, but they were no nearer each other
in love or confidence or friendship than
they had been at first. Geoffrey accepted
her attentions to him, and that was all.

Women are very apt to imagine that
the possession of the beloved object is
everything, and that they can bear the
idea of a rival better if they know him
to be, beyond all dispute, their own.

They too often live to find out they have
deceived themselves. To be married to
a person you love, but who does not
love you, is very much like trying to
grasp a bubble  each time your fingers
close upon it you will find them still
unsatisfied and empty.

What is the matter, Geoffrey ? ' demanded
Jessie, as he thrust away the
wine decanters and leant back moodily
in his chair. ' I never saw any one so
disagreeable as you have made yourself
to-night. If this is the effect of having
a holiday, I should say you had better
remain at home for the future. Where
have you been ? '

It would not interest you to know,'
Geoffrey.

Oh, that is as good as saying that you
don't intend to tell me ! just as when you
receive a letter and put it into your pocket
without showing it to me, and declare it is
on business that I can't understand.'

Perhaps it is ! '



But I have a right to ask where you've
been, and whom you've seen, Geoffrey ;
and if you refuse to tell me, I shall think
the very worst.'

That will only hurt yourself, Jessie.
Aren't you content with having married
me, with knowing that, wherever I go,
you have a right to demand to follow ?
And can't you let me enjoy a few hours'
liberty without pestering to ascertain exactly
where I have spent them ? '

No, I can't ! because I always suspect
you go where that other girl lives (the girl
you told me of, you remember) ; and I
always shall suspect it when you go away
alone in this mysterious manner, as long
as ever I live. I know when you are
thinking of her, too  when you pucker
up your eyebrows, Geoffrey, and look
gloomy, and speak in that horrible crossway
; and you make me miserable  you
know you do.'

You make yourself miserable, you
mean. However, if what you say is true,

don't recall her memory by mentioning
the subject. I have already told you it
is an unpleasant one to me.'

Oh yes ! because you wish you had
married her instead of me ; and you get
wretched when you think of it. But it
is most unfair of you to go and see her,
behind my back ; and everybody would say
the same.'

I have not been to see her,' replied
Geoffrey, with visible annoyance.

But you think of her  you cannot
deny it'

Yes, I do think of her! A man has.
not absolute control over his thoughts.'

A pretty confession for a married man
to make ! ' pouted Jessie. ' Why don't you
follow it up by saying that you love her
still .'

The young man was fairly roused by
this time.

I don't deny it,' he answered petulantly.
I do love her still.'

And I suppose you'll end by running

away with her, and leaving me to go back
to papa in Blenheim Square ! It is shameful,
scandalous ! and she must be a wicked,
vile creature to encourage you to forget
your duty in this way.'

Geoffrey Doyne rose from his chair, and
struck his hand upon the table with a force
that made the glasses ring.

Don't you dare to speak of her in such
terms before me,' he said angrily. ' She
is no more vile nor wicked than yourself.
She is as pure and good a girl as ever
walked God's earth, and you are the only
person on whom there is any necessity to
call " shame." You chose to hold me to
my promise of marriage, when you knew
that my heart was no longer mine to give
you ; and, therefore, the consequences
must be on your own head. I do love
that girl you mention, earnestly, faithfully,
affectionately, and I shall love her to my
life's end. There ! you wished for the
truth, and you have it. You exacted the
payment of my bond to the last ounce of

flesh. But you can't have the blood,
Jessie  my hearts blood. That belongs to
another, and ever will do so. And now,
if you wish to preserve the peace, you will
drop this subject once and for ever, as it
can never raise anything but strife between
us.'

This was all the satisfaction that she
obtained from him, and a few weeks
after they were on their way together
to rejoin his regiment in India.

About the same time Eliza Bennett led
Fenella out for her first walk in the open
air. The girl, although much pulled down
by her illness, was on the high road to recovery,
but she did not appear to have
regained her spirits with her strength.
The little Wallon children ran out of
the cottages as she passed, with bunches
of violets and primroses in their hands,
and Fenella smiled sweetly at them as
she accepted their offerings. But the
smile was as sad as ever, and the grey
eyes still looked wistful and scared ; and

as, accompanied by her nurse, she dragged
her steps up to the Httle churchyard,
the peasant women shook their heads
at one another, and said she would be
carried there yet.

'You mustn't sit down, my dear,' said
EHza Bennett ; ' it's too cold for that
yet. But you've done bravely for a
first attempt, and we shall have you
stout and strong upon your legs again
before many days is past. You will try
and leave off fretting now, my dear young
lady, won't you ? for your own sake, and
your mamma's, and all as love you.'

Oh yes, nurse, I will try.'

It's no use crying over spilt milk, Miss
Fenella, and you're too young and pretty
to have your whole life wasted for a
first mistake. You must try and look
at what's past in a sensible light, my
dear ; and you'll live to laugh over these
times, I warrant you.'

The girl shivered, but she answered
in the same words as before.

VOL. II. L

Yes, nurse, I will try.'

Then Bennett lowered her voice.

Miss Fenella dear, you won't mind
what I'm going to say, but I couldn't
help guessing his name on account of
your raving after him so in your Illness,
and when I was In London the other
day about some money business of your
mamma's, I made a few inquiries  secret
like  about him, and he's gone, my dear.
He's left England lior good and all, and
you won't never see him, nor be troubled
with him again ; and that ought to be
as great a comfort to you as anything
else  oughtn't it, now ? '

The blood had ebbed and flowed in
Fenella's wasted cheeks, as Bennett
spoke to her, like waves of white and
crimson, and when the servant turned
for an answer, she saw a bright hectic
spot burning under each of her eyes.
But the tone in which she spoke was
very calm and deliberate.

Thank you, nurse,' she said wearily.

You meant it kindly, I know, but nothing
is of any consequence to me now. Only,
please remember (and I am sure you
will, for my sake) that I would rather not
hear you mention his name again. He
is dead to me, nurse ; I am dead ; everything
seems dead together. Don't forget
that, and never speak to me on the subject
more ! And now take me home ;
I have made myself worse by coming
here ; the sooner my* mother takes me
away from Sainte Pauvrette the better.'

She cast the violets and primroses upon
the grave by which she had been standing
as she spoke, and then throwing her arm
about Bennett's neck, turned from the
spot without another word.

SIR GILBERT Convoy.

He that hath nature in him must be grateful,
'Tis the Creator's primary great law.'

Madam

MONTH after this date Fenella
and her mother were settled in
Paris, and mixing in all the
dissipations of the French capital. Mrs
Barrington had many acquaintances there,
and having hired a suite of apartments
in the very centre of the town, their
lives soon became one round of gaiety.
Theatres and operas, balls and conversazione,
followed one another in quick
succession, and Fenella retired to bed

each night almost too weary to think.
It was good for her, and it would be
untrue to say that she did not, in a
measure, enjoy the change. To depict
either a man or a woman as brooding
incessantly over their trouble, and never
for a moment losing sight of it, to raise
cheerful eyes to the light of Heaven,
would be utterly unnatural. No one ever
did so in this world and preserved his
senses. The strain upon the nerves would
be too great, and the mind would breakdown
beneath it. Fenella often returned
from the gay scenes into which her mother
took her, to think how much more she
would have enjoyed them had Geoffrey
Doyne not proved unfaithful, and sob
herself to sleep over the remembrance.
Yet, whilst she was mixing in them, they
distracted her thoughts, and drew her out
of herself The theatre was a wondrous
revelation to her ; the opera, a sublime
delight ; even at the balls and assemblies
she began to take pleasure in the knowledge

that she was admired, and that all
men did not consider her so worthless a
thing that they could take her up, and
cast her aside, as the humour seized
them.

Mrs Barrington had shown wisdom in
her generation in making her daughter's
sojourn in Sainte Pauvrette a time which
she shuddered to recall. Anything which
would expunge that terrible remembrance
from her mind would have been welcome
to Fenella ; it may be supposed, then, how
gladly she hailed the fresh scenes which
opened before her, and how gratefully
she accepted the salve they offered to her
wounded vanity. For we are all mortal,
and there is no doubt that trouble is
easier to bear when we have less time to
think about it. And it is well it is so,
else the world would be full of lunatics
and suicides. The man who receives a
bullet during the heat of battle in his
body, which the surgeons are unable to
extract, will feel its presence to the last

day of his life, and at some times more
than at others. A change in the weather
or a derangement of his system will cause
the pain to be as acute as on the day he
was shot ; and yet when the sun shines,
and his blood is free from acid, he may
go for months without remembering he
ever encountered such an accident. Soit
is with our hearts. The mercy of God
and the goodness of friends may dull
the sense of injury or loss for months
together, but it never totally disappears.
If a lesser grief overtakes us, a lesser love
becomes estranged, the old wound opens
and bleeds afresh, the bullet stirs in the
flesh, and we recognise the fact that weare
maimed for life. Let us not grudge
the wounded, then, their moments of forgetfulness,
nor ridicule the trifles which may
have the power to divert their thoughts.
To an older person, perhaps, white
satin and pearls might appear an unworthy
panacea for a disappointed affection
; but to a young creature like

Fenella, who had never possessed anything
but serge and cotton frocks before,
they held their charm. She sighed, it
is true, when she saw the pale loveliness,
which Bennett had taken such
pains to adorn, reflected in the looking-glass,
and wondered, if Geoffrey could
have seen her like that, if he would
ever have forsaken her. Still, she preferred
to be handsome rather than ugly,
and could take a pride in her personal
appearance, though her lover was not
there to praise it. It was natural that
she should do so, and it is of no use
crying out against nature.

But there was one thing in which
Fenella's faith had been utterly destroyed
and could never be built up
again, and that was her mother's love
for her. Mrs Barrington would have
had it otherwise. When she found that
her daughter's beauty had not been destroyed
by her illness  that she was,
in fact, better looking than she had

been before, and that she made no
objection to going out to dances and
theatres every night, and wearing any
sort of costume which was provided for
her, Mrs Barrington's good temper
began to revive, and she would have
had Fenella share her rouge and powder
and her hare's-foot, and forget all old
injuries. But the girl was unable todo
so. About the past she was as
silent as the grave. She never mentioned
Geoffrey Doyne, nor Ines-cedwyn,
nor Sainte Pauvrette ; but to blot out
the memory of them was impossible.
She could not forget her mothers
harshness and cruelty, nor the sneers
and contempt cast upon her when her
heart was bleeding for one word of
affection or sympathy. She saw Mrs
Barrington in her true colours  worldly,
selfish, and deceitful ; and as long as
she lived, Fenella could never set her
up again on the pedestal her childish
enthusiasm had raised for her. She

accepted her caresses without any exhibition
of dislike ; she thanked her for
her compliments, and followed her
wishes ; but here the link between
them ended. Mrs Barrineton had
brought her into the world, certainly ;
but Fenella, remembering Sainte Pauvrette,
could never again think of her
as her mother.

The word 'mother' is sacred. It
holds within its couple of syllables a
host of loving possibilities ; and the
woman who cannot sympathise with
every pulsation of the life she gave, is
not worthy of the name.

Fenella put the thought resolutely
from her  it was only another trouble
added to the load she bore  and tried
to believe that the sweet dream she had
once cherished was of a mother who
had died when she was born.

Mrs Barrington was her adviser, and
protector, and chaperon  everything that
was needful in the world of fashion she

had entered, but something which she
never wished to encounter when alone.
At such times, a suspicious reserve and
awkwardness would fall upon both mother
and daughter, which warned them to
make the interview as short as possible.

Mrs Barrington, however, was quite
in her element again. Her ambitious
views for Fenella had all revived
(though she did not like to say too
much about them to the girl herself),
and she spared no pains nor expense
to render her as attractive as she possibly
could.

The pale loveliness of the English girl,
which owed so much to her lofty bearing
and look of serious innocence, soon began
to be talked of in the Parisian salons, and
more than one man of fashion was said
to be a suitor for her hand.

But Mrs Barrington was very cautious
who she admitted as a visitor to her own
house. She had no intention of marrying
Fenella to a penniless attache, or an officer

dependent on his pay. She wanted to secure
both a title and a fortune for her daughter,
and the only admirer she had who combined
these advantages was her own old
acquaintance, Sir Gilbert Conroy.

Time had been  and not so very long
ago either  when the fair widow had
hoped to get Sir Gilbert for herself, but
her chances had never had any existence
except in her own brain, and she was
sensible enough to perceive that, If she
snubbed his advances to Fenella, he was
not likely to ask for her mother's hand
Instead. Besides, the baronet's suit had
great advantages. He was not a hotheaded
boy, determined to have his own
way at all hazards, and run the risk of
a refusal by speaking too soon. He rather
preferred the dignified old fashion of consulting
the parents or guardians of the
young lady he desired to make his wife,
before he mentioned the subject to herself.
And Mrs Barrlngton preferred this
method of courtship also.

She knew Fenella's impulsive temperament,
and her love of truth and honour ;
and she was terribly afraid of what her
daughter might say to any young man
who addressed her on the subject of marriage.
If the preliminary matters were
kept in her hands, she felt that she could
smooth down any little unpleasantness
that may have occurred in the past, so
as to make them appear rather desirable
experiences for a young woman than
otherwise.

Sir Gilbert Conroy was a gentleman in
every sense of the word. He was a man
of birth and education, of almost courtly
breeding and ultra-refinement. In age he
was about five-and-thirty ; in appearance
he was fair and aristocratic, with hair
cropped closely to his head, and rather
bald about the temples, where he brushed
it backwards ; with a handsome nose,
quiet blue eyes, and a thin-lipped mouth
shaded by a small moustache. He was
a man whom any woman might have

been proud to be connected with  but
he was a man who would be severe
in his judgments, and unforgiving where
he was offended.

He had been struck with Fenella Barrington
on the first occasion of their meeting
at an embassy ball, and had assiduously
followed up the acquaintance since.
And the girl liked him  not with any
idea of marriage (she had conceived a
notion that it was impossible she could
ever marry now), but as a pleasant
acquaintance, who could talk more sensibly
than the generality of men, and who
always seemed delighted to meet her,
and proud to be her partner for the
evening !

But when Mrs Barrington first mentioned
the possibility of her marrying
Sir Gilbert Conroy, Fenella felt as if
she had been struck with a sudden blow.
It was the morning after they had attended
a large party at the house of the
Russian ambassador, and Eliza Bennett

announced to her young lady that coffee
was waiting for her in her mamma's
dressing-room.

The mistress is too tired to go downstairs,
Miss Fenella ; so she says, please
will you go in and take it with her
there.'

The girl threw on her iobe de chambre,
and obeyed the summons. Her cheeks
were flushed from sleep; her eyes were
languid ; her fair hair hung in two thick
plaits down her back.

Really, child,' exclaimed Mrs Barrington,
as she entered, ' you grow handsomer
every day. It's no wonder Sir Gilbert
is making such a fool of himself about
you.'

Fenella laughed.

'Poor Sir Gilbert! Why is he to be
called a fool for liking me, more than
any one else ? '

Because he likes you more than anyone
else does. Surely, Fenella, you are
not so blind as not to see that ! '

The girl opened her eyes.

Does he ? I hope not ! '

And why so, my dear ? Most young
ladles would be proud of his preference.
His title is one of the oldest baronetcies
in England, and he has five thousand
a-year on which to keep it up.'

Oh, I don't mean that, mamma ; I am
aware he is rich ; only  you know  it
would be of no use his liking me, because
I could never marry him  nor
anyone ! So I hope it is all fancy on
your part.'

What nonsense, Fenella. You must
put such fantastical ideas out of your
head. And as for its being my fancy
that Sir Gilbert likes you, he has already
asked my consent to his proposing for
your hand.'

Fenella grew scarlet.

Oh, mamma, did you tell him ? '

'What?' cried Mrs Barrington sharply.

About  about  what has happened,
you know.'

Am I a born fool, or an idiot ? '
exclaimed her mother. ' No ! of course
I didn't tell him ! What are you thinking
of, Fenella ? '

Forgive me, mamma ! I ought to
have known without asking. You would
not tell him, naturally, for my sake as
well as your own. But what did you
say, then ? '

I told him he had my heartiest wishes
for his success, and he might propose to
you whenever he liked.'

Fenella's distress was genuine.

Oh, mamma, why did you do that,
when you know I can have but one
answer to give him ? I coiildiit marry
him even if I liked him. How could I .
You might have saved me from the
ordeal of having to tell him so.'

But you must tell him no such thing,
Fenella, and I will not allow you to see
Sir Gilbert again until I have talked you
into a more sensible frame of mind. Now,
my dear, do try and look at the matter in

VOL. II. M

a reasonable light. You must marry ; you
know that ! '

No, indeed I don't. I never intend to
marry. I have given up all thoughts of
it  once and for ever.'

And how do you suppose I am to
support you, then ? ' exclaimed her mother.
Do you think I have sufficient money to
maintain a household, and provide you with
dresses, and take you about to places of
amusement, for the remainder of your life ? '

Fenella stared.

Yes, I thought so, mamma. Haven't
we money ? Didn't papa leave any behind
him ? '

Your papa ! ' repeated Mrs Barrington
witheringly. * A fine provision he left us !
The pension for a post-captain's widow,
and a few thousands in the bank. Why,
I spent that to the last farthing ages ago,
and have nothing but my pension at the
present time. I am going in debt for
every mortal thing we use, and eat, and
wear. And then you sit there and tell me

calmly that you never intend to marry !
Why, it's flying in the face of Providence ;
it's condemning us both to perpetual
poverty, and your mother to losing everything
she possesses; for if I can't pay
my bills, my creditors will certainly put ina
distraint upon the furniture in South
Audley Street.'

Oh, mamma ! mamma ! why didn't
you tell me of this long ago ? Why have
you dressed me up in expensive clothes,
and taken me to all these fine places, when
you could not afford it ? I would rather
have gone in sackcloth and eaten dry bread,
than run you into such terrible difficulties ! '

Why have I done it, Fenella ? ' replied
Mrs Barrington. 'Why, to procure
you the very chance which you declare
you shall throw away  to see you suitably
married, and placed above the reach of
poverty and care.'

But how can I, mamma ? Answer
the question yourself. How can I ? *
said Fenella pleadingly.

I suppose I can guess what you are
alluding to,' replied her mother coldly; ' but
if you intend to let that foolish love affair
stand in the way of your future prospects,
all I can say is that you will be intensely
selfish. Most people would think you had
caused me sufficient trouble and anxiety
already, without making more. If you
are really sorry for what is past, Fenella,
now is your time to redeem it. You will
never have a better chance.'

Oh, I ann sorry,' returned the girl,
with troubled eyes and clasped hands ;
God knows I am ! But how can I
remedy it ? You know my heart is
broken, mother ; that my whole life is
spoiled. What man would marry me now,
if he knew the truth ? '

No one, of course ! Very few men
would marry at all if they knew the truth
about the women they make their wives.
But who do you suppose will tell Sir
Gilbert Conroy anything ? I shan't 
you may take your oath of that ; and

our dear good Bennett is as secret as the
grave. There is no fear of his ever knowing
the truth. You may set your mind
entirely at rest on that point.'

But I wouldn't accept him unless he
knew it,' said Fenella. ' Mamma, what do
you take me for ? Do you think I could
be so false, so dishonourable as that ? '

Mrs Barrington wheeled round in her
chair and regarded her daughter with the
utmost astonishment.

Fenella,' she said solemnly, * you're a
born fool, and where you get it from beats
my comprehension. If you are going to
enter into marriage with the idea of telling
your husband everything that has ever
happened to you, or that ever will happen
to you, you may dismiss at once the idea
of having any peace in your life. Why, if
the world were conducted on that plan, it
would be a perfect volcano ! Now, I have
seen a great deal more of it than you have,
and you must allow yourself to be guided
by me. Your husband will never tell you

any more about his own affairs than he
chooses, you may make up your mind to
that ; and the less you tell him about yourself
the better.'

But Mrs Barrington's worldly wisdom
had no effect upon the frank and generous
mind of her daughter.

Mamma,' she said, ' if I marry Sir
Gilbert Conroy, or anybody else, you
know that I can never love him. I
might learn to be grateful for his kindness
to me, but my heart is gone. I
don't think I've got any heart left. I
feel as if the place where it ought to
be was empty.'

That's nonsense, my dear,' said her
mother impatiently. ' We are all like
that when we're young. We have a first
love, and we fancy we can never love
ao-ain ; and after a while we find the difficulty
is to keep ourselves from loving too
much. And even if it were not the case,
it's no good carrying that enthusiastic,
gushing sort of feeling into marriage. It

worries a man to death, and wears out
his affection sooner than anything else.
Never refuse any attention your husband
may wish to show you, but keep your
own feelings within bounds. That is the
secret of a happy marriage, and you will
find a man will care all the more for you
if there is a little indifference and reserve
on your part.'

Fenella sighed. Her idea of a happy
marriage had been so very different from
that. '

But if it is unnecessary to give love
to the man you marry, mamma,' she
answered, ' is it not all the more incumbent
to be perfectly open with him ?
And I could not live my life with a
secret always weighing at my heart. I
should fancy each time he frowned at
me that he was going to tell me he had
discovered I was false to him.'

Oh, well, if you are determined to
stand in your own light and mine, and
take no advice from those who know

better than yourself, there is no more to
be said on the subject,' replied Mrs Barrington,
with the air of a martyr ; ' but
I must say that it is hard upon me 
bitterly, cruelly hard.'

Oh, how can I help you ? ' cried the
girl. ' What can I do to remedy the
evil I have brought upon us both ? '

The only thing you can do, you refuse
to do,' said her mother, reproachfully.


I cannot do a dishonourable action,'
replied Fenella, with dignity.

And after that conclusion they passed
several days in a miserable state of coldness
and silence towards each other.

Mrs Barrington confided the whole
affair to Bennett, and implored her to
argue it out with Fenella. For the
sympathy she had displayed during her
illness had drawn the girl and the old
woman very closely together. Indeed,
Bennett may be said to have been the
only real friend Fenella had ; and many

a time since those miserable days had
she cried herself to sleep upon the servant's
bosom. So it seemed nothing
more than natural when Bennett said to
her, 

Why have you made your mamma
so angry with you, Miss Fenella ? What
is it that you don't like in Sir Gilbert
Conroy ? '

I like him well enough, Bennett,' said
the girl, with a sigh. ' In fact, I see
nothing to dislike in him. Only that
has nothing to do with marriage, you
know ; and mamma can't understand that
it is impossible for me to forget.'

But it's your dtUy to forget, my dear,'
replied Bennett, who was brushing Fen-ella's
hair at the time. ' Here's Sir
Gilbert Conroy, a fine, handsome gentleman,
with plenty of money to keep you
comfortable and give you everything you
want, and dying to make you his lady,
and yet you won't listen to a word he
says. And all because of a business as

can never come to anything. For, you
see, there's where it is, Miss Fenella.
If there was any hope or probability
Hke of things turning out as you would
wish them, there might be some sense
in waiting ; but you know as there isn't.
And when ah's said and done, my dear,,
the first wasn't a patch upon Sir Gilbert.'


Doit, nurse  doit' murmured Fen-ella,
in a voice of pain, as her hands
went up to shade her blinded eyes. Ah !
that First ! Let a dozen come after him
fairer, better, and more true than he
but they will never have the power
to drive his image from the heart that
sheltered it.

The nurse laid down her brush, and
kissed the crown of the fair head that
was bowed upon the dressing-table.

'There  there, my lamb,' she said
affectionately ; ' I wish I had bit out
my tongue afore Fd said them words.
But it was for the sake of your mamma,

Miss Fenella. She's regular put out,
my dear ; and no wonder, for she quite
counted on your marriage as a means of
rio-heine herself, and I'm afraid she'll
be in a terrible fix if you continue to
set your face against it.'

Fenella looked up suddenly.
Bennett, tell me the truth,' she said.
Are we so very poor ? is mamma really
in want of money ? ' 

Indeed she is, miss. Don't you remember
my telling you at the convent a
year ago, that your dear mamma was full
of troubles, and it was her debts at that
time that worried her so, though, of
course, it wasn't fit telling to a child.
And they've gone on increasing ever
since, till I'm sure I don't know how the
mistress will go back to London, unless
she finds some way out of 'em first.'

'And I must have been aa extra expense
to her,' said Fenella, with a sigh.

'Well, miss, you have  there's no
denying it ! what with your long illness,

and your dresses, and hire of carriages,
and all that. But the mistress did it
with an object. So she's naturally disappointed
at your refusing to marry Sir
Gilbert. And to be *' my lady " too, miss !
I wonder how you can ! '

Mamma has hardly spoken to me for
three days,' said Fenella.

No, my dear ! but she will, directly
she sees you have changed your mind.
She's had a many troubles In this life,
poor dear lady ! and It seems hard that
you should add to 'em  don't it, now ? '

If you will do up my hair, I will go
and speak to her about it,' said Fenella
wearily ; and half-an-hour later she walked
into her mother's room.

Mamma, I have come to tell you
that I have made up my mind to accept
Sir Gilbert's offer,' she said ; ' but It must
be on one condition, that you tell him
my whole history. Tell it him without
reserve, mamma ; don't spare me in any
v/ay ; and if, after hearing it, he should

still wish to make me his wife, I will
marry him ! '

Mrs Barrington was just about to call
her by her favourite name of a fool, and
say she might as well have kept her
wonderful condescension to herself, when
it suddenly struck her that she might
find a way by which to keep the game in
her own hands. So she smiled sweetly
instead, and answered.

Well, Fenella, if this is the only condition
on which you will listen to Sir
Gilbert's suit, of course I must comply
with it, but I have already told you my
opinion of the matter. It is quixotic and
unnecessary ! and if he does propose to
you afterwards (which I doubt), you must
be doubly grateful to him in return. He
has been waiting nearly a week for his
answer, and I received a note from him
this morning on the subject. I shall therefore
write and tell him to call upon me
this evening. Madame de Beare can
chaperon you to the Thellussons. It is

better that you should be out of the way,
as the interview is Hkely to be a painful
one,'

I have been thinking a ofreat deal
about it,' replied Fenella, ' and I am sure
it is the only right and honourable course
to pursue. And if it fails, mamma (as
doubtless it will), then you must let me
go out as a governess or a companion,
and earn my own living. It is unfair that
I should be a burden on you any longer,
just because I have been so wicked and
so weak.'

A governess ! ' thought Mrs Barrington
as her daughter left the room. ' As if I
could allow such a scandal, and with that
face too ! But if my right hand has not
lost its cunning, I will contrive this marriage
for her.'

When Sir Gilbert Conroy walked into
her little short that evening, he found
her looking the very soul of honour
and the pink of propriety, arrayed ina
grey cashmere dress, with a white lace

film that gave her almost the look of a
quaker.

No, no ! Sir Gilbert she said playfully,
as she saw his glance wander round
the room, ' you will not find my little girl
hidden under any of the sofa or chair
covers. Fenella is spending the evening
at the Thellussons. I thought it best she
should be out of the way whilst you and 1
discuss this subject together.'

I am afraid Miss Barrington's absence
does not augur a favourable answer to
my suit,' replied Sir Gilbert, flushing upto
the roots of his fair hair.

Indeed ! you are quite mistaken ! My
daughter is exceedingly well disposed 
shall I say too well disposed .  to receive
your advances, and thinks highly of the
compliment you pay her. But Fenella
feels that you are the soul of honour, Sir
Gilbert (as she is herself), and, therefore,
before granting you an interview, she has
set me a little task which she thinks I can
execute better than she can.'

A task ! ' echoed Sir Gilbert.

Yes ! I am sure you will laugh at us
for a couple of silly women, and I told my
daughter so ; still, I could not blame her
decision, as it was founded on the very
principles it has been the aim and object
of my life to instil into her.'

You alarm me, Mrs Barrington ! Pray
don't keep me in suspense,* gasped the
baronet.

Indeed, I will not, for it is not worth
while,' laughed the lady pleasantly. ' The
fact is, Sir Gilbert, about a year ago my
silly child had one of those foolish love
affairs which we all know of, and laugh at,
a boy-and-girl flirtation, which never
could have come to anything, and which
she had almost forgotten, until the agitation
caused by your very flattering proposal
recalled it to her mind. And then
she begged me to tell you of it before you
met again. I thought it perfect unnecessary
to worry you about such a trifle, and
told her so ; but Fenella's soul is of so

pure and lofty a character that I cannot
bear to dull even its lightest aspiration.
She is so truthful, so honourable, so open,
Sir Gilbert. Her mind is like a sheet of
crystal.'

Yes,' stammered the baronet uneasily ;
'but -but  about this love affair, Mrs
Barrington ? Are you quite certain she
has forgotten all about it, or that it may
not crop up to disturb our domestic
felicity ? Is the gentleman in England
still? Is she likely to meet him again . '

Mrs Barrington was annoyed that he
took her communication so seriously.

'In England? Oh, dear, no! He
went to the colonies, or he's dead  or
something. I forget which. But he was
such a boy, it's really not worth inquiring.
And as for Fenella meeting him
again  why, my dear Sir Gilbert, she
wouldn't speak to him if she saw him in
the streets tomorrow ! '

But these first attachments are sometimes
the most enduring, you know, Mrs

VOL. II. N

Barrington ; and if your daughter had
quite forgotten all about hers, I hardly
think she would have considered it necessary
to ask you to break the intelligence
to me.'

Then Mrs Barrington could have bitten
out her tongue that she had told him anything
at all. It would have been just as
easy to have assured Fenella that she had.
She played with her fan, and looked virtuously
reproachful.

If you take it in that light, Sir Gilbert,
I shall be indeed sorry that I spoke.
Need I have said anything to you on
the subject at all ? It was only the extreme
purity of my child's mind  the
truthfulness of her feelings  that made
her think of making such a confession !
She would not go to you with even the
shadow of a secret (however innocent)
upon her soul. But it is only a mind
of equal candour with her own that could
appreciate the delicacy of her motives.'

'But I can  I do ! ' exclaimed Sir

Gilbert. ' I confess that one of the great
attractions that drew me to your daughter,
Mrs Barrington, was her youth and apparent
innocence. I have grown sick and
weary of the women of the world, with
their artifice and falsehood and intrigues.
I long to have an unsophisticated, guileless
maiden for my wife. Indeed, I would
put none else in the place once occupied
by my honoured mother. I come of an
old and unblemished family ; and one of
our proudest boasts is that no one has
ever been able to point the finger of scorn
at a Lady Conroy ! '

Mrs Barrington went pale with agitation.


Good heavens ! Sir Gilbert, what are
you thinking of? Would you link such
an expression as that with the silly little
flirtation I have just been foolish enough
to tell you of ? '

No  certainly not,' he answered ; * and
if I cannot secure even sour lovely and
innocent daughter for my wife without

hearing that she has ahead been courted
by one of my own sex, it Is hopeless forme
to look farther,'

Unless you go to the nursery for
your Lady Conroy,' laughed Mrs Barrington.
* But, unfortunately, I have no more
daughters there, Sir Gilbert, or I should
certainly ask you to go and take your
choice of them. You are a son-in-law
of whom any woman might be proud.'

You are very good to say so, my dear
madam,' replied the baronet. * Am I to
understand, then, that Miss Barrington
consents to receive my offer for her
hand .? '

The silly creature waits to see if you
will renew it after having heard this terrible
secret of her former life  that she
actually flirted for the space of a few
weeks with a lad, who ought to have
been whipped by his tutor for his precocity.'


Miss Barrington might have been sure
I should not have permitted such a trifle

to stand in the way of my happiness,' rejoined
Sir Gilbert. ' At the same time, as
I confess I am rather sensitive on such
matters, will you ask her, as a personal
favour, not to allude to the subject before
me ? Perhaps it is as well I should have
heard it ; but having heard it, I should
wish to forget it again. Cannot it be
buried in oblivion ? I should like to try
and fancy (even if it be only a fancy) that
my wife never had a lover before myself.'

And neither has she, my dear Sir Gilbert.
You surely would not dignify the
wretched boy I spoke of by the name of
*' lover " ? However, I shall repeat your
wishes to Fenella, and I am certain they
will be attended to. When may I count
on the pleasure of seeing you again ? ' \

With your permission I will call tomorrow
afternoon,' he said, as he rose
to take his leave. ' I shall not be quite
happy until I have learned Miss Barrington's
decision from her own lips.'

Well, of all the glaring pieces of

folly I ever took part in, this is the
worst,' thought Mrs Barrington, when
the baronet had disappeared. ' Fenella
as nearly lost her chance of becoming
Lady Conroy as possible, and entirely
through her own fault. The idea of
rousing a man's suspicions unnecessarily !
I wish I had followed my own judgment
and told him nothing. However,
the girl is so strange, she might allude
in some way to the matter, so it is as
well, perhaps, that he should be prepared.
But it must go no farther. I
must impress on Fenella the absolute
necessity of holding her tongue henceforward.'


As soon as she returned home from
the Thellussons, Fenella ran up to her
mother's room, eager to learn her fate.

Well, mamma ! ' she exclaimed breathlessly,
as she entered it, ' has he been . '

Yes, certainly ; Sir Gilbert is too
much of a gentleman not to keep his
appointments.'

And you told him ? '

I did ! '

Everything f '

Everything !'

The girl leaned back against the wall,
almost speechless from excitement.

'Oh!' she gasped. 'What did he
say ? '

He said all that was most kind and
courteous. His affection for you is great
enough to surmount any obstacle. He
renews his offer of marriage to you.'

The faint colour died out of Fenella's
cheeks. It was evident which way her
hopes had lain. But surprise was her
predominant feeling at the news.

'You told Sir Gilbert everything, and
yet he said that?' she asked incredulously.


Haven't I answered the question
already ! Do you doubt my word ? '
returned Mrs Barrington, in a sharp
voice.

Oh no, mamma ; but it seems so wonderful

to me ! I thought when he heard
it he would just walk out of the house
and never come back again. What did
you tell him ? Does he know that I
cannot pretend to love him ; that  that 
I cannot forget what is past, whatever
pleasures the future may hold for me ?
I will be a good wife to him, mamma
(as far as I can), and I shall always
feel grateful for his forbearance in this
matter ; but I hope you told him that
he must not expect any more?'

If you will sit down and talk like a
reasonable creature, instead of a woman
out of a play, I will repeat exactly
what passed between us,' replied Mrs
Barrington.

She saw that it would be useless to
try half measures with Fenella ; that if
her conscience were not entirely satisfied,
she would probably speak to Sir
Gilbert herself on the subject ; and that,
whilst she was about it, she might as
well tell a good lie as a feeble one.

The girl sat down, but impatiently, with
large wondering eyes of expectation still
turned upon her mother.

I told Sir Gilbert Conroy everything,
from the beginning to the end,' commenced
Mrs Barrlngton emphatically, whilst her
daughter's face grew scarlet. ' Of course
he was very much distressed at hearing
It (who wouldn't be ?) ; I am not sure
that he didn't shed tears, but men are
sensitive about such things, and he
turned his head the other way.'

Wow good of him,' murmured Fenella.

He felt It deeply, there is no doubt 
and so did I. It was anything but a
pleasant task you set me, Fenella ; but
when his emotion had subsided, he told
me It could make no difference In his
affection for you ; on the contrary (if
anything), he loved you more for what
you had suffered, and he repeated his
offer to make you his wife.'

He must be a very generous man,'
said her daughter meditatively.

'He is more than generous,' replied
Mrs Barrington ; ' he is noble, chivalrous,
heroic ! But he coupled his decision
with a request which I was obliged
to accord him in your name, Fenella,
and which you must be good enough to
pay particular attention to.'

What is it, mamma ? ' said the girl
dreamily.

' Sir Gilbert said to me, " I am willing
to overlook and forget all that is
past, Mrs Barrington, on one condition,
and that is, that a total silence
is preserved on the subject henceforward.
I love your daughter dearly, and am
most desirous of making her Lady
Conroy ; but I am a proud man, and
do not care to think that any one
ever courted my wife before myself. I
should wish to fancy (even if it be only
fancy) that I am her first lover." '

He can never be my lover  cried
Fenella quickly.

Oh, don't be so tiresome,' said her

mother, ' catching one up in that rude
way. It is not at all likely he will be
your lover  husbands never are  but
the thing is, that you are not to speak
of, nor allude to the other ; nor to anything,
in fact, that happened before your
marriage.'

Am I likely to do so ? ' sighed
Fenella, with her hand pressed upon
'her aching heart.

Well, that's the condition, my dear,
and I hope you understand it. Sir
Gilbert is coming here tomorrow afternoon
to receive his answer from your
own lips. Just give it simply and say
no more about it. Let the past be
buried in oblivion, as he wishes it to
be, and depend upon it you will be as
happy a woman as the world contains.
It is an excellent marriage, and I must
say, after your escapade of last year,
that you are a very lucky girl to secure
it, and it is much more than you
deserve.'

I know that,' said Fenella, 'and I shall
always be very grateful to Sir Gilbert for
his kindness to me ; but as for being happy,
mother, that Is Impossible.'

Stuff and nonsense, child ! Don't
begin to pose for a martyr, and fancy
you are being dragged into a marriage
against your will, like the heroine of a
novel.'

Oh no ! I should never be so silly as
that, because I really wish to be married.
I am sure I shall be happier with Sir
Gilbert than I am at home,' replied the
girl ingenuously.

Well, I must say that's grateful of
you ; and after all the trouble you've
given me ! ' cried Mrs Barrlngton.

Yes, I suppose I must have been the
cause of a great deal of trouble and disappointment
to you, mamma, and I am
sorry for it ; but still, you know, we have
not been very happy together, and if Sir
Gilbert really loves me, I am sure I shall
grow fond of him. My heart does ache

so for love sometimes,' cried Fenella, In a
voice of pain.

Mrs Barrlngton thought It just as well
to keep down her rising wrath, and be
polite to the future Lady Conroy.

Well, my sweet girl, I acknowledge we
might have spent a pleasant year than
the last ; but there have been causes, you
know, Fenella, and my maternal pride has
been sorely wounded. But It will be
better now, dearest, will It not ? Bennett
and I will do our utmost to get together
a decent trousseau for you, and once
launched on the world as Lady Conroy,
you win never remember your former
life except as an ugly dream.'

Will he want It to be soon ? ' faltered
Fenella.

I should think so, my dear. Sir Gilbert
Is not a boy, you see, and there Is
no reason for delay. I shall see you presented
at Court before you are eighteen.'

Yes, I was only seventeen last birthday,'
said Fenella, with a piteous smile,

as the mention seemed to recall how
much she had passed through before that
time.

Most people would take you for older,'
remarked Mrs Barrington. ' Sir Gilbert
thought you were nineteen or twenty.'

The last year has made a woman of
me ; I shall never be a girl again,' said
her daughter, as she gathered up her
evening wraps and retired to bed.

But the night did not bring much rest
to her. Emphatically as Mrs Barrington
had asserted that Sir Gilbert Conroy
had been made acquainted with all the
facts of her former life, Fenella was not
satisfied. She had learnt to distrust
her mother's statements  to discredit her
pretty oaths and smiles, as she did her
blooming cheeks and perfumed skin  and
she lay awake, wondering how she could
arrive at the truth for herself. She did
not feel any particular agitation at the
idea of seeing Sir Gilbert Conroy and
telling him that she would be his wife.

Her heart was empty and sodden, and
she thought she would just as soon marry
him as remain single : it was all the same
to her ; she could never feel very happy
or very miserable again, and she believed
that her future life would be more bearable
passed with Sir Gilbert than with
her mother. So that when the baronet
entered her presence the following afternoon,
he could detect nothing different
from her usual appearance, except a
questioning look in her eye, as if she
longed to find out exactly what he
thought of her. But she coloured when
he approached her side, and he interpreted
the action according to his own
wishes.

Miss Barrington,' he commenced, ashe
took her hand, ' your* mother has, of
course, prepared you for this interview.
Am I right in conjecturing that you
would not have granted it unless you
intended to sive me a favourable answers'

Yes,' she said quietly, ' mamma has

told me all about it, and  I thank you,
Sir Gilbert'

Does that mean that you will be my
wife, Fenella ? '

Since you wish it to be so  yes.'
At this answer Sir Gilbert naturally
professed to be enraptured. He kissed
the hand he held, and, not being rebuked
for forwardness, kissed the fair face that
glowed above it, and then he put his arm
round her waist, and drew Fenella to a
sofa, and sat down beside her, and talked
of his mansion in town and his castle in
Scotland  of the family jewels which had
not been worn since the death of his
mother. Lady Valeria Conroy, and how
she had been the daughter of the Duke
of Ben Nevis, whose kinsman, David of
Ben Nevis, had fought side by side on
the field of Bosworth with his own
great ancestor, Gilbert de Conn, one of
the ' boys ' or ' kings ' of Scotland. For
Sir Gilbert's favourite hobby was the age
and stainlessness of his family tree, and

he looked down with the supreme contempt
on all the unfortunate ones of the
earth who could not produce a parchment
roll inscribed with their pedigree.

Fenella's parents were not noble, but
he had taken good care to ascertain before
proposing to her that the family on
both sides was Irreproachable. He would
not have transformed Venus Aphrodite
herself Into Lady Conroy unless she had
been able to prove that she had respectable
ancestors. But even the enumeration
and description of the late Lady
Valerian diamonds and emeralds did not
seem to awaken much Interest In the
bosom of the girl, who kept her clear,
grey eyes fixed upon Sir Gilbert with
the same questioning look In them with
which she had welcomed him.

But she said presently, Interrupting
him In the midst of a description of the
gardens at Conroy Castle, 'are you qttite
sure that I shall be able to please you in
all things ? I am not a very loving girl,

VOL. II. o

you know (mamma will have told you that),
and perhaps you might expect more from
me than I shall feel myself able to perform.'

I shall always do my utmost to meet
your wishes, Fenella, and I hope you
will be as ready to meet mine. I expect
no more from you than that. Is it too
much ? '

Oh no ! How could I give you less ? '
she murmured. 'It is very, very good
of you to accept so little,' and then, with
a sudden impulse, she laid her hand upon
his arm. ' Sir Gilbert, mamma said I
was not to mention the subject, but I
must  only this once. She told you last
night everything  about  about  last
year, and still you come and ask me to
be your wife ! How can I ever be grateful
enough to you for your forbearance
to me '. '

He almost laughed at the varying colour
which came and went in her cheeks, and
made her look so earnest and so beautiful
as she said the words.

My dearest girl,' he answered, as he
drew her closer to himself, * I had already
forgotten all about it. I am a man of the
world, you see, Fenella, and used to hear
all sorts of things ; and although I confess
that, just at first, I was a little disappointed,
the unworthy feeling soon wore
off again, and I am perfectly contented
to take you as you are ! Only  will you
grant me one favour ?  not to make the
past a subject of constant allusion ! Let
it die out, my dear Fenella, and forget
it yourself, as I have.'

I will try,' she replied, in a low voice ;
and Sir Gilbert recommenced his description
of the glories upon which she was
about to enter, whilst she mused to herself
in silence, and thought what a generous,
noble heart he must have, and
how good and grateful she should be in
return.

Before he left in the evening, the wedding
was fixed for that day month. The
baronet's only near relation was a married

sister, who would be charmed to find an
excuse to visit Paris, and so he thought
the marriage had better take place at the
English Embassy, with as little fuss as
needful.

Too soon! too soon! too terribly soon!'
cried Mrs Barrington playfully. * Why,
my poor child will only be seventeen years
and' three months old ! She oughtn't to
think of marriage even for the next five
years  ought you, Fenella, darling ?
However, I suppose you wilful lovers
will have your own way ! '

But a look from her daughter's eyes
stopped Mrs Barrington's banter. She was
still very much afraid of Fenella, and would
feel relieved when those honest, serious
eyes of hers were well out of the way.'

Will the time we have fixed upon be
agreeable to you ? ' said Sir Gilbert, turning
to Fenella.

The girl started and flushed.

Oh yes ; it is all the same to me I
That is  I mean  I would rather please

you than myself. It is the least I can
do in return for all your goodness tome.'


That was the keynote of her life thenceforward,
and her belief in it made her
marriage seem almost a gladsome thing.
She grew more and more contented with
her prospects as the days went on. She
felt that, by God's mercy, she was going to
lead an honourable and useful life for the
future, and she tried to persuade herself
that she was happy.

But there were times  sad times alone
and in the dark  when the picture was reversed,
and the past came back so vividly
upon her memory that she was ready to
leap out of bed, and write to Sir Gilbert
and say she had been mad, and that never
never  never could she be his wife 
nor the wife of any man. Times  when
the passionate looks and tones of Geoffrey
Doyne, as she remembered them upon the
sands of Ines-cedwyn, would return to
torture her with their dead sweetness 

when she fancied she could hear his voice,
and see his eyes, and feel the very clasp
of his arms about her beating heart. And
the present and the future would become
a black and mighty void, and she stood
face to face with the living, unforgotten
past. But Fenella had strength at least
to battle with such memories, and call
herself hard names for weeping over
them. She would resolutely stamp upon
the vision ; she would pray until she had
drowned the voice ; she would tell herself
that she was worse than a fool even
to bestow another thought upon the man
who had been so base as to betray her.
He was a traitor, she would say to herself,
with the tears streaming down her
face  a traitor and a liar! He vitist be,
else why did he swear to keep to her
alone when he knew he was going to
marry another woman ? Why did he
accept her vows of fidelity when he was
about to break his own ? She would be
brave  she would be strong  she would

tear his very image from her heart ; she
would not shelter there one who could
be so cowardly and so untrue to her and
to himself.

Ah, how many women have said the
same before ! How many tortured
wretches have cried to God to take
away the memory that rose before them
like a mocking devil, gibing at their despair
! And with all their resolutions,
their oaths, and their prayers, how hard
it is  how bitterly hard  to erase a truelove
(however unworthy) from the heart !
The man who is bound by swathes too
powerful for him to rend asunder, maybe
strong, and courageous, and determined.
He may fight like a lion for his
release, he may strain every nerve and
muscle to get free ; but if the bonds are
beyond his physical capability to rupture,
he will only injure himself, and sink back
again, exhausted by his efforts. It were
wiser for him to accept the inevitable, and
get up and walk through the world with as

much ease as his crippled condition will
allow him.

So Fenella waked up at the appointed
time, to find that she was the wife of Sir
Gilbert Conroy ; waited on with all attention
and kindness by her husband, and
surrounded by every luxury that money
could procure for her.

Yet the swathes were around her still,
and she would lie bound with them in
her coffin.

SMOOTH WATERS.

It is vain that we would coldly gaze

On such as smile upon us : the heart must

Leap kindly back to kindness.'  Byron.

H ETHER from intuition, or
the common-sense that characterised
most of his actions, Sir
Gilbert Conroy went just the right way to
win such kindly feeling as it was in the
power of his young wife to bestow upon
him. He treated her as a friend. He
did not (after the usual manner of bridegrooms)
load her with caresses and compliments
until she was sick of flattery.
Neither did he sit gazing at her hour after
hour, as if he could not satisfy himself with

the contemplation of her beauty. Had he
done so, Fenella would probably have
become shy and distant with him, or
openly expressed her dislike to his behaviour,
and then quarrels would have
ensued between them. But there was
nothing in Sir Gilbert's attentions from
which the most delicate nature could have
revolted ; he was chivalry itself. He
waited on his wife in public with the
greatest assiduity, anticipating every wish,
and never permitting her to do a single
thing for herself. Still, he would have
done as much for any lady confided to his
charge.

Even in private, although he was always
polite and affectionate In his manner towards
her, he was never exacting. He
allowed her to follow her inclinations in
the matter of their intercourse, rather than
to press his own upon her. So that after
a few days Fenella lost her shyness, and
became quite friendly and Intimate with
her husband, and after a few weeks she

would have missed him very much had he
been called away from her.

The fact is, Sir Gilbert Conroy was not
in love with Fenella, and never had been.
Her chief attraction in his eyes (as he had
told her mother) was her youth and innocence.
He was weary of the fickleness
and falsehood of fashionable women (as,
indeed, he had just cause to be), and
he believed that Fenella would make a
Lady Conroy of whom he need never
be ashamed. Of course he admired her.
He was not quite such a stoic at five-and-thirty
as to have lost all faith in
female beauty, but he had seen handsomer
women  as he coolly informed his sister,
Lady Marjoram, on the day of the
wedding. And Lady Marjoram, who
was one of the most charming women
who ever spent her life in a round of
frivolity, had shaken her head at him and
said, 

You're as bad as ever, Bertie. I believe
you'd pick holes in the Venus de

Milo If she could find those lost arms of
hers and wind them round you. But
mark my words  Fenella may not be as
beautiful as some of your former loves, but
she is a better woman than the whole lot
of them put together. She's the first girl
that has ever taken your fancy who is fit
to fill our mother's place.'

I believe you there,' replied Sir Gilbert.


And I hope you'll be a good boy
to her, Bertie, and put the thought of
that horrid Mrs Messiter out of your
head altogether,' continued his sister more
seriously.

'You may be sure of that, Janle,' was
his quick reply. * That portion of my life
is over for ever.'

And Sir Gilbert was right. That portion
of his life during which he had been
held in thrall by an unprincipled woman,
who cared for nothing but using his purse
and gratifying her own vanity, was over
for ever. It had extended over many

years, and been the cause of much anxiety
to his family, who feared it might stand
in the way of his settlement ; but it
was done with, and it would never be
renewed.

Sir Gilbert was too honourable a man
to deceive the girl whom he had made his
wife. He would exact the utmost propriety
of conduct from Lady Conroy, and
he would render her the same in return.
But an old attachment is not to be forgotten
in a day, and the remembrance of
Mrs Messiter tended to make the baronet
more deferential in his manners towards
Fenella than he would otherwise have
been. And she was so glad of it. She
was so thankful that he did not call her
darling,' and make her sit upon his lap,
and try and force confessions of love from
her, which she would have been unable to
refuse to make without offending him. It
was so much nicer as it was (she said to
herself) ; and she actually began to feel a
sort of affection for Sir Gilbert, because he

did not exhibit it too freely towards her.
The Hfe they led together was like a dream
of fairyland to the girl, who had left a convent
school only to see Ines-cedwyn and
Sainte Pauvrette.

Sir Gilbert took her for a month to Italy,
previous to their returning to London for
the season ; and as the days went on,
Fenella began to ask herself If she were
asleep or awake, everything was so new
and wonderful to her ; she had not believed
that living could be made so easy. If she
wished to dress for the evening or for
walking, her robes were laid In readiness
for her, and her new maid was In obsequious
attendance, ready to put them on ;
if she rose to leave the room or the house,
a man-servant sprang up to open the door,
to carry her shawl, or to receive the orders
she might wish to leave behind her. She
was never permitted to walk, especially
through the streets ; a carriage was always
at her beck and call ; and her purse was
liberally supplied with money to make any

purchase she might feel inclined for. Her
husband considered that it was his duty to
see that Fenella preserved a certain amount
of state  not for her own sake, but for
that of Lady Conroy  and he would have
done the same for the honour of the name
she bore, had his wife been the ugliest old
woman in Christendom. But the earl did
not consider this. Her path was strewn
with roses for her ; her husband was always
kind and courteous ; and her heart was a
grateful one, and responded accordingly.
Even when they returned to their townhouse
in Portman Square, the pleasure
continued. The first coming back to London
was painful to her  she could not
deny that  but she shook the feeling off
bravely, and her new sister-in-law soon
made her feel at home.

It has already been said that Lady Marjoram
was a very sweet woman. She was,
moreover, a very grand lady (as titles go),
and her family were proud of the connection,
but no accession to rank and fortune

had been able to spoil her unaffected
womanly nature.

Her husband was Henry Frederick
Charles Albert Ernest, fifth Earl of
Marjoram and tenth Baron Carbury,
with an annual rent-roll of twenty thousand,
and estates In all the countries of the
United Kingdom. He was a fat, good-tempered,
carmelite - looking person of
middle age, who allowed his countess to
have her own way In everything, and
expected to enjoy the same privileges
himself.

This very grand sister-ln-law might,
under ordinary circumstances, have turned
up her nose at her brothers choice, and
would, under most circumstances (for some
of the worst-bred women In the world
are to be found sheltering their vulgarity
beneath the strawberry leaves), have mixed
up so much condescension In her intercourse
with the young and portionless
girl as to turn her politeness into an
insult. But Lady Marjoram was a gentlewoman,

and that is a rank which, if we
do not inherit it from the goodness of our
own hearts, no strawberry leaves can give
us. She had been working ' Hke a nigger '
(as she herself expressed it) to get the
Portman Square house into proper order
for the Convoys' first season in town ; and
as soon as F'enella was ensconced in it,
Lady Marjoram flew to her side, and
offered her every assistance in her power.

Of course you must be presented at
Court, dear she said,  ' that must be the
first thing ; and then you must give dinners
and receptions, and all kinds of horrors !
Oh, how I hated them when I married
Marjoram ; but they must be done, you
know. And if you wish it, I'll come and
help you through with everything that
your cook and housekeeper can't do for
you.'

The kind tone and feeling of her sister-in-law
moved Fenella deeply. She pressed
closer to Lady Majora and thanked her,
with the tears in her eyes.

VOL. II. P

Why, my dear child, what is this ? '
cried the Countess ; ' you didn't suppose I
was going to leave you to do it all by
yourself, did you ? I am not quite such
a wretch as that comes to. I remember
too well what I suffered when I married
Marjoram, and the old Countess Dowager
wouldn't give me a single hint, and only
found fault with everything I did. But
is the house as you like it, Fenella ? Can
you suggest any alteration ? '

Nothing, dear Lady Marjoram ; it is
just perfect, I assure you.'

You mustn't call me Lady Marjoram.
I must be Janie to you, Fenella. Don't
forget that we are sisters, though I suppose
I am nearly old enough to be your
mother. What is your age, dear ? '

I was seventeen last January,' replied
Fenella, with a little sigh.

And how do you and my brother get
on together ? Does he treat you kindly ?
Are you quite happy with him " '

Fenella opened her eyes.

Oh, Janle! what a question. Of course
he Is kind to me  very, very kind.'

No '' of course'' in the matter, my dear.
The generality of men are brutes, and
marriage (as a rule) is a mistake. Not
but what my Marjoram is an awfully good
old fellow ; I wouldn't change him for the
world. And my brother is a gentleman,
too, which is, after all, the main thing.
A woman can generally get on with a
gentleman, whether she loves him or not ;
but so very few men are gentlemen to
their wives! It's a lost art, Fenella.
The man who would fell another to the
ground for daring to say he was not a
gentleman, will behave in the rudest manner
to the unfortunate woman who is
compelled to listen to whatever he may
choose to say to her.'

I am not an unfortunate woman,'
laughed Fenella softly ; ' Gilbert has never
said a rude word to me.'

I'm very glad to hear it, my dear ;
and I think I know my brother well

enough to say that he never will. You
will find Gilbert very particular  in fact,
he's a bit of a prude ; but so long as you
remain what you are now  innocent,
modest, and refined in your speech and
manners  he will make you the best of
husbands. Gilbert couldn't stand a woman
that was talked of. He is very fond of
you and very proud of you, and so he
ought to be ; but he is fonder and prouder
of his family name (that has been his
weakness from a boy), and I believe he
would kill the woman he loved, with his
own hand, sooner than she should disgrace
it'

I will never disgrace it,' said Fenella,
in a low voice.

I am sure you won't,' rejoined Lady
Marjoram heartily, as she took the girl
in her arms and affectionately embraced
her.

Under the tuition and guidance of her
sister-in-law, all those ordeals which appear
so terrible to a young wife, first

launched upon the fashionable world, were
transformed into pleasures ; and Fenella
had been presented at Court, and attended
her first ball, and given her first dinner-party
before she had time to wonder
whether she should be a success or a
failure.

The upshot was that she proved an
undoubted success. Introduced everywhere
by the Countess of Marjoram, the
youthful Lady Conroy became an object
of universal attention and admiration.
The extreme delicacy of her skin, the
clearness of her complexion, and the childlike
hue of her soft fair hair, all combined
to make Fenella look even younger than
she was ; and as It was one of Sir Gilbert's
fancies that she should always appear
dressed In white, she soon gained the
name of ' The Lily ' In the circles she
frequented. The baronet mentioned this
fact to his sister, with pride beaming in
his eyes.

I don't approve,' he said, ' of the

modern custom of orivinor nicknames to
ladles of rank ; but since the licence
has unfortunately been allowed to creep
into society, they could not have chosen
one for Lady Conroy that would have
offended me less.'

That would have pleased you more,
you mean,' cried Lady Marjoram, laughing.
' Take care, Sir Gilbert de Conn 
Roy of Scotland! If you don't mind
your P's and O's, you'll be guilty of
the plebeian crime of falling in love with
your own wife.'

The baronet took her jest quite seriously.


No, Janie ; I assure you I feel
nothing of that kind for Fenella, and
neither does she for me. We are the
best of friends, and nothing more.
That is as it should be. Any warmer
feeling than friendship is sure to suffer
from so close a contact. By the way,
she asked me yesterday if she might take
singing lessons. What shall I do about it ? '

21

Get her the very best master you
can,' replied his sister decidedly. ' Let
her have Signer Possetrina. She hasa
lovely voice, and is fond of music.
Besides, she is the very best little girl
in the world, and you must give her
every mortal thing she has a fancy
for.'

You are quite right,' said Sir
Gilbert, ' and I will engage Signor
Possetrina for her at once.'

These singing lessons soon became
Fenella's greatest pleasure, and, under
the tuition of the best master in town,
she made rapid progress. Signor Possetrina
was charmed both with her voice
and her ability. He found her well
grounded in the art, and he was never
tired of praising the purity of her tones,
the delicacy of her ear, and the earnestness
with which she pursued her studies.
She would have given up her engagements
for her music, if Sir Gilbert
would have permitted such a sacrifice

to art. But every spare hour she spent
at her piano, and her singing soon began
to be talked of as much as her face had
been.

Almost too much talked of,' as Sir
Gilbert remarked, with a shrug of
his shoulders, to Lady Marjoram. ' I
hope she's not going to turn out a
genius, Janie. Geniuses are generally
erratic sort of persons, with wills of
their own, and I shouldn't care for
Lady Conroy to become too decided
and clever.'

Bertie, you're a fool,' rejoined his
sister (it is only sisters that can call
men 'fools' with impunity; they won't
stand it from their wives) ; ' wouldn't
you rather your children had a clever
mother than a stupid one ? Besides, do
you imagine women are any the less
obstinate or deceitful for being boobies ?
Not a bit of it! It's the wives that
have no intellectual qualities wherewith
to amuse themselves, that try and get

their amusement out of flirting, and
sometimes even out of champagne.'

Dont, Janie,' said Sir Gilbert, with a
shudder.

*Well, then, my dear boy, be sensible,
and let Fenella sing all day, and all night
too, if she wishes it, so long as she is
contented with no more dangerous audience
than old Signor Possetrina and
yourself.'

So Fenella was allowed to follow her
talent to her heart's content, and it did
content her wonderfully. Her music sang
to her  sadly enough, and yet sweetly  of
her unforgotten past. Geoffrey's tones
(although unconsciously to herself) were
wafted back from the shores of memory,
upon the wings of song ; and whilst
Fenella sat at the piano, she would
wander off into the realms of fancy,
picturing a future perhaps in which all
the crooked paths of this world would
be made straight, and all the rough
places plain, and lose herself in impossible

dreams, until she was recalled to
earth again, and found her cheeks were
wet with tears.

Yet she was happy ; as happy as
any one can be who has outlived the
thoughtlessness of childhood  because it
is impossible to grow up and think, without
weeping for ourselves or others.
There where times, indeed, when a chance
word or look a chord of music, or the
scent of a flower  would bring back the
remembrance of Geoffrey Doyne so powerfully
on Fenella's mind, as to make her
sick with longing to see his face once
more (if only for a moment). But it was
the sort of feeling with which we regard
the dead  those hallowed dead whose still,
white features we sometimes feel as if we
would give our lives to look on once again.
It had no more hope, and no more real
desire of being realised, than we have of
soldering the coffins that have been
closed so long.

There was one trait in Fenella's character

which somewhat puzzled Lady Marjoram
; she seemed to think so tenderly
of little children, and yet to be almost
ashamed If detected In any kindness
towards them. The Countess had a
nursery full of little ones, from big boys
and girls of twelve and fourteen, to a
tiny stranger who had only made his
appearance in this wicked world about
three months previously. Lady Marjoram
thought very little of babies ; they were
amongst the natural nuisances of this life,
she said, that must be endured. She
romped with all her children alike, from
the eldest to the youngest, and was quite
offended If one of them dared to be weakly
or sick. It was unlike either herself or
Marjoram, she would declare ; and if the
brat didn't get well soon, she should begin
to think that he had been changed at
nurse.

Take the boy ! he won't break,' she
exclaimed one day, as she threw her
infant info Fenella's arms.

Something  what was it ?  swelled in
the girl's breast as she received the little
creature, and the tears rushed suddenly
to her eyes.

Please take him back again,' she faltered
to her sister-in-law ; ' I  I  am not
much used to babies.'

You mean you don't like them, my
dear. Well, I don't wonder at it. Nobody
does until they have them of their
own. But you must get your hand in,
you know, Lady Conroy. Bertie won't
be satisfied till he has a son.'

No, I suppose not,' replied Fenella,
and some day I hope he may have one.'

How quietly you said that, child ! too
quietly a great deal for your age. One
would think you had had a dozen.'

Fenella coloured.

I am older than my age, Janie,' she
said, with a sigh ; ' but I was not always
so happy as I am now.'

I expect not,' thought Lady Marjoram ;
and then she asked, as a natural sequence,

Have you heard lately of Mrs Barrington,
Fenella ? '

I have not, and I feel rather anxious
about it. She was to have been in town
last month, and then she caught this attack
of low fever, and Bennett seems to think
it may be some time yet before she is
able to move. I am sure she must be
very weak, or she never would have
missed coming to town for the season.'

Well, the season may be said to be
over now, so I suppose Mrs Barrington
will not join you until you go to Conroy
Castle.'

I do not see how it will be possible,
Janie. Gilbert told me yesterday that
we must be there by the twelfth.'

Of course, for the grouse ! Bertie
would not miss the first day of the
season for anything.  Sport is his great
pastime, Fenella ; he loves it as enthusiastically
as you do, music. You must
never throw any obstacle in the way of
his pursuing it.'

J

Why should I ? ' asked Fenella simply-she
was quite at her ease in the presence
of her husband, but she was equally
happy when he was absent. Her present
content did not arise from being married
to him (though she may have deceived
herself into thinking so) ; it was due rather
to the fact that he never urged the circumstance
of their marriage too strongly
on her notice. Her relations with her
mother had caused Fenella some uneasiness
since she had become Lady Conroy.
Mrs Barrington had appeared to imagine
that she ought to derive as many advantages
from the marriage as her daughter,
and Sir Gilbert had not seen the matter
in the same light. Indeed, the greatest
drawback in his eyes to marrying Fenella
had been the existence of her mother.
He despised the widow's character from
every point of view  he would have removed
his wife entirely from her influence
had he been able, and the last thing he
desired was that she should continue to

exert it. Fenella had, therefore, been
placed in a very difficult position,  forced
to read and answer Mrs Barrington's
letters of reproach, and complaints of
poverty, on the one hand, and to bear
with equanimity Sir Gilbert's animadversions
on her mother's conduct, on the
other.

At last the difference of opinion had
been settled by the baronet giving his
wife permission to invite Mrs Barrington
to stay with them for a month, either in
London or Scotland, but this invitation
(as has already been shown) she was
unable through illness to accept. Fenella
could not feel quite sorry about it,  not
so sorry as, she told herself, she ought
to feel  because she had a premonition
that Mrs Barrington's advent would not
be productive of increased happiness in
her married life. She would rather be
with Gilbert alone, she thought. Her
mother's presence could only remind her
of the darkest passages in her young life.

And she was spared the ordeal she had
begun to dread ; for she and her husband
had only been settled in Scotland for a
fortnight, when the news reached them
from Paris that Mrs Barrington had succumbed
to the weakness supervening her
attack of fever.

A REVELATION.

Thy words have darted hope into my soul,
And comfort dawns upon me.'  Southern.

T was naturally a great shock
to Fenella's nervous system to
hear of her mother's death. It
is a shock to learn (thus unexpectedly) of
the death of any one whom we have lately
seen in apparent health and strength.
And it seemed so impossible to picture
Mrs Barrington dead, and laid out in her
coffin. Mrs Barrington, with her painted
cheeks and skin, her dyed hair, her
toilettes of pink and blue and silver, her
artificial ways and words and looks.
VOL. n. " Q

Fenella could not realise her mother shorn
of these frivolous accompaniments ; she
wondered how she would get on without
them, even in the other world. But when
the first shock was over, the girl's honest
heart could not pretend there was much
grief remaining for their present separation.
There might have been. Mrs Barrington,
in repulsing her daughter's affection,
had thrust from her a rich store
of love that mioht have been her con



solation and her stay till her life's end.
But love is a plant of growth ; it can
no more live without nourishment thana
flower can flourish without earth and
water. And TVlrs Barrington had killed
the beautiful blossom that was springing
up in her child's heart. She had trampled
It under foot and neglected it, and it had
perished for lack of food. And now
that she had passed out of sight, she had
not left one loving memory in Fenella's
mind by which to mourn her. On the
contrary, her daughter, in deference to the

fact that she had been her father's wife,
and she was dead, felt herself compelled,
resolutely, to put away all thoughts of her,
since remembrance brought reproach in
its train. . 

But she could not help thinking of
Bennett  dear good old Bennett, who
had been with them before her own birth,
and who had been so attached to her
late mistress ; she was terribly anxious
to know what was to become of Bennett:
The servant was no longer young -she
was at least fifty years of age, twenty of
which had been spent in their service ;
and she had become so wedded to their
ways, it was unlikely she would find
another place to suit her. Fenella wanted
to send for her at once to Conroy Castle.
There was a baby expected there in. the
spring, and her wish was to instal Eliza
Bennett as head of the nursery.

She loves me,' she said to her husband,
with big pathetic eyes, ' and she will take
every care of our little child for my sake.'

Sir Gilbert was good-naturedly disposed
to acquiesce in anything his wife might
desire. He was going over to Paris to
attend the funeral of his mother-in-law,
and, had the truth been known, in a more
contented frame of mind than he would
have cared to exhibit openly. Mrs Barrington
had been his bete noire, but she
was (fortunately) removed to a better
sphere ; it was quite immaterial to him
what became of the servant.

Do just as you like about it, my dear,'
he replied. ' I have no doubt the old
woman will be quite as efficient a guardian
for the heir-apparent as anyone else.'

Oh, Gilbert, you are so very good
to me ! ' murmured Fenella gratefully.
Then I will write Bennett a letter,
dear, and you shall deliver it to her
yourself.'

In consequence of which, Bennett, having
first paid a short visit to her brother
in Ines-cedwyn, arrived at Conroy Castle
robed in the deepest mourning, and clasped

her young mistress In her arms again. Had
it been a meeting between a mother and
child it could hardly have been more
affectionate. The servant forgot all the
grandeur attendant on Sir Gilbert and
Lady Conroy, as she showered kiss after
kiss on Fenella's face ; and the girl herself
was scarcely less delighted to lay her
head on that kind, homely breast once
more.

There was a link between Bennett and
herself which nothing on this earth could
have the power to rupture. The servant
was, of course, full of the account of Mrs
Barrington's illness and death, and for
awhile neither of them could speak of anything
else.

And to think, dear Miss Fenella,' cried
Bennett, who could not get out of the
habit of using the old name, ' that you
shouldn't have been with us at the time !
But it was so sudden, my dear ; the doctor
was as surprised as any of us  for we had
thought she was doing so nicely, poor dear

lady, and would be able to be moved at the
farthest in a week or two. But she sank
(as you may say) in a few hours  nothing"
would save her ; and her teeth was so fixed
we couldn't even get a drop of brandy and
water down her throat.'

Did she speak of me, Bennett ? Did
she send me any message ? ' demanded
F'enella timidly.

Oh, she spoke often of you when she
was in the fever, my dear ; and she used to
talk of Conroy Castle, and the time when
she'd get here, and what a fine place it
was, and all that. Poor dear ! little she
thought she'd never see it. And as forme.
Miss Fenella, it seems as if my hands
was empty, now she's gone. She was just
like a child to me  so sweet and amiable 
always wanting this or that. It was " Bennett,
come here ! " or " Bennett, oho there ! "'
all day long. She didn't seem to be able
to do anything without her poor Bennett
did she, now ?'

No ; I am sure she looked on you 'asher

very best friend, Bennett, and I shall
do the same for her sake. But when she
was dying  when the end came  couldn't
poor mamma speak then ? Didn't she say
one word of me, or send me any message ?'
Well, miss, you see, I don't think your
poor dear mamma knew as her death was
so near at hand, for she only seemed a
little more fractious-like to me. I had
just handed her some linionade, and I suppose
she wanted tisane, bless her ! for she
pushed it aside and spilt it all over the counterpane,
and said, " Take it away." And
them was her last words, Miss Fenella ;
for as I was setting the bed to rights, I see
a change come over her face, and I caught
her up in my arms, and she was gone.
I couldn't believe it. You might have
knocked me over with a feather.* And
Bennett buried her face in her rough
hands, and cried like a little child. ' She
was my life. Miss Fenella  just my life
and nothing else,' she sobbed. ' It seemed
as if I hadn't a will of my own when she was

near  as If I couldn't move hand nor foot
unless she ordered me. You know how I
used to wait on her from morning till night.
And now the world seems empty. I shall
never have any rest for thinking of her.
I wouldn't mind twice the trouble If I could
only have her back again.'

Fenella tried to comfort the good-hearted
creature with some of those ordinary arguments
which sound like empty wind to
ears on which a beloved voice has ceased
to fall.

You mustn't fret, dear Bennett. You
must try and think how much better it
is for her to be free of all the trouble of
this world. I don't think poor mamma
can have been very happy here. She
always seemed full of worry and anxiety ;
and now  now we must hope that it Is
all over, and  and  that she is In heaven
said Fenella hesitatingly.

In heaven I my dear lady!' replied
Bennett, wiping her eyes. ' Yes, I'm
sure of that I I know for certain as my

darling mistress Is walking In her robes
of glory, with her 'arp In her 'and  and
not a more beautiful angel In the whole
place. Oh, yes ! she's happy now, If any
07ie Is, miss. It Isn't her (sweet angel !) as
I'm thinking of  It's myself, and you, poor
lamb ! It's what we shall do without her.'

We must try and comfort each other,'
said Fenella gently. ' And now tell me of
your brother, dear Bennett, and of Martha.
Were you glad to see them again, and are
they well and happy ? '

Eliza Bennett coloured and looked 111
at ease.

Oh, yes! Miss Fenella  that Is, my
lady  Ben and Martha was looking well
enough, and of course they was glad to
see me, notwithstanding' the sad event as
took me there.' And then she continued
rather Irrelevantly, * I always carried out
all your poor dear mamma's wishes to the
very letter, Miss Fenella ; there was never
nothing she told me to do but what I
thought It right to obey her ; and I hope

it has been right, or If not, that the
Almighty won't lay it to my charge. But
I made a sort of idol of her, Miss Fen-ella
; and I know that's wrong, and sometimes
we're punished for doing of it  still,
when she tuas my mistress, I considered
myself bound to serve her, even to the
uttermost farthing.'

Fenella stared at this address  it
seemed so uncalled for ; but she answered
warmly, 

I am sure God, who looks on our
hearts, dear Bennett, will never blame
you for doing more than your duty.
The majority of us do so much less.
But I should like to hear something
about your own affairs. Did poor mamma
pay you your wages ? I know they had
been due for a long time ; and has she
left any debts in Paris ? '

Bennett looked round cautiously, and
lowered her voice.

Well, my dear, to my thinking, your
good gentleman must have cleared 'em off.

I know there was some, but after the
funeral he called me Into the salon, and
paid me my wages, and something very
handsome over, and told me I was to
pack up my dear mistress's bits of jewellery
for you, and to consider her wardrobe
as my own, which I thought was most
generous of him. And then I ventured
to ask him about the bills, and Sir Gilbert
said I wasn't to worry my head on the
matter, as he would see to 'em himself.'

'Dear Gilbert!' said Fenella. 'Oh!
he is so good and so generous to me,
nurse. I don't know what I have done
to deserve so kind a husband.'

And such a fine-looking Gentleman,
too, Miss Fenella ; and such a princely
home ! It does my heart good to see
you so comfortable and so happy. Ah !
if my poor dear mistress had only lived
to enjoy it with us ! '

Yes ; I never thought that I could be
so happy,' said Fenella gravely.

I've heard there's an old saying,

** Alps zvell as ends weir,' my dear,
and I am sure you ought to be able to
understand it. But I see you wear that
old locket still, Miss Fenella/

Fenella coloured, and put her hand upto
her bosom, in which reposed the present
that Geoffrey Doyne had given her.

Oh yes ! I promised I would wear
this till my death, nurse. Nothing can
make any difference to that, you know.'

And don't Sir Gilbert notice it, my
dear?'

He has never
and I don't think
not that sort of ]
above such trifles.'

Ah, well ! you got a lucky exchange,'
replied the servant ; but her young mistress
turned the conversation, and she
said no more.

As the weeks went on, however, and
the influence of the dead woman was
farther and farther removed from her,
Bennett became at one and the same time

more confidential and more reserved with
Lady Conroy. It seemed as though she
had some revelation at the very tip of her
tongue which she longed, and yet did not
dare to make. The temptation seemed
greatest when she was assisting Fenella
with the usual preparations for the expected
heir ; and sometimes as together
they Inspected and arranged the lace and
muslin and fine linen that arrived from
London to fill the nursery wardrobe,
Bennett seemed almost unable (as she
herself expressed it) to keep her tongue
between her teeth.

Lor bless us ! ' she exclaimed one
day, as she tossed some baby-linen almost
impatiently to one side ; * to think
of the pounds and pounds as is thrown
away just to decorate one infant, as you
may say, whilst another poor little creature
has hardly enough clothes to its back !
If / was a fine lady, like you, my dear,
with heaps of money to spend as I chose,
I should give a little thought to them as

has none, if I wanted my own child to
thrive and do well.'

Fenella looked up at this tirade, surprised
but smiling.

Dear nurse,' she said, ' I believe we
give a great deal away annually in charity
as it is, but if there are any particular
cases of want that you know of, I shall
be only too glad to relieve them. I
should like to do it (as you say) in hopes
it might come back in a blessing on
my own baby.'

The servant looked mollified.

You was always good and sweet, my
dear, from a little child. You take after
your blessed mamma in heaven for that.
I daresay a lot of money does go from
this house to the poor  and food, and
blankets, and what not beside ; but if I
was to ask you. Miss Fenella, for a few
pounds for a little one as has got no
mother and no father (so to speak)  for
such a little one as we might both have
heard of, you know, in our day  what

would you say then, my dear ? Would
you give it ? '

Fenella's trembling hands bean to
play at once with the fastening of her
purse, from which she managed to extract
a ten-pound note ; but before she
could hand it over to the servant, her
fortitude gave way, and sinking down on
her knees by the bedside, she burst into
a flood of tears.

Bennett left her place, and approaching
the spot where her mistress knelt, laid
her hand gently on the bowed head.

So you haven't forgotten yet, my
lamb ? ' she whispered.

Forgotten ! My God ! No ; I shall
never, nevers forget ! '

She knelt for a few minutes in the same
position, then rising suddenly, turned with
an April smile upon the servant.

Am I not silly, nurse ?  as great a
baby as when you brought me home from
the convent ? But here's the note for
the little one you spoke of  and may

God bless it ! And if there are any others
that I can help in the same way, let me
hear of them. I have more money, dear
nurse, than I know how to spend ; and
I have less  less expenses than I might
have had.'

The servant took the note and put it
carefully away.

Dear heart ! ' she thought, as Lady
Conroy left the room. ' I'm sorely perplext
to know what's best to be done.
It seems so hard she shouldn't know ;
and yet, now she's living so happy and
loving and grand, 'twould be a pity to
rake up old scores. Well, this isn't the
time, any way. She's got too much on
her mind just now to think of anything
else. And perhaps I need never tell
her ; it looks likely enough.'

And, indeed, at that moment Fenella
had what is technically termed * her
hands full.' The castle was filled with
Christmas visitors, amongst which were
the Earl and Countess of Marjoram, who

had with them a cousin, Lord Laurence
Grantham, a fine manly young fellow of
five-and-twenty, who established himself
from the very first as Fenella's chief
friend and knight-errant. Lady Marjoram
had not brought any of her children
with her. She left home, she
affirmed, to enjoy herself, and had no
desire to keep her domestic miseries forever
in sight.

You will be quite of my opinion in
another year's time, my dear Fenella/
she said to her sister-in-law, ' and only
too thankful to leave Portman Square or
Conroy Castle, or wherever the nursery
may be located, behind you. I positively
begin to hate children, and believe they
are only sent into this world to plague
their parents out of it. Mine have had
measles and hooping-cough already this
year, and now they've all broken outwith
ringworm ; so I couldn't stand it
any longer, but packed the whole lot off
to Bournemouth for the winter. There
VOL. II. R

they are, nine of them, with a governess
and two nurses, eating their heads off,
and sending us In weekly bills that make
Marjoram swear In the most awful manner.
It's no use laughing, Fenella. You'll
laugh on the wrong side of your mouth
some day, my dear. Walt till you have
nine.'

I hope I shall wait a long time,' rejoined
Lady Conroy, who was much
amused at her sister-ln-law's indignation.
But what Is it that Lord Marjoram is
speaking to Gilbert about?'

About a vacant governorship at ,
on the Gold Coast of Africa,
my dear, where yellow fever and smallpox
reign triumphantly from January to December,
and elephants are shot for the sake
of their steaks, and alligators appear at the
breakfast-table en papillotes like sardines.'

What interest can that have for Gilbert?'
demanded Fenella, rather anxiously.
He would never accept an appointment
in such a climate as that ? '

He says he should enjoy It above all
things, Lady Conroy,' interposed Lord
Laurence Grantham mischievously. ' He
is already consulting Marjoram now about
the proper-sized '* bore " for elephant-shooting,
and they are going down to
the backyard after luncheon to practise
alligator-spearing.'

Oh, the poor cows ! ' laughed the Countess.
' Marjoram will most likely get a
spear in the calf of his leg, and be out
of temper for the rest of the day ! '

Gilbert ! you would never really go to
a place like Sovooranooko ? ' said Fenella.
as she went up to her husband's side.

My dear child, what nonsense ! what
are you thinking of ? ' replied Sir Gilbert.
I am about as likely to go to 
! '

Oh no, you are not ! ' retorted his
sister. ' There are no elephants there.'

But his wife was quite satisfied with his
answer, and troubled her head no further
in the matter.

When February came round again
with its pale spring flowers, a Stepdaughter
was born at Conroy Castle.
Sir Gilbert was excessively annoyed at
the fact of its being a girl  more annoyed
than Fenella had ever seen him
during their married life. He had calculated
so certainly upon having a son ;
it did not seem to have entered his head
that he might have a daughter.

Better luck next time, Bertie cried
Lady Marjoram, who was still a guest
at the castle ; but her brother did not
take the jest in good part.

My dear, he's as cross as a bear ! '
she whispered afterwards to Fenella, who
could not be put out of conceit with her
little girl, although no one seemed to
value her but herself ; * but it's always the
way with men. They think the world
was made for them, and it's a personal
insult If they don't get their own way.
Marjoram was just the reverse. He
wanted a daughter, and I had five sons

in succession. 1 can remember his disgusted
expression, when he used to exclaim,
'another boy ! too bad  too bad !"
as if / could help the young wretches
being boys ! At last a girl came, and
then, of course, he spoilt her. She's the
most odious brat of the lot. However,
I don't think Bertie will spoil yours  not
just yet, at all events.'

I am afraid not,' said Fenella, with
a sigh.

'Don't sigh over it, you muff; it's
not your fault ; and if Bertie begins anymore
grumbling, just give him a bit of
your mind. You're too easy with him,
Fenella. He's growing a regular bully !
No, nurse! don't ask me to kiss the
baby, please I I daresay she's a very
nice baby, and everything she ought to
be ; but, you see, I have nine of my
own, and the gilt has somewhat worn
off the gingerbread ! In fact (not to put
too fine a point upon it) the game's played
out.'

And without another look at the Infant,
the Hvely Countess ran away.

The new-comer was left entirely to the
admiration of its mother and nurses, but
doubtless it fared none the worse for
that.

And she's come in February too,' remarked
Bennett, significantly, to Fenella,
as she cradled the little Conroy in her
arms ; ' that seems as if she was to be a
special gift, my lady, doesn't it ? '

This idea seemed to linger in the mind
of the young mother, and when next she
saw Sir Gilbert she asked him if their
little girl might be called Theodora.

Theodora  Theodora !' he repeated,
wrinkling his brows. ' Why Theodora ?
It wasn't your mother's name, was it ?'

Oh no ; mamma was called Rosin !
But Theodora, you know, means " the
gift of God'"

Exactly so, though I don't see that
this baby is more especially the gift of
God than any other baby  do you ? '

Fenella looked down at the child lying
on her breast.

She is such a comfort to me ! ' she
answered, as she strained her to her heart.

I am glad of that, dear,' said her husband,
* and I should like to indulge your
fancy in the matter ; but being the eldest
daughter, I think she ought to be called
after my mother, Lady Valeria ; and so
does Janie.'

Valeria is such divine name. It doesn't
seem X.o fit her ! ' said Fenella dubiously.

It is not so long as Theodora, at any
rate,' laughed Sir Gilbert ; ' however, Valeria,
she must be, so I am sure you will
not oppose yourself to what I think best.'

She had never done so yet, and was
not likely to begin now. The baby was
baptized in the name of Valeria, and
Fenella soon became reconciled to a
matter of so little importance. But when
the child was about a month old, a real
trial assailed her. Sir Gilbert Conroy was
offered the governorship of Sovooranooko,

and decided to accept it. The temptation
was too great for him. What real sportsman
could resist the chance of bagging
game in the African forests '. Visions
of elephants, rhinoceros, hippopotami,
gorillas, elands, and buffalo floated
rapturously through the baronet's brain,
until he was no longer master of himself.
He accepted the post without even consulting
his wife in the matter, and made
immediate arrangements for going up to
town and purchasing every sort of weapon
and equipment necessary for his expected
experiences. Lord Laurence Grantham
(as enthusiastic a sportsman as himself)
was to accompany him as his private
secretary, and much good might Sovoor-
anooko expect to derive from their united
services whilst a head of game remained
within range of their rifles.

On first hearing the news of her husband's
appointment, Fenella naturally supposed
she was to accompany him.

But will Sovooranooko be a good place

to take baby to ? ' she demanded timidly.
Do you think the climate will agree with
her, Gilbert ? '

My dear girl, what are you dreaming of ?
Drag a baby and suite after me into the
centre of Africa ? I'd as soon think of
introducing a gorilla into your London
drawing-room.'

But how can I leave her behind, so
young as she is ? ' she asked him.

I don't wish you to leave her behind.
I should no more think of risking your
health than I should that of the child.
No, my dear Fenella, this is not an expedition
for women and children. Grantham
and I shall spend half our time in the
jungle, and what would you do without
society, grilling away on the burning plains
of Sovooranooko ? It would kill you both.'

But if it is so dangerous a climate,
why do you go there, Gilbert . ' she exclaimed,
with a sudden outburst of affection.
' Why should you leave us for years,
to hold an appointment which you do not

require, and from which you may never
return ? '

Sir Gilbert had to consider for a moment
why he did do this thing, before he could
answer his wife's question.

Well, the reason, my dear, is obvious.
I certainly do not actually require the
appointment, nor do I admire the climate ;
but still it is a great honour conferred
upon me, and my longing to have some
sport in Central Africa has always been
intense. In my position as governor of
Sovooranooko, I shall not only have
better opportunities of following the pursuit,
but be able to penetrate farther and
with greater security than I should otherwise
be able to do. But as for my
remaining away for years, that is nonsense.
There is no necessity for me to
go at all, and I can resign the appointment
whenever I feel inclined.'

Janie says, when you once get there, it
is a question whether you will ever come
back again,' said Fenella.

Janle knows nothing about it. We
certainly cannot commence following up
the large game until a particular season of
the year ; but I shall not remain out there
a minute longer than I find it pay me todo
so. Meanwhile, Fenella, there is no
need for you to mope. You will be a
great deal with my sister, I hope, when
you are in London ; and the autumn you
will spend at the sea-side, or wherever
pleases you. Perhaps the Marjorams may
ask you down to Southfield for Christmas.
I am sure they will, if you evince the
slightest disposition to join them. But
since Dr Mckenzie advises your going
to some warmer place for the next few
months, I shall not leave England until
I have seen you comfortably settled at
Nice, or wherever you like best.'

From the extreme cold of Scotland
Fenella had developed a cough after her
baby's birth. Had she been an ordinary
patient it would have been treated with
syrup of squills, but in the position of Sir

Gilbert Conroy's wife the family doctor
considered it necessary to prescribe a visit
to the south coast to expedite her cure ;
and, after some deliberation, Hyeres in
France was chosen for her temporary
sojourn.

Sir Gilbert would have had his wife
travel with a courier, and a flunky, and
a couple of women, and engage the best
suite of rooms in the best hotel. He
was a man who loved pomp and show,
and if there was an ungentlemanly trait in
his character, it was his weakness to bethought
a very big person, and to have
everything belonging to him in equal
style. Fenella pleaded hard to be excused
the courier and the flunky, for neither
of whom she had the slightest use ; but she
took Bennett and her lady's-maid with her,
and permitted her husband to establish
them in the hotel at Hyeres, and impress
the proprietor and attendants with a sense
of the importance of Miladi Conroy, and
the necessity that she should be supplied

with everything that was best and most
expensive. And thus, having fulfilled the
very letter of the law as a husband and
protector, Sir Gilbert gave Fenella unlimited
credit at his banker's, and parted
with her as carelessly as if he had been
running into the country for a fortnight's
fishing.

His wife felt very lonely after he was
gone  still more so when she heard that
he had left England in the Cape steamer,
and was on his way to Sovooranooko.
She began to wish she had not left
Conroy Castle, or that she had asked her
sister-in-law to receive her as a guest at
Southfield. But the Earl and Countess
were paying a round of visits, and she
would have been almost as lonely in either
of those places as at Hyeres. Then her
lady's - maid (who had never been a
favourite with Fenella) began to give her
trouble. She was an independent, freeborn
Britisher, and not disposed to fall
in kindly with any of the ways of ' them

nasty furrlners.' She complained of the
food and the accommodation ; she couldn't
abide ' to see the Invalids who had come to
Hyeres (perhaps only to die) being dragged
about In their wheel-chairs ; and she didn't
understand ' upper ' servants being put to
one side by ' nurses,' and such like  which
being interpreted, meant that the lady's-maid
was jealous of the confidences reposed
In Bennett by her mistress.

His her ladyship required her services,
would she be good enough to say so ? and
his her ladyship didn't, would she be good
enough to let her go ? '

When It came to this pointed appeal,
Fenella found she could do very much
better without her.

Do send her away, my dear lady,'
whispered Bennett. ' I can do everything
that you and the baby require ; and she's
always got her ear at the keyhole, listening
to every word we say.'

So the lady's-maid (much to her surprise
and annoyance) was dismissed from

Lady Conroy's service, and sent back to
England ; and shortly after her departure
Fenella removed from the hotel, and took
a lovely little cottage standing in Its own
garden, on the outskirts of the town, where
Bennett, and a fille de qtiartier hired In
Hyeres, rendered her all the assistance
she required.

These may appear to be trifling and
unnecessary details, but they exerted a
strong influence upon her future conduct.
Here, in this solitude, with no society but
that of Eliza Bennett and her little infant,
Fenella lapsed into very low spirits. Her
life had become calm and contented, but
it was not sufficiently happy to bear the
strain of her own thoughts, without the
outward distraction of cheerful company
and lively surroundings. Left to herself,
she was too apt to dream ; and dreaming
revealed a state of mind that half frightened
her. She was sadly disappointed, too, at
Sir Gilbert leaving her for Sovooranooko,
although she would not acknowledge it,

even to herself. But she had begun to
lean upon the fact that he was her husband
; to misconstrue the courtesy and
deference (which he would have shown
to any woman) as marks of love for herself,
and to deceive her own heart into
the belief that she loved him in return.
And yet he had left her for an indefinite
period, whilst he ran all the risks attendant
on an unhealthy climate and a dangerous
pursuit ; and Fenella could not help recognising
her true place in his estimation.
She was Lady Conroy, his wife, and the
possible mother of his heir  that was all.
As for the poor little girl in the cradle,
he had not even looked at her before he
went away. She was a female, of no consequence
at all in his family tree ; that she
was her mother's child gave her no individual
claim upon her father's heart.
But the little Valeria (now three months
old) was daily becoming more engaging In
Fenella's eyes, who thought that a lovelier
specimen of babyhood had never existed.



And she was partly right. The infant was
unusually large and fat for her age  too
much so, indeed, for health, as the sequel
proved. For one day, as the little creature
was lying, flushed and rosy in her sleep,
she was seized (without the slightest warning)
with a convulsion, from which she
never recovered. Bennett (who had frequently
seen infants in fits before) plunged
her at once into a warm bath, and held her
there until the convulsions had ceased.
But when they were over, life was over
too. The beautiful baby had closed her
blue eyes upon this world for ever, and
Bennett was forced to break the intelligence
to her mistress. The Fille de qttar-
tier was sent frying into Hyeres for a
doctor, but he only arrived to confirm the
nurse's opinion. The spirit of the little
child was gone beyond recall  ' if he could
be of any other use to Miladi he would be
but too happy, but as for this' shrugging
his shoulders, ' he was accombU with regret
to say it  but no one could help Miladi here!

VOL. II. s

It was some time before Fenella could
be made to believe that her infant was
really dead. But when the doctor had
departed, and the little body was laid
out, stiff and white, upon the bed, her
agony was overwhelming.

There is a curse upon me, Bennett,'
she cried, as she fell, sobbing, on her
knees beside the corpse. ' God is still
angry with me ! I shall never be the
mother of a living child!'

No, no ! my dear lady ; don't say
that, for it isn't the truth. Oh, if I
only dared to tell you ! ' said Bennett, with
the tears streaming down her own face.

You cannot tell me anything to give
me comfort,' replied Fenella, as she
rocked herself to and fro. ' They all
leave me ; no one stays with me ! I
believe I am doomed to live and die
alone! What had I, nurse  whom had
I  but this little child } and God has
taken even her away ! Oh ! it is cruel
it is cruel of Him! He might have

left me one of them, just to save my
heart from breaking ! '

The servant, who was almost as upset
as her mistress, sat by her side all night
long, and never left her for one moment
to herself.

On the evening of the next day
(according to the custom of that part
of the country) Fenella's child was
buried, and the little house seemed as
if it had died itself  it was so empty and
still and forlorn.

Lady Conroy had wept until her sight
was dull and her face sodden ; she had
paced up and down the room until she
had nearly fainted from fatigue and
want of nourishment ; but still she could
not rest. She moved about incessantly,
with dry eyes, but burning cheeks,
recalling every incident in her baby's
short life which could increase her grief
and heighten her despair. At last she
made a dart at her blotting-case.

I cannot write to Sir Gilbert,' she

said, ' until I have heard of his arrival
at Sovooranooko ; but I must let Lady
Marjoram know the news at once. They
would never forgive me if I kept them
in ignorance of such an event. Though
I don't suppose any of them will care if
she is alive or dead. No one loved her
but myself. My darling little Valeria !
my poor lost baby ! '

She sat down with the blotting-book
in her hand, and burst into a fresh flood
of tears. This was the moment Bennett
had been watching for. As the tempest
of Fenella's orrlef subsided, she found her
faithful dependant close at hand.

Don't write this evening, my darling
child,' she said affectionately ; ' you ain't
fit for it. Let it be till tomorrow, for
there's something as I want to tell you.'

Tell it me afterwards, dear Bennett.
Let me write my letters first,' pleaded
Fenella. ' It will do me good to have
some occupation. Besides, we must leave
this place, nurse. I can't stay here, now

my baby's gone. I should fancy I heard
her voice crying every minute.'

Yes, yes ! my dear lady,' replied
Bennett soothingly ; ' and you know as
you can do exactly as you choose in all
things. Only there's something as I
want to tell you, my dear, and I've
wanted to tell it you for months and
months past, only I didn't dare ; but the
time's come now, I'm sure, and I don't
feel as if I should do right to keep it
to myself any longer. I think it will bea
comfort to you, and yet how to begin
the story I don't know.'

The woman's manner was so earnest
and yet full of mystery, as she walked to
the door and locked it, lest they should be
interrupted, that Fenella's curiosity was
immediately aroused.

Nurse, what is it you can have to tell
me that requires so much preparation ? Is
it anything to do with poor mamma ? *

'Well, it has and it hasn't. Miss
Fenella ; and I expect you'll be so surprised,

you'll hardly believe as I'm telling
you the truth. But you mustn't blame me,
my dear, for I can call Heaven to witness
as I never did anything in this world but
what I thought was for your good.'

What on earth is it ? ' cried Fenella, as
the blotting-case slid to the ground. ' I
begin to be frightened, nurse. Surely it
cannot be more bad news for me ? '

No, no, my lamb. I think you'll say
as it's good news, and I am sure you will
say I am right to tell it you. Do you
remember the time, Miss Fenella, when
you was so ill at Sainte Pauvrette ?*

Lady Conroy shuddered.

Ah, Bennett, as if I could ever forget
it ! It is the one great black spot in my
life.'

Your mamma told you then, miss, as
your baby was dead, and you cried bitterly
for it's loss, didn't you ? '

The tears streamed afresh down Fen-ella's
face. The old wound had recalled
the new.

Oh yes, I did ! My poor wee baby
that never saw the Hght ! God might
have left me this one (oughtn't He,
nurse ?) just to help me to forget the
other.'

And what should you say, my dear,'
continued Bennett, as she softly stroked
the girl's hand ; ' what should you say,
now, if I was to tell you as your first baby
the baby that was born at Sainte Pauvrette
 was still alive ? '

Lady Conroy half sprung from her seat,
and stared into the servant's face incredulously.


But my mother  my mother's she
panted, ' told me it was born dead  that
it never even breathed on entering the
world ! '

My mistress didn't tell the truth then.
Miss Fenella  God forgive her ! That
child was born alive, and is living now.'

But I never saw it, nurse ! I never
heard it cry ! '

I daresay not, my dear, or you don't

remember It. But you were raving with
fever all the time, and the baby was safe
in England long before you came to your
senses again

But you showed me her grave ! ' continued
Lady Conroy, with eyes wide open
with surprise. ' You pointed out a little
mound to me in Salnte Pauvrette churchyard,
and told me my poor baby lay beneath
it, and I left violets and primroses
there for her sake.'

My dear, I did ; and I'm not going to
deny it. They was your poor mamma's
orders, and I obeyed them, as I've obeyed
many an order of hers that's laid on my
conscience since. But It was untrue,
Miss Fenella. I took your dear baby
myself to England the very day she was
born, and she's living there to this hour.
And that's God's truth, my lamb, if I
never utter another word on this side the
grave ! '

Fenella stood still and silent for one
moment, as if to try and grasp the truth

of this unexpected revelation. Then with
a cry of indignation she bounded to her
feet.

And 77iy mother did this ! ' she exclaimed.
* My mothers, who brought me
into the world, and knew all that I had
suffered ! She stepped into the place of
God and bereaved me of my child ! How
did she dare to do it ? ' she went on
fiercely, as she confronted Eliza Bennett.
How did you dare to uphold her in such
a falsehood ? What right had you to
conspire together to steal my child from
me  his child  and leave me to the desolation
and despair that followed ? How
did you dare  how did you dare todo
it ? '

She paced up and down the room as
she spoke, alarming Bennett beyond
measure by her heightened colour and
rapid utterance.

Say what you like to me, Miss Fen-ella,'
she replied piteously ; ' I daresay I
did very wrong, though I acted under

orders. But don't go to blame your dear
mamma as is a saint in heaven. She
did it for the best, my dear ; she
thought to save you the shame and the
distress it might prove in after-years.
We talked a deal together about it
before we decided what to do, but the
little one's been safe and well with my
sister Martha ever since, and you'll be
able to see her now whenever you like.
And oh ! do stop walking in that fashion,
my dear, for if you fall ill, I shall never
forgive myself for having told you ; but I
thought maybe it might be a comfort for
you to hear, now that the other dear
baby's gone.'

Fenella stopped short, and flung herself
on her knees by the old woman's side.

It ?> a comfort, clear Bennett,' she said ;
but tell me the truth  don't deceive meany
more  is she really alive ? '

She is alive, my dear. She's a poor
creature, as might be expected, brought
up by hand ; but she's alive and well.'

And what is she Hke, nurse ? Oh, tell
me what my child is like.'

She ain't so good-looking as the angel
that's gone, Miss Fenella, but I should
think she'd take after you when she fills out
a bit. She's very backward, poor lamb ;
she can't say a word, and she's got no
use of her legs. But Marcia's took every
care of her, and couldn't love her better
if she were her own.'

And  and  does Martha know that
she belongs to ene, nurse ? ' asked Lady
Conroy hesitatingly.

Bless your heart, no ! Do you think
I'd go to pull down the family in that way,
Miss Fenella? In course not! I said
'twas a child belonging to a friend of my
mistress, and they didn't ask no questions.
Why should they ? They've been paid
regular ever since.'

Who has paid them, Bennett '. '

Well, your dear mamma did up to her
death, my lady, and since that your ten-pound
note has kept them going till such

time as I could make up my mind to tell
you the truth.'

Oh, if I could see her ! if I could
only see her ! ' cried Fenella, clasping her
hands.

My dear, I don't see why you shouldn't,
and that's why I wanted to tell you my
story before you wrote to Lady Marjoram.'


What has that to do with it, Bennett ?
I couldn't tell her, you know.'

I should think not ! You'll be very soft
if you tell any one now. Let the matter
rest between you and me, my dear. But
ain't it next to a moral certainty as Sir
Gilbert will be out in that African place
for some years ? '

I believe so. For two or three years,
without doubt, unless some accident sends
him home.'

Well, then, Miss Fenella, I'd risk
it!'

'Risk what, Bennett ? '

I'd have that baby home in place of the

one that's gone, and trust to his never
finding out the difference.'

Nurse ! what are you thinking of ?
My first baby must be fifteen months old
by this time.'

I know she is, my dear, and of course
you couldn't manage it if you was in England,
or Sir Gilbert likely to come home
soon. But she's a puny little thing, you
must be prepared for that ; and though you
couldn't pass her off now for a baby of
three months, I warrant that when she's
three years you will be very well able to
pass her off as a child of two. And Sir
Gilbert is not a gentleman to fuss over
children, you know. He'll never put his
foot in the nursery if he can help it. I
believe you might bring up half-a-dozen
there without his being any the wiser.'

Lady Marjoram . ' faltered Fenella.

I'll manage the Countess, my dear.
You see, if you fall in with my notion,
you must say the baby's delicate, and
leave her with me when you go to London

for the season. Lady Marjoram will
never trouble you with any questions
about her.'

Oh, if I could  if I only could ! ' cried
the mother, with a new hope beaming in
her eyes. ' My poor neglected baby ! my
poor fatherless lamb ! I 77iust have her
back again.'

It would do my heart good to see her
in your arms said Bennett, 'for it smites me
every time I go to Ines-cedwyn and look
at the poor little thing. For 'ain't /r
fault, you see. Miss Fenella ; she ain't the
one to blame, pretty dear ; and it seems
terrible hard she should grow up without
any one to love her as she has a claim
to, and no more knowledge than can begot
in Ines-cedwyn.'

She never shall ! ' exclaimed Lady
Conroy ; ' I will claim her and look after
her, even if I am not able to bring her
up by my side. Bennett ! Bennett ! ' she
continued, in a lower voice, as she
pulled the old woman's face close down to

her own, ' tell me, dear Bennett, Is she
at all like Imnf

Lor' ! Miss Fenella, why should you
go to ask me such a thing ? I'm sure I
don't know, my dear, and I hopes, for your
sake, as she's not, for you ought to have
forgotten all about him long and long ago.*

Lady Conroy hid her face in the servant's
bosom.

Oh yes ! I know I ought, and I think I
have too (nearly, that is to say), only this
stirs it up, you see, Bennett  it stirs it up.'

But has it comforted you, my dear
lady, or have I made matters worse by
my chattering ? '

No, no! May God Almighty bless
you, Bennett, for having told me that my
baby lives. It has comforted me as
nothing else in this world could have
done. It has almost reconciled me to
giving back the other one to Heaven.

THE INDISSOLUBLE LINK.

Child of my love ! essence of all things fair,
Sweet outcome of my happy, hopeful youth,
Sweet mem'ry of thy father's passionate truth,
Come nearer ; let me feel that thou art there.
Give me thy hand  'twas thus I held his own ;
Look in my eyes  'twas thus I gaz'd in his ;
Kiss me for him  one fervent, long-drawn kiss 
And tell me that we part for earth alone.'

OW will it be possible to aden
ir, i lately describe Fenella s 
kings at this juncture, so as to
make those who read of them judge her
leniently ? No mani could do it ; no man
could even understand the emotions that
passed through her mind, or enter into
the passion that actuated her conduct.

A man must stand on one side and be
dumb. And neither could a woman, unless
she had been a mother, and received
back her child, as It were, from the dead ;
even a woman must have passed through
similar circumstances before she could
comprehend the difficult position In which
Fenella was placed. Picture her wild surprise
on hearing that the child of her love
the child of the man whom she could not
forget  still lived, and was dependent on
her ; that somewhere In this wide world
It stretched tiny arms to the empty air,
yearning for a mother's tenderness ; and
then think of the Impossibility of her
telling the secret to any one  of the
impossibility of her having the Infant
with her at all unless she stooped to a
deception which seemed innocent beside
the crime of disowning It. Once made
aware of Its existence, Fenella could not
close her eyes to her responsibility. She
could not have done it under any circumstances,
for her heart was that of a true

VOL. II. T

mother, and she would have gone forth
into the world, if needful, with her 
her arms, and supported it by the
most menial of labour, sooner than have
confided it any longer to the care of
strangers.

But there was another motive working
in her breast, a motive for which the
world (who embraces coroneted courtesans)
will be the most ready to condemn
her,  she loved the father of her child
with every fibre of her heart. It washer
greatest sin, this impossibility to be
faithless and forget. Let it be written
down against her. This is not the history
of a saint. It only professes to bethe
record of an erring woman's life.

But Fenella did not intend at first to
follow Bennett's suggestion in all its
details. It is questionable, indeed, if she
ever intended to do so, for she was
true by nature (as has already been
pointed out), and it was only the greater
passion fighting against the lesser that

made her untrue to her nature now. It
is the same with all of us when brought
face to face with the greatest difficulties
of our lives  the master-passion (whichever
it may be) prevails. And Fenella's
master-passion  whether it demonstrated
itself in one phase or another  was love.

When the wonder and the surprise of
the revelation had somewhat subsided 
when she had heard every detail that
the nurse could give her of the circumstances
under which her infant had been
placed in the charge of Martha Bennett,
and was thoroughly convinced that there
was a living being dependent upon her
alone for care and support and affection
in the future, then all the mother's
love came welling forth, and Fenella felt
as if she could not rest until she held
her child in her arms.

Bennett did not fail to improve the
occasion. Her conscience had sorely upbraided
her for taking part in the deception
even from the beginning, but she had

been a tool in the hands of Mrs Barrington,
and had simply done as her mistress
commanded her. But the spell was
broken now ; the magnetic chain which
the frivolous woman of fashion seemed to
have woven about the will of her dependant
was snapt in two, and Eliza Bennett
could once more think and speak for herself
She Impressed the truth on Lady
Conroy that, if she was ever to act in the
matter, it must be then ; that next year,
even next month, might be too late ; and
that it would give her Incalculable trouble,
and the child incalculable disadvantages
(not only now, but in the future), if she
were not brought up by her side.

Just think what she may be, fifteen or
twenty years hence, my lady. Why, the
very thought makes me shudder ! Even
if you was to give her the best of homes
and education, where is she to go when
she's a grown lady ?  for a lady she is, my
dear, and nothing can't unmake her that.
And for my part, it seems a moral duty tome

that you should have her home ; and,
if I may make so bold as to say it, God
Almighty seems to have paved the way for
you Himself.'

I intend to reclaim her, Bennett ; don't
have any fear of that. Do you think I
could be so cruel and cowardly as to leave
my own little child, that I brought into the
world, to grow up without knowing that I
am her mother . ' exclaimed Fenella. * Oh
no ! it is only the means of doing it that
perplexes me. It can never be justifiable
to deceive, you know. And if they should
ever find it out  '

Well, my dear, I shouldn't worry myself
about that matter now ; and you can
do as you think best with respect to Sir
Gilbert afterwards. There can never be
no call for you to tell Lady Marjoram,
surely.'

Oh no, no ! '

Take a week or two to think over it,'
suggested the servant ; ' second thoughts
is always best. And meanwhile I can

294 Tie Indissoluble Link.

fetch the Httle one, that you may have a
look at her.'

Fenella's eyes sparkled with a sudden
joy.

But when, Bennett  when ? How soon
can you go ? '

You won't have her here Miss Fenella,'
said the woman dubiously.

I'll do just what you think best.'

I'd like you to move farther on, my
dear  to some place where you are not
likely to meet any of your fine friends ; and
then when your settled, I'll go over quietly
and brine the child back with me.'

We will go to St Pre,' said Lady Con-roy
; * there is no one there at this time of
the year.'

She was burning with anxiety to clasp
her baby in her arms. She would have
stripped herself of every earthly possession
to attain her object. She could think of
nothing else until it was accomplished.

Yet the time which Fenella passed alone
in the little auberge of St Pre, during the

two or three days that her servant was
necessarily absent in England, was one of
great perplexity to her. A dozen plans
for telling the truth, and yet keeping her
first-born by her side, darted into her mind,
and had to be as summarily rejected. Her
husband knew every particular of her former
history  of that she felt certain  it
had never entered her head for a moment
that it could be otherwise ; but, of course,
Mrs Barrington had told him the same
falsehood she did to herself, and he believed
the baby to be dead. What would he say
if he were told it lived ? Would he not
order her never to see it again, never to
speak of it  to bury the fact of its existence
in oblivion, as he had desired her to
bury the remembrance of its birth ? And
Fenella felt this was what she could not do.
A chord had been struck in her breast
which vibrated through her whole body.
Her child lived ! The life that was one
with hers had not been quenched, and
whilst it existed they must exist together.

Yet she could not make up her mind what
to do, and she put the question from her
as something to be settled in the future.
But she did not write to announce the
death of little Valeria to Lady Marjoram,
and so the first thread was woven of the net
in which her life was to become entangled.

On the evening on which she had
been led to expect Bennett back again
from Ines-cedwyn, Lady Conroy behaved
like a wild creature. Her suspense, her
agitation, her anxiety were so extreme,
that she was compelled to go and lock
herself into her own room, that she might
be able to pace the floor, and laugh, and
cry, and talk to herself, as she felt inclined,
without the fear of making the inmates of
the aitbeige say she had gone mad. At
last, after hours of restless expectation,
Fenella heard a bustle on the stairs,
accompanied by a fretful cry. She threw
open her bedroom door, and stood panting
on the threshold.

Give her to me ! ' she cried impetuously,

as Bennett approached with a bundle
in her arms.

Oh, my lady, be careful ! you'll frighten
the child to death.'

But Fenella was not in a condition to
listen to any advice. She hastily tore open
the shawl that enveloped the infant, and met
the gaze of two startled blue eyes, shaded by
dark lashes ; a little white face, hardly bigger
than that of the child she had just lost, surrounded
by rings of silky brown hair ; and a
sad drooping mouth that had just puckered
Itself up for another cry. She pounced upon
the baby like a tigress on its prey, and
clasped her vehemently to her bosom.

Take care, my dear ; pray take care,'
repeated the servant fearfully. ' Don't forget
she's just come off a long journey, and
everything is strange to her.'

But the mother had got the child's face
close to her own ; she saw nothing but the
child  she heard nothing but the throbbing
of her own heart beneath which God had
called it into being.

#

 Baby! she murmured, In a soft, tremulous
voice ; ' baby, do you know I am
your mother ? '

The sweet pathos in her tones attracted
the Httle one's attention. She
had just been going to cry, but she
thought better of it, and smiled instead.

She knows me ! ' Fenella cried triumphantly.
* She recognises me, nurse. She
sees something in my face she has been
waiting for.'

'Bless her heart!' said Eliza Bennett,
with the stereotyped nursery benediction,
she's been good as gold all the way coming
over, and Martha was finely put out
parting with her, I can tell you ; but I
said as her mamma had come back from
the Indies, and wanted to look after her
herself. And I give her the money you
sent, my dear, and she considered it
most handsome, and she hopes that the
child's things (such as they are) will be
found in decent order ; but, of course,
it's little she's been able to do for her

that way, for what your dear mamma
paid her, though ample, didn't leave
much and above over for clothes. But
we'll soon put that to rights, won't we,
my lady ? It'll be quite a pleasure tome
to dress the little dear in decent
things. But she is a rare little one 
ain't she now ? '

Bennett might have gone on talking
till doomsday, for Fenella was not listening
to a word she said. Her eyes, dim
with unshed tears, were riveted upon
the child, who lay in her arms, passive
and contented, as if she knew where
she had got to. Suddenly the blue eyes
glistened, the tiny fingers were stretched
upward, and in another moment had
firmly grasped a gold locket which had
escaped from the bosom of Fenella's
dress. The last pledge that Geoffrey
Doyne had given her, in token of his unalterable
fidelity, lay in the hands of his
child. At that sight Lady Conroy's tears
fell like rain. She turned her face aside,

and hid it In the cushion of the sofa
upon which she was seated.

You have been unfaithful to me,' she
murmured Inwardly ; * you left me without
a thought whether I might not be
destroyed, body and soul, by your desertion
; but I will not desert your
child. Whatever may happen to me inconsequence
 whatever I may lose, or
give up, or have to resign, I pledge
myself here to redeem as much of my
past as Is possible to me, by devoting
the rest of my life to the life you created.
O Geoffrey ! Geoffrey ! why did you not
take mine before you laid this burden
on my soul ? '

Bennett perceived that Fenella was
weeping, and came at once to the
rescue.

Now, my lady, please, we mustn't
have anything of this sort. I shall be
sorry I've brought the baby over here,
if she's to be a misery to you instead of
a comfort. Lor' ! what has she got now ?

That there nasty locket ! I thought there
was something of that kind In the wind.
Now, my Httle dear, you please to give
that up, and come to Bennett. 'Twould
have been a deal better for your poor
mamma if she'd never seen the trumpery
thing, nor the one as give It to her
neither. Come, my lady, let me take her,
and you rest yourself on the sofa, whilst
I feed her and put her to bed. She'll
sleep without rocking to-night, I warrant.'

But Fenella would not be parted from
her new-found treasure. Together the
women undressed and washed the Infant,
and put It to sleep In the nurse's bed.
And late that night, when the Inmates
of the little hotel had long retired, and
Eliza Bennett thought that her mistress
too was wrapt In slumber, a white-robed
figure stole softly to her side, and a low
voice whispered, 

Is she sleeping, nurse ? Has she
taken her food ? Are you sure she Is
quite comfortable and well ? '

Bless you, yes ! my lady. The dear
child's sleeping like an angel ! Just look
at her little face upon the piller. Ain't
she like a little wax doll  the pretty dear !
But do go back to your bed, Miss Fenella,
for you'll get your death of cold standing
about these nasty painted boards.'

I'll go back directly, nurse ; but couldn't
you bring her and lay her by my side ? I
think I could go to sleep if I knew that
she was there.

Lor' ! my dear, you'd never rest with a
baby in your bed. It's terrible, till you're
used to them.'

I think I could  and I would like to
try ; do wrap a shawl round her and bring
her to me. You don't know how my heart
does ache ! I think if I had my baby
next it, it would be a little comfort to me.'

Bennett did not attempt any further
remonstrance, but lifting up the sleeping
child, carried it into the next room and
laid it by its mother's side. And when
she crept in again towards the early morning

or, to see how they both fared, she found
them in the same position and fast asleep,
the infant's tiny face nestled in Fenella's
bosom. The servant stood and gazed at
them until her eyes filled with tears.

Well,' she thought to herself, ' if to
bring them two together is a sin, may
God forgive me ! but I can't see it. Poor
little mite ! don't she look as if she'd got
home at last ? And my sweet young lady,
too, is dreaming a happy dream with that
smile upon her lips. May God bless 'em
both ! And if any harm comes of it, I'll
work to keep 'em to my life's end.'

And Fenella too, with this new legitimate
love awakened in her bosom at the
very moment when it felt so empty and
so cold, was ready to resign the world
itself, if necessary, sooner than give up
her child aoain. It seemed to her as if
she had never really known what it was
to be a mother until she clasped her in
her arms, and before she had regained
possession of her for a week her infant

had become her idol. She could not
bear her to go out of her sight ; she
was always in terror lest some ill should
happen to her ; and she spent her
days in studying the tiny features, and
watching the development of the tardily
awakening intellect. She was scarcely
ever out of her mother's arms ; day after
day Fenella's tall, lithe figure might be
seen traversing the broads and field
paths around St Pre, with the fragile
baby clasped to her breast ; and the affection
of the English lady for her little
child was the observation of every one.
And yet Fenella was not happy. In her
case the saying, ' Ce 7z est que le premier pas
qui route', was eminently true. In delaying
to write and announce the death of
Sir Gilbert's child to Lady Marjoram, she
had taken that first step which she would
never be able to retrace ; and as day
succeeded day, and the time drew near
for her return to London, she felt that
she must adopt Bennett's suggestion and

keep her own counsel, whether she wished
it or not, for there was no possibility of
disclosing the truth at that date.

When May arrived she parted from
her child with many tears, and leaving
it at St Pre under the charge of her
nurse and a French bonne, travelled to
England with her lady's - maid (a new
acquisition imported from Paris) to spend
the London season under the wing of her
sister-in-law.

Lady Marjoram was delighted to receive
Lady Conroy, and equally delighted
to hear that she had left the baby behind
her.

My dear, how sensible and nice you
are ! One would believe you were eight-and-twenty
instead of eighteen. I can't
tell you how I have been dreading the
advent of your nursery brigade  not, of
course, that they could make any difference
to me with my terrible tribe, only I
was afraid you'd be running upstairs to
see if the little animal was dead or alive

VOL. II. u

twenty times a-day, and wanting to stuff
it, with its nurse, on the back seat of the
carriage whenever we drove in the park,
and all that sort of thing. So interesting
you know, my dear, and so abominably
disagreeable ! '

I am afraid you must have a very
small idea of my common sense, Janie,*
replied Fenella, colouring. ' I confess I
was very sorry to leave my little girl
behind me, but I thought it best for
her  particularly as we shall be out, I
suppose, day and night.'

Indeed, we shall, Fenella. This promises
to be the gayest season we have
had for years. My engagement list is
something terrible to look at already.
By the way, the Culletons are going
to have a series of tableaux vivants
and private theatricals at Bothering
House in June and July, and I have
promised faithfully that you will assist
them. They want the loan of your voice,
too, for some amateur concerts. I hope

you have not neglected your singing
lately ? '

No ; I have had a piano wherever I
went, and practised assiduously, and I
intend to take another course of lessons
from Signor Possetrlna. By the way,
Janie, I have not yet shown you Gilbert's
last letter. He seems quite delighted
with Sovooranooko, and talks of having
me out there next year to judge of it
for myself.'

Don't you believe a word of that, my
dear ; It's only a sop for Cerberus. Bertie
has no more idea of having you out to
Sovooranooko than of coming home himself.
We had a letter from Lord Laurence
by last mail, and he says Bertie is mad
to get into the interior, and already organising
a shooting party to start as
soon as the cool weather commences.
He has got the Englishman's mania on
him to "kill something," Fenella, and
the best thing you can do is to let him
tire himself out. He'll get a grab from

a lion or a squeeze from a bear some
day, and come crying home to you to
kiss the place and make It well ; but he
won't come before. And what should
you want to go out to that horrid place
for  to lose your complexion and your
hair, and perhaps get the yellow fever,
or some pleasantry of that sort? Don't
you be so silly. You had better stay at
home with the baby than do that.'

Oh yes ! I don't want to leave my
baby,' cried the mother, with a sudden
thrill.

'Well, you couldn't take her with you,
so let's talk no more about It. Besides,
It Is time we went to dress. We have
a concert at the Duke of Doldrum's at
two.'

The next three months were spent by
Fenella In a round of dissipation, during
which she distinguished herself in theatricals
and at concerts, and heard her talents
talked of as much as her beauty had been
the year before.

But her heart and all her thoughts were
at St Pre. She required bulletins to be
sent her daily of the health and well-doing
of her child, and she bought every dainty
little garment or expensive toy she could
light upon, to decorate the body, or amuse
the mind, of her absent baby.

Lady Marjoram noticed this almost
feverish anxiety and restlessness on the
part of her sister-in-law concerning her
child, and laughed at it. 'It was very
becoming,' she said patronisingly, and
just as it ought to be, she wished she
could get up the same sort of excitement
about her own brats. It gave one
such a pretty flush to be anxious, and
one's eyes looked so quick and bright
about the time that the post was expected.


But for all that. Lady Marjoram did
not quite believe in the genuineness of
Fenella's concern, and she could no more
have entered into her real feelings respecting
her child than she could sympathise

with Sir Gilbert's exultation at bringing
down an elephant. The one sensation
was as much a sealed book to her as the
other. However, as soon as the season
was over, Lady Conroy flew to the side
of her child again, and shed tears of real
joy, because it held out arms of welcome
as soon as it recognised her.

The Earl and Countess of Marjoram
were bound for Norway that year, and as
soon as they had left England, Fenella
brought her little party over, and established
them in a lovely Devonshire village
by the sea, where she spent all her days
upon the beach with the little Valeria in
her arms. For the infant who had been
unbaptized when restored to its mother,
had of course to be called by the name of
the one whose place she assumed.

And here it was, whilst yielding herself
up to the softening influence which nature
generally exerts on a mind fitted to perceive
and appreciate her beauties, and
whilst watching the daily growing resemblance

to her father in the face of her Httle
child, that Fenella began to have gentler
and more generous thoughts of Geoffrey
Doyne. For since the day on which she received
the shock of hearing of his marriage,
the remembrance of him had been fraught
with torture to her. He had never come
into her mind but to suggest something
that was most cruel and heartless and
untrue. She had tried to shut out the
memory even of the time she knew him,
as of some horrible dream that to dwell
upon would madden her. But now, as
little Valeria's baby lips met hers, as she
watched her toddle feebly from one spot
to another, as she heard her faltering
tongue trying to frame the syllables
of ' mother,' the child's angel whispered
to her thoughts of forgiveness
and of mercy, and from the child's eyes
there beamed a look that softened her
recollection of the past.

In fancy, Fenella saw again the flowery
landslip, strewn with fallen petals  fallen

ike her hopes ! she saw the golden sands,
the ruined bungalow, the stretch of
placid sea, and blue unclouded sky ; and
then above, beyond them all, in beauty
and in pleasantness, the smile, the look,
the tones of Geoffrey Doyne. And she
began to make excuses for him  she,
who had called him (and justly) by all
sorts of hard and ugly names, whose
life had been ruined by his desertion 
she began to wonder if some dark mystery
might not lie at the bottom of his apparent
cruelty ; whether he could have been told
falsehoods of her, or been forced into that
marriage that broke her heart ; whether
he might not believe that she was dead,
or had refused ever to see or speak to him
again. A hundred reasons, all equally
vague and improbable, floated through
Fenella's mind as she attempted, in her
loving generosity, to account for as dastardly
a piece of cruelty as ever a man
employed to wreck a woman's life.

She could not satisfy herself. Her own

nature was too true to accept any excuse
for his conduct, still less for the silence
which preceded and followed it ; yet she
tried so hard,  for baby s sake' she would
say to herself with quivering lips, to make
out the father of her child less undeserving
than he was.

But often (after Fenella had been thinking
thus for hours) she would catch her
infant in her arms and sob over it in so
piteous a manner, that the little creature
would weep with terror. And then Fen-ella
would soothe it, and kiss it, and sing
to it, until it smiled again, and whisper
in its ear that its mother would always
love it for its father's sake, although he
had trampled on her heart as if it had
been the ground beneath his feet.

Meanwhile, the little Valeria grew
strong and fat, but still remained so tiny
that Bennett's prophecies concerning her
apparent age seemed likely to be verified,
and when the second London season
dawned upon the world, Fenella ventured

to send her with her nurses up to Con-roy
Castle, where she remained until her
mother could rejoin her.

Really, Fenella,' exclaimed Lady Marjoram,
'you are getting too absurdly
domestic! Why should you go and
bury yourself all alone In Scotland
with that child ? Why cannot you
spend the autumn at Southfield with
us ? I shall be horribly dull without
you.'

I thought, Janle, that as I had not
been at the castle all last year, and
Gilbert talks of returning in the spring,
he might consider it my duty to go and
look after the place a little.'

My dear girl, what rubbish ! Who
do you suppose looked after it all the
years before he met you ? Bertie was
never there, except for the shooting. He
was better employed elsewhere, I can tell
you. Now, do come down to Southfield
with me ! It will be a perfect charity.
And send for the child and nurses to

join you there, as I know you will not
come without her.'

No, I will not come without her,'
replied Fenella, smillnor ; and so Bennett
was written to, and In due course appeared
with her baby and her aide-de-camp
at Southfield.

And now, pray let us see this wonderful
baby,' exclaimed the Countess, on the
first day as they sat together after dinner.
Your devotion to her Is so extraordinary
that It has excited my curiosity. I expect
a rara avis. Give your orders, Fenella,
for Bennett to bring the young lady down
to dessert.'

Lady Conroy looked uneasy.

I think you had better not see her
now,' she said ; ' you don't like children,
and she is very shy with strangers, and
will most likely cry.'

Never mind ! if she cries, we'll send
her back again,' replied Lady Marjoram,
who always liked to have her own way.
I think it Is quite time I made the

acquaintance of my niece. Let me see !
How old is she ?'

Eighteen months,' said Fenella, in a
low voice.

Quite grown up, I declare,' laughed
her sister-in-law. ' Send for her at once.
The girls are so precocious now-a-days,
that at this rate she will be married before
I see her. '

The order was given, and in a few
minutes a tap was heard upon the diningroom
door, and Bennett entering, set
down with much pride upon the carpet a
tiny creature, dressed in lace and ribbons,
of about two feet high, who stood the
centre of attraction, looking with scared
and wistful eyes upon the strangers.

Baby ! ' said Fenella, in her sweet, low
voice.

The little figure fluttered like a 
butterfly, and then with a cry
of pleasure tottered to her mother's side,
and laid her curly head against her knee.
Fenella lifted her in her arms, and pressed

her glowing face in the folds of the infant's
frock.

What a little fairy cried the Countess.
* She looks as if she had just stepped,
ready dressed, out of the Soho Bazaar !
Marjoram ! why don't my children make
a rush at me like that ? Why do they
always hang back and stick their fingers
in their mouths, and their heads
in the nurse's apron ? Look at that
child ! stroking Fenella's face like a
grown being ! I should get quite fond
of a baby if it showed as much sense
as that.'

She has always been with me said
Fenella ingenuously.

That's it,' acquiesced the Earl. ' Lady
Conroy has nursed her child, and you
leave yours to a set of hirelings.'

'Hold your tongue, Marjoram ! you don't
know anything about it. How old did you
say she was, Fenella ? Can she talk ? '

*Very little, Janie. She can only say
mother," and " father," and " Bonnie.

 

And whom does she resemble ? Turn
her face round, my dear, that I may see
it,' continued Lady Marjoram.

Fenella grew crimson.

They say she is very like me,' she
answered, with a rapidly beating heart.

Not a bit of it,' cried the Countess.
She's the very image of Bertie ! The
hair's a trifle darker, perhaps, but that is
the only difference I can see. I shall
tell him so in my next letter. Well,
Bennett, you can take Miss Conroy away
now if you .like, and I think she is a
very fine little girl for her age, and does
you a great deal of credit.'

Thank you, my lady,' replied the
servant, as she disengaged the clinging
arms from about her mistress's neck,
and conveyed little Valeria out of sight
again.

After that interview Fenella's heart
grew secure, and she took her child
about with her wherever she went.

Since she had passed the crucible of

Lady Marjoram's scrutiny, she considered
that all risk of discovery was over ; and
so much does custom become our second
nature, that at times Fenella almost forgot
what she had done, and detected
herself waking with a start, to remember
that Valeria was not Sir Gilbert Conroy s
child. That is, she contrived to lull her
uneasy conscience to sleep respecting the
deception she had practised, so long as
it seemed to concern no one but herself.
But the day arrived when the person who
had been most injured by the transaction
reappeared upon the scene, and from that
moment the heart of Fenella reasserted
itself, and refused to be quieted by any
specious arguments that tried to make a
wrong thing look as if it were right.

With the return of spring came Sir
Gilbert Conroy from Sovooranooko. He
had not resigned his appointment, but he
required change of air and relaxation, and
had procured so many months' leave to
England in consequence. He came back

accompanied by his private secretary, and
laden with the spoils of the chase, in excellent
humour with the world, his wife,
himself, and everybody belonging to him.
But with the first kiss of welcome he
bestowed upon her, all Fenella's fancied
serenity fled like a dream, and for the
first time she saw what she had done in
its true light.

CHAPTER I.

AGAIN,

PAGE
I

CHAPTER II.

FAILURE,



CHAPTER III.

NEMESIS,



CHAPTER IV.

A SEPARATION,



CHAPTER V.

A LAPSE OF TIME,



CHAPTER VI.

DRIFTED APART,



CHAPTER VII.

AU REVOIR, .



HOW THEY LOVED HIM.

CHAPTER I.

AGAIN.

Ever since that day  that fatal day 

My soul has known no rest. The venom'd shaft

Still rankles in my bosom.'  Crisp.

j|HE two years which he had
spent in Africa had had a great
effect upon the mind of Sir
Gilbert Conroy. His ready acceptance
of the governorship of Sovooranooko had
been a matter of much surprise to his
friends, but he had never confided (even
to Lady Marjoram) the reason for his
doing so. The fact is, he had not found

VOL. III. A

his marrlaoe with Fenella answer the
purpose for which he entered into it.
It has been said that at that time Sir
Gilbert had been for many years in the
toils of an unprincipled woman, from
whom he could not free himself. He
had been filling the unenviable post
(which so many men, otherwise men of
honour, can apparently reconcile it to
their consciences to fill) of lover to the
wife, and friend to the husband ; and
since the latter was fool enough (or
knave enough) to allow it, society glossed
the liason over, and only shrugged her
shoulders and smiled furtively when Mrs
Messiter's cher ami followed her into
ball or concert room. At last, however,
Sir Gilbert's better angel, or some happy
accident, revealed him to himself, and,
standing aghast at the discovery of his
own degraded position, he resolved to
abandon it. But this was easier said than
done. It is no slight task to break the
bonds of half a lifetime with discretion

and decency ; and finding that remonstrance,
and persuasion, and appeals to her
generosity to let him go free were of no
avail, he did what many a man has done
under similar circumstances,  he put another
woman between himself and his
abusive, reproachful, hysterical inamorata
he married Fenella Barrington. After
that, of course, there was nothing more
to be said or done. All applications
from Mrs Messiter were met by an
allusion to his wife. The lady saw that
the game was over, and soon turned her
attention to something more profitable.
And then (strange as it may appear to
those who are not versed in the contradictions
of the human heart) Sir Gilbert
became discontented, because the means
he had adopted to get rid of Mrs Messiter
had proved successful. He did not love
her. All the freshness and romance of
their attachment had died out years and
years before ; but he had grown used to
her society, and he missed it. Fenella,

with her childish ideas regarding men
and women, and her soft, melancholy
manner, was no substitute for the dashing
beauty who had known everybody
and everything, and was always in the
highest and boldest of spirits.

So Sir Gilbert had had this unworthy
regret gnawing at his heart during the
first year of his marriage. But 'he had
no intention of renewing his acquaintance
with Mrs Messiter, nor any desire todo
so. He recognised the fact that if
he saw her again, after having associated
with Fenella, he should be utterly disgusted
with her ways and manners ; and
he resolved to stamp out the last bonds
of her unholy thrall. It was with this
idea that he had so eagerly accepted the
government of Sovooranooko, and left
England and his young wife behind him.
He had hoped that the new scenes, and
the duties of his appointment, and the
excitement of sport might have the effect
of entirely eradicating the last faint lines

3f Mrs Messer's image from his mind,
and his hope had been raised. He
returned home a free man  free to value
his wife above all other women, and
to appreciate the grace and dignity with
which she supported the position to which
he had raised her. He found her also
wonderfully improved in appearance, or,
perhaps, his eyes were clearer now to
see the somewhat quiet beauties she had
always possessed.

But Fenella at twenty had fulfilled more
than the promise she had given at sixteen.
Her form had ripened to statuesque proportions
; she could not move an arm or
hand without displaying some new curve
of beauty ; and her skin was a marvel of
creamy white. Her features, too, had refined
and softened with the passing years.
Her face was a perfect oval ; her mouth
had a tender droop in it, and her eyes a
dreamy languor, which gave her a pensive
expression that won the hearts of all who
saw her ; and her sunny hair was piled

about her head in an easy classical fashion
that gave her the appearance of an
Olympian goddess. Dressed In white,
with the sunny fairness of her arms and
neck unveiled, Lady Conroy was always a
remarkable woman in a drawing-room, and
even her own sex would allow there was
something * very sweet ' about her. And
no less sweet did she appear when Sir Gilbert
came back, to find her, in a print dress
and a broad-brimmed hat, running about the
gardens of Conroy Castle with her baby.

Why, you've developed into a beauty,
Fenella,' he said to her admiringly, some
days after his arrival. * It is just as well
I have come home to look after you this
season, or you would have been setting up a
lover, like the majority of fashionable ladies.'

She blushed at the accusation.

Oh no, Gilbert ; you need not be afraid ;
I shall never do that.'

I trust not ; but upon my word you're
too pretty to be left to yourself. I don't
think I'll do It aoain, Fenella.'

I hope you won't. I have been very
lonely sometimes without you.'

Oh, you had that wonderful baby to
console you, and from what Janie wrote
me, you seem to have had no time nor
inclination to think of anybody else. But
she will never be a patch upon her
mother,' he continued, as little Valeria
toddled up to his side.

I hope she will be much, much better
than I have ever been,' said Fenella, in a
low voice. ' But you don't care for babies,
do you, Gilbert ? '

Yes, I do  at least when they are my
own. I can't say I take much interest in
this creature now, but I shall be proud of
her by-and-by, particularly if she grows
up like you. Come here, you imp of
mischief,' he cried playfully to the child,
who was trying to reach an ornament
from the table. ' Come and speak to
your father, and let him see if he can
find anything to like in you.'

But Fenella interposed between them.

She will worry you,' she said quickly,
as she rang the bell. ' She had better go
back to the nursery ; she is certain todo
some damage if she remains here any
longer.'

Why, you're growing quite a fashionable
mother, I declare,' laughed Sir
Gilbert, as the nurse carried the child
away. ' From what Janie said, I expected
to find a bassinette in the ,
and a rocking-horse in the
diningroom, and the whole household
assembled at stated periods (as if for
family prayers) to worship the rising sun.'

Janie talks such nonsense sometimes,'
replied Fenella, with a look of annoyance.
Because baby was delicate at one time,
and required my whole attention, she
imagines she will always claim it. But,
indeed, now that you have come home,
Gilbert, I will not allow her to be the
least annoyance to you. She shall live
in the nurseries, if you wish it to be so.'

No ; don't make me out a domestic

tant, Fenella. I shall like to see the
child at reasonable times as much as anybody.
Besides, I want her to grow fond
of me. I am afraid I have lone arrears to
make up in that particular.'

But although Sir Gilbert was sincere in
this assertion, and constantly asked for
the child to be brought downstairs, it
appeared to him as though his wife put
every obstacle she could in the way of
their meeting. Valeria was invariably
out of doors, or asleep, or having her
meals, at the very time Sir Gilbert wished
to see her, until at last he grew quite
annoyed on the subject, and accused
Fenella of jealousy, lest the baby should
grow to love him better than it did herself.
And Lady Conroy would refute the accusation,
and ring for the child at once in proof
of her sincerity ; and Valeria, with the
cunning of infancy, would see there was
something wrong between them, and be
wilful and naughty in consequence, and
the whole affair would end by Sir Gilbert

getting out of temper, and leaving the
mother and child by themselves. It was
after an occurrence of this sort that Bennett
one day found Fenella sobbing, face
downward, on her bed.

My dear lady, whatever's the matter . '
she exclaimed.

Oh, Bennett ! I must tell him  I mztst
tell him,' she replied.

Tell whom  tell zuhat, my dear ? '

I must tell Sir Gilbert about  about 
the child. I cannot keep the secret to
myself any longer ; it is tearing my very
heart out.'

Eliza Bennett looked very serious.

Miss Fenella, you'd surely never go to
make such a muddle as that, would you ?
What ! after all the pains and trouble we
took together ; and now at the very time
when our reward has come, to go and
spoil it all ! What can you be thinking
of?'

Bennett, he is so good to me  he is
so much kinder and more affectionate than

he was before he went away ; and I can't
bear to see him kissing Valeria and trying
to make her fond of him in return. It
drives me mad ! I never could stand it
for years and years together ; I should go
out of my mind.'

'And what do you propose to do then,
my dear ? ' said the nurse gravely.

I don't know  I can't tell ; I only feel
that I am miserable.'

And you'd go and tell Sir Gilbert as
the other one's gone, and turn that poor
sweet lamb  your own flesh and blood,
Miss Fenella, that's never done a wrong
thing in its life  out upon the world again
to fare as such children do,  God help
'em! Is that what you are wishing for,
my dear ? '

Oh no, no ! how could I ? My own
baby  his baby ! Nurse, don't torture me
by such a suggestion. You know that
nothing on earth shall ever tempt me to
forsake her.'

What do you wish to do then, my lady ?

Will you leave Sir Gilbert yourself, tell
him at the same time that he hasn't wife
nor child, and disgrace his family and his
name for nothing ? '

'No, no ! but I thought, perhaps, if I
seized a favourable opportunity to confess
the truth, and ask him to forgive me, he
might  (he seems so much fonder of me
now, nurse, than he used to be)  he might
consent to let me keep her with me still,
and then my heart would be at rest for
ever

Bennett rose from where she had been
sitting, and drew herself up to her full
height.

Miss Fenella, you must forgive the
words, but there is no doubt as your poor
mamma was right when she said you was
simple. You're as simple now, my dear,
at twenty as ever you was at sixteen.
You was took in then, and you'd be took
in again tomorrow if you was left to yourself.
What ! have you lived all this time,
my lady, without gaining more knowledge

of men than that ? You think as Sir Gilbert
would forgive you for keeping the
truth from him, and let another man's
child live in his house, and keep his name,
and pass as his eldest daughter ? My
dear, simpleness is no word for it  It's
sheer madness, that's what It Is, and everybody
who heard you would say the same.'

Lady Conroy answered nothing. She
only continued to lie face downward, and
sob as if her heart would break.

You'll think better of it, Miss Fenella,
won't you ? ' said Bennett presently.
You won't go to get us all Into such a
terrible scrape, and disgrace the poor Innocent
baby for ever, just because you
find it a bit hard to bear ? '

'You must keep her away then she
replied ; ' you must keep her In the nursery,
Bennett, till  till  I am more used
to the idea.'

You'll get used to it fast enough, my
lady,' replied the servant. ' After all,
there's many and many a nursery In the

same plight, and you've got one consolation,
my dear, which few of your fashionable
ladies can boast of : you've never
been faithless to your husband.'

I am faithless to him now,' moaned
Fenella, as she sought in vain for some
pretext to soothe the reproaches of her
heart.

This feeling increased so greatly on her
that she seemed at last to try and avoid
even the mention of her child, and when
the season commenced and they prepared
to return to London, she strongly urged
upon Sir Gilbert the judiciousness of leaving
Valeria in Scotland with her nurses.

London is a horrid place for a child,'
she said, ' and we shall be out so much, we
shall see scarcely anything of her. I shall
feel so much more comfortable if she is
left at Conroy Castle.'

Just as you please, my dear,' returned
Sir Gilbert good-naturedly. ' It is all the
same to me, and I daresay the little lady
will be better running about the gardens

than confined to a dusty square. If you
can make yourself happy without her, so
can I.'

Fenella heaved a big sigh. She knew
she should not be happier without her little
one, but she thought she should be more
at her ease. So Valeria was left, with
many kisses, at the Castle, and Sir Gilbert
and Lady Conroy took up their residence
in Portman Square.

Society found Lady Conroy still more
attractive this year than she had been
the last. A married woman suffers no
detraction from her charms by appearing
in London for several consecutive seasons.
It rather adds to them than otherwise.
Neither men nor women are afraid of improving
their acquaintance with her. The
first cannot be asked their intentions ; the
second have no dread lest she should
interfere with theirs ; and if she is agreeable
and lively, and has a good house
of her own, she is sure to be voted
charming by all. That was the general

opinion regarding Fenella, and Sir Gilbert
was proud to see her popularity. Her
beautiful and well-cultivated voice made
her company eagerly sought after, and
when Lady Conroy stood up to sing, the
whole room was hushed to hear it.

The Countess of Marjoram, who as
usual was to the front with everything,
was never tired of laughing at her brother
for his evidently increasing admiration of
his wife.

I told you how it would be, Bertie,'
she exclaimed. ' You've actually fallen
in love with her at last ; and what is
more, I believe Fenella has fallen in love
with you ! I see she gets as red as a
poppy whenever your name is mentioned.'

What nonsense, Janie,' said the baronet,
getting red in his turn. ' Fenella
and I are far too sensible to think of such
folly. I have told you as much before.'

And I said I didn't believe you. By
the way, what do you think of Miss
Conroy ? '

A\ * I think she is a very pretty little girl,
and she is growing quite interesting. I
wanted to bring her to town with us, but
Fenella fancied she would be better in the
country.'

 Mercy on us ! you're turning into a
model papa into the bargain ! Bertie, I
feel convinced I shall live to see you
carving a leg of mutton at one o'clock,
with a dozen boys and girls sitting round
the table.'

You might live to see me doing worse
things,' was all the answer he gave her, ashe
turned upon his heel.

Lady Marjoram's jests annoyed him
more than he liked to show ; for he
knew that she had hit the right nail on
the head. He was growing fonder of his
wife  very much fonder. He could seethe
beauty of her character more clearly
than he did before, and he could better
appreciate the dutiful obedience she rendered
him, and the gentleness with which
she accepted his rebukes or his advice.

VOL. III. B

He saw her affectionate and submissive
at home, brilliant and sought after in
society, dignified with her inferiors, affable
with her equals, and courteous to those
above her, and thought she was just the
sort of woman he would have chosen for
Lady Conroy had he been able to select
from the whole world.

One evening as they were sitting together
after dinner, he told her so. They
were alone ; for Fenella was engaged to
attend a large evening party at the Bulletins',
and Sir Gilbert intended to pass the
time of her absence at his club. She was
already dressed for leaving home in a robe
of white samite, which fell in straight classical
folds to her feet, her only ornaments
being strings of oriental pearls woven
thickly in her hair, and twisted round her
neck and arms.

Come here,' said her husband abruptly.
Why, how fair and sweet you look, child !
You might stand for a vestal virgin, or a
nymph of Canova, or the goddess of youth

herself, with that smooth face of yours and
these beautifully-moulded limbs ! Do you
know that I love you, Fenella ? '

I hope you do, dear Gilbert,' she murmured
gratefully.

I always did, in a measure, my dear,
but not as I do now. I have had a secret
from you, Fenella  something which you
ought to have been told long ago ; for
there should never be any secrets between
husband and wife.'

Fenella turned as white as the dress
she wore.

No, I suppose not,' she faltered.
But, Gilbert, if this secret concerns only
yourself  if it can hurt no one to keep
it sacred  why reveal it to me ? I  I 
have no wish to interfere with your private
affairs, dear. I  I  trust you.'

And I trust you too, Fenella  implicitly,
without reserve ; yet I should be
very much hurt if I thought you had any
concealments from me. I did not realise
this before as I do now ; but my feelings

for you have undergone a great change,
and there must be complete confidence
between us henceforward.'

She trembled and looked down, but she
did not answer him. She almost thought
that he had discovered her own secret,
and was about to let her know it.

When I married you, Fenella, I did
you a great wrong  a wrong which might
have wrecked the happiness of both our
lives ; for at that time I was in love with
another woman I '

He expected to see her start or look
annoyed at the intelligence ; but she did
neither. She only answered quietly, 

Were you, Gilbert ? What a nuisance
it must have been to you to have to
make love to me ! '

I am afraid I did not acquit myself
very creditably in that particular, Fenella.
I think, on looking back, that I owe you
an ample apology for having shown so
little warmth towards you, so little admiration
for that which appears to me now so

fair! And I am going to try and make
amends by telling you the truth.'

Sir Gilbert drew her closer to him ashe
spoke, and, with his arm wound about
her waist, related to her the whole history
of his acquaintanceship with Mrs Mes-sister,
not failing to impress the fact upon
her mind that, at the present moment,
he would rather go to the other end of
the world than meet his former flame
again.

When I was wandering in those endless,
pathless jungles, Fenella, running the
momentary risk of a sudden and violent
death, the scales fell from my eyes, and I
was compelled to acknowledge that, were
I called upon to leave this world, my
whole regret would consist in reviving you.
It was because this feeling was growing
stronger every day that I resolved to
return to England ; it is because it is
stronger in me now than it has ever
been before, that I have told you this
shameful story! Say that you forgive

me for not having confided It to you
before I asked you to become my wife.'

Dear Gilbert, why should you ask me
to forgive ? I, who  who  have sinned
so deeply myself. Neither of us loved
the other as we should have done before
entering into an engagement for life.'

But I love you now, Fenella, as much
as it is in my power to love. There Is
a great difference In our ages  mine Is
almost double yours  but perhaps I can
appreciate the purity and strength and
nobility of your character all the better
for that fact

Fenella grew crimson.

Oh, Gilbert ! don't praise me in that
manner,' she murmured. ' I feel so
ashamed of myself. You know  you
know  I am not the good girl you
would make me out to be.'

I know there Is not a better girl in
all Christendom,' he replied. ' Do you
suppose I never heard any more than
you chose to tell me of the way in

which you behaved in my absence,
Fenella ? Janie could not fill her letters
full enough of you ! I know that you
passed the ordeal of our two years'
separation in a manner few young and
pretty women would have done ; that
your behaviour was so quiet, so blameless,
and so domestic, that no one was
able to breathe the slightest word against
you. And in this age of detraction and
scandal, that is no light praise.'

Could I have done less ? ' she said
simply.

Perhaps you couldn't, but others would
have found it easy. Any way, I feel very
proud of my young wife, and I thank you
for it, Fenella ! I trust our future life
together may prove much happier, inconsequence,
than the past has done.'

Had Fenella carried no secret burden
on her soul, these words of approbation
from her husband would have made her
supremely happy, but as it was, they only
increased her uneasiness and pain. She

went to her party with the tears upon
her cheek, and though on entering the
Culletons' drawing-room she was received
with acclamations of delight, and immediately
surrounded by a host of admirers,
the uncomfortable feeling remained with
her throughout the evening.

Her husband had learned to love her,
and she was not ready to return his love
she must either give it up again, or
continue to receive it unworthily ; such
was the sad idea that occupied her mind,
and made her conversation languid and
distrait. It mingled still more freely
with her songs, which seemed to ring
with a passionate despair that Lady
Conroy did not often exhibit in public.

The Culletons were wealthy people,
who always secured the best of entertainments
for their friends, and on that
occasion several well-known professional
singers had been engaged to contribute
to the amusement of the company. But
even they listened with hushed admiration

to Fenellas pure, sweet tones, as
they floated, and swelled, and sunk in
Mendelssohn's perfect ballad, ' The Maid
of the Ganges,' and told each other that
Lady Conroy's reputation as a vocalist
had not been overrated, and that her
proper place was on the concert platform
or the operatic boards.

Some one amongst the guests, also,
seemed powerfully attracted by the excellence
of Fenella's singing. A gentleman
who was keeping, whether by order
or not, very close ' to heel ' of a pretty
little woman dressed in pink, had risen
suddenly from his seat as Lady Conroy's
voice first sounded on the air, and then
as suddenly, with a face of crimson, had
sat down again.

Geoffrey ! ' said the little woman, turning
her head over her shoulder to address
him, ' I wish you'd ask Mrs Culleton the
name of that lady who has just sung.
Hasn't she got a lovely voice ? '

Yes ! very nice,' replied the gentleman

awkwardly ; * but I can't speak to
Mrs Culleton now  she Is surrounded by
her friends ! Don't you think it is time
we were getting home, Jessie ? It's nearly
eleven o'clock.'

Not at all ! I don't mean to stir
for the next hour ! I want to hear that
lady sing again. You might find out
her name for me, Geoffrey. I wonder
if she is Madame Wilson ; I know she
Is tall and fair.'

'No! I don't think It's Wilson,' replied
the gentleman, who looked very
uncomfortable and as if he would like
to run away. But his wife, sitting in
front of him, could not observe the expression
of his face.

A lady next to her having overheard
their conversation, volunteered the desired
information.

That lady is not professional,' she
whispered to the little woman In pink,
but she is one of the finest amateur
singers In London. She Is Lady Conroy

the wife of Sir Gilbert Coiiroy ! Don't
you think she is very beautiful ? such a
classical style of face and figure ; and
she is very young too  only twenty last
birthday.'

She looks rather sad,' said the little
woman in pink.

She does ; but it can only be her expression,
for she has everything that her
heart could desire, and she is one of the
most popular women in town. Her father,
Captain Barrington, of the Royal Navy,
was my late husband's most intimate
friend ; so, you see, I have known the
family for a long time.'

Yes, Lady Conroy must be a fortunate
woman  mustn't she, Geoffrey ? ' said the
pretty little lady in pink.

But the gentleman sitting at the back
did not answer her ; and she was soon too
much absorbed in conversation with her
new acquaintance to notice his silence.

He sat there, with his eyes fixed upon
the ground, and the blood coursing about

his head and body in a most unpleasant
manner. He was not quite sure of what
he was thinking, nor why he felt so queer ;
but he wished heartily that he could be
transported back to his own residence, or
that he had never entered the Culletons'
drawing-room. He heard the conversation
of the people round him like a confused
and distant buzz in his ear ; and
then, to his horror, the voice of his hostess
addressing him particularly by name.

Captain Doyne, I have heard so much
of your singing  might I ask you to oblige
us with a song ? '

He sprang to his feet, his face burning
with confusion.

I am very sorry, Mrs Culleton,' he
stammered, ' but I  I really couldn't sing.'

His wife turned round sharply.

Why, what is the matter, Geoffrey ? '
she said. * You've brought your music
with you.'

At that intelligence the hostess naturally
redoubled her entreaties.

That was good of you ! Then I am
sure you will allow me to persuade you,
Captain Doyne. Tenor voices are so unfortunately
rare ; we cannot afford to miss
the treat of hearing yours.'

But Captain Doyne was resolute.

You must not think me disobliging,'
he kept on reiterating, * but it is impossible
to me to sing to-night. Any
other time, Mrs Culleton, I shall be most
happy to do anything in my power for
you.'

The lady, finding him implacable, expressed
her regret and moved away ; but
his wife was very much annoyed at his
refusal.

What made you do it, Geoffrey ? ' she
exclaimed. * And when I had taken the
trouble to bring your last new songs ! And
I wanted them to hear you so much. We
have not had a gentleman's voice to equal
yours to-night.'

But all Geoffrey Doyne answered was 

It is impossible ! I have no voice left ;

I feel it and the little woman in pink
appealed to her neighbour, if gentlemen
were not very difficult to manage in such
matters, and if it were not a shame, when
one had a beautiful voice, to refuse to
exercise it for the benefit of one's friends.
Under cover of which confidence Geoffrey
Doyne moved softly away from his position,
and skirting the outside of the crowd
that surrounded the piano, drew nearer the
place where Fenella had once more stood
up to sing.

He would not have met her face to face,
nor have spoken to her, for the world 
the very idea of such a thing would have
made him turn tail and fly  but he thirsted
to look upon her features again ; he longed
to see what difference the passing years
had wrought upon them  whether they
had left any traces of the affection she
had once borne for him.

Four years ! It was a long time in the
life of either of them. It had brought
him (as he imagined) contentment ; what

had it brought to her ? He watched her
stand up before the Hastening crowd ; he
saw the ripened loveliness of her face and
form ; he Hastened to the rich tones that
came from her Hps  and in which he could
trace (though faintly) a resemblance to the
glad girlish notes that had once mingled
with his own voice upon the sands of Ines-
cedwyn ; and he flushed from head to foot
as he remembered that she had been his,
and he had left her.

It was all past and gone now (so he said
to himself) ; they were both married, and
had half forgotten the folly that entranced
them then ; still he could not think of it
without a burning shame, and an ardent
curiosity to learn if she too had any feeling
left respecting it.

To watch her at the present moment,
one would have said that she had not!
Fenella was singing a waltz of Arditi's 
one of those running, bird-like things that
sound so easy, and are so difficult ; and the
joyous abandon of the melody had communicated

itself to her features, and lit them
up with mirth and mischief. Her grey-eyes
sparkled, her cheeks flushed, her
sweet lips were wreathed in a smile. There
was no trace left of the tears she had wiped
off her face as she stepped out of her carriage
at the Culletons' door. How could
those who surrounded her be expected to
guess they had ever rested there ?

Naturally,' said Geoffrey Doyne to himself,'
she has forgotten. A girl of sixteen
is, after all, no more than a child, and feelings
excited at that period are not likely to
be lasting. What a good thing it was for
both of us that the affair ended so easily !
Had it been otherwise, there is no saying
into what difficulties we might not have
been led. There was a special Providence
watchings over me at that time.'

Yet he sighed rather heavily as he remembered
Providence ; and edged himself
a little nearer to her in the crowd.

How thankful I should be that she is
married he thought; 'well and happily

married ! What a load it would have been
on my mind had she remained single ! But
as matters have turned out, there is nothing
to regret By which he meant, that as
matters had turned out so as to prove no
inconvenience to himself, he could afford
to say it was the will of God, and pose asa
picture of resignation.

Whatever changes four years had wrought
upon Fenella, they had not cured Geoffrey
Doyne of the sickly sentimentalism he
called Religion.

The song was now ended, and Lady
Conroy was bowing and smiling on every
side, in acknowledgment of the many
pretty things that were being said to her ;
and Captain Doyne, in the excitement and
pressure of the crowd, had been borne
nearer to her than he had ever wished or
intended to be. She advanced a step in
order to leave the piano  some one had
trodden on her train from behind ; she
turned suddenly to extricate it, and her
eyes met those of Geoffrey Doyne! In a

VOL. III. c

'<*

moment every tinge of colour had deserted
her cheeks. The hight fled from her eyes,
her mouth fell, her brow contracted. Her
figure seemed to sway backwards and forwards.
She had all the appearance of one
who was about to fall. Everybody flew
to her assistance.

Dear Lady Conroy, what Is the matter
? Are you ill ? Do you feel faint ?
I am afraid you have over-exerted yourself,'
came from the lips of Mrs Culleton
and her daughters, as they pressed around
her. And then Fenella remembered where
she was, and that the eyes of the world
were upon her. She drew herself up by
a mighty effort, and smiled in a ghastly
manner on her amiable tormentors.

I think I am a little faint. The room
is rather warm,' she said incoherently, and
her hostess insisted upon one of the gentlemen
conducting Lady Conroy to the
supper-room and seeing her suitably supplied
with refreshment.

But the minute she found herself free,

Fenella escaped to her carriage, and went
home, with but one thought  one name
one face impressed upon her memory.
She had not looked upon him a second
time, but she knew that he had been there.
She knew that Geoffrey Doyne and herself
had stood face to face again once
more.

FAILURE.

Successful love may sate itself away,
The wretched are the faithful ; 'tis their fate
To have all feelings  save the one  decay

Byron.

UT even when she found herself
alone in her carriage, Lady
Conroy did not weep. She
shook from head to foot with excitement,
and her face and hands burned
as if with fever, but the emotions which
the first sight of her recreant lover had
called up in her breast were not such
as find relief in tears. She had
wept over him freely enough when she
believed that they would never meet

again ; she had cried herself half blind
for the loss of his love and his beauty
and himself; but now that she had seen
him  that she realised he could be in
the same town, the same room, and
make no effort to renew their acquaintance
 that his regard for her was so
subdued that he could treat her like
an ordinary stranger  (she, who had
sacrificed her very life for him)  the
chief feelings she experienced were
shame and indignation and a resentful
sense of wrong.

What was he  who was he, she asked
herself passionately, that he should have
dared to cast this infamy upon her
father's daughter ; to choose her for
the tool of his low gratification ; to lay
a burden on her life and her soul that
would never be lifted from them in this
world again ?

She saw her position as the world
saw it  the position of the honoured
wife of Gilbert Conroy  and she knew

that she might have been so  that atone
time she was fitted to be so,
until this man crept into her affections,
and under the guise of love (a love
that stung to death) had made her as
common as the commonest thing that
crawls, and when he had done with her,
flung her away, as we fling a flower,
when its day has past, to perish on
the dunghill.

As these thoughts coursed through her
brain, and she coupled them with a remembrance
of Geoffrey Doyne's fascinating
beauty as it had flashed once more
across her sight, Fenella felt as though
she were going out of her mind. She
rushed up into her own room, and,
dismissing her attendant, locked the door,
and let no eye see the despair to which
she abandoned herself.

She had thought that she was growing
strong  that she had cast out the
unholy thrall that bound her to the
husband of another woman  that she

had ceased to think of Geoffrey Doyne,
except in the chastened manner that we
think of the dead, who have purified
themselves of all their mortal failings
by laying down their mortal lives. But
now she knew that she had been deceived.
That one look had stirred up
all the old remembrance, the old longing,
the old regret, and Fenella recognised
the truth that (however faithless and
unworthy) Geoffrey Doyne was the same
to her as he had ever been. She could
not forget as he had done. Her love
for him had been a true and holy love
(whatever the world might say of it),
and it would remain so to her dying
day. He was false, and fickle, and
untrue  she could not shut her eyes to
that ; but had he been twice as much
so, she could not follow his example.
That was her misfortune, said Fenella,
groaning to herself  that she was not
strong enough to root out his image
from her heart. She knew that he belonged

to another woman now, but he
had been hers first  (even in her despair
she could not help a little womanly
thrill of pride running through her as
she recalled the fact)  he had been hers
first, and he was the father of her child !
At the remembrance of Valeria, a new
idea seemed to strike Fenella. She had
flung herself across the bed, and hidden
her blistered face upon her outstretched
arms, but now she suddenly raised herself
and stood upright. The father of her
child ! Yes ; and he did not know it !

Eliza Bennett had given her a fanciful
account of the short interview she had
held with Geoffrey Doyne at Ines-cedwyn,
when she had told him the same falsehood
that Mrs Barrington had forced upon her
daughter, namely, that the child was dead.
The nurse, who considered it wise that
Fenella should think the very worst of the
man that had betrayed her, had related the
occurrence as something very different
from what had really taken place, even

going so far as to assert that Mr Doyne
had replied it was a very good thing the
child was dead, which (whatever he might
have felt) he certainly never recorded.
And the idea that had flashed through
Fenella's brain was that she would tell
him that Valeria lived. He had a right
to know it (so she argued with herself),
and she had a right to tell him ; and if it
made his life less easy, or placed difficulties
in his path, had it not done the same with
her own } Why was all the retribution
to fall on her head ? The thought of his
wife did not trouble her ; few women
would be so generous as to permit a wife
to stand in the way when a man has
injured themselves. Besides (as she said,
with a curled lip), his wife, whoever she
might be, had nothing to do with this ; it
concerned their two selves only. Valeria
was their child, and that was a tie with
which no one else in the world had the
right to interfere.

Lady Conroy argued this matter in her

own mind until she had made it appear
not only reasonable, but just ; but in
reality there was a large spice of revenge
in it  a strong desire to make Geoffrey
Doyne realise the extent of his crime,
and feel that, far from its being buried in
comfortable oblivion, there was a living
witness to testify to his infidelity. It
may have been a wrong feeling, but it
was a very natural one. Fenella had
suffered almost every moment since he
had deserted her, and he had taken the
world (to all appearance) none the less
easily because of her anguish and her
shame. She must journey to the end of
life bowed down by a sorrowful secret of
which she dared not rid herself, whilst he
was to carry his head gallantly through
the world, without a speck or smirch upon
his armour. No ! if he could not bear it,
he should share it. He should know that
she had some heart left for him and for
his child, whether his own were adamant
or not.

Was there any other secret hope lurking
in Lady Conroy's breast as she decided on
her Hne of action  any thought of waking
up again the passion that had caused her
ruin, and letting Geoffrey Doyne feel in his
turn what it was to be left to pine after the
unattainable ? If there were, she did not
acknowledge it  she did not even recognise
its existence. If she thought there
was any lingering affection for her in his
bosom, it was with the idea that he fight
help her out of her difficulty with Sir
Gilbert Conroy. How, she could not
say, and dared not think. Everything
connected with Valeria seemed to be so
entangled by impossibilities ; but still, if
Geoffrey cherished any recollection of
their former attachment, if his heart
were at all softened by the knowledge
that she was the mother of his living
child, he might be inclined to help her
with his counsel and advice (perhaps
even to receive Valeria if Sir Gilbert
insisted on a separation between them) ;

at all events, to comfort and strengthen
her resolution if they decided the secret
must still be preserved.

The more Fenella considered the matter,
the more she became convinced that,
whatever might be the issue, Geoffrey
Doyne should be informed of the existence
of his child ; and she cast about in
her mind for the best means of procuring
an interview with him.

She was thankful that Bennett was away
in Scotland  Bennett, who read her face
like a book, and would assuredly have
guessed that her sudden emotion was
due to something connected with ' that
there nasty locket! as she irreverently
termed the trinket that still occupied its
old place next Fenella's heart. But she
would have given anything to have had
her child with her  his child to fondle
and to weep over ! She felt as if she
must rush down to Conroy Castle, if it
were only for an hour, that she might
assure her fatherless baby of her undying

love and devotion ; that she might tell
the unconscious infant that his untruth
should only make her be the more true
and faithful to the sacred charge he had
left behind him. But she knew this was
impossible, and she must be content to
see him only, and to tell him of their
mutual responsibility.

She lay awake half the night, planning
all sorts of means for seeing Geoffrey
Doyne without the knowledge of his wife
none of which were feasible to be put
into execution by a lady whose husband
forbid her walking the length of the
street without attendance.

Our hearts may be breaking for the
want of one kind word  our lives maybe
wrecked by the delay of an hour 
our whole future spoilt for lack of an
explanation ; and yet whilst we live in
this world, so stringent are its rules,
so tight the cords decorum draws round
us, that we dare not move an inch out
of the prescribed line along which society

orders us to walk, even to save our own
lives. And Lady Conroy was so much
hedged in by the barriers which custom
raises against expediency, that she saw
no farther ahead of her than the rest
of her peers. The ordinary way of
procedure was, after all, the only way
to adopt  and .the ordinary way was to
call upon Mrs Geoffrey Doyne.

Fenella felt all her pride rise in revolt
at the idea ; however, of course the lady
knew nothing about her, and there was
a stronger motive than even pride urging
her on to take the initiative. With this
end in view, therefore, she ordered her
carriage directly after luncheon on the
following day, and drove to the Culletons.
It was easy to explain her call on the
score of wishing to make an apology
for her unexpected departure the evening
before.

I was so sorry to run away,' she said,
but I got a sudden attack of pain, Mrs
Culleton, and I am afraid, had I remained,

1 should not have been any further use
to you.'

Oh, my dear Lady Conroy, pray
don't speak of it. I am sure you were
most obHging-, and our friends were delighted
? What sort of pain was It ?
Neuralgia ? Heated rooms are so very
apt to bring it on. One gets a chill, you
know, and then the mischiefs done.'

Yes, I am subject to neuralgia,' replied
Fenella, with an evident desire to change
the subject. ' What capital music you had
last night ! How charmingly Miss Annie
Baring sings ! '

Yes ; very sweetly, indeed ! But her
voice is nothing to yours, Lady Conroy.
Some of our friends last night were positively
raving about It. There was a Captain
Doyne here who seemed quite entranced.
He couldn't take his eyes off you.'

Ah ! Captain Doyne,' repeated Fenella,
with a sudden flush ; ' I was just going to
speak to you about him, Mrs Culleton.
Is he not married ? '

Yes ; he has been married for some
years to a most charming young woman
(one of Dr Robertson's daughters), and
they have just returned from India. I
fancy she is not very strong. She looks delicate.
Do you know them, Lady Conroy ? '

I do not know Mrs Doyne, but I
knew him very well  many years ago ;
in fact, he is one of my oldest friends,'
replied Fenella hesitatingly.

So funny to hear you talking of 'many
years ago,'  dear Lady Conroy  at your
age simpered Mrs Culleton. ' But Captain
Doyne is a splendid-looking young
man, is he not ? and so improved since
he was last in England. ! '

I don't know  I didn't speak to him,'
stammered Fenella. ' I only passed him
in the crowd as I was going away. Had
I seen him earlier, I should have asked
you to introduce Mrs Doyne to me ; and
I thought  I was about to say  perhaps
it would only be polite  if you
would call with me on her some day,

Mrs Culleton, and let me make her acquaintance.'


Mrs Culleton was delighted at the
Idea of driving about town with Lady
Conroy under her wing.

My dear Lady Conroy, of course ! I
shall be only too pleased, and I am sure
Mrs Doyne will esteem your visit a great
honour ; because, after all, she is nobody
you see ; whatever she may be, she owes
to him (Te comes of a good old Buckinghamshire
family), and she may well consider
herself flattered by the notice of Sir
Gilbert Conroy's wife.'

Oh, I wasn't thinking of that,' replied
her visitor ; ' but as I knew hi77i, and it
would be a Httle attention, I thought at
any rate there could be no harm in my
going with you to see her some day.'

Are you at liberty this afternoon, dear
Lady Conroy ? Shall we go there at
once ? I owe Mrs Doyne a call, and
am quite at your service, if it should be
agreeable to you to accompany me.'

VOL. III. D

I have no other engagement,' replied
Fenella, colouring like a peony at the
prospect of meeting Geoffrey Doyne
again. Would he be at home ? Was it
possible that she should see him  that
they should stand in the same room together
and speak face to face ?

Nov that the interview for which she
had manoeuvred seemed close at hand,
she felt as if she could not qto through
with it  as if she must run a dozen miles
the other way. But Mrs Culleton gave
her no opportunity of escape. She appeared
in the drawing-room, ready dressed
for the expedition, in an incredibly short
space of time, and there was nothing to
be done but re-enter the carriage and
order the coachman to drive to the cnven

o

address.

The Geoffrey Doynes had not long
returned from India (so Mrs Culleton
informed her visitor as they drove along),
and were occupying furnished apartments
in Half-Moon Street.

Very handsome rooms, Lady Conroy,'
explained Mrs Culleton, ' and everything
in the best style ; and I suppose, as they
are alone, they hardly thought it worth
their while to engage a house for the
season. They have no children.'

No children ! ' repeated Lady Conroy.

Ah ! I suppose you can't understand
that, with your beautiful baby ! ' laughed
Mrs Culleton ; ' but she is delicate, you
know, and they have only been married
three years.'

Four ! ' said Fenella quickly.

Four, is it ? Dear me ! you know more
about them than I do. At all events,
as yet there are no little Doynes.'

Fenella said nothing, but her hand went
up with a quick gesture of satisfaction
to press the locket that lay concealed in
the bosom of her dress. What woman,
born of woman, could have resisted a
feeling of pleasure at such a piece of intelligence
? In another minute the carriage
stopped at the door in Half Moon

Street, and Mrs Geoffrey Doyne was
announced to be at home. Lady Conroy
followed her friend up the staircase, with
shaking knees and a white face. But
she need not have concerned herself.
The lady they had come to see was
quite alone. Jessie was more than
honoured by the advent of her visitors.
She was considerably flustered, and particularly
when she foimd that one of
them was no other than Lady Conroy,
whose sineino she had admired so much
the niorht before. She was not much
used to society ; and in her pleasure
and surprise, and anxiety to please, she
stammered and coloured, and looked so
awkward, that Fenella regained her self-possession,
and regarded her with calm
surprise, wondering what Geoffrey could
have seen in her superior to herself.
Jessie had been rather xXXy x\<\ piquant
but India had sharpened her features
and spoiled her complexion, and there
was a metallic ring in her voice which

grated unpleasantly on ears that were
not accustomed to it. She was already
losing, in fact, her beaiiU dit cochon, and
developing the worst traits she had inherited
from her mother, amongst which
may be reckoned a most jealous and unreasonable
temper. Bat at that moment
Mrs Doyne was to be seen at her best,
and she was really most anxious to make
a favourable impression on her new
acquaintance.

The conversation soon turned on the
absent master of the house, for Jessie was
very fond and very proud of her husband,
and lamented every lost opportunity of
showing him off in public.

I am so sorry that Captain Doyne is out,
she commenced to Mrs Culleton, 'and I
don't know where he's gone either. To his
club, I suppose. Gentlemen seem to pass
all their time at their clubs. But perhaps
he will come in again before you go away.'

I hope he may ; I should like to have
an opportunity of speaking to Captain

Doyne. I want to scold him for not singing
for us last night.'

Yes ! wasn't it tiresome of him ? and
he has such a splendid voice too ! But
Geoffrey was not at all well yesterday.
He seemed to have quite a sudden attack
whilst he was at your house, Mrs Culleton,
and he hurried me home honos before I was

o

ready to go. I enjoyed the music so much ! '
How very strange ! ' ejaculated Mrs
Culleton ; ' Lady Conroy, here, was taken
ill exactly in the same manner, and had to
run away before the evening was concluded.
It could hardly be infectious
though, as she and Captain Doyne did
not speak to one another,' she concluded,
with a laugh.

But you don't know my husband, do
you ? ' said Mrs Doyne, as she turned to
Lady Conroy.

Fenella felt that her cheeks were
flaming.

'Yes!  that is  I did  a long time
ago,' she replied, in broken sentences.

Mrs Culleton came to the rescue.

Dear me, yes ! Mrs Doyne. It seems
that Lady Conroy and your husband are
very old friends (the oldest friend she has,
she says), and that is the reason she was
desirous of making your acquaintance.'

How odd that Geoffrey didn't say so last
night,' cried Mrs Doyne, with open eyes.

But I didn't speak to him,' stammered
Fenella ; ' I did not even see him, till just
as I was coming away.'

But he saw you, Lady Conroy, for we
were sitting together when you first stood
up to sing, and wondering who you were,
and Geoffrey would have asked Mrs
Culleton, only she was so occupied. Are
you sure you are not mistaken ? that
it may not be some one of the same
name with whom you were formerly
acquainted?'

'No! I am not mistaken,' replied
Fenella, with a sickening qualm at her
heart. * Captain Doyne may have forgotten
me  (that is very likely)  but I

am quite sure that he is the same person
that I knew years ago

Where did you know him ? ' demanded
Jessie curiously.

Oh, what does it matter. Far away
from here  in the country said Lady Con-roy,
but in so uneasy a manner that it
attracted her hostess's attention.

She has come to call on me, for his
sake, and not for mine she thought, with
jealous intuition; '/ don't owe her any
thanks for her visit,' and thereupon she
turned her attention to Mrs Culleton, and
almost ignored the presence of Fenella.
But her visitor hardly noticed the incivility.
Her eyes kept roving round the room for
some evidence of Geoffrey's presence, and
she was alarmed to find how her heart
throbbed as they lighted on a pair of
gloves and an allumette case that were
carelessly left upon the mantelpiece. A
coloured photograph, too, of him, that stood
on a velvet table close at hand, riveted her
attention, and Jessie noticed the attraction.

Do you recognise that portrait, Lady
Conroy?' she said unpleasantly. 'Is it
that of your friend worn you knew in 
in the country ? '

Of course I recognise it,' replied
Fenella, in a cold, proud voice ; ' have I
not already told you that I know Captain
Doyne ? '

The women were already on the defensive.
They had guessed each other's
thoughts  each one was ready to resent
what the other might say.

I am doubly vexed,' continued Jessie
sweetly, to Mrs Culleton, 'that my husband
should be out, now that I find that he
and Lady Conroy are such Intimate friends,
and I am sure he will be dreadfully annoyed
about It himself He will be so
curious to know where they can have
met, for I am sure he did not recognise
her yesterday.'

Fenella understood the Innuendo, and
determined to brave it out.

Refresh his memory by telling him

that I was Fenella Barrington, Mrs
Doyne, and that we met at Ines-ced-
wyn,' she said, with a hard laugh.

At the mention of Ines-cedwyn, Jessie
looked uneasy. It was from Lynwern,
a town close to Ines-cedwyn, that Geoffrey
had written to break off their engagement,
and more than once the name of the little
village had escaped his lips.

'Indeed!' she said, in a pert voice,
and with a heightened colour. * I remember
Captain Doyne was staying
close by Ines-cedwyn with his family
just before our marriage, but I never
heard him mention your name.'

Very likely not ! ' said Lady Conroy
quietly. ' Perhaps he had pleasant
things to think of when he met you
again. Have you been long home from
India, Mrs Doyne .''

No ; only two months, and I don't
think wee shall remain for the full term
of my husband's leave. He doesn't care
for England. He told me the other day

that It would be hardly worth our while
making any new acquaintances whilst
here, and he had no old ones whom
he cared for sufficiently to go out of
his way to renew.'

But I am sure Captain Doyne will be-charmed
to see Lady Conroy again,' interposed
Mrs Culleton, who saw that
something was wrong between the ladles,
and wanted to set it right. ' I only
wonder he did not speak to her yesterday
evening, for he was standing close by
during her last song. I could see his head
towering above that of everybody else.'

I cannot understand It at all,' cried
Mrs Doyne, ' and I shall quiz Geoffrey
finely about It as soon as he comes home.'

Fenella felt as if she could not stand her
incredulous and uncivil manner any longer.

'Is this a portrait of your child .' ' she
asked, with a dash of feminine spite, as
she took up the photograph of a little
boy from the table.

Jessie had to lower her crest.

No !' she answered hurriedly ; ' I have
no children.'

Oh ! you should see Lady Conroy's
baby!' exclaimed Mrs Culleton, with ill-timed
zeal ; ' the most beautiful, engaging
creature you ever saw of her age ! Lady
Conroy ! do show Mrs Doyne the portrait
you wear of your sweet little Valeria.
She is a perfect cherub, and talks nearly
as well as her mamma.'

But Fenella held her baby's picture
jealously in her hand.

Babies interest no one but their
owners,' she replied.

Oh ! pray let me see it,' urged Mrs
Doyne, with an air of would-be indifference.
' I admire children greatly, although
(with Captain Doyne) I have no desire
to have any of my own.'

 Does not Captain Doyne wish for
children ?' said Fenella, looking up quickly.
'How strange! I thought all men did
that ! '

She had been about to say 'a// men

who love their wives' but fortunately
stopped herself in time.

Jessie saw that she had said too much.

He would wish for them if / did,
she retorted ; ' but I don't. I love my
husband devotedly, and he is all sufficient
for my happiness.'

Many women do that, who find room
to love their children into the bargain,'
said Lady Conroy ; ' and, at all events,
I wouldn't part with mine.'

I should think not, indeed ! the loveliest
little creature in the world ! ' murmured
Mrs Culleton.

Jessie almost snatched the locket, which
hung with several other pendants on her
watch-chain, from Fenella's hand. She
turned it round, and caught a glimpse of
Valeria's sweet little face, with its brown
curls and blue eyes and smiling mouth,
and felt an insane jealousy of Valeria's
mother. Jessie was not as indifferent to
the lack of children as she professed to
be, and she had a task to keep back the

angry tears that rose to her eyes. She
might have been the possessor, she
thought, of just such a child, and Geoffrey
might have loved her all the better for it.
She could almost fancy the little face
resembled Geoffrey's. There were the
same coloured eyes and hair, and the trick
of the drooping mouth. She shut the
locket with a snap, and let it fall against
the other trinkets.

Very pretty,' she said patronisingly,
as babies go  very pretty indeed. And
that is a pretty ornament, though rather
curious,' she continued, as she touched
another of the pendants. * What is it.
Lady Conroy ? '

Fenella glanced downwards. Mrs
Doyne held in her hand the blue enamel
and gold sleeve-link that had fallen from
Geoffrey's cuff in the very moment of
their parting, and which she had always
carried on her watch-chain since. The
sight filled her with dismay.

'That  that  Mrs Doyne?' she stammered.

' Oh, that is only a sleeve-Hnk  a
thing of no consequence,' and she drew it
beneath her mantle as she spoke. But
Jessie had eyes sharp as a needle, and
Lady Conroy's ruse did not deceive her,
although she professed to fall in with it.

A funny keepsake,' she said, ' but it
looks pretty amongst the other things,' and
then Fenella rose, and told Mrs Culleton
that they had already outstayed their time.

Mrs Doyne was profuse in her thanks to
the latter lady for having come to see her,
and in her hopes that they should soon meet
again, but to Lady Conroy she offered
nothing but a polite good-bye. As soon as
they were in the carriage Mrs Culleton
animadverted on her behaviour.

My dear Lady Conroy, you and Mrs
Doyne did not appear to get on at all
together. What was the matter with her
to-day, I wonder ! I never saw her so
snappish and unpleasant before. It's a
pity the Captain was not in. He would
have smoothed matters between you.'

I don't know that I should much care
to have them smoothed,' replied Fenella
carelessly. ' I thought, from my former
acquaintance with Captain Doyne, that his
wife would have been a refined and educated
woman, but she is both ill-bred and
ill-tempered, and I am sorry I called upon
hen'

Oh, don't say that  because, perhaps, it
is only her manner, and Captain Doyne is
such a perfect gentleman, it would be a
thousand pities to exclude him from our
visiting list. You must come and meet
him again at our house, Lady Conroy,
and hear him sing  and then, I know, you
will be charmed with him.'

Yes, he used to sing well,' said Fen-ella,
and then she seemed weary of
the subject and changed it. And as
soon as it was possible, she dropped
Mrs Culleton and drove back to her
own home.

So far as making friends with Geoffrey's
wife was concerned, her visit had proved

a failure. She acknowledged that, but at
the same time she was not at all sure if
(under any circumstances) it would have
been possible, desirable, or honourable for
her to have made friends with Mrs Doyne.
Such friendships are attempted sometimes,
and with praiseworthy intentions, but they
never succeed. The intuitive faculties in
women are very keen, and where two of
them love (or have loved) the same man,
they are certain (sooner or later) to discover
the truth, and suspect each other's
motives.

The real object with which Fenella
had paid that visit  to see and speak
with Geoffrey Doyne  had failed also.
She was not one whit nearer to him than
she had been before, nor he to sharing
the secret that possessed her whole heart.
And that was what Lady Conroy felt
more and more convinced that he must
and should do. It was wrong and unnatural
that she should bear the burden
by herself, and the time might come

VOL. III. E

when he would be the first to tell her
so. For, whatever he might be in the
present, nothing could undo the past, in
which he had been entirely her own.
And if that past had left its traces upon
their lives, was it likely that Geoffrey
would shrink from bearing his share of
the consequences ? Fenella could not believe
it. He had been weak and fickle
in his relations with her, but he was not
he could not be dishonourable. So,
after much cogitation, she sat down and
wrote him the following note  a note
which might have fallen into the hands
of his wife without compromising either
of them : 

My dear Captain Doyne,  It is sometime
since we met, but I scarcely think
you can have forgotten me. I should like
to see you again, and I have something of
yours that I wish to deliver into your own
hands. Will you call upon me tomorrow
afternoon, at any time after three ?  Yours
truly, Fenella Conroy.*

And having despatched her letter so
as It might reach him by the evening
post, she awaited the issue with as
much patience as she found it possible
to maintain.

NEMESIS.

'Many an one amongst us could undo the evil he
has done, if only he would not push away the
pain it causes him.'  Ariadne.

EOFFREY Done had been

nW 1-11 1 .

\%JST spending the day wanderings

iJossc: about London in the most uncomfortable
manner. He had not been
able to rest anywhere. He had walked
in and out of his club half-a-dozen times,
and sauntered about the park, and dropped
in at Blanchard's, and kept incessantly on
his feet, and been utterly miserable For
the sight of Lady Conroy the night before
had affected him powerfully, and in more

ways than one. He had been seized
with an uncontrollable regret for the loss
of her, and an overwhelming disappointment
in the conviction that, for three
years at least, he had been deceiving
himself in the grossest manner.

When this young man was first introduced
on the scene, he was described as
being of a very emotional, susceptible, and
easily influenced temperament. It was
this peculiarity of his character that made
him alternately the slave of whichever
passion came uppermost ; that rendered
him capable of talking of religion and
making illicit love in the same breath,
and believing that the two feelings could
harmonise,  which would lead him, in fact,
to pose as a martyr in some cause or other
to the day of his death. He had sincerely
and truly loved Fenella Barrington, and
he never knew how truly and sincerely
until his own act had parted them forever.
Having weakly conceded to what
his friends considered right and his own

conscience plainly told him was wrong, in
the matter of renewing his engagement
with Jessie Robertson, he had not had
the strength of mind to break the news of
his infidelity to the girl he had so deeply
injured, but left her to find it out from the
public press. He was in the position of a
man who can be cruel enough to administer
the cup of poison that he knows will
kill, yet has not the courage to watch the
struggles of his victim. So he left Fen-ella's
heart to break alone.

It is true that he was not aware of the
extent of the wrong he had done her ;
and for a while he calmed his uneasy
conscience by trying to persuade himself
she was so young, she would be sure to
forget, and Jessie would have suffered as
much in her way at his desertion as
Fenella. But after he had met Eliza
Bennett at Ines-cedwyn, and heard the
whole truth, Geoffrey Doyne could no
longer lay that flattering unction to his
soul. He knew then that he had destroyed

Fenella's life as surely as if he
had trampled it under his feet ; that he
had done that that no tears of penitence,
no sackcloth nor ashes  nothing could
undo, and nothing atone for, except the
one thing which he had put it out of his
power to offer in atonement  marriage !
The shock of the first discovery nearly
crushed him, and he would have given his
life at that time (had it been possible)
to restore her reputation and her purity.
But it was no use thinking of it ; the deed
was done  the injury was irreparable. A
plea for forgiveness even would but seem
like further insult. He brooded over the
thought night and day. The caresses of
his wife became more and more distasteful
to him ; he grew morbidly miserable and
self-condemnatory.

In this state of mind there was but
one way in which the pendulum could
swing for Geoffrey Doyne. Instead of
taking up the burden he had brought
upon himself manfully, and looking on

every side to see how he could possibly
alleviate the misery he had caused, he
took refuge in the poetical dreamy hopes
and fears he called Religion, and tried
to expiate his crime, not by helping
others, but by debasing himself.

Prayer he believed to be the only
means by which he could purify and
save his soul ; so he left everybody else's
soul to look after itself, and spent his
time in entreating the Creator to see that
no bad consequences happened to his
Own. It Is a common fashion of trying to
atone for one's sins in this world, but it
is an intensely selfish one. What such
people want Is, not Immunity from suffering
for others, but ease for their own guilty
conscience. They want to feel satisfied
they will not have to bear the penalty of
what they have done ; and it is soothing
to think it will all be washed away by
merely asking for it, without lifting a
hand to move the weight oneself. Surely
if, having committed a wrong, we courageously

tried to remedy it  without any
consideration for our pride, our position
in the world, or ourselves  we might
safely leave the Judge of all men to see
that we did not bear a larger share of
the punishment than we deserve.

But Geoffrey Doyne, having, as he
believed, purified his soul from all love
for Fenella Barrington, was sorely taken
aback by the sensations the sight of
her at Mrs Culleton's engendered in
him, and which could scarcely have been
more unsubdued and earthly had he
never prayed in his life. Strange to
say, too, the fact of her being a married
woman  the wife of a man in a better
social position and more affluent circumstances
than his own  seemed to annoy,
rather than soothe him. There is so
little difference, after all, between one
human creature and another where the
heart is concerned.

And Geoffrey Doyne was fain to acknowledge
now  as, indeed (unconsciously

to himself), he had acknowledged all
along  that Fenella was the only woman
he had ever really loved. She was his
grande passion. She had become so from
the moment they met ; she would remain
so to the moment they parted. He
might never see nor speak to her again,
but no other woman would ever fill her
vacant place. It was a mortifying conclusion
for him to arrive at. It upset
all his theories ; it made his religion
look the flimsy reed it really was.

Geoffrey Doyne had but one way out
of the difficulty. He persuaded himself
that the feelings he experienced were a
temptation of the devil  a temptation it
was his duty to fight against, and flee
from, never mind whom he trampled over
in the way. So his vagaries on the day
on which Lady Conroy paid her visit to
his wife meant simply that he was trying
to run away from his own reproachful
thoughts. He had been brought into
contact again with the woman he had so

bitterly wronged, and his manhood told
him that, whatever might be her position,
his part was to try and seek her forgiveness
for his past cruelty, and to
assure her (if she would accept an assurance)
of his friendship and fidelity in the
future. But his self-created deity  a
deity of vengeance, terror, and expiation
called out on the other side that, having
done her the greatest injury a man can
do a woman  not by having loved her,
but by having left her/his duty was
to avoid even the sight of her thenceforward,
lest a kind look or word should
have the power to mitigate the pain they
mutually endured.

At least Geoffrey Doyne deceived himself
into believing it was the voice of
his deity that he heard. Had he listened
with less self-satisfied ears, he might have
detected that it was only the whisper of
his own guilty conscience which made him
too great a coward to meet her again.
All the same, his religion was not strong

enough to make him stay at home and
bear his wife company.

Jessie bored him ; her Intellectual qualities
were not such as to render her a
companion for him ; and he had long
ceased to offer her the attentions of a
lover. And to-day of all days, she would
have worried him Into an Irritable state
of temper, which he was not slow at anytime
to express. He would have been
glad of an excuse to stay out all the
evening as well, but he had none ; so
dinner-time found him once more In Half-moon
Street. He had hardly stretched
his comely limbs upon one of the lounges
in the drawing-room before his wife came
full tilt at him with her intelligence.

Who do you think has been here
this afternoon, Geoffrey ? '

How can I tell ? You know I hate
guessing.*

I don't believe you'd guess this if
you tried till doomsday  but, perhaps, it
was a concerted plan between you, after



all. Mrs Culleton called with your great
friend Lady Conroy.'

Geoffrey Doyne was too much taken
by surprise to notice the emphasis. He
raised himself on the couch and regarded
his wife full in the face.

Who did you say ? ' he asked, in a
low voice.

Lady Conroy ! Oh, don't pretend
not to know her, Geoffrey, because she
says you are one of her oldest friends.
And her name was Fenella Barrington,
and you met her at Ines-cedwyn. Now
do you remember ? '

Did he remember ? There was not
much need to ask the question. Jessie
kept her eyes well fixed on him the
whole time she was speaking, and saw
the colour fade from his face as if he
had received a sudden blow.

What  what made her call on you ? '
he stammered.

Why shouldn't she ? Ain't I good
enough for your friends to call on }

Though I don't suppose she came forme
at all ! and I am sure I should never
like her I A cold, proud, stuck-up thing !
I was quite glad when she went away
again. Did you know her at Ines-
cedwyn ? '

Yes ! yes !  slightly ! I never stayed
there, you know ! My sisters and I were
at Lynwern.  Isn't it past dinner-time ?'

I ordered it half-an-hour later this
evening. If you won't tell me any of
your plans, Geoffrey, you can't expect
to have your meals regularly. But about
Lady Conroy ! How long has she been
married ? '

I don't know !  I don't know anything
about her.'

That is very odd, considering she
knows so much about you.'

What did she say of me ? ' demanded
Geoffrey quickly.

'Nothing in particular; but I saw she
knew ! Why didn't you say last night
that she was a friend of yours } '

She is not a friend ! It is years since
I saw her  four years,' he added, with
a sigh.

'Why should you sigh in that absurd
manner, then ? And why didn't you tell
me her name when she stood up to sing
last nioht ? '

I didn't know her name. I had not
even heard that she was married until
the lady sitting next to you informed
you of it'

But you never said that you had seen
her before. You looked at her as if she
had been a perfect stranger,' continued
Jessie suspiciously.

As I was sitting behind you, I am not
aware how you can have seen what I
looked like,' he replied, as he lay back on
the sofa.

But his wife was not satisfied.

You're only saying that to cheat me.
I know there is some mystery about it,'
she said discontentedly.

Geoffrey closed his eyes, and answered

nothing. He had two reasons for wishing
to discontinue the conversation. He was
still suffering acutely from the shock of
meeting Fenella, and of hearing she had
been to their house ; and he was very-much
afraid of exciting the jealousy of
Jessie's disposition.

Try and find something else to talk
of,' he murmured languidly. ' The sayings
and doings of Lady Conroy don't
interest me.'

His wife changed the subject, but his
manner did not deceive her. She was
very cunning, If she was not clever, and
he had over-acted his part. But she said
no more until they descended to the
dinner-table.

As they sat there together, the evening
post arrived, and Fenella's note was put
into Captain Doyne's hand. As he
opened It and his eye fell on the unforgotten
writing, his face flushed with
annoyance, and the hand that held the
paper trembled. He tried to cover his

agitation by pulling his moustaches whilst
he read the few words it contained again
and again, whilst his wife watched his
every action, as a cat watches a mouse.

Who is that letter from, Geoffrey ? '
she asked him presently.

'No one  I mean, it is nothing,' he
answered, as he crushed the paper
together and thrust it in his pocket.
May I help you to another cutlet,
Jessie  '

But Jessie had lost her taste for cutlets.
The reticence which her husband observed
was the worst course he could have pursued
towards her. He had roused her
suspicions, and Mrs Doyne's suspicions
once roused never slept again until they
were satisfied one way or another. She
returned to the attack as soon as the
dessert was put upon the table.

You have not read your letter yet,
Geoffrey,' she said.

Thank you. I have seen as much of
it as I wish to do.'

VOL. III. F

Is it on business ? Was it from Maple,
about the furniture for India ? '

No ; I saw Maple to-day, and settled
everything that was necessary by word of
mouth.'

You are terribly mysterious, Geoffrey.
I hope it is not from mamma. Nothing is
wrong at home, is there '. '

Pray don't alarm yourself. Your
mother would be sure to address any
news of importance to you. When has
she ever honoured me with her correspondence
? '

Well, there's no one else to write to
you that I can think of. You heard
from Ryelands this morning ; besides,
that is a London letter. You are awfully
close about it, Geoffrey.'

And you are awfully inquisitive, so let us
say no more on the subject. It is hard lines
if a man cannot keep a letter to himself occasionally
after four years of married life.'

I never keep any secrets from you'
pouted Jessie.

You are quite welcome to do so if
you choose,' retorted her husband, who
was tired of the discussion, and nervous
as to its possible issue.

When dinner was over he retired to
his own room, and, taking Fenella's letter
from his pocket, tried to decide what he
had better do regarding it. Should he go
and see her ? He knew that he long-ed
to look into her face, to hear her voice,
to touch her hand again in friendship,
but he was afraid to do it. What could
she want with him  what had she of his
that she wished to return 1 Would she
make a scene  would she weep and reproach
him for the past, or try to renew
their old intimacy ? And on what footing
would that place him with Jessie ? How
would her jealous disposition stand his
being even on kindly terms with any
other woman ? He trembled when he
thought of the perplexity into which the
letter had thrown him. Yet, even as he
thought so, he pressed it softly to his

lips, and lost himself in a dream of the
flower-bestrewn landslip, and the golden
sands of Ines-cedwyn, until he seemed to
feel a cool hand laid in his, and to meet
the upward gaze of those earnest, loving
eyes. With the remembrance came a
quick sob, almost a cryof regret.

As he uttered it, his wife stole in from
the adjoining chamber.

He had only time to put down the letter
on the table before she stood beside him.

What is the matter, Geoffrey ' ? she inquired,
as her eyes travelled rapidly to the
paper ; ' has anything in that letter disturbed
you ? Why, it's from Lady Conroy ! '

Disturbed me ? Nonsense ! How
could it ? ' he replied awkwardly, attempting
to cover his confusion. ' From Lady
Conroy, did you say ? Yes, it is.'

What can she have to write to you
about?' demanded Jessie, all her former
suspicions aroused with double force.

It's only an invitation. I was just
about to answer it.'

An invitation !  for both of us, of
course. But why does she send it to
you ? '

No ; it's not a regular invitation. Lady
Conroy wishes to speak to me on business,
and has written to ask me to lookin
tomorrow afternoon  that is all.'

On business ! Oh, Geoffrey, I don't
believe it ! What business can she possibly
have with you ? I am sure there
is something wrote about all this. I felt
it the moment she entered the room this
afternoon.'

Jessie ! don't you presume to speak tome
in such terms of myself, or any of
my friends ! What do you mean by
something wrong ? Am I not to see an
old acquaintance on business, without
having a false accusation brought against
me like that ? '

'Oh, rubbish! Business! It isn't
business at all, or you would have gone
up and spoken to her last night. Besides,
why have you never mentioned her name

to me before ? You said this evening she
was not a friend of yours, and now you
say she is an old friend ! What am I to
believe when you contradict yourself in
that manner ? '

I don't care what you believe or don't
believe,' said Captain Doyne rudely.

And are you going to see this  this 
person, then ? '

I intend to call upon Lady Conroy,
if you allude to hen'

Without me ? '

You are not asked. You will return
Lady Conroy's call, I suppose, in due
course, but tomorrow she wishes to seeme
alone  at least that is what I understand
from her note. You had better
read it,' he added, as he handed it to
her, * and then you will be satisfied it is
not the terrible communication you seem
to imagine.'

Thank you ! I don't wish to see it,'
replied Jessie, who had read every word
over his shoulder. 'You don't suppose

I'm so silly as to believe Lady Conroy
would put anything she didn't wish me to
read in a letter. Artful creatures like her
never do. She will wait to tell you her
real sentiments till she sees you. But if
you go without 7ne I shall say it is disgraceful.'


Jessie was fidgeting all the time she
spoke with a little box of jewellery that
stood on her husband's dressing-table,
turning over the shirt studs and waistcoat
buttons as if she were arranging them.'
Presently she pounced upon a single
sleeve-link made of blue enamel and
twisted gold.

I knew I was right,' she exclaimed
triumphantly, as she held it up before
him. ' Where is the fellow to this
sleeve-link, Geoffrey ? '

I am sure I don't know,' he answered
carelessly ; ' I believe I lost it ages and
ages ago.'

Then / can tell you where it is  on
Lady Conroy's watch-chain.'

It is not true,' cried her husband, with
darkening brows.

'It is true, Geoffrey. She put her
bunch of seals and lockets into my hand
this afternoon, that I might see her
child's portrait, and I saw your sleeve-link
amongst them, and noticed it to her. Oh,
how you have deceived me ! ' cried Jessie,
flinging up her arms and bursting into
tears ; ' and when I have loved you so ! '

Geoffrey was moved by her appeal. It
was true that she had loved him  much
too much for his comfort ; but she had
been a good wife, and he could not bear
to see her in distress. He left his seat
and put his arms round her.

'Jessie, my dear, I have not deceived
you. If Lady Conroy has my sleeve-link,
she must have gained possession of it long
before our marriage, for I have never seen
her since.'

'Then  then  she is the girl  whom
you cared for  more than  you cared 
for me,' sobbed Jessie.

Geoffrey was aghast. He had not been
prepared for so rapid a conclusion on her
part. He did not know what to say.

Tell me  is it true ? ' demanded his
wife. ' Is Lady Conroy the girl for whose
sake you broke off our engagement ?
Geoffrey, I must know ! '

I am very sorry you asked me the
question, Jessie, but I cannot tell you a
falsehood on the subject. The lady of
whom you speak was Lady Conroy. But
that is a long time ago, you know, and
she is married since ; and, therefore, I
sincerely trust you will never allude to
the subject again.'

But she wears your sleeve-link, and
she writes to you to go and see her  all
alone too  and you want to go ; and it
looks very suspicious to me, and underhand.
And what did she come calling on
me for, except to get hold of you again .-
Oh, Geoffrey, I never thought you would
have treated me in this manner !'

I have not treated you in any manner

that you need complain of, Jessie. I had
not even made up my mind if I would
see Lady Conroy. But as you object toit,
I will not. I will write and tell her it
is better we should not meet except in
public'

And then she will imagine you are still
in love with her,' pouted Mrs Doyne, 'or
that I am jealous and won't let you go.'

What am I to say, then ? If I plead a
previous engagement, she may fix another
days'

Don't answer her letter at all. Then
she will understand that you don't wish
to meet her.'

I can't do so ungentlemanly a thing,'
said Geoffrey Doyne.

If you write to her, I know you will
go,' cried his wife. ' She will write back
again, and insist upon seeing you.'

If she did, there would be no great
harm done,' he answered.

I think there would be every harm
done!' exclaimed Jessie impetuously.

And how do you think / should feel sitting
at home alone, and knowing you
were with her  the very girl who was
wicked enough to make you break off our
engagement, and whom you told me you
loved much better than you did me ? Oh !
it was cruel and wicked of you both. I
have had no happiness in my married life
for thinking of it, and now, just  just  as
I thought we were going to have a little
peace and pleasure  in the London season,
she comes again to upset it all, and to
make you go and see her, with  with 
without me ! ' And Mrs Doyne went off
in a series of gasps, that looked terribly
like an impending storm of hysterics.

There  there ! ' exclaimed Geoffrey
impatiently ; ' for Heaven's sake don't
cry, and I'll promise anything ! I won't
go and see Lady Conroy. I'll take you
back to India tomorrow, if it pleases you
better. I'll leave the letter unanswered,
whatever she may think of me. I'll do
anything and everything, so long as you'll

dry your eyes and hold your tongue.
For I have told you over and over
again, that tears and reproaches are the
two things I cannot stand.'

He turned away from her as he spoke,
having first torn up Fenella's letter and
consigned it to his waste-paper basket ;
and as his wife heard him march downstairs
and leave the house again, she felt
as if the victory had been hardly won.
But she had never forgotten the words

<Z)

that Geoffrey had addressed to her on
the occasion of the renewal of their engagement
 the words in which he told
her that he loved another woman, and
that it would be a blasphemy and a sacrilege
to unite himself to her. She had
been jealous of this shadow rival all
through her married life, and she had
watched eagerly for the least symptom
of regret on her husband's part. She
knew that she had not made him happy ;
she was perfectly aware that she had
never entered into his life, nor been more

to him than the woman who bore his
name ; and she had ever been on the
look-out, in consequence, for this favoured
creature who possessed Geoffrey's heart,
and usurped his thoughts, and made him
evermore a stranger to herself. And now
that she had appeared in the person of the
brilliant and fascinating and courted Lady
Conroy, poor Jessie's jealousy knew no
bounds. She would gladly have killed
Fenella with her own hands, if such a
revenge had been feasible ; but failing
that, she would kill her with her tongue,
and make such an open scandal of any
designs she might harbour against her
husband as to render them impracticable
through fear of discovery.

Mrs Doyne was not a high-minded
woman. She could not conceive one
of her own sex being too noble and
generous and honourable to attempt to
take her husband from her. She credited
Lady Conroy from the first with the very
lowest motives in desiring to see him,

and thoroughly believed there was no
safety for either, except in keeping them
entirely apart.

Geoffrey did not answer Fenella's note,
and he felt miserable in consequence. He
moped both in the house and out of it ;
he refused to accompany his wife to any
parties for fear of meeting Lady Conroy,
and talked seriously of cutting short her
pleasure altogether, by taking her down
to Ryelands for the remainder of his
leave.

Mrs Doyne had, of course, returned
Fenella's visit, but as she took care to
choose an afternoon when she knew the
latter did not receive visitors, and Captain
Doyne was only represented by his card,
no harm was done upon that occasion.
But what with Geoffrey's continued low
spirits, not to say bad temper, and his
threats to leave London, matters seemed
to be coming to a crisis, and Mrs Doyne
considered it was time to consult her
mamma on the subject.

Mrs Robertson was an ideal mother-in-law,
always ready to receive the confidences
of her married daughters, and to
join them in a thorough good abuse of the
absent husbands, which sent them home
thoroughly discontented with their lot, and
believing themselves to be the most ill-used
women on the face of the earth.
She had got four daughters off her hands
by this time, but somehow Captain Doyne
remained at the bottom of the list of her
sons-in-law. She had never forgiven him
for rupturing his engagement with Jessie,
nor for the marked coolness he had displayed
towards herself ever since. So
Mrs Robertson was more than ready to
discuss his failings and to track down
his peccadilloes. She listened to all Jessie
had to tell her of Lady Conroy's letter
and Geoffrey's deceit, and how he said
he didn't visit in Portman Square ; but
there was no saying what he did or didn't
do, and any one could see that he was
wretchedly out of spirits, and talked all

day about cutting his throat and wishing
he had never been born.

And do you know, mamma dear,' said
Jessie, with big indignant eyes, ' he talks
in his sleep now, which he never did before,
and is so restless at night I really
think I must have another room.'

Ah ! uneasy in his conscience,' suggested
Mrs Robertson. ' You may depend
on it he is deceiving you, my dear !
and I should make a point, if I were you,
of listening to what he says.'

Well, I do, of course ; but It's difficult
to make out  he mumbles so. Only I
know that last night he called out " Fen-ella
" (that's her name, you know, mamma
dear) several times, and said something
about ' forgiveness " or 'forgive me,' I
don't know which.'

Well, well ! it is very sad,' sighed Mrs
Robertson, ' and I can understand now
his disgraceful conduct at the time of your
marriage. He has had a liaison with this
woman, my dear  there is no doubt of It,

or why should he want her to forgive
him ?  and probably he is carrying it
on at this very moment. I should accuse
him of it straight, if I were you

*Oh, mamma dear, he would be so angry.'

Naturally ! but in the surprise of the
accusation he would betray himself. I remember
once when your papa  however,
perhaps I had better not bring him forward
as an example on this occasion. But
rely on it, Jessie, if there has been anything
between this Lady Conroy and your
husband, you had better know it. It can
make no difference to the fact, and it gives
a wife a hold that nothing else can do.'

But how shall I tell him, mamma dear ?
Geoffrey can be very terrible, you know,
when he gets into a temper.'

Have a dream, my love  have a dream.
I always make a point of dreaming when
I am not quite sure of a thing. It throws
a man off his guard, and you can watch
the play of his countenance whilst you
are relating it to him. Tell him you have

VOL. III. G

dreamt there vas something between them
at this place  what is it ? Ines-cedwyn 
and see what he looks like. You will
soon be able to tell if your surmises are
correct.'

Oh, and if they are, what shall I
do?' cried Jessie, with genuine distress.
Mamma dear, it will make me miserable
for life.'

Nonsense, my dear ! nothing of the
sort. If every wife who finds out some
former peccadillo of her husband were ta
become miserable for life, there wouldn't
be a happy pair in the world. They're
all alike, my dear, only some are more
deceitful than others, and your husband
is one of them.'

I have been wretched ever since I
suspected it,' sobbed Mrs Doyne. ' I
wonder if Amy and Ellen and Nora have
the same trouble with their husbands ? '

I hope they are not so silly as ta
make it a trouble,' rejoined Mrs Robertson
sternly, ' and I shall feel very much

ashamed of you if you continue to do so.
But you are foolishly fond of that man,
Jessie, and he will make you rue your
weakness yet.'

He is so handsome,' sighed Mrs Doyne
pathetically.

' Handsome Is as handsome does," ' rejoined
her mother, * and If you don't assert
your dignity as a wife a little more than
you do at present, you will find some
day that your handsome husband has
bolted from you with somebody else, and
left you to dream of his beauty for the
rest of your life.'

He shall never bolt with Lady Con-roy
! ' exclaimed her daughter angrily ; ' /
will take care of that.'

Very good, my dear ; then don't forget
the old proverb, " It's no use bolting the
stable door after the steed Is stolen."
Take my advice, Jessie, and make your
door fast at once, or your horse will begone
before you have had time to think
about it.'

Armed with this maternal counsel, poor
Jessie returned home still more suspicious
and miserable than she had been on leaving
it, and ready to magnify every molehill
into a mountain. And, unfortunately for
them all, the evening's post brought a
second letter for Captain Doyne from Lady
Conroy. Fenella had waited now three
weeks for an answer to her first appeal.
She had looked out eagerly for the Doynes
at every party she had attended, and she
had waited in several afternoons in hopes
that Geoffrey might call ; but she had
seen nothing and heard nothing, and
her patience was nearly exhausted. She
could not believe it possible that Geoffrey
had received her letter and neglected to
answer it. Whatever his faults, he was too
much of a gentleman for that. He would
have written to her again, had it only been
to refuse to see her. Therefore  so she
concluded  there must have been some
mistake in the matter. Either through
the negligence of servants, or of his wife,

the note had been thrown aside and forgotten
; and he did not even know that
she had any desire to see or speak with
him alone. And so, after a reasonable
time had elapsed, she wrote him a second
letter which was a little more impressive
than the first, in which she told him she
felt certain he could never have received
her former communication, and asked him,
for the sake of their old friendship, to
go and see her before she left town, as
she had something of importance to tell
him.

Jessie, who had taken lately to watching
the arrivals by the post with the eyes
of a lynx, at once detected the monogram
upon the envelope, as the letter was handed
to her husband, and awaited the issue of his
reading it with irrepressible impatience.

Captain Doyne's handsome face flushed
darkly over its perusal, but when he had
ended it, he replaced the note in the envelope
with admirably enacted coolness,
and put it carefully away in his pocket.

Mrs Doyne's indignation knew no
bounds. She longed to follow her
mother's advice and accuse her husband
of perfidy then and there, but the servants
were in attendance, and she was compelled
to smother her rage until they should be
left alone. Then it burst out with redoubled
force for its repression, and she
advanced upon Geoffrey with the face of
a fury.

You have received another letter from
Lady Conroy,' she commenced loudly.
Can you deny it ? '

Captain Doyne regarded her with
amazement, mingled with disgust. He
had been exercising a great deal of self-denial
for her sake during the last few
few weeks, and considered it most unjust
that she should bring him to task in this
manner for a circumstance which was beyond
his own control. The knowledge
of his innocence made him for the
moment brave.

I have no wish to deny it,' he

answered. * My letter is from Lady
Conroy.'

And yet you declared you would not
write to her ? '

I have not written to her.'

I don't believe it ! and if you have
not written to her, you have seen her,
which is a great deal worse.'

'You must believe what you choose,
Jessie. For my own part, I am sick and
tired to death of these aimless discussions,'
said Geoffrey, as he tried to pass
her out of the room. But Jessie placed
herself in his way.

'Will you show me that letter?' she
demanded.

Most certainly not. The letter does
not concern you in the slightest degree.'

But I insist upon seeing it. I am
your wife, and I have a right to see it.
It is shameful that you should receive
letters from other women that you cannot
show to me. And I won't stand it any
longer  I won't ! I wont ! '

Please don't make a fuss about it,' he
said ; ' you will not get your own way any
the sooner, Jessie, for attempting to coerce
me. You ought to know that by this
time, ' and Captain Doyne pushed past
her, and escaped to his own room. She
rushed after him Hke a Httle whirlwind.
He had not time to lock his door against
her, before she had Invaded the sanctity
of his threshold.

Geoffrey,' she exclaimed, with blazing
eyes, ' I will see that letter ! '

You will do no such thing ! Have
you gone mad ? What do you mean by
this behaviour ? '

I mean, that I've stood yours long
enough, and that I will stand it no
longer. I mean, that I don't believe
you have not seen Lady Conroy, nor
corresponded with her, since coming to
London. I mean, that I believe you
are as Intimate with her as you ever
were, only you are cunning enough to
hide it from me, and that you are carrying

on just in the same way you did
at Ines-cedwyn.'

Her husband turned round upon her
quickly.

What do you intend me to understand
by that ? ' he asked, with a face the colour
of ashes.

Just what I say  what I know to be
true  what I have known for a long time
past  and what the whole world shall
know into the bargain, if you don't put a
stop to it now, at once and for ever.'

Geoffrey Doyne sat down upon the
nearest chair, and passed his handkerchief
over his brow.

I  I  have not the slightest idea what
you are alluding to,' he ejaculated presently.

But Jessie saw that she had hit the right
nail upon the head, and her jealousy drove
her almost beside herself.

It's a nice thing, isn't it,' she said
sneeringly, ' for a married man, whose
wife has devoted her life to him, to leave
home, day after day, without giving any

account of his proceedings, so that he
may pass his time unrebuked by the
side of his former mistress ? '

Captain Doyne sprang to his feet.

'It's a He!' he exclaimed. *I have
never spoken to Lady Conroy since we
came to London.'

And Is the other a He too ? ' demanded
his wife. ' Will you deny that also ? '

Geoffrey sat down again.

'Yes,' he replied, in a low, uncertain
voice, 'I do ! '

And you're a Christian ! ' said Jessie
sarcastically ; ' you're a good, religious
man, who Is always preaching to your
soldiers, and saying your prayers, and
telling other people what they ought todo
! You are a fit person to preach, are
you not ? Pott, who married me whilst
you had got a mistress at Ines-cedwyn !'

What do you mean by repeating that
accusation ' ' he said, in a hoarse voice.
Have I not already denied it ', How
dare you take away another woman's reputation

in that way ? Do you know that
you render yourself liable to an action for
libel by it?'

I don't know anything about libel, and
I don't care anything about it,' replied
Mrs Doyne. ' I would risk a hundred
actions sooner than submit to be insulted
and deceived, as you are insulting and
deceiving me. You kjtow that there is
something between you and Lady Conroy.
You were more than lovers when you
broke off your engagement with me for
her sake. Can you look me in the face
and tell me it is not true ? '

I shall not look you in the face, nor
tell you anything,' he answered.

Then I shall be less reticent. I shall
write to Sir Gilbert Conroy, and tell him
what I know about you and his wife.'

Geoffrey started to his feet.

Jessie ! you would never do such a
vile, such a wicked thing as that ? '

Why shouldn't I ? Why should I show
any consideration for you when you show

none for me ? You refuse to tell me anything
! You deny the truth to my face,
and you expect me to hold my tongue in
the same manner! But I shan't. If you
refuse to place any confidence in me, I
shall adopt my own course of action, and
make your conduct as public as I possibly
can.'

What would be the use of my telling
you the secrets of my former life ? ' demanded
her husband. * What good would
it do ? I am faithful to you now, and
have been ever since our marriage. You
have no right to ask for more.'

I have a right to use my information
as I choose, and I shall do so,' retorted
Jessie. ' I shall write to Sir Gilbert Con-roy,
and your father and mine, and everybody
whom it may concern, and tell them
all I know.'

You will only disgrace your sex and
yourself by the action,' he said.

I shall disgrace Lady Conroy, and perhaps
make a separation between her and

her husband. That is much more to the
purpose,' replied Mrs Doyne.

Mf you dol said Geoffrey threateningly,
with a clenched hand.

And if I do, what then ? Am I to be
expected to bear all this misery without
saying a word ? You might have prevented
it, Geoffrey ! You might prevent
it now by telling me the truth.'

There are some things no man can
tell,' replied her husband.

But to his wife  a man may tell anything
to his wife. And isn't it the case,
now ? Wasn't there something more
than mere love-making between you and
Lady Conroy before our marriage ? '

'You have no right to ask me such a
question, nor to mention another woman's
name in connection with mine. You are
driving me most dishonourably into a
corner by doing so.'

You cannot deny It though ! You
cannot tell me on your word of honour
that she has never been anything to you ! '

She was a very dear friend.'

Geoffrey, you are trying to trick me
again, and I will not be tricked. Swear
to me, as there is a God in heaven, that
you never did more than make love to
Lady Conroy, and I'll promise not to
write those letters.'

I will not swear anything.'

Say " No,' then, and I believe you.'

Suppose I were to tell you, will you
promise not only not to write those letters,,
but never to open your mouth upon the
subject again  to me or any one .'* '

Yes, I promise.'

Very well, then, it is true. She was
once more than all the world to me. No
power on earth should have torn the secret
from my lips, except to save her reputation.
You have wrung it from me by
most unworthy means, and I don't think
you will be any the happier for Its possession.
But from this moment I refuse ever
to speak to you on the subject again.'

I don't wish to do so. It is a hateful

subject to me. Only it is not quite ended
yet, Geoffrey.'

What more do you want of me ? '

You must write and tell Lady Conroy
that I know it.'

No. By God ! that I never will he
exclaimed, striking his fist upon the table.
You have degraded me sufficiently in my
own sight, and I refuse to fall a step lower.'

Then / shall do so.'

Jessie, you promised, if I confessed the
truth, that you would take no further steps
in the matter.'

I will not write to the husband, perhaps,
but Lady Conroy must certainly
know what has passed between us, or it
will be useless. You must write and tell
her, Geoffrey, that you have told me the
secret, and that for the future she must
never communicate with you nor try to
see you.'

I refuse to do it.' 

Then I shall adhere to my first resolution
and write to Sir Gilbert.'

Captain Doyne looked In his wife's face.
It had the expression of a demon. Jealousy
was distorting every feature, and he
felt she might be capable of anything.
What was he to do ? Fenella s reputation
must be secured at any price.

What is it you expect of me ? ' he
asked sullenly.

Just what I said. Here is pen and
paper. Sit down and write to her at once.'

Geoffrey took the seat she pushed towards
him. After all, he thought (in his
self-blinded way of thinking), Jessie might
be but an instrument in the hands of Providence
to save him from further transgression.
He was perfectly aware that
his late misery was caused by not seeing
Fenella, and by feeling how dear she still
was to him. This letter (however cruel
to himself and her) would at least be the
means of putting an end to all irresolution
on the subject. She would never see him
after receiving it. It might prove the salvation
of them both.

Misguided Geoffrey! As if Providence,
the loving Father of us all, ever worked
by lacerating His creatures' hearts, until
each quivering nerve is exposed to the
ease of the world ! It is human nature
alone that can be guilty of such barbarity.
But, fortified by the conclusion at which
he had arrived. Captain Doyne caught up
his pen and wrote quickly, 

My dear Lady Conroy,  I write to
tell you that I have informed my wife of
every particular relating to our former intimacy
; after which I feel sure you will
make no further effort to see me, nor to
communicate with me.  I am, yours sincerely,
Geoffrey Doyne.'

As he wrote the concluding words, he
laid his head down upon the paper and
burst into tears.

I cannot send it ! ' he exclaimed. ' It
is unmanly, cowardly, impossible ! I cannot
send it ! '

VOL. III. H

Mrs Doyne lost all patience with him.

Then I shall not give you another
opportunity ! ' she cried. * I shall go at
once to Blenheim Square and tell them
the reason, and write my letters from
there tomorrow morning.'

An open scandal and rupture ! This
would be worse than the other. Geoffrey
felt that it must not be. He pulled his
wife into the room aoain.

Be sensible,' he said ; ' bear with me,
and I will write the letter again. This
one is too much blotted to go.'

He drew the writing-case to him with the
air of a man who is compelled to sign the
death-warrant of his dearest friend ; and
having deliberately re-written the letter,
placed it in an envelope, and gave it into
her hands to be sent to the post ; and then
he flung himself, disgraced, dishonoured forevermore
in his own sioht and that of
the world, face downwards upon a couch.

So his wife found him half an-hour
afterwards. She, took a seat beside him

and put her hand affectionately on his.
She was anxious, now that she had gained
her own way, to be friends again with her
husband.

But Geoffrey pushed her hand impatiently
from him.

Make it up again, Geoffrey,' she whispered.
 I daresay I said some very angry
things, but I will never speak of the subject
again now, to mamma or any one.
I promise you.'

But he refused to answer her.

Are you still angry with me ? ' she
whimpered. ' Can't you understand it
was my love for you that made me so
jealous and unhappy ? And even now it
isn't pleasant for me to think of what she
has been to sou. But I will forgive and
forget everything, Geoffrey dear, if you
will only kiss me and be friends again.'

What is the good of your forgiving
and forgetting,' he answered, with his face
still turned away, ' when / shall never
forgive 77tyself for what I have done tonight

? Go away, Jessie, and leave me
alone. Be satisfied with the hell into
which you have plunged me. Neither
you nor anybody else can ever do meany
good again.'

She had gained her purpose ; she had
effectually separated him from Lady Con-roy
for the future. But the reward of
virtue did not appear so satisfactory as it
should have done. A reward seldom does
come to those who seek it selfishly, irrespective
of the hearts they may trample
on by the way. That letter, however, did
not reach Fenella's hands  as it should
have done  upon the following morning.
She had spent the previous day and night
at Richmond, and as she drove home again
late in the afternoon, her carriage laden
with roses, she called at Mrs Culleton's to
give her some.

She found that lady in her walking
attire, having just come in from paying a
round of calls.

How good of you, dear Lady Conroy,'

she cooed, as she received her share
of roses. ' I never saw more splendid
blooms. And so you have been to Richmond
with a party . '

No ; only Sir Gilbert and myself. He
thought I looked pale and required a little
fresh air, so we went down and slept at the
Star and Garter, and I have just dropped
him at his club on our way home.'

You do look pale, dear Lady Conroy,
and as if you had been worried. I am
afraid you are fretting after your beautiful
baby.'

Fenella blushed.

I should dearly like to have a look at
my baby,' she said, ' but I have not been
fretting about her. I have been worried by
many little things lately. We all have our
share of trouble in this world, you know.'

 Ah yes, indeed ! Who is free from
it ? I have just come from seeing our
mutual friends the Doynes, and they both
seemed in such bad spirits, they have quite
depressed me.'

What is the matter with them ? ' demanded
Lady Conroy quickly.

I cannot tell you ; they did not confide
in me ; but there was something wrong 
I could see that plainly. The Captain
looked pale and harassed, and Mrs Doyne
quite unlike herself. And they talk of
leaving town, too, directly.'

Directly ! ' echoed Fenella.

Yes ; tomorrow, if I understood them
rightly. They intend to spend the rest
of their time at Ryelands, which is his
father's place in Buckinghamshire. I
asked Captain Doyne what he meant by
leaving town in the height of the season,
and he said he was sick of it and should
be glad to get away. There is evidently
something very wrong between them. A
great pity, isn't it ? Such young people
too, and only married a few years.'

Everybody seems miserable in this
world,' said Fenella, in a low voice.

Everybody but yourself, dear Lady
Conroy. I am sure no one would believe

yoM could be miserable, with that dear
good husband of yours, and that charming
child.'

Oh no, of course not ! Present company
is always excepted, you know,'
replied Fenella, with a forced smile.
And did you say you had just left the
Doynes, Mrs Culleton ? '

Not half-an-hour ago. I entered my
drawing-room as your carriage drove to
the door.'

Then, perhaps, if I went there now, I
should find them at home. I owe Mrs
Doyne a visit, and should be sorry for
her to leave town without my paying it'

Certainly you would ; and she will be
so pleased to see you. Lady Conroy. Poor
little soul ! it will cheer her up. I cannot
suspect that handsome creature, Captain
Doyne, of being unkind to any one ; but
if he had given his wife a good beating,
she could not have looked more forlorn
than she did this afternoon.'

And thereupon Lady Conroy took leave

of Mrs Culleton, and ordered her coachman
to drive to Half Moon Street. Asher
carriage bore her thither, she had
no idea of what she was going to
say, or do. She was Hke a person
about to attempt a perilous leap ; her
heart was in such a flutter of excitement,
she had no power to look beyond
the imminent present  the future, withall
its possibilities, must take care of
itself. All she knew was that Geoffrey
Doyne was going to leave London on
the morrow, and her last chance of seeing
him and telling him of Valeria was at
stake. And each day made the revelation
of more importance in her eyes ; each
day something was said or done to make
her feel how dishonourable a part she
would act in leaving Sir Gilbert any longer
in the dark with regard to the parentage
of the child he believed to be his own.
Only that morning he had been telling
her (jestingly, of course, but still with
undeniable truth beneath its surface) that

if she brought him no sons, although the
title must necessarily lapse to a distant
cousin, Valeria would inherit all his estates
and fortune.

And a nice trouble we shall have with
the yoimg lady in that case,' added Sir
Gilbert ; ' it will be as much as we shall
be able to do to keep her to ourselves
till she is grown up. The men will be
swarming round her like fires round a
pot of honey.'

And Fenella had laughed, and felt the
cords tighten round her heart as she did
so. For she had never thought of this.
She had never dreamt, when she took
her fatherless baby to her heart, in place
of the little one she had left in the
cemetery of Hyeres, that Valeria might
become the heiress to Sir Gilbert's lands
and fortune. And if  2/" she should never
have a son ? It was impossible that the
fraud should go on any longer. She had
acknowledged that to herself as she drove
from Richmond the same afternoon. And

then to hear that Geoffrey was about
to leave London ; to go to the country,
where she could only communicate with
him by letter  letters which might never
reach him, or, if explanatory, must compromise
both herself and the child.

It was whilst thinking of such complications
that Lady Conroy resolved (whatever
came of it) she imtst see and speak
with him. And so firm was she in her
resolution, that had Captain Doyne been
from home, she would have asked leave
to wait until he returned. Still, if she
could find a reasonable excuse for her
visit, it would be better for all parties.
She had her roses to take to Mrs
Doyne  flowers were always graciously
received by ladies in London  and there
could be no harm in saying that Mrs
Culleton had told her they were leaving
for the country, and she had wished to
bid them farewell. Luckily for her courage,
the carriage set her down in Half-moon
Street before it had had time to

evaporate, and the servant at once
showed her upstairs.

Geoffrey and his wife were sitting together,
much as Mrs Culleton had
described them  silent, dejected, and
ill-appease. He had expressed his determination
to take her down to Rye-lands
the following morning, and they
had spent the day in wandering about
the house, seeing to the packing of their
several possessions, and feeling utterly
miserable, not to say hopeless. Now the
business part of the matter was over, they
where both too tired to go out, or seek
any amusement, and they were forced
to endure each other's company, although
they did not dare open their mouths, for
fear of making matters worse. Jessie
was wretched In the consciousness that
her late conduct had driven her farther
than ever from her husband's heart ;
whilst Geoffrey felt as if he could never
hold up his head amongst his fellowmen
again.

They were In this pitiable condition
when the drawing-room door was suddenly
thrown open and Lady Conroy was
announced. For the first moment they
could not trust their ears. Had a shell
been thrown, and exploded in their midst,
they could not have been more taken
aback. Believing (as they did) that the
insulting letter of the ni<ht before had

o o

reached her hands, Fenella's presence
there could hold but one meaning for
them. She had come to ask an explanation
of the affront which had been offered
her. Both husband and wife rose quickly
to their feet as the servant uttered her
name. Geoffrey, pale as ashes, stood in
the background, wondering if he could possibly
make his escape before Lady Con-roy
observed him ; whilst Jessie, with the
insolent temerity of her sex, advanced to
the front with an air of determined hostility.
Fenella entered the room with a firm
step, but a sinking heart, which, at the first
sight of the man she had loved with her

whole soul, seemed to die out altogether.
But her hands were filled with roses, and
she walked up to Jessie with a smile that
belied the terror in her eyes.

'How do you do, Mrs Doyne.'' she
said nervously. ' I have come from Mrs
Culleton's, who told me you are going to
leave town. I am so sorry. Will you
accept a few roses from me } I have
just brought them fresh from Richmond.'

Then, without waiting for an answer,
she turned to the silent figure at the other
side of the room, who had not advanced
one step to greet her.

How do you do. Captain Doyne ? ' she
repeated, holding out her hand without
raising her eyes. ' What a long time it is
since we met ! I have been hoping to see
you several times. I trust you are quite
well?'

She looked at him hurriedly as she concluded
the sentence, and met a glance so
startling as to cause her immediately to
return to Mrs Doyne. Jessie by this time

had recovered her self-possession, and was
ready to meet her opponent.

I zuo7tder,' she said, in a harsh voice, the
very fac-simile of her mother's,  ' I wonder
you trouble yourself to come and see us,
Lady Conroy, after the letter you received
from my husband last night ; but some
people have no delicacy of feeling.'

Fenella saw at once that she had committed
an error. Some one had prejudiced
this woman against her. She would have
given her life to be anywhere else at that
particular moment  she felt like an animal
caught in a trap ; but the fearless spirit
she had inherited from her father came to
her aid, and she would have stood her
ground in the face of a dozen women.

I do not understand the tone you adopt
towards me, Mrs Doyne,' she replied,
with a loftily-carried head, ' neither am I
aware to what letter you allude. I came
here this afternoon in kindness, and I
appeal to Captain Doyne to see me protected
from insult in his own house.'

The indignant colour flamed up into
her fair face as she spoke  the white and
rose and damask blossoms dropped from
her hands upon the floor ; she turned a
look on Geoffrey, half entreating, half-reproachful,
that made him long to clasp
her in his arms.

'Jessie,' he exclaimed, ' I forbid you to
speak another word to Lady Conroy.'

I shall speak to her,' replied his wife
shrilly. ' What was the use of your writing
that letter to her if she is to come here as
if nothing had happened, when she ought
to be ashamed to show her face in the
some room with me.

'Ashamed I ' cried Fenella quickly.

Yes, Lady Conroy, ashamed I When
you know how you went with my husband
at Ines-cedwyn, and how you made
him break off his engagement with me 
the most dishonourable thing on earth a
man can do. And even now you can't
let him alone ; now that he's got a wife
and you have a husband. And yet you

go writing letters to him, and making
appointments ! and it's disgraceful and
wicked of you, and every one would say
the same.'

Fenella had turned deadly white during
this speech  white as the lily she once
so much resembled ; and she was compelled
to steady herself by holding onto
the back of a chair.

Captain Doyne,' she said presently,
in a strangely measured voice, ' who told
your wife this story ? '

I assure you, Lady Conroy,' he answered,
* this is a most painful interview
to me, and I should be infinitely obliged
if you would permit me to terminate it.
I can see no good that can arise from
such a discussion, and It is diametrically
opposed to any wish of mine that Mrs
Doyne should have introduced it'

I don't think you have answered my
question,' said Fenella quickly. ' I want
to know frown whom Mrs Doyne received
her information ? '

*Why, from himself, of course,' interposed
Jessie ; * who else could tell me ?
You were both close enough about the
matter ; and I consider that I have been
treated shamefully, and so has Sir Gilbert
Conroy.'

At this allusion Fenella turned upon
her rival warmly.

Confine your remarks, if you please,
Mrs Doyne, to the conduct of your own
husband,' she said, ' and leave mine out
of the question. However much Captain
Doyne may have deceived you, Sir
Gilbert knew my history before he married
me. And I will not hear his name
mentioned by your lips.'

Dear me ! I had no idea you were
such a devoted couple. Does he know
that you write letters to Geoffrey still,
and ask him to go and see you alone,
until you make quarrels between us, and
force him to tell the whole story to mein
order to save himself from open scandal
and disgrace ? Yes, Lady Conroy I

VOL. III. I

you need not stare at me in that rude
manner. I know everything  everything.
And now, perhaps, you will not take
the trouble to call on us again ! '

Fenella did not answer her assailant.
She turned her incredulous face, frozen
with horror, upon Geoffrey Doyne.

Is this true ? ' she asked him. ' Have
you told her everything ? '

He crimsoned with the awful shame
of confession. He stammered like a
schoolboy. Once or twice his hand went
up to his cravat, as though he were choking
for want of air.

I thought it best,' he said at last.
She partially knew it ; in fact, she accused
me of it. And  of course, she will
never repeat it ; the secret is safe with
her  and  well, I did tell her.'

Then there was silence between them
for a few moments, broken only by Fen-ella's
voice.

When I was a girl of sixteen she
uttered slowly, * ill in body, and broken

in spirit, my mother used me with such
violence and cruelty, in order to make
me reveal your name, that she drove
me to attempt suicide. But no one has
ever heard me speak it. I have guarded
your honour, through years of silence and
suffering and suspense, faithfully  as I
shall guard it (for the sake of what has
been) to my life's end. And you  you
have betrayed me to a woman ! Geoffrey
Doyne, you are a coward I '

She looked him full in the face as she
pronounced the words between her teeth,
and, turning slowly on her heel, left the
room. What use was there in her remaining
? The object with which she had
entered it had been entirely frustrated by
his confession. Was .it likely that the
man who could expose her weakness for
himself to his own wife, would ever
befriend or own her child ? Fenella
felt as if the nearest workhouse would
accord Valeria as warm a welcome. He
had betrayed her ! It seemed incredible 

impossible ; she would sooner have believed
him guilty of murder or of theft,
than of giving up the name (and with the
name, the reputation) of the woman he
had ruined  placing her character, her
position in her husband's household, her
right (for aught he knew) to her only
child in jeopardy, by exposing her to the
very woman of all others who would be
most likely to make use of the knowledge.
Her head swam when she thought of
such a treachery. Every principle which
she had been reared from childhood to
regard as an article of faith, seemed
overthrown by the confession she had just
heard. Women are taught to place such
implicit confidence in the honour of the
men to whom they entrust their own. It
is part of their creed ; they believe (as they
do in heaven) that though the man who
loves and leaves them may be utterly
fickle, worthless, and unreliable, he zvill
never tell. He cannot ; it would bea
blasphemy, an outrage, to betray the

identity of the woman who has given
up everything in the world for him.
This is the feminine gospel, but of late
years (if all that one hears is true) it has
been but too often overthrown. Women
who are careless deserve, perhaps, to find
others as careless as themselves, but with
such want of faith the age of chivalry
has passed. It will be all the better for
the weaker sex. It will save them from
many a foible into which their former
perfect security in the honour of men
might have betrayed them ; but the
treachery will rebound upon some one.
Who knows if the women, shred of all
belief in their natural protectors, may not
begin to consider it unnecessary to keep
faith with any ? Once, they believed
them secure in silence as the grave ;
now, they know that they chatter as
much as themselves. And is there any
chance that a woman will ever retrace
her footsteps when all the world has
been made cognisant of her shame 1

A SEPARATION.

Whether we shall meet again, I know not ;
Therefore our everlasting farewell take ;
For ever and for ever, farewell Cassius.'

Shakespeare.

HE issue of this visit had exactly
the same effect upon Fenella as
the announcement of Geoffrey
Doyne's marriage had produced four years
previously. It stunned her. As she returned
to her home in Portman Square,
she seemed to have lost all power of feeling
or action. She moved and spoke like
an automaton. Her senses were in abeyance.

They were paralysed by the shock
she had received. For, from the hour
that she had reclaimed his little child,
she had been trying to think so much
more leniently of Geoffrey Doyne ; to
judge his actions from a broader and
more generous point of view ; to find
excuses for his desertion of her, and to
believe, somehow, that she must have
been In the wrong as well as he. She
had watched Valeria's dally growing likeness
to the face which (though she knew
to be false) she still loved so dearly, until
the darker shadows of her life had cleared
away, and she had remembered only the
flowers, and the golden sands, and the
singing of the birds at Ines-cedwyn, and
forgiven the father for the sake of the
child. But to find him guilty of a dishonourable
action  to believe him mean
and false and cowardly,  this was a
calamity Fenella had never contemplated.
It struck her a twofold blow.
It not only made her lose all faith In

him ; it made her dread lest she should
live to be smitten over again in the
person of his child. For if Geoffrey
proved to be all that was most contemptible
in her eyes, what guarantee
had she that Valeria would not take
after him ; that she might not rear her
daughter to be a woman who should
eventually turn round upon her and expose
her frailty to the world ? No one
but the unfortunate victim herself could
know how this second blow prostrated
her. She crawled up to her bedroom as
if she had been struck with paralysis, and
groped her way to a chair as if she were
blind. And there she sat, silent and
immovable, staring into vacancy, until
the dinner-oongf had sounded for the
second time. Her maid had several
times knocked at the door for admittance,
but without effect. Sir Gilbert
Conroy himself was the first to invade
her sanctum, from his dressing-room.

Why, Fenella,' he exclaimed, ' what are

you dreaming of? It is past seven, and
the dinner is on the table.'

At the sound of his familiar voice she
started  started violently, and then burst
into tears. Her husband was quite distressed
by her emotion. He had noticed
her pallor and depression for some days
past, and feared she was ill.

What is the matter, my dear ?' he said
kindly. ' I am afraid you have over-tired
yourself. Would you prefer having dinner
served to you in your own room ? '

Oh no, no, Gilbert ! ' she exclaimed,
clinging to him convulsively ; * I want no
dinner. I cannot eat nor drink till I
have spoken to you. I am so miserable,
I wish that I was dead.'

The baronet was now really alarmed.

My dearest Fenella, pray compose
yourself. You are hysterical, and had
better retire to rest at once. Let me send
your maid to fetch you a glass of wine.
All these parties and balls have been too
much for you.'

No ; don't let her come in. Let me be
quite alone with you ! For I mist speak
to you, Gilbert, although you have forbidden
me to do so. At the risk of making
you angry, I must speak. I cannot bear
the burden by myself any longer.'

My dear girl, don't talk of making me
angry. If it is any relief to you to speak
to me (though I cannot imagine what on
earth you can have to say), tell me your
troubles at once. I suppose you have got
into debt, you silly child, or lost some of
your jewels. To whom should you confide
your difficulties, if not to your husband ? '

Oh, Gilbert, you have always been so
generous and kind to me, it makes it all
the harder to speak ! But you are a gentleman,
and I know that, at any rate, you will
respect me for being honest, and sympathise
with the insult I have received.'

Insult, my dear ! Who has claimed to
insult my wife ? Tell me his name at
once, and rest satisfied he shall be punished
as he deserves.'

Listen to me, dear Gilbert, and I will
tell you everything. You remember, when
you proposed to me, that my mother made
a communication to you respecting some
portion of my former history ? '

I remember,' replied Sir Gilbert, with
knitting brows.

It was at my request she did so 
more, it was at my command ; for I
utterly refused to see you again until
you were fully acquainted with every
circumstance that might militate in your
eyes against my becoming your wife. And
you passed it over. You were noble
enough to forgive all  on condition that
I never mentioned the circumstance in
your hearing.'

I recall the matter perfectly,' said Sir
Gilbert, ' and I trust you are not going
to infringe on that condition now.'

I must, dear Gilbert  indeed I must !
I have mentioned it to no one (except
Bennett), as you may well believe ; but
circumstances have occurred lately that

make it imperatively necessary I should
speak to you on the subject.'

Sir Gilbert's frown became still more
ominous ; he began to fear the former
lover had cropped up again. But his wife's
head was bowed upon her hands, and she
did not read the expression of his countenance.


I have done you a great wrong, Gilbert,'
she continued, ' an unpardonable
wrong, but I did not see it in so strong
a light at the time I did it.'

Pooh, pooh ! my dear,' said her husband
; ' don't get in the way of exaggerating
matters. I am quite sure you have
not done anything that I shall not find
easy to forgive. Now, what is it ? '

It is much more than you can ever
have any idea of. Oh ! don't look at
me in that way, or I shall never have
courage to confess it.'

Fenella ! ' said Sir Gilbert sternly,
have you disgraced the name you bear ?
Have you been unfaithful to me?'

No, no ! God forbid ! What can you
think of me, to put such a question ? The
woman who professes to love her husband
whilst she betrays him, is not fit to
live. Gilbert, I could not be so base as
that.'

Then I care little for what you may
have to tell me,' he replied, with a look
of relief ; * but if that had been true, I
would have killed you with my own hand ! "

Lady Conroy took courage. What she
had to reveal dwindled by comparison
with her husband's suspicion.

I could not be so wicked as that,' she
said. ' This is bad enough. What will
you say to me, Gilbert, when I tell you
that Valeria is not your child ? '

'Not my child! when you have just
told me  '

Yes ; and I spoke the truth. I have
been true to you from the moment we
met. But  but  our little girl died whilst
I was at Hyeres,' she continued, in a
faltering voice, ' and  I was deceitful

enough to adopt Valeria in her stead, and
never tell you a word about it

Sir Gilbert looked as if he thought his
wife had gone out of her mind.

You must be raving,' he said ; ' you
cannot know what you are talking about.
Adopt Valeria instead of our child . But
why should you do such a thing ? What
motive could you possibly have for bringing
up any child that was not your own ? '

But that is the secret, Gilbert. She is
my own I My mother doubtless told you
(as she told me) that my infant was dead.
She did that, it seems, in hopes of saving
my reputation. But when our baby died at
Hyeres, and Bennett saw me inconsolable
for its loss, she told me (what I had never
heard before) that my other poor child
was alive  left in the charge of strangers,
without a soul on whom she had a claim,
to love her or look after her. And then
the thought came into my head to bring
her home instead of our lost little one,
and I did so. But I have been very unhappy

about It ever since, and longed to
tell you ; but I waited in hopes that  -
that friends might come forward and
assist me. But that hope Is over now 
and I felt I could not rest to-night until
you knew the truth.'

Sir Gilbert had been standing near his
wife during this harangue, totally unable
to believe his ears ; and when she had
concluded, and It was his turn to speak,
his voice was so altered, she hardly recognised
It.

What do you say your mother told
me ? ' he demanded, In a harsh, grating
tone.

About  about  my baby,' she replied,
with a face on fire with shame, 'and all
the disgrace and misery attending It ! '

'It is a lie!' he said fiercely. 'If she
said she had informed me of that, she
told a lie. I never heard a word of the
matter until this moment.'

Lady Conroy sprang from her seat.

What ! ' she exclaimed. ' What ! Do

you mean to say that you married me
without knowing that I  I  had fallen ? '
Do you mean to say that you suppose
I would have married you had I known
it ? ' he cried in his turn. ' /  /  who
consider that the name I have given you
is worthy to be borne only by the purest
and most innocent of women !  who would
have remained single all my life, sooner
than have bestowed it upon one who was
unfit to be the wife of any man ! I don't
believe you thought so ; I believe you
were a party to the plot hatched by
your wretched mother to deceive me ; I
believe you pawned yourself upon me,
knowing that the time must come when
your shame would be my shame, and it
would be impossible to separate the two.
Oh, my God ! how I wish I had taken
your Hfe or my own, before I had lived
to hear what you have told me this day ! '
And throwing himself into the nearest
chair, Sir Gilbert Conroy groaned in the
bitterness of his soul.

Fenella passed her hand across her
forehead, as if she were trying to collect
her senses.

Have I heard you right ? ' she uttered
presently. * Is it really true that you
never learnt this story till to-day ? '

Can you have a better proof of it
than that you bear the name of Lady
Conroy ? ' he replied bitterly.

Oh, mother, mother ! ' wailed Fenella,
what have you done ? Was it not
sufficient to leave me as you did  a
mere child, unprotected and alone, to
fall into such fearful error  without entailing
me, as a life-long curse, upon one
of the best and most generous of men ?
Gilbert ! Gilbert ! ' she cried, as she fell
upon her knees beside him, ' forgive me
for having been made the tool of my
mother's miserable ambition, but don't
think I deceived you willingly, for indeed
indeed  I did not.'

I cannot forgive you,' he answered
brokenly. ' Whosoever was the crime,

VOL. III. K

the curse remains that I have placed
an unworthy woman In my mother's seat.
And then (as if that were not enough)
you dare to bring your base-born child
beneath my very roof, and pass it off asa
Conroy ! If I could (but it would have
been impossible), but if I could hdiw overlooked
the fault of which you declare
yourself guiltless, I never would have
forgiven the one which you confess. It
proves you lost to all sense of decency

Oh, Gilbert ! I love her so,' she
sobbed ; ' how could I help loving her 
my poor forsaken child, without home
or parents or provision ? Had I known
of her existence, she never would have
been left in that condition ; when I did
know of it, I felt as if I must give up
everything I possessed, sooner than neglect
her longer.'

And yet you gave up nothings he
sneered, ' but brought her to my house
instead  to live a lie.'

I ' know it was wrong  bitterly false

and wrong. God knows ! I have repented
it sorely since. But try and make some
allowance for me, Gilbert. A mother's
love is so strong  so very, very strong.
It burns just the same if her child's birth
has been honourable or dishonourable.
However she may have been insulted
or betrayed, she cannot forget that her
own infant has claims upon her above
all the rest of the world.'

And where is the scoundrel who
brought you into this plight ? ' demanded
Sir Gilbert fiercely. ' Why
didn't he marry you ? What was he
about, to leave you to bring disgrace
and ruin upon the house of an honest
man } '

He deserted me long ago,' she answered.


And have you seen him since you
have been my wife } '

Yes ! twice. I tried to see him, that
I might tell him of the deception of which
I had been guilty, and ask him to help

me to confess the truth to you. But 
but  he Is married  and  he cannot help
me!'

The villain ! ' exclaimed Sir Gilbert.
I wish I had his neck beneath my heel,
that I might crush his life out ! The
cur ! to leave the girl he had ruined, to
bring disgrace upon an honourable family
like mine. What is his name ? ' he said
suddenly. ' Tell me his name at once,
that I may have my revenge upon him.'

But Fenella drew herself up, and was
silent.

Do you hear what I say to you,
madam ? ' thundered her husband. ' Tell
me the name of the man who is the
cause of all this misery.'

I have told you all that concerns
myself and you,' she answered ; ' and
if there were anything more to confess,
I would do it, never mind at what cost
to myself. But his name is what I will
never reveal to any one It is sacred tame,
as is his child.

A Separation. 149

She lifted her eyes to heaven as she
spoke, and could Geoffrey Doyne have
-seen her then, he would have thought
her more worthy of his love than in
the days of his most ardent passion for
her.

Her refusal irritated Sir Gilbert into
forgetting his usual courtliness.

But I t7isist: upon knowing it,' he exclaimed,
as he seized her roughly by the
arm. ' We have had enough concealments
already, Lady Conroy, and I
demand to hear the name of this former
lover of yours, as a right.'

If it were a right, you should have it,
Gilbert, but it would but increase the
wrong for me to utter it. What good
could it do ? Would you double the
injury by making it public ? '

You only assume this grandiloquent
air because you wish to hide it,' he
replied, as he shook her angrily. ' An
-open avowal would prevent your continuing
to meet this lover of yours in

private, and lamenting with him over the
obscure condition of your child.'

I have not deserved this at your
hands was all she answered.

Sir Gilbert became beside himself. He
flew to a case of pistols which lay on his
dressing-table, and catching up a loaded
revolver, held It close to her ear.

Fenella felt the cold steel touch her
flesh and send a shudder throughout her
frame, but she stood firm to her ground.
She would die before she would give up
Geoffrey's name.

We sinned together,' she thought. ' I
was as much to blame as he. I will never
be such a coward as to deliver him up to
the scorn of the world, from which I would
so gladly shield myself.'

Will you tell me that man's name ? '
shouted Sir Gilbert, with the muzzle of
the revolver still held against her ear.

'No!' she answered. 'You may kill
me, but I will not make a bad matter
worse by adding treachery to shame. Revenge

yourself on me as you will, but
don't make me fall lower than I have
already done.'

Her husband dropped the hand that held
the pistol. He was already ashamed of the
violence into which he had been betrayed.

I can never forget what has passed
between us this evening,' he said. ' The
shameful story will be written in letters
of blood before my eyes until my dying
day. But for the sake of the family, and
my name, I will consent to ignore it, on
two conditions. One is, that you never
see, nor speak to, nor communicate with
that man in your life again. Do you
understand me ? '

Fenella's eyes assumed a look of despair.
Even at that moment, when he
had proved himself to be most unworthy
of her regard, her heart shrunk from the
idea of never seeing Geoffrey Doyne again
as if it had been a sentence of death.

I am not likely to come in contact
With him, and I will not seek to do so.

That is all that it is possible for me to
promise you.'

My second condition is, that the child
is sent wherever I may see fit to send her,
and that she also is never seen nor communicated
with by you again.'

But this was what Fenella would not
consent to.

No ! ' she said firmly  ' that is impossible.
I will never give up the performance
of a mother's duty towards my baby.'

Did you expect that I would allow
you to keep her with you, then ? '

I hardly know what I expected she
said wearily ; ' but I thought perhaps when
you heard how terribly I had suffered, you
might pardon the deception I have practised
upon you, and allow me to retain
Valeria by my side. But it is of no use
arguing the matter, Gilbert. Nothing on
earth shall induce me to give her up.'

You love this man still ? ' he said
jealously.

She shook her head.

I don't think I do  not in any way,
that is to say, that you need take as an
insult to yourself. I know that I cannot
esteem him ; and with esteem the best
part of love is lost. Only  he was very
-dear to me at one time ; and  and 
some things are not easily forgotten,' she
ended, with a sigh.

And for the sake of these tender memories
of your youth, I am to rear and pass
off this nameless brat as my own ! Well,
then, I refuse to do it. Either you give
her up (at once and for ever), or you and
I must part.'

I cannot give her up,' repeated Fenella,
with a fixed look of despair upon her pale
features ; ' I should be unworthy of the
name of woman if I could consent to it.
How could I live, how could I eat and drink
and sleep, if she  the creature I brought
into the world  my own flesh and blood
were friendless and outcast ? Gilbert,
you could never wish me to be so heartless
 so cruel ! '

You must pay the penalty of your
wrong-doing,' he said coarsely.

I will not pay it by committing a
greater sin,' she answered.

Then you must take the consequences.
If you refuse to part with that child, you
part with me. Understand me plainly,
Lady Conroy. I cannot strip you of the
title you bear (I wish I could), but I am
not obliged, at least, to keep a living witness
in my sight of the folly which induced
me to bestow it on you. Therefore, take
this as my ultimatum. Either the child 
or me. If you persist in your refusal to
give her up, I will never live with you
again.'

I do persist in my refusal to give her
up,' she repeated slowly, and as the words
left her lips. Sir Gilbert passed her with
an oath, and quitted the room ; slamming
the door violently after him.

Fenella heard the noise, and knew that
he had gone, but she never stirred from
her seat. She did not know how all this

would end. She believed some great
calamity was hanging over her. But she
did not once waver in her determination
never to desert her child. She sat where
her husband had left her, shedding a few
natural tears over the failure of her frankness,
and the name of ' Geoffrey ' came
once or twice in a stifled sob from her
lips. But she never stopped to consider
for a moment If she could make her sense
of what was right succumb to Sir Gilbert's
desire to avert the consequences of what
was wrong. It was part of the blight that
Geoffrey Doyne had brought upon her  
another phase of her life cut short and
ruined by his means ; and Fenella bowed
her head to the inevitable as she had done
before.

When her maid appeared upon the
scene, begging to know if she Intended to
go down to dinner, she pleaded Illness and
went to her bed Instead. But Sir Gilbert
had left the house, and all through the
sleepless night, and anxious day that followed

It, his wife heard nothing of him. She
gave up her engagements (which, indeed,
she had no heart to fulfil), and stayed at
home in hopes of his return. Yet he did
not come. But on the second morning
after his departure, she received a letter
from him  a cold, curt letter  embodying
what he had said by word of mouth.

Since you have refused all my overtures
of kindness,' so it ran, ' you will not
be surprised to find that I can be as determined
as yourself. I write, therefore, to
tell you that I leave England to-day, and
that, whilst you continue in your obstinate
refusal to do what is best for yourself, we
shall never meet again. I have placed
Conroy Castle at your disposal, as I have
no wish openly to disgrace you, but the
house in Portman Square will be put in
the hands of my agents, to let during the
term of my absence. All other particulars
which it may be necessary for you to know,
my sister Lady Marjoram has full instructions
to acquaint you with. It is for the

sake of the honour of my family name
alone that I have shown the leniency
towards you which is displayed by the
reticence I have observed. My sister
knows nothing, except that wee find It
more conducive to our domestic happiness
to live apart, and I trust to your
discretion not to enlighten her further.'

/ The ho7iottr of his family nine /' said
Fenella bitterly, as she concluded the
letter. ' Yes, that is the first thing with
Gilbert. Love and happiness are nothing
in comparison. And does he think that
I will consent to live at Conroy Castle 
myself a prisoner, my child a dependant
on his bounty  whilst he leaves my actions
to be judged by the charitable world ? If
he does, he is very much mistaken. He
will find that my pride  though it does
not rest upon a stainless name  is equal to
his own.'

She had hardly digested her letter, nor
decided on the line of action she should
take regarding it, when Lady Marjoram

rushed into her presence, all anxiety to find
out what had caused a breach of the peace
between them.

My dear girl she exclaimed, in her
off-hand manner, ' what have you been upto
? Do you know that Bertie is going
back to Sovooranooko ? He was at our
place half the night, raving like a madman,
and declaring you and he could never live
together again. What is it all about ? I
feel quite boulevards. I have looked upon
you as a model couple  a pattern husband
and wife  and now to find there's a smashed
between you quite takes my breath
away. And I suppose yotire at the bottom
of it  at least Bertie says so.'

Yes, I suppose I am,' said Fenella,
with a sigh.

Well, what have you been doing, you
naughty girl ? Flirting, I suppose, and
Bertie's intercepted a letter or a rendezvous,
and there's the old gentleman to pay.
silly goose, not to manage your affairs
better! Every woman flirts now-a-days.

I don't mind a little fun in that way myself,
though I'm not an advocate for going too
far (it leads to such vulgar esdaidres) ; but
no one should attempt it who is not a
mistress of finesse. Who told him, dear ?
What did he find ? I hope the man's
name didn't transpire.'

Indeed, you are mistaken, Janie ; your
brother's displeasure with me has not
arisen from any fault in my conduct since
I have been his wife. He ought to have
done me the justice to tell you that.'

Then what is it, my dear ? Why have
you quarrelled ? It is a most foolish thing
to have an open split in this way. Why
should Bertie go back to Sovooranooko ?
He has seemed as happy as a king ever
since his return.'

I think he should have explained matters
more satisfactorily to you himself,
Janie, particularly as he writes this morning
to enjoin silence on me. All I can
tell you is that we have had a disagreement.
Gilbert wished me to accede to a

certain desire of his, and he made our
separation the condition of my refusal. It
was Impossible for me to consent without
Infringing on what I consider my duty.
Therefore he has carried out his threat and
left me. That is as much as I can tell you.'

But, my dear Fenella  duty ! What
nonsense ! No one thinks of such a thing
now-a-days ; and even If they did, surely
your first duty Is to obey your husband ? '

Not If he asks me to do what is wrong.'

How tragical you look ! One would
think he had asked you to murder somebody.
But you don't mean to carry it too-far,
do you ? I assure you Bertie will
leave England If you don't stop him. I
never saw a man more determined in my
life. And when it Is too late to recall him,
you will be sorry that you let him go.'

I am sorry now. I shall be sorry
under any circumstances, because I quite
thought that he had begun to care forme
; but I cannot take back my word. I
believe with you that he will leave England,

and that we may never meet again.
But it can make no difference  what he
has asked of me j an impossibility.'

Well, I never saw two such obstinate
people in my life ! And I never should
have thought it of you Fenella, who
always seemed so yielding and amiable
to him. And fancy living all the year
round at Conroy Castle ! Why, you will
be buried alive. You will not be able to
support your existence. Do think better
of It, Fenella. That place is as cold as a
churchyard in winter.'

I do not intend to live there.'

But Bertie says you must. He has
given instructions to his bankers to honour
your drafts to a certain amount every
quarter, on condition that you live at the
Castle.'

I am very much obliged to Sir Gilbert
Conroy,' replied Fenella, with a curling lip,
for letting his bankers know that I am
left en penitence ; but I don't think I shall
trouble them to honour my drafts at all.'

VOL. III. L

My dear girl, what nonsense you
are talking ! How can you live without
money ? '

I will make it ! '

Fenella ! ' cried Lady Marjoram, with
unaffected horror.

She would have been less horrified if
her sister-in-law had confided to her some
tale of secret dishonour.

Janie,' said Fenella, ' do you suppose
that I am going to accept all the advantages
which your brother's position
and name and money can afford me, when
he doesn't consider I am worthy to be his
wife ? He told me so when we parted.
He repeats his opinion in the letter I have
received from him to-day. He is going to
show the whole world that he thinks so,
by leaving me to live alone and in disgrace
at Conroy Castle. But he will find
that I have too much pride to accept his
conditions. If I am not fit to be Lady
Conroy, I will take none of the advantages
that accrue to me from bearing the name.

I will take my child and my servant away
from Scotland, and support them with the
labour of my hands, sooner than accept one
farthing from a man who openly insults
and deserts me.'

But, Fenella, it is impossible   you
cannot do such a thing,' exclaimed the
Countess. ' Fancy what the world would
say at such an act on your part. It could
put but one construction on it ; it would
never believe that you had gone alone.'

" The world " must believe what it
likes,' said Fenella. ' Your brother was
the proper person to think of that, Janie.'

But the child, my dear girl ! Bertie
will never let you take the child away
with you, and I am quite sure you will be
miserable if you part with Valeria.'

He will put no opposition in the way
of my taking the child,' replied Lady
Conroy quietly.

Fenella, you naughty girl ! tell me the
truth,' cried Lady Marjoram. "Is it anything
with reference to the child that

has caused this terrible affair between
you ? '

If It were, you are the last person
who should speak of It jestingly,' returned
Lady Conroy, and her sister-ln-law could
get no more out of her than that.

She attempted to give her some Information
respecting the arrangements Sir
Gilbert had made for her comfort and
welfare, but Fenella refused to receive It
from her hands. If her husband, she said,
could confide such a duty to a third party, It
deteriorated to an Insult. So Lady Marjoram,
finding It Impossible to get at the
truth of the matter, took her departure, with
the Intention of trying to see her brother
again, and Informing him of his wife's
refusal to live at Conroy Castle. But she
was too late. A note, welch she found
awaiting her at home, contained the news of
his departure for Italy, where (as Sir Gilbert
said) he Intended enjoying himself, until
such time as he had made arrangements for
returning to Sovooranooko. But he gave

no address, so his sister was unable to communicate
with him. A fortnight later, she
wrote to Fenella : 

All hope for the present is over. I
received a telegram from Bertie this
morning, to say he was just about to embark
at Brindisi for the Gold Coast, and
I shall not hear from him again until he
has arrived there. By this time he must
be on the sea. But I entreat of you to be
patient, and take up your residence quietly
at Conroy Castle, until I shall have had
time to write to him and receive a reply.
Surely you cannot remain obdurate. Now
that you see my brother is determined to
have his own way, you will give up yours.
Whatever has been the cause of your
separation, it must not go any farther, for
the sake of the family, and the scandal
which publicity will entail'

When Fenella received this letter, she
was still in Portman Square. The season
was yet at its height, but she had remained
persistently at home, preparing for the step

which she fel sure she should find It necessary
to take. She had sent for Bennett and
Valeria from Scotland, and passed most of
her time with the little child who would
thenceforth be her only companion. But
she did not confide the real reason of her
husband's absence to the servant. She
hoped that he might yet think better of
his determination and return to her, and
until he made the matter patent to the
world by leaving England, she considered
it was her duty to be silent. But when she
received Lady Marjoram's letter announcing
his departure, Fenella felt that her
time for action had arrived. She could
not remain in Portman Square. The house
was already in the agents' hands for letting,
and she refused to be banished to Conroy
Castle. She was obliged to call her faithful
old nurse to her side and tell her the truth.

Bennett dear. Sir Gilbert and I have
parted for ever. We are never going
to live together again.'

Miss Fenella, you don't mean to goto

tell me such a thing?' cried Bennett,
with uplifted hands. ' I snowed there
was something up between you, but I
never thought it could be as bad as that.
And you seemed so sweet and loving'
together at the Castle ! Deary, deary
me ! whatever's brought it about ? '

The cause is not of much consequence,
is it, nurse,' said Fenella mournfully,
so long as the fact remains ? And it
is a fact that I am going to leave Sir
Gilbert's protection altogether, and take
you and baby with me.'

Miss Fenella dear, tell me the truth.
Is that child at the bottom of this ?
Have you been telling Sir Gilbert that
she ain't his own ? '

Yes, I have, Bennett. I know you
will scold me, and it doesn't seem quite
fair to you either, but I couldn't help
it. The whole thing came out one day
when I was in great distress, and Sir
Gilbert pitied me, and I thought he
would help me. But he was very, very

angry  just as you said he would be 
and he declared my mother had never
told him anything about it, and refused
to live with me again unless I gave up
my child. And that was impossible, you
know, nurse ; and so he has gone back
to Africa, and we shall never meet again,
I suppose, in this world.'

Oh dear ! oh dear ! ' cried the servant,
'it's all my fault. If I'd never gone and
told you that that baby was alive, you'd
have forgot all about the other by this
time, and there'd have been a happy life
before you. Oh, my dear lady, I shall
never forgive myself. I have been the
ruin of all your happiness.'

Indeed, it is no such thing,' replied
Lady Conroy kindly, as she laid her hand
in that of the old woman ; ' you have
always been my best and truest friend,
dear Bennett, and I shall never forget
your kindness to me as long as I live.
It was my mother who proved faithless
to me in my extremity, and sent me, a living

He, into Sir Gilbert's arms. It is no
wonder he should resent such treachery.'

But he would overlook it, my dear, if
you sent that child away. And though it
would go hard with you to do it, Miss
Fenella (because I know what a mother's
heart you have for the little creature), yet,
you know, when it comes to husband, and
title and lands in one scale, and a poor
weak baby in the other, no one could
blame you for choosing that as would do
most good to yourself and others. Fd
see she was well placed and well cared
for, my dear. I'd even go with her myself
(if it pleased you to think I looked
 after her), for I am sure, nothing I could
do could compensate for the trouble I've
brought on your head by telling you the
story. Think better of it, Miss Fenella,
and write and tell your good gentleman
as you'll let the baby go.'

Fenella looked steadily into the old
servant's eyes.

Bennett, do you really think so badly

of me as that ? ' she said. ' You, who
know all ! Do you think that, for the
sake of my own comfort and reputation,
I would cast his child upon the tender
mercies of the world, to grow up perhaps
unloved and unprotected (as I was), and
left to fall into the same errors ? No,
nurse ! I am not a religious girl  I
never was. Somehow no one has ever
seemed to care to ask (not even hin) if
I thought of religion or not. But I am
not quite indifferent to the knowledge
that I have sinned against God, and that
if He sees fit to punish me for that sin
to the end of my life, I must be patient.
It would not make the burden easier to-shift
it on the shoulders of another. I
could not accept pleasure and luxury 
not even love (which my heart needs so
sorely)  at the expense of my little child.
God sent her to me, and no one but God
shall take her away again. I can work
for her or beg for her, but I will never
part with her until my life's end,'

When Lady Conroy had finished her
speech, Eliza Bennett was in tears.

Where's the shoulders as ought to
bear half the burden for you ? ' she exclaimed
; 'why ain't that Mr Doyne hereto
see what you have suffered, and what
you do suffer, and all on account of the
trouble he brought upon you, the selfish
creature ? '

Don't be silly, dear nurse,' said Fen-ella,
with an attempt at a smile ; ' he is
married, you know, and cannot be expected
to remember what took place so
long ago. Besides, did not you tell him
my baby was dead . '

Yes ! I did. Heaven forgive me!
But it was your poor mamma's orders,
and I never disobeyed them to my knowledge.
But it strikes me as you've seen
him agen. Miss Fenella, and that all this
fresh misfortune's been brought about by
him as well ? '

I have seen him,' replied Lady Conroy,
in a low voice ; ' and I would have asked

him to help me In this matter, but he has
forgotten all about me, nurse ; he does not
care for me any longer (perhaps he never
did care really), and so the less we speak
of him the better. He can never help
me out of any trouble.'

No ! more likely to pull you in again,
my dear. But did you tell him about
Miss Valeria?'

No ; where would have been the use ?
Is it likely, when he does not love the
mother, that he should take any Interest
in the child . '

Has he got any others. Miss Fen-ella?'


No, he has not.'

And she's the very moral of him,' said
the nurse, as she looked at the child that
was playing on the floor.

Yes, in person,' replied Lady Conroy ;
pray God she never may be in mind.
The fact Is, I tried to see him, nurse. I
wrote to him twice to come and speak tome,
but he refused. It is evident that he

is either afraid of his wife, or anxious that
the past should be buried in oblivion.
And in either case, I am too proud to
intrude Valeria on his notice. He has
done me all the harm he can, and the
time is past for him to do me any good.
Let me say to you now, then, dear nurse,
what I said four years ago. Don't mention
his name again to me.'

I'd like to give him a bit of my mind
all the same,' said Eliza Bennett. ' And
now, my dear lady (if I don't make too
bold), what do you mean to do for yourself?'


I intend to leave England, Bennett,
with Valeria and you (if you will come
with us, dear), and go to Italy. I have
a small sum of money, saved from my
allowance  more than enough for us to
begin housekeeping upon  and I shall
set to work at once to earn more. I
have spoken to some professional friends
already on the subject, and procured some
introductions that may be of service tome.

I am going to sing for my living,
Bennett. I shall take my maiden name
again ; and if I can earn sufficient money
by my voice for us three to live upon,
I shall be quite content. Sir Gilbert
would make me an allowance, if I would
consent to take it ; but I will not. I
cannot accept his bounty when he refuses
to give me with it the title of his
wife.'

Naturally the servant tried all her arguments
to persuade Fenella to abandon
this purpose. It seemed a terrible thing
to her that her young mistress should
give up houses and fortune and friends,
to exercise her talents for a livelihood 
{'just like a common play-actors as she
said, with the ignorant insolence of her
class)  and all for the sake of a child
as ' was nobody s.' But she completely
failed in her mission. Fenella was not
only resolute to carry out her intention,
but forbade Bennett (on pain of dismissal)
to mention the project to any one.

She left London with her nurse and
child, as though she were starting on a
trip of pleasure ; nor did she confide her
destination even to Lady Marjoram. But
when she had got as far as Paris, she
wrote her sister-in-law a letter, thanking
her for all her kindness, which ended with
these words : 

As Sir Gilbert Conroy has voluntarily
elected you his ambassador in this painful
matter, will you tell him that, since I find it
impossible to accede to the conditions he imposed
upon me, I have made up my mind
to separate from him altogether ; and as he
declines to live with me as my husband,
I refuse to accept anything further at his
hands ? I am going to support myself
and my child henceforward, and neither
of us will ever trouble him again. Do
not let him fear, however, that we shall
bring any further disgrace on the family
name of which he is so careful. I shall
adopt that which my father left me, and

no one will ever learn from my lips that
I have a claim to any other.'

The Countess was naturally very much
distressed when she received this letter,
but there was no remedy for it. Fen-ella
was beyond her reach or control,
and all she could do was to forward her
message to Sovooranooko ; being well
inclined to believe the while (with the
rest of her fashionable friends) that there
must be something at the bottom of
the mystery which they had best not try
to fathom.

Captain Doyne, too, heard of Lady
Conroy's rupture with her husband, and
in a way he little expected. A few weeks
after he had gone home to Ryelands, and
but a few days before he had arranged
(being utterly disgusted with what had
taken place during his short stay in
England) to return to India, an ill written
and ill-spelt letter, in a strange handwriting,
was put into his hand. He read

the intelligence it contained with the
utmost surprise.

Sir,  I am the person as met you,
three years ago come last February, at
Ines-cedwyn, and told you as a certain
child, which we both snowed of, had been
born dead. Sir, I told you a lie, though
it was by my mistress's orders I did so.
That child is alive and well at the present
time, and the very image of yourself.
I should not have written to tell
you this, sir, even now, only I know from
what I have heard and seen, that you
have sorely misjudged my young mistress's
actions, and brought another heavy trouble
upon her head. She wanted to see you
lately, sir, to tell you that the little girl
was alive, and that she had the care of
it. I don't know what happened between
you this time, but I know it has cruelly
cut her up, and caused a quarrel and a
separation from her husband, and all on
account of the misfortune you brought

VOL. III. M

upon her. And may the Lord forgive
you, sir ! for I never can. And if you are
happy in your own home, with wife and
children, it's more than you deserve to
be. And though it isn't right for sinful
creatures to be wishing harm to one
another, I can't help hoping as the
thought of my young mistress turned
out of her home, for the sake of the
poor innocent as has got no father, may
come back to you sometimes in the
midst of your own pleasures, and make
you repent of the misery you've caused
them both.  I am, sir, your humble
servant, Eliza Bennett.'

A LAPSE OF TIME.

The dead he would have forgotten ; but this living
woman of whom the world spoke, whom
it crowned  this living woman he could not
forget.'  A ariadne.

HE first feeling which Geoffrey
Doyne experienced on reading
Eliza Bennett's letter was one
of anger, mingled with disbelief. He was
angry that a servant should have presumed
to meddle with his private affairs ;
angry that so important a piece of news
should have been kept from him so long,
and rather incredulous as to whether it
were the truth  whether it might not bea

trap on the part of Fenella, or the nurse,
to excite his sympathy or extract his coin.
But a Httle consideration banished this
idea. The letter contained no address,
nor desire for a reply. It must have
been written, therefore, with the simple
intention of telling him that the child
was alive.

Alive !  his child ; their child alive !
He could not believe it. He had been
led for so many years to regard it as dead,
that he had almost ceased to remember it
had ever existed. And now to hear that
it was alive ! It placed Fenella in an
entirely new light in his eyes. She was
no longer only the love of his youth  she
was the mother of his child ; and that is a
tie which no man worthy of the name can
ever cease to acknowledge. It exalts a
bad, low woman to a dignity she can gain
by no other means. It raises a pure and
loving one on a level with the Divine.
She has become a creator  the creator of
his second self.

\

And this intelligence had reached .Geoffrey
Doyne at the very moment when he
and the mother of his child were parted
for ever  when (with his own hand) he
had dug a gulf between them which no
future excuse nor explanation could bridge
over. He had exposed her frailty to the
eyes of another ; he had lowered her
before the woman who had usurped her
rightful place ; he had humiliated the
creature who had loved him above all the
world, and who had now become an outcast
from her home for his sake.

Geoffrey Doyne did not question how
the calamity had been brought about.
That it had occurred was sufficient for
him ; that he was powerless to avert it,
more than sufficient. When he thought
of what had happened, and that an interview
or a few kind words from him might
have prevented it  when he remembered
all that Fenella had suffered for him in
the past, and how little he had ever done
to alleviate the pain he had caused,

Geoffrey Doyne thirsted to leave England
and all its miserable associations behind
him, and try and forget them in the duties
of his profession.

He dragged his wife back to India full
six months before his leave had expired ;
and from the day he met and parted with
her in his own house the name of Lady
Conroy never passed his lips.

But Jessie knew that he had not forgotten.
She possessed the lynx eyes of
jealousy, and watched every look of her
husband's face, and listened to every tone
of his voice, to find out if she could detect
any lingering regret for the failure of his
early love.

But Captain Doyne's eyes and tongue
told no tales. Yet, as the years went on,
there were signs about him which spoke of
a heart ill at ease. Children were born
to him after his return to India ; he gained
several steps in his profession ; his father
died, and left him a substantial fortune ;
and yet the lines in his face grew deeper

and deeper, and his dark hair changed
rapidly to grey.

Even the smiles of his infant children
were a reproach to him. He was an affectionate
man by nature, and under ordinary
circumstances would have made a loving
father, but when his little boys  all the
picture of Jessie  ran after him, or climbed
upon his knee, the vision of another child
would rise before him  of a little fairy
girl  * the very image of himself (as Bennett
had said)  who had no father, no
home, whose mother was a wanderer
upon the face of the earth, whose very
name was a mystery to him  and he
would thrust the chubby little hands to
one side, and go away by himself in
solitary wretchedness. Then he would
sit for hours brooding over the irrevocable
past  wondering if Fenella ever thought
of him, and what she thought of him ;
wondering what the child was like  if she
resembled her mother in the spring-tide
of her youth, or if (as the nurse had

affirmed) she was a reproduction of himself:


Behold, my lords,
Although the print be little, the whole matter
And copy of the father eye, nose, lip,
The trick of his frown, his forehead ; nay, the valley,
The pretty dimples of his chin and cheek ; his smiles,
The very mould and frame of hand, nail, finger.'

His little daughter! It seemed to have
come almost as a merited retribution that
his wife had brought him only sons  he
who had always (when he thought of
children) so longed to have a daughter on
whom to lavish his affection and spend his
substance. And these boys  they were all
very well, of course, and he was proud of
them ; but he did not care to fondle them.
They were not to him as a girl could have
been  as the little nameless girl whom he
pictured lying in Fenella's arms, with ' the
very trick of his frown ' upon her pretty
features. Men do so dearly love to have
a child that resembles themselves in every
particular.

But as the passing years went on,

Geoffrey Doyne did not remain entirely
ignorant of Lady Conroy's whereabouts
nor her proceedings. A chance revelation
made him acquainted with the fact that she
had changed her name again to Barrington,
and was gaining her livelihood as a public
singer ; and having gained so much information,
the rest was easy. He followed
her career as an artiste from capital to
capital and watched her upward progress,
until she had made a name for herself
which would live when she had passed
away. He read that she had become a
widow by the death of Sir Gilbert Conroy
at Sovooranooko some three years after
he had parted with her in London, but the
circumstance seemed to make no difference
to the labour of her life. He heard of her
success, first on the concert platform, and
then upon the operatic stage in London
and Berlin and New York, and shuddered
when he realised the temptations she must
have to pass through, and from which
he had resigned the power to shield her.

But he never could hear anything of his
little daughter. The men whom he met
fresh from England, and full of praises for
Mrs Barrington's voice and acting, had
naturally never heard nor seen anything of
her child, and were of opinion that, if she
had one, she was very wise to keep her in
the background.

A daughter, Doyne ? ' they would exclaim.
' Mrs Barrington can't have a
daughter, unless she's quite a baby.
Why, she doesn't look more than two
or three and twenty herself

She has a daughter, I can assure you,' he
answered, with a sigh, ' a girl who must be
thirteen or fourteen years old by this time.'

Do you know . her, Colonel } ' said
another man.

I used to know her,' replied Colonel
Doyne, 'some fourteen or fifteen years ago.
Mrs Barrington must be thirty by this time.'

By Jove ! you don't mean to say so.
She doesn't look it by a long way. She
is one of the most charming and attractive

women In town, and the men swarm round
her Hke flies. Have you ever heard that
she was the wife of Sir Gilbert Conroy,
the governor of some place on the Gold
Coast ? He died out there.'

Yes, I have heard so

Well, his cousin, Lord Laurence Gran-than,
is perfectly mad about her. They
say at the club, they always know when
Grantham has been refused again by Mrs
Barrington, he drinks so many extra .
But it tells well for her,
you know, because (as people say) there
couldn't have been anything very wrong
about her leaving Conroy, or his cousin
wouldn't want to make up to her.'

Colonel Doyne flared up in a moment.

Who dares to say there was anything
wrong ? ' he demanded.

Well, it looked queer you know,
Colonel. He left her or she left him
(one of the two) in the very middle of
the season, and she appeared in public
almost directly afterwards under her

maiden name. And you say she has a
daughter, too ! '

What of that ? ' demanded Geoffrey
Doyne quickly.

Don't you see if that child were a Con-roy,
it is very unlikely that Sir Gilbert
would have permitted her to take it away,
and drag it over the country whilst she
was following her profession ? Why, the
Convoys are awful big wigs  connected
with the Marjorams, and no end of swells.
No, no ! you may depend upon it there's
something queer in it all  queerer than
anybody knows, except the lady herself.'

And yet you said just now that Lord
Laurence Grantham was anxious to marry
her ? ' observed Colonel Doyne drily.

So he is ; and most people say he is
the proper person to marry her. He may
know more about the little girl than you
or I  eh, Colonel ? '

But the Colonel did not seem to appreciate
the joke. He turned away, with a
knitted brow, which looked like ill-temper,

but was in reality pain ; and the man who
had been talking to him told his brother
officers that he had always heard Doyne
was a ' tub-preacher' but he didn't think he
was so strait-laced as to take offence at a
common innuendo.

And whilst he was thus under condemnation,
Geoffrey Doyne was suffering
as acutely as he had ever done in the old
days. The careless words of the young
officer had sunk deep into his heart. This
was what his love had done for Fenella
Barrington  left her throughout life to be
suspected, tracked down, and talked about.
This was the legacy he had bequeathed
her, in exchange for the unlimited faith
she had placed in his honour upon the
Ines-cedwyn sands.

Had Geoffrey Doyne been a careless
man of the world, his conscience might
have ceased to reproach him before this
time ; had he loved the woman he had
ruined, as little as she thought he did,
he would have found a thousand excuses

for his own behaviour. But he was not
careless, and his love for her had been
the one love of his life. Weakness of
character, instability of temperament, and
fear of the world had contrived to make
him outwardly faithless to her ; but no
other woman had ever taken her place
in his heart. And his sense of religion,
which had deepened with the passing-years,
had helped to keep up her memory
rather than erase it.

Once upon a time this same religion,
shadowy and undefined, had soured him
towards his fellow-creatures. For, in
reality, he loved gaiety and pleasure. He
would have keenly enjoyed theatres and
balls and races ; he was formed by
nature to mix with society, and be one
of its brightest ornaments. But what he
took to be the voice of Heaven forbid his
making this world other than a miserable
reformatory, in which he was to do penance
for the sins which it had been ordained he
should commit before he entered it.

And the foremost amongst these was
his sin against Fenella. He had not
had the courage to remedy that evil by
a manly acknowledgment of wrong, but
he had striven to expiate it by crying
Peccavi ' night after night upon his bended
knees. That could not do Fenella much
good, but it brought her image vividly
before him, and he was conscious of an
ever-increasing desire to meet her again
and receive her pardon for the past.

His friends were puzzled to know why
he did not return home and settle in
England. By the death of his father he
had become the possessor of a considerable
fortune, which placed him above the
necessity of work, and his four sons were
now of an age to be educated at school.

Colonel Doyne could have told them the
reason well enough had he chosen to do
so. He shrunk from the idea of going
home, as H an old wound had been freshly
lacerated every time the subject was mentioned
to him. Home ! v/hat home could

there be for him in the country which held
Fenella and himself together, and yet apart?
It was the fear of meeting her again, and
finding that the work of years was undone
in a moment, that made him hold back as
long as he could from taking any decisive
steps in the matter. The very yearning
he felt to revisit the place in which she
lived, made him loath to risk a repetition of
the pain and disappointment he had experienced
during his last sojourn there.

But at length circumstances compelled
him to make up his mind on the subject.
Jessie's health (which had never been
strong from the beginning) failed altogether,
and her doctors insisted upon an immediate
removal. She thought that her husband
would accompany her (and his first intention
had been to do so), but at the last
hour his courage failed, and he despatched
her, with her four children and attendants,
to England alone. His wife was not surprised
when his ultimatum was made known
to her. She had felt for years that they

were drifting farther and farther apart, and
had become quite hopeless of his affection
ever reviving. She had loved him in her
jealous, exigeaiite way all her life, and the
knowledge of his complete indifference was
the foundation of her present illness. Her
health would have been delicate under any
circumstances, but it need not have culminated
in disease had she not become so
thoroughly convinced that Geoffrey would
do just as well  if not better  without her.
Even her love for her offspring succumbed
to the influence of this jealous, despairing
love for her husband. Her heart was
not capable of a large affection, nor could
it hold more than one at a time. It was
narrow and bigoted and exacting, and
would have made her jealous of a dog that
took off Geoffrey's attention from herself.
She was proud of her children only because
they were his ; but if he appeared proud
or fond of them too, her blood curdled
with apprehension, and she was ready to
turn them all out of the room, lest they

VOL. III. N

should usurp his conversation or his Ideas.
She was almost thankful to have them
with her on the voyage (although they
were far too boisterous to make pleasant
companions for a sick mother), since
Geoffrey would not have the opportunity
of growing more attached to them during
her absence.

It was in this state of mind that Mrs
Doyne, faded, fractious, and suffering,
landed in England and took up her
temporary residence at St Leonard.
Her own family were by this time
pretty well scattered. Her parents were
dead ; her sisters married, and settled indifferent
parts of the country.

There was no house open to receive
her and her four boisterous boys, and
poor Jessie felt very friendless and alone
as she dragged her weary steps to St
Leonards, where an old Indian acquaintance
had already taken up her quarters.
This lady, Mrs Carbonnell, did all in her
power to lighten the cares of the invalid.

She engaged her a comfortably-furnished
house and good servants, and the attendance
of the best doctor in the place.
Nothing that money could procure was
wanting to restore Mrs Doyne to health ;
but she lay on her sofa all day long,
with tears standing in her eyes, and a
photograph of her husband clasped in
her hand. The medical man gave Mrs
Carbonnell a very unfavourable report of
her.

Your friend has no energy to recover,'
he said, ' and remedies lose half
their effect when employed upon patients
who have no faith in them. You must
try and rouse her. Take her out on the
pier all day, and to any amusements that
may be going on in the evening. Her
low spirits contribute considerably to the
suffering which she endures.'

You don't think her seriously ill,
doctor ? ' observed Mrs Carbonnell.

The doctor looked grave.

Yes, I do ! From what I can make

out so far, I think she is labouring under
an internal disease which is difficult of
cure ; but it is too early to give a decided
opinion on the matter. When I
see my way more clearly, I shall communicate
with Colonel Doyne. Meanwhile,
do your best to cheer her up.
There is to be a nice concert at the
rooms this evening  cannot you persuade
her to accompany you there ? '

I will do my best,' said Mrs Carbon-nell,
and she kept her word ; but she
found Jessie very hard to move in any
matter that was for her own good. She
was one of those women who make up
their minds to be miserable, and go in
for It as a profession. She had alienated
her husband's heart from her more by
this means than by any other. On
the present occasion she objected and
wavered and argued until her friend was
thoroughly sick of trying to persuade
her to go to the concert, when Mrs
Doyne suddenly turned round and declared

It was the very thing she should
like best. She looked very old for her
age, and somewhat ghastly, when she
was attired for the evening, and Mrs
Carbonnell thought she had never perceived
the ravages of disease so plainly
In her as she did then. But Jessie
seemed quite lively, and determined to
prove that her doctor was In the right
when he ordered her to join In such
amusements. The concert was expected
to be an unusually good one, as several
of the best Italian and English singers
were coming down from London to appear
at it. Mrs Carbonnell read over
the names of the artists to Mrs Doyne,
asking her with each one whether she
had heard them sing before. At last she
came to that of Mrs Barrington.

I don't suppose you cii have heard
Mrs Barrington,' she said, 'for she only
appeared In England about five years
ago. She Is such a fine-looking woman,
and so fascinating. I have never seen

her on the stage, but I am told she is
quite charming.'

What is her husband ? ' asked Jessie
indifferently. * Does he sing too } '

I never heard of him. I don't think
she has a husband,' replied Mrs Carbonnell.

'You called her '' Ahs'' Barrington.'

Yes ; she has been married, I know,
but that is not her real name. Oh, there
is a most romantic story about her. She
was the wife of some very big person 
a duke or a marquis, I think  and he ran
away from her, and left her to support
herself on the stage. No ! it couldn't have
been that ; she ran away from him perhaps.
Any way, she has been a great lady, and
knows lots of good people still. I am
sure you will be delighted with her voice.
I have heard judges say she is our finest
English singer.'

Jessie was no musician herself  she
hardly knew one note from another ; but
she was pleased and interested by what
she heard that evening, until the time

arrived for Mrs Barrington to sing. There
was a little stir and bustle in the concert-room
when her turn came, for many there
had seen her on the operatic stage, and
were curious for an opportunity of examining
her closer.

Fenella did not keep her audience waiting.
There was no affectation about her ;
she stood on the platform almost as soon
as the artist who preceded her had disappeared.
She was clothed entirely in
white, with ornaments of dead gold upon
her neck and arms. Her fair hair was
bound about her small head in a strictly
classical fashion ; her face was pale but
clear, her expression serenely cheerful ;
she certainly did not look her age by five
or six years.

'So strange, isn't it?' whispered Mrs
Carbonnell as Fenella appeared. ' I am
told that, off the stage, she never appears
in colours. She always wears either black
or white. There must be a mystery about
her life, mustn't there, to make her habitually

wear mourning ? But she Is very
charming, nevertheless. Hasn't she a
sweet smile ? Hush ! she is going to
begin.'

Mrs Doyne sat, throughout the song
that followed, silent and absorbed. She
could not take her eyes off the singer ;
she seemed perfectly fascinated by her
appearance. But as soon as the plaudits
were over, and Fenella had left the platform,
Jessie turned hurriedly to her companion.


What did you say her name used to be?'

I cannot tell you  I have never heard ;
but I believe '' Ba7'7mgton' was her maiden
name.'

Mrs Doyne's pale cheek became still
paler under the shock of recognition.

I don't feel well,' she gasped ; ' I am
afraid I can't sit it out. Will you assist
me to leave the room ? '

Mrs Carbonnell was alarmed at the
change that had so suddenly taken place
in her.

You are indeed worse,' she said ; ' the
heat has been too much for you. We
must return home at once

She conducted Mrs Doyne back to her
own house and saw her settled for the
night, but Jessie did not confide the reason
of her illness to her friend.

She had recognised Fenella beyond all
shadow of doubt, and the fact of seeing
her had revived all the old misery, but
hers was not a nature that found relief
in confidence. She brooded over the circumstance
in her own mind, and was
thankful that Geoffrey had not been
present, and fretted herself to imagine
what he would have thought or felt had
he been there ; but she kept her fancies
to herself, and they made her worse inconsequence.


A few days after, however, as Mrs Car-bonnet
was walking beside her invalid
chair on the esplanade, she pulled Jessie's
sleeve, and directed her attention to two
figures that were advancing towards them.

Do you see that lady in black with
the young girl just in front of us ? That
is Mrs Barrington and her daughter. My
landlord tells me they are staying at St
Leonards, at one of the hotels, and are
on the beach every day. Take a good
look at her as she goes by.'

But Jessie was afraid of recognition ;
and as Mrs Barrington came alongside
of her, she turned her head the other
way. There was no need of her alarm.
She was so aged and altered that Fen-ella
would hardly have known her again
had she been told her name. As it was,
she passed her as a perfect stranger, and
was so occupied listening to Valeria's
chatter that she never even raised her
eyes towards her chair.

Did you see her dress ?' said Mrs Car-bonnet,
as soon as Fenella was out of
hearing,  ' black satin, covered with black
lace. What sums those artists must make
upon the stage ! And the girl too ! such
a pretty creature, but quite a different

style from her mother. Dark brown hair
and blue eyes, and very tall and slight.
Well, I'm sure no one would take them
for mother and daughter. They look
much more like two sisters. And my
landlord tells me that they both talk
French and Italian like natives, and that
Mrs Barrington says no motive on earth
should ever induce her to allow her girl
to go upon the stage. Strange, isn't it ?
and when she has made such a success
herself; but I suppose she has enough
money for both of them. You are tired,
I can see, Mrs Doyne. Would you like
to go in .' '

Yes, I am tired,' said Jessie wearily,
and almost ready to cry. ' There is so
much noise and glare and movement out
here, it does me more harm than good.'

The sight of this woman, who had
been Geoffrey's first love  who (the wife
felt in her heart of hearts) was his love
still  walking about, strong, handsome, and
successful, whilst she had hardly strength

to drag herself in and out of her bath-chair,
struck her with a fearful pang of
jealousy, and from that time her residence
in St Leonards became a torture to her.
Each day when she went out, she gazed
eagerly from side to side for a sight of
Mrs Barrington, yet, when occasionally
they came across one another, she had
not the courage to look her in the face.
But she thought of her day and night ;
her jealousy transforming Fenella into
something far more beautiful and fascinating
than she really was, and making
her endure the agony of the condemned
in picturing how, when she herself was
dead and cold, her husband would return
to his first love and be once more
enslaved by her attractions. These miserable
forebodings, confided to no one, but
brooded on in the silent watches of the
night, had such an effect upon Mrs Doyne
that her disease made rapid progress, and
her doctor considered it his duty to make
her acquainted with the danger of her

condition, and to telegraph the news to
her husband. Jessie did not appear to
be shocked at the Intelligence of her
approaching death, but she was most
anxious to leave St Leonards before
Colonel Doyne arrived.

I cannot bear this place,' she exclaimed
fretfully ; ' It has become hateful to me.
You must let me go to the Isle of Wight,
or abroad, or anywhere you may consider
best for me.'

I am sorry to refuse your request,' replied
Dr Warren, ' but I cannot possibly
allow you to be removed. You are Ina
very critical condition, and a railway
journey might prove your death.'

Doctor, doctor ! pray let me go ? I
cannot tell you the reason, but It Is this
place that Is killing me.' 

That Is all fancy, Mrs Doyne, I
know of no temperature that would suit
your complaint like that of St Leonards,
and If you Insist upon leaving It, I cannot
guarantee that you will see your husband

again. Come, now ! I am sure you will
be reasonable. Think what a terrible
disappointment It would be to Colonel
Doyne and yourself If circumstances prevented
your meeting.'

Jessie was silent. Her one Intense
desire was to live to see Geoffrey, and
extract a promise from him. If It could
only be compassed by her remaining at
St Leonardss, at St Leonardss she must
remain. Only, he must not  he should
not  meet that woman again. She lay
back on her pillow, white and exhausted.

How long will It be before he can
come to me ? ' she demanded.

He will receive my telegram to-day,
and I hope that another month may see
him by your side. But you must be
patient, Mrs Doyne, and follow out my
Instructions faithfully. Then (who knows ?)
we may have you walking about again by
the time Colonel Doyne arrives.'

Dr Warren knew perfectly well that the
probability was that she would be underground

before her husband could reach
England, but it was his part to keep up
her spirits as much as possible. He had
a harder task before him, however, than
he had anticipated. Jessie could not drive
the thought of Fenella from her mind, and
her prevailing idea became, how she could
best induce the singer to leave St Leonardss
before Geoffrey appeared upon the
scene. Mrs Carbonnell, who visited her
every day, was subjected to the most eager
inquiries concerning everything Mrs Barrington
said or did ; and not knowing the
vital interest Mrs Doyne had in the
matter, she gave her all the information
she could glean freely.

Is she likely to leave St Leonards,
my dear ? ' she replied one day, in answer
to a question from Jessie. ' I should
t ink not. My landlord tells me she has
taken a little cottage between this and
Hastings for the summer  such a sweet
little place, all roses and honeysuckle ;
but, of course, she can't live there, as

she is engaged for the English Opera
in London this season. I suppose it is
for the sake of her little girl, who seems
to be growing fast (she is almost as tall
as her mother), and that Mrs Barrington
will leave her here with the old nurse,
whilst she is in town. From all I gather,
I should think there was no probability
of her leaving St Leonards, at all events,
for the present.'

Do people speak well of her ? ' asked
Mrs Doyne. ' I mean, is she a kindhearted,
generous sort of woman ? '

I believe so  very. I am told her
kindness to the sick and the poor is
unprecedented, and that she has only to
hear of a tale of sorrow to try and relieve
it. But she looks like that, doesn't she ?
She has such a frank, serious, benevolent
face, as if she had known trouble herself,
and could sympathise with it. For
my own part, I feel as If I could trust
her to the very end. But then I have
always been very partial to Mrs Barrington.

My friends laugh at me, and say
I am quite in love with her.'

Mrs Doyne did not make any remark
upon her friend's eulogium, but she pondered
on it for many hours after she
had left her, and the result was that
she made up her mind to write to
Fenella. It was a bold stroke, but it
was a desperate one. She would write
to this woman (of whom she was so
terribly afraid), and ask her to come and
see her. If she were really so kind to
the sick and suffering as Mrs Car-bonnet
had been led to believe, perhaps
she would not refuse the request of a
dying woman, even though she had
offended her. And then she would tell
her the history of her blighted life, and
appeal to her generosity to avoid a meeting
with Colonel Doyne. Had Jessie
allowed herself time to think over this
project, her courage would probably have
given way ; but as soon as she had
decided, she put it into execution. She

VOL. III. o

told her nurse to bring her pen and
paper, and wrote to Fenella as follows : 

Dear Madam,  You will be surprised
to receive this note from one whose last
meeting with you was productive of so
much unpleasantness. But I am alone,
very ill, and unlikely to recover. Will
you overlook the past, and come and seeme
? I have something of importance to
say to you.  Believe me, yours sincerely,

'Jessie Doyne.'

Fenella's surprise at receiving this letter
was unmitigated, and her first impulse was
to send Mrs Doyne a polite refusal. But
further consideration brought into play the
true womanly kindness of her character.
After all, the insults which had so deeply
wounded her had taken place ten years
before. Ten years is a long time to harbour
resentment, even for an intentional
injury, and the wife had not been nearly
so much to blame as the husband. Besides,

she was ill  dying ! That of itself
was sufficient in Fenella's eyes to wipe
out all past offences. So she decided to
go and see her ; but her reply to Jessie's
note was characteristic : 

Dear Madam,  Since you ae alone,
and desire to see me, I shall have pleasure
in complying with your request, and
will call upon you tomorrow afternoon at
three o'clock.  Yours faithfully,

Fenella Barrington.'

By the time the hour for the appointed
interview had arrived, Jessie had worked
herself up to a state of nervous excitement
that was alarming. But she would
not hear of postponing the expected visit,
and she took care, by banishing nurses,
children, and attendants, to provide against
any interruption to her conversation with
Mrs Barrington.

Fenella was punctual to her time, and
entered the room with a serious but

friendly countenance. But her first view
of Mrs Doyne put every thought but
that of pity out of her head. She had
not been prepared for so great a change.
It shocked her exceedingly, and she advanced
to the sofa with eyes brimful of
concern.

You didn't expect to see me so altered,
did you ? ' asked Jessie, with a ghastly
smile ; ' but it is the truth that I shall
not be here long. My doctor says I
have but a few months at the outside
to live. Had it not been so, I should
hardly have asked for this interview.'

You distress me, Mrs Doyne, beyond
measure,' replied Fenella. ' Under any
circumstances (if I can be of use to
you), I hope you do not think so badly
of me as to disbelieve in the willingness
of my service. What  what  happened
so long ago,' she added, with a slight
catch in her breath, ' we may well afford to
look over now. And after all, it was not
you and I that wronged each other most.'

No ! I have thought a great deal of
it since I have lain here, and that, if you
heard my story and what I have suffered
in my turn, you might feel I was to be
pitied almost as much as you are.'

 Do you think there is any need to
distress yourself by relating it ? ' asked
Fenella gently. ' I can see that you are
very ill, and excitement cannot fail to
make you worse. I can well understand
that you have had a great deal to bear
in your married life, and believe me that
the past has lost its sting for me, and I
would not have it altered now if I could.'

Let me speak,' replied Jessie earnestly.
I have a request to make to you, and I
cannot do it without some previous explanation.
My mind will be more at ease
Ashen I have told you all'

Do just as you please, Mrs Doyne,
and if you must speak, speak freely. Do
not be in the least afraid of wounding
me by anything you may say. I have
lived the old life down.'

Have you ceased to love him ? ' demanded
Jessie eagerly.

Fenella bit her lip. She had a hard
struggle between truth and expediency.
But the ruling passion conquered.

I have no ceased to love him,' she
replied, ' but I have ceased to regret that
my love was misplaced. Now, you see
that you may speak to me in all confidence.'


I loved him from the first day we met,'
said Jessie, clasping her hands, 'and I had
no idea (not the least in the world) but
that he loved me as much I did him. He
has told me since our marriage that my
mother forced him into it against his will,
and that he never had any intention of
proposing to me ; but it was not my fault,
Mrs Barrington  indeed, it was not. I
was only an ignorant girl. I had no idea
that he could have any motive but one in
asking me to marry him.'

I can quite believe that it was not your
fault,' said Fenella.

Then came our separation. Geoffrey
went abroad, and came home, and went to
Lynwern, without even seeing me ; and
from Lynwern he wrote me that cruel letter
to say he cared no longer for me, and
we had better break off our engagement.
Don't you think it was cruel, Mrs Barrington
?  to me who loved him so
dearly, and was only looking forward to
the day when we should be married.'

I think it was cruel. I think he was
cruel to both of us,' replied Fenella.

He nearly broke my heart,' sobbed
Jessie; 'but I sent him back all his letters
and presents, and tried to believe it had
only been a happy dream, and it was over.
But papa and mamma saw I was miserable,
and found out the truth, and they were
exceedingly angry, and sent for Geoffrey
to come and speak to them and explain
his conduct. And then  then he asked
me to marry him over again ; and I said,
''Yes.'"

Didn't he tell you about me ?' demanded

Fenella, with open eyes ; * didn't
he say he had solemnly pledged his faith
to some one else ? '

He did say something about being in
love with another woman, but mamma told
me that was all nonsense, and it was only
a barmaid, or somebody he couldn't marry,
and I should save him from disgrace by
keeping him to his engagement. And
then, remember I loved him Mrs Barrington
(as much, perhaps in my way, as you
did), and I thought when we were married
he would be sure to love me.'

Yes, I understand all that,' replied
Fenella ; ' but why should you tell me this,
Mrs Doyne ? You are his wife  he is
yours beyond all recall. Why cannot you
be contented with the fact ? Why should
you rake up memories that are painful to
both of us ?'

Because he is not mine, Mrs Barrington,
and he never has been. From the
first day of our marriage his heart has been
yours, and it will be so to the day of his

death. You are the one great passion of
his Hfe ; and I  I am nothing to him.'

I think your love for your husband
makes you see things in an exaggerated
Hght,' replied Fenella calmly. ' The cruel
exposure of my weakness for him, which
Colonel Doyne confessed to on the occasion
of our last meeting, does not look as
if he had much affection (or even consideration)
left for myself.'

But I want to tell you how that came
about,' cried Jessie. ' He would never have
told me the secret had I not forced him todo
so. But I had found out something of
it, Mrs Barrington, from Geoffrey's manner
at meeting you again, and my mother's
suspicions, and various other little things,
and I threatened to expose you myself
unless he told me the truth. I threatened
to write to your husband. Sir Gilbert Con-roy,
and to all your relations, if he kept
any part of the affair from me.'

Fenella's breast heaved with silent indignation.
Under any circumstances, this

was a proceeding to which she could never
have been a party. She would have died
first. But all she said was, 

And Geoffrey (I mean Colonel Doyne)
was base enough to tell you ?'

Mrs Barrington, what else could he
have done ? Indeed, it was more my
fault than his ! I lost all control of myself,
and I dared him to tell me a lie.
What could he have done ? '

What could he have do7ie f ' repeated
Fenella scornfully. ' He could have been
silent I A man should cut his tongue out
sooner than betray the woman who trusts
in him. But let it pass, Mrs Doyne.
Please say no more about it. It was that
piece of treachery on the part of your
husband that led to the separation with
mine. I have no patience to discuss the
subject'

But don't be angry with him,' urged
Jessie, ' for I am sure he did it for the
best. He saw how I loved him, and he
felt he owed a duty to me as well as to

you. But he was very miserable when he
had done it, and I don't believe he has
had a happy moment since.'

This is a very strange interview,' said
Fenella, ' and I hardly know to what good
it can lead. But since you have been so open
with me, Mrs Doyne, I will be equally so
with you, for I owe it to myself that (knowing
so much) you should know all. I met
Geoffrey (as you did), and loved him from
the first hour of our meeting. He was
more to me than he can ever have been to
you. I was very young at the time  very
friendless, and quite unprotected  and his
love came to me like a revelation from
heaven. He was my god ! I worshipped
the very ground he trod on. I believed
that nothing so good, so beautiful, or so
true as himself had ever existed in this
world before  and I would have laid down
my life for his sake. I did more, as he
was good enough to inform you. I gave
up into his hands my reputation, my
honour, all my hopes of happiness, perhaps

(who knows ?) of heaven ! And after that
he left me ! '

There was silence between the two
women for a few moments  a silence that
was broken only by Jessie's sobs.

Don't cry,' said Fenella tenderly. * It
is not worth crying for now. We have
both loved him, and he has deceived us
both. That is all. For his sake, the less
we say about it the better.'

Oh, he has wronged us bitterly  bitterly,'
wailed Mrs Doyne.

And you, poor child, perhaps the most
of the two ; for I, at least, am not bound
to him.'

But you have his heart ! He has
never really cared for any woman but
yourself. If he sinned in deserting you,
you have been amply avenged.'

I am sorry to hear it,' said Fenella,
for I have no wish to remember, nor
to be remembered by him. He has
blighted my life from first to last. He
has done me as great an injury as it is

possible for man to do to woman. Whilst
I remember, I do not see how I can forgive.
And since he was dear to me, my
greatest desire is to forget.'

But he has not forgotten you!' cried
Jessie. ' For years he has not mentioned
your name to me, but I have heard him
murmur it in his sleep, as though he were
praying for you or for himself. He Is nota
happy man, Mrs Barrlngton. Even his
children seem to be no pleasure to him.
And as for myself, we have almost become
strangers.'

Why should he visit the effects of his
own wrong-doing upon you?' exclaimed
Fenella angrily. ' Why are we both to
suffer because he was too weak to know
his own mind ? You cruelly insulted me
when we last met, Mrs Doyne, but could
you have read my heart, you would have
seen that I was innocent of all intentions
against the peace of yours. I did wish
to speak to your husband upon a matter
which, even now, I cannot reveal to you.

But you may rest assured that It was one
which had no reference to our former love.
That you should have suspected that I
could be so dishonourable as to wish to
intrigue with another woman's husband
was the greater Insult of the two.'

You must forgive me for that as for
the other,' said Mrs Doyne, 'for I was
mad, and hardly knew what I was about.
But now that you have said so much, I
feel that you will accede to the request I
am about to make to you. Cannot you
guess what It is ? He will be here soon.
They telegraphed for him last week. I
am dying, and I want to see him once
more. Would you place any obstacle to
my dying In peace ', '

No, no ; surely not ! what can you
mean ? ' said Fenella.

That If you remain In St Leonards,
Geoffrey will not fail to see you, and my
last days will be embittered by the same
jealous pangs that have tortured me before.
It Is of no use shaking your head,

for I know I am correct, and I would
have left the place myself if Dr Warren
would have permitted me to move. But
I cannot  I am dying. Will you go instead,
and leave me in peace ? '

When do you expect Colonel Doyne
to arrive ? ' said Fenella.

In three or four weeks at latest  perhaps
sooner. Will you go ? '

Of course I will go ! Do you think I
would remain after what you have told
me ? Mrs Doyne, I am not an ungenerous
woman, and had you confided
in me long ago, much of our mutual
misery might have been avoided. I had
nearly concluded a bargain for a little cottage
here, but I shall give up all thoughts
of it, and move elsewhere. Don't make
your mind uneasy on that score. Before
a week is over your head, I shall have
left St Leonards. Believe me, I have as
little desire to meet Colonel Doyne as
probably he has to see me.'

You are a good woman,' said Jessie

feebly, 'and I don't wonder that he loves
you. And  and  I suppose  '

What do you suppose ? ' demanded
Fenella, perceiving her hesitation.'

That  when I am  I am  dead he
will find you out again, and  and  '

Fenella regarded the sick woman with
tender, serious eyes.

Dear Mrs Doyne,' she said, ' is that
the right way for you to speak to me ? '

Oh no, no ! but you cannot tell how
my heart is torn with jealousy of him. It
has been the bane of my life. It has
eaten up every pleasure I might have had
in it. Oh, promise me  do promise me,'
she continued excitedly, ' that if  if  anything
happens to me, and you meet Geoffrey
again, you will never marry him.'

But Fenella refused to make a rash
promise that she might afterwards regret,
for the sake of quieting a sick woman's
fancies. With her, courage to speak the
truth always outstripped any other feel

don't think I should be right to give
you such a promise,' she answered gravely,
because it is only God who can read and
direct our future. But I think it is very,
very improbable that I should ever do
so, or that Colonel Doyne should propose
such a things. You forget that circumstances
are altered for both of us. I ama
professional singer, who has been openly
disgraced by the desertion of her late
husband  not at all the sort of woman
that Geoffrey Doyne, with his pride of
birth and strict notions of religion, would
be likely to make his wife ; whilst he is
(in my eyes) an annexed and dishonoured
man. I do not think, therefore, that you
need make your mind uneasy on that
score.'

But you will not promise me ? ' said
Jessie.

I think it would be foolish to promise,
Mrs Doyne ; but I can assure you so far,
that whilst your husband and I remain as
we a7X in thought and feeling, there is no

VOL. III. P

probability of our ever meeting  far less
of our becoming friends again. Let that
assurance content you, and be at peace.'

I can never be at peace until I am in
the grave,' she wailed ; 'but I will try and
believe what you say. And I should like
you to  to  kiss me before you go, in
token of your forgiveness, for we may
never meet again.'

Fenella stooped down and took the
wasted form of Geoffrey Doyne's wife in
her arms.

May God Almighty bless you,' she
said, 'and give you rest. The day 77ztcst
come when we shall all meet in another
world, and these terrible heartburning
and jealousies will be purged away forever.
Till then, try and think kindly of
me  as of one who crossed your path
unwillingly, and wounded herself most
sorely in doing so. And when we are
reunited, it will be in perfect peace.'

I wish you had been my friend, long,
long ago,' said Jessie, weeping. ' I think

Geoffrey would have been kinder to me
if it had been so.'

'It is too late to lament that now,'
replied Fenella ; ' but we will think of
each other as friends in the future. Goodbye
then, dear friend,' she continued, kissing
her, ' and may we forgive all who
have injured us, as we hope to be forgiven.'


Mrs Doyne clung to her for a few
minutes, crying feebly, and then Fenella
summoned her nurses to her, and laying
her gently back upon her pillow, left the
room. The interview had been a very
trying one to her, and she felt much
shaken by it ; but it was the last. A few
days after, as she was making preparations,
according to her promise, for leaving St
Leonards, she heard the death-bell tolling,
and Valeria came in from a walk with
Bennett, brimful of news.

Mother dear ! ' she exclaimed (Fenella
would not have missed that sweet sound
of ' Mother dear ! ' for all the possessions

this earth could afford her), ' did you hear
the bell tolling? It's for a poor lady in
Rothesay Villas  a Mrs Doyne  and her
husband is in India; and she has left
four little boys behind her. Isn't it
sad?'

Mrs Doyne ! ' exclaimed Fenella, suddenly
turning pale. ' Surely not Mrs
Doyne ? '

Yes, it is, ma'am,' replied Bennett,
with a look of significance. ' The name
caught my ear directly ; but I don't suppose
as it's any relation ? '

Yes, it is ; she is his wife,' said Fenella
faintly. ' And it is very sudden  very
sudden indeed.'

Eliza Bennett (now an old woman of
sixty, with white hair) regarded her mistress
steadily for a minute, and then, with
a loud sniff of disapprobation, left the room.
Her devotion to Fenella and her child was
as great as ever ; and to this day she could
not hear any allusion to Geoffrey Doyne
without expressing her indignation.

Valeria saw the tears standing in her
mother's eyes.

Did you know this poor lady, mother
dear ? ' she asked.

Yes, darling, I did  not very well, but
quite enough to make me sorry she has
gone so soon. I wish her husband had
been with her at the last. She longed so
much to see him again.'

Who is her husband, mother dear 1 '

Colonel Doyne.'

Did you know him too . '

Yes  a little  long ago.'

Was he nice ? '

Rather, Val.' But as the qualified
praise left her lips, Fenella's heart smote
her with deception ; and she caught her
child in her arms, and kissed her fondly
upon brow and eye and lip.

Valeria loved her mother ardently, and
returned her caresses with equal warmth.

Why do you love me so, mother dear ? '
she whispered, as they clung together.

I love you for your own sake, my

sweet  and  for your father's ; and I
can't help thinking of those four poor
little boys left in Rothesay Villa without
a mother, and wondering if they will be
well cared for and looked after.'

Oh yes, they are sure to be ! ' exclaimed
Valeria ; ' for Bennett says that
Mrs Doyne was quite a rich lady, and
had two nurses and a governess to walk
out with the children.'

Of course ! How foolish I am ! ' said
Fenella, drying her eyes. ' There must be
any number of people to take her place.
Come, Val dear, and help me with my
packing. We go on to Brighton tomorrow
morning.'

She had decided upon spending the few
weeks she could call her own, before the
London season commenced, at Brighton,
and passed them very quietly and happily
in the company of her child.

But something that occurred before she
left the place greatly upset her. It was
only a letter that had been forwarded by

the postal authorities from her late address
at St Leonards ; but she recognised the
writing at once, and her hand shook so
much that she could hardly open it. She
knew it came from Geoffrey Doyne. She
could not mistake the bold, free hand that
that had so often made her heart leap with
expectant pleasure, nor the monogram
G. D.,' which he invariably placed in the
corner of the envelope.

Why  why was she so weak, she asked
herself (with a sickening foreboding of
trouble), that the mere handwriting of one
she so thoroughly despised had the power
to move her thus ? She hated herself for
her want of self-command and courage,
as she tore the letter open to see what
Colonel Doyne could possibly have to say
to her after these many years of silence
and of separation.

' Rothesay Villa, St Leonards-on-Sea,
I eth April  .

My dear Fenella,  I hardly know

how to write to you, but an irrepressible
longing for some communication between
us forces me to take up my pen. I
am (as you will see) once more in
England. I arrived here a fortnight
after my poor wife had been laid in her
grave. The sad news with which I was
greeted was (as you may suppose) a
terrible shock to me ; but a long and unhappy
life has taught me how to bow to
the will of Heaven, and where to find consolation
under its most harrowing dispensations.
I am thankful to find that
my poor Jessie had the comfort of Mrs
CarbonnelFs presence and attention to
the very last, and I hear from that lady
that you also were good enough to visit
her and be her friend. How am I to
thank you sufficiently for such a graceful
act upon your part, and which (my heart
whispers) was done for my unworthy
sake. Fenella ! I know that much that
has occurred in the past must appear,
not only hard, but inexplicable to you ;

but hitherto my tongue has been tied
by a sense of duty. Now, however,
that the merciful interposition of an all-seeing
Providence permits us once more
to see and speak to each other without
sin, may I hope that you will prove my
friend as you have been hers, and let me
try and explain all that may have appeared
strange to you ? I shall not remain
in this place long. It holds too
many sad memories for me. I intend,
therefore, to leave my children here, under
the charge of their governess, and take
up my quarters in town. I find that
you have left St Leonards, but they
assure me this letter will be safely forwarded
to you. Let me hear from you
soon. I shall be so anxious until I receive
an answer  so anxious to learn
what your heart still says to you of me.
Believe me, that I have never forgotten
you, nor the days when we first met.
There are some things it is impossible to
forget, and I have never ceased to think

of, nor to pray for you. May that merciful
Heaven who overrules all things for
our good, and can turn our days of
mourning into joy, grant us the consolation
of each other's friendship for all
that we have lost. Believe me, ever
yours faithfully,

Geoffrey Doyne.'

By the time she had concluded this
letter, all Fenella's nervous trepidation
had ceased. As she perused it line after
line, her eyes flashed and her lip curled.
When she reached the signature, she
crushed the paper up in her hands, and
said a word between her teeth that
sounded very like " humbug '

Had Geoffrey Doyne written to her,
without an allusion to Providence or the
past, he might have touched a chord in
the heart which was still faithfully his
own ; but this mixture of love and religion,
this offer of renewed friendship
over the clods of his wife's grave, grated

on Fenellas sense of decency and justice
and truth. It is not too much to say
that it revolted her, and she sincerely
wished she had never received the letter.
But otherwise it made little difference
in her life.

It is true that she cried over Valeria's
sleeping form that night, and as she
knelt to say her prayers beside it, she
asked God not to let her child's father
sink lower in her estimation than he had
already done ; but that was all. The
letter was thrown into the fire, and
Colonel Doyne never received an answer
to it  which at first he thought strange,
and then he huffed at, and finally made
himself miserable over. And shortly
afterwards the London season commenced,
and he went up to town ; and though
it was too soon after his wife's death
for him to mix in any gaiety, he wandered
through the streets, and met
placards and hoardings at every turn
with Fenella's name flaring from them

in gigantic letters of red and green and
blue. He grew restless and uneasy under
the constant irritation they afforded him,
until one night he felt as if he could
bear it no longer, and, creeping into an
obscure part of the opera house, devoured
her face and figure through his lorgnettes
for two whole hours, and staggered out
into the fresh air again, faint and dizzy,
and feeling as if he had never loved her
so much as at that moment in all his
life before. The indifference Fenella had
shown towards renewing their acquaintance
had quickened his torpid love into
action again.

Since men are faithful only to the
faithless, what is true to them, they can
easily forsake.' He had neglected her
when his falsehood had nearly caused
her death. It should be his Nemesis
to remember, when Fenella had apparently
acquired the happy art of forgetting.


DRIFTED APART.

There are women like that ; they make us dread lest there
should be the endless hereafter that wise men laugh
at. How should we bear their eyes ?'  Ariadne.

If the sense is hard
To alien ears, I did not speak to these 
No ! not to thee, but to thyself in me  Tennyson.

T was a sultry afternoon at the

close of the season, which had
been a long and successful one,
and Fenella was sitting in the drawing-room
of her house in Kensington, with all
the windows open, trying to catch a breath
of fresh air as it blew across the gardens.
At a little distance from her was seated
Lord Laurence Grantham, playing with
the ornaments on the table, and looking

as if he were about to propose for the
fiftieth time. The Hight-hearted, scatterbrained
youth, who had accompanied Sir
Gilbert Conroy to Sovooranooko, had
developed into a very handsome and 
man by this time, who
would have been light-hearted still, if
Fenella would only have had compassion
on him, and rewarded the faithful attachment
which he had borne her for the
last ten years. But she would not.
She treated him as a brother and
familiar friend, but she refused to listen
to any proposals of a tenderer nature.
And the provoking part of it to Lord
Laurence was, that he had never yet
been able to understand her real reason
for declining his repeated offers.

Are you going to drive this afternoon,
Fenella ? ' he asked presently.

No ; I have sent Valeria in the carriage
instead. I am really too tired to
go out. I shall have no voice this evening
if I fatigue myself further.'

By Jove ! I don't wonder at your being
tired. You outdid yourself last night,
Fenella. I don't think I ever heard you
sing so splendidly before.'

I am glad of that ; but I did not know
you were in the house. Something must
have inspired me ; I felt lifted out of myself,
and I knew I was doing better than
usual. And His Royal Highness came
behind afterwards, and complimented me
personally. I felt so proud ! '

You should be looking elated to-day
after such a triumph, instead of depressed.
Has anything occurred to vex you, Fen-ella
? '

Nothing in particular. But have you
forgotten that it is the anniversary of
poor Sir Gilbert's death ? He died
seven years ago to-day. I felt his loss,
Laurence, more than I let people know.
I had always hoped (up to that period)
that he would some day come back and
forgive me.'

Forgive you for what ? Fenella, I

have never understood the rights of that
story. What on earth made you and
Conroy separate ? Won't you tell me,
now ? '

No, Laurence, I cannot. It concerned
the welfare of another person, and my lips
must be closed on the subject until my
dying day.'

It was deuced hard on you,' said Lord
Laurence.'

Perhaps it was  a little ; but not so
hard as my friends thought. At any
rate, you know there was no crime mixed
up with it'

Yes, I am sure of that  and I have
proved it to you, haven't I ? But I think
you were very foolish, Fenella  not to say
wrong, under the circumstances  to refuse
the annuity which Gilbert bequeathed
to you.'

I did not require it, Laurence, and
was happier without it.'

But you should have taken it all the
same  it was your right ; and your refusal

made people talk the more. And
if you did not require the money for
yourself, you might have laid it by for
the use of Valeria, whose name Gilbert
so unaccountably left out of his will

Do you not think,' said Fenella, * that,
if he had wished it to be so, my husband
would have bequeathed the money to
Valeria herself ? '

I don't know, I'm sure. I think he
must have been mad when he made
that will. It is a shame to think of that
common-looking brute, William Conroy,
having the title and the estates and the
money and everything, whilst you are
toiling on the stage for a livelihood.'

And getting compliments from a
prince of the blood royal,' laughed Fen-ella.
' Depend upon it, Laurence, I am
much the better off of the two, and if
Gilbert had but left one word of forgiveness
behind him, I should have valued
it more than fifty fortunes.'

But, my dear girl, you don't consider

VOL. III. Q

how scandalous people are, nor what they
say about it all'

They cannot think nor say anything
very bad, Laurence, whilst Lady Marjoram
continues the firm friend she is tome
now, and takes Valeria about everywhere
with her own children.'

Ah ! Janie's a brick, isn't she ? and
she loves you like a sister. She would
take you off the stage tomorrow if you
would consent to live with her. I have
heard her say so, over and over again.'

Yes ; you are all a great deal too good
to me, Laurence, and I suppose I am an
ungrateful wretch not to be able to respond
better to your kindness. But I
love my liberty and my labour, and I
don't want to give up either, at all events,
yet awhile.'

I wish there was the remotest chance
of my being able to persuade you to give
them up,' grumbled Lord Laurence ; ' but
I believe you are made of adamant. Where
do you go when the season closes . '

To the Engaldine with the Marjorams
! Didn't you know that ? We
shall be a delightful party. Only Janie
and her two eldest boys, and Valeria
and me. Do join us, Laurence ! It will
be twice as much fun if you are there.'

Fun for you and death for me, after
the manner of the frog in the fable,'
he answered half jestingly. * Haven't
you tortured me enough already, Fenella,
that you should wish to finish me off in
the Engaldine ?'

Now, dear Laurence, do be reasonable,'
she pleaded. ' Why am I to be
deprived of the pleasure of your friendship
because I cannot be your wife ?
You know how fond I am of you 
how truly I appreciate your kindness
to me and Valeria ! Why can't you
make up your mind to the inevitable,
and let us enjoy each other's company
as much as we can ? You spoil everything
for me by these constant allusions.'

Because I won't believe it is inevitable,

Fenella, and I shall go on trying to make
you change your mind until it is so. You
say you like me, and I think you do.
Why, then, should I be so objectionable
to you as a husband ? You may be sure
I should let you do pretty well as you
liked, and we are both past the age of
romance ! Then  I am well off, and I
can place you in a good position, above
all this petty talk and scandal that worries
us both like the sting of gadflies, and
above the reach of want ; and even if you
made a point of continuing before the
public for the next few years, you should
do it, sooner than I would give up the
hope of winning you. You know that it
would be for your own good, and that
I've asked you already about a hundred
times ! Why can't you say 'eyes " at once
and finish the matter ? '

Because I love you too well to say
''yes',' Laurence,' replied Fenella seriously.


Oh, that's nonsense, you know. Fen-ella

! I've told you over and over again
that I shall never be a happy man with
any other woman, and If you'll give meas
much love as you feel for me at this
moment, it's all I require.'

Fenella was silent for awhile, thinking
deeply. What was there, after all, to
hinder her from accepting the love Lord
Laurence offered her ?  a love which
she knew from experience to be true and
honest and faithful. He was able (ashe
had affirmed) to place her in the
position she had voluntarily forfeited, and
to raise her above the suspicion of the
world. And she was so fond of him, and
grateful to him for his trust and fidelity,
that she would have found it easy to let
her fondness merge into the love and duty
of a wife. Yet she could not find it in her
heart to answer 'eyes!' '

Lord Laurence resumed his pleading.

I believe I have loved you ever since
I first saw you at Conroy Castle, Fenella,
with little Valeria in your arms. And I

need not tell you, I hope, that your child
will never feel the want of a father if you
will give me the right to fill poor Gilbert's
place to her ? '

No ! ' said Fenella, suddenly starting
from her reverie. * No, Laurence ; it is
impossible ! Don't torture me with anymore
entreaties. Valeria and I must
journey on our way alone.'

The mention of her daughter had recalled
to her mind the one great obstacle
that existed to her union with Lord Laurence
Grantham, or anybody else. She
would never go to another man with a
secret burden on her soul, nor would
she brand her child's birth with a name
of infamy. Once before, she had accepted
her God-given charge instead of
this world's happiness and honour ; and
she was ready to do so a second time.
Fenella was not the woman to perform
her duty by halves.

Dear Laurence,' she continued affectionately,
* it gives me so much pain to

refuse anything that would give you pleasure
; but what you ask me is an impossibility.
Pray don't think of it any more.
Don't fancy that it can ever come to pass.
It is a shame that you should spoil all
your prospects in life for the sake of a
woman who can never be more to you
than she is at present.'

Well, I suppose I must try' he said,
with a sigh. ' I ought to be used to
disappointment by this time ; but you are
so kind to me, that I keep on hoping
and hoping that, after all, you will change
your mind.'

I shall never do that, dear. And oh !
Laurence, if you could persuade yourself
to marry some one else, it would make me
so much happier !'

I conclude it will come to that some
day, Fenella. I suppose that my rank
and position make it incumbent on me
to marry ; and a man can't spend the
whole of his life sighing after a shadow.
But the most beautiful and fascinating

woman in Europe would not satisfy me
after you. You have been my ideal of
womanhood from the very first, and I
am afraid I shall make but a grumpy
sort of husband to any one else.'

Fenella's eyes were filled with tears, but
she kept her head turned the other way,
and would not let Lord Laurence see them.

Oh no, you won't she said cheerfully.
' I believe you'll make one of the
best and dearest husbands in the world !
And you'll come to the Engaldine with
Janie and me, won't you ? '

I suppose I must, if you say so ; but
you had better not take me near a
church, Fenella, or I'll drag you in and
marry you whether you will or no.'

They were laughing together over this
brilliant sally  so little will make people
laugh when their tears are close at hand
when a servant entered the room and
presented a letter to Fenella. As she
took it and glanced at the address, Lord
Laurence saw her cheeks grow crimson.

His jealousy was Immediately excited,
and he rose suddenly from his chair.

You have business to attend to, I see,'
he said suspiciously, ' so perhaps I had
better leave you.'

Good-bye, dear Laurence,' she said
vaguely, as she held out her unoccupied
hand.

He shook It, and left the room without
another word  his honest cheeks aflame
with the discovery he Imagined he had
made.

'There's another man In the wind,' he
thought to himself. ' I was certain of
It, although she has denied It again and
aofaln. What else should make her so
persistently refuse my offers ? I wonder
who the d  1 he Is ! Some beastly
foreigner, I suppose ; some long-haired
professional she's been singing with at
the opera. And yet I can hardly think
that. Fenella has always held herself so
much above her surroundings. It's more
likely to be some swell who has fallen

In love with her from the front. I might
have guessed how it would be from the
beginning. What am I, after all, that
such a woman should be reserved for me ? *

But Lord Laurence went straight,
nevertheless, to see his cousin Lady
Marjoram, and make arrangements for
joining her party to the Engaldlne. Ashe
modestly put It, he thought he might
be of some service to the two ladles on
their travels ; and the Countess (who was
well aware of his hopeless passion for
Fenella) joked him unmercifully on his
newly-acquired taste for trying the duties
of a chasseur.

Meanwhile, Fenella sat with Geoffrey
Doyne's letter in her hand. She had not
heard of nor seen him since the communication
she had received and disregarded
at Brighton, and she had hardly expected
he would write to her again. And yet
she had felt that he was near. Some
unknown. Inexplicable sensation had told
her that Colonel Doyne lingered about the

places where she sung, and tracked her
footsteps backward and forward to her
home. Some intuition, which she would
have found it impossible to define, had
revealed to her on more than one occasion,
that when she poured forth her melodies,
his ears were opened to receive them, and
she had thrown twice her usual amount of
passion and pathos into the song for the
knowledge. But she had kept it strictly
to herself. It had only been a dream 
an echo from the far distance  a proof of
the sympathy which must exist (so long
as life continues) between two people who
have been all in all to one another. Yet
she did not think that he would have made
a second appeal to her whose appeals in
the past he had so studiously disregarded.
She tore open the note, and saw from the
address that he was in London. But he
wrote more formally, more diffidently, than
he had done before 

My dear Mrs Barrington,  About

four months ago I sent you a letter from
St Leonards, to which I received no
answer. Perhaps I did not deserve to
receive one, but the penalty for our errors
does not fall any the lighter because it
is merited. Will you think me presumptuous
if, disregarding your silence,
I ask for an interview before you leave
town ? Believe me, that I will make no
reference to any subject which you may
wish avoided. I only want to hear you
tell me that the past is forgiven.  I am,

yours truly,

Geoffrey Doyne.'

The feelings of Fenella as she read
these words were very different from what
they had been upon the former occasion.
The tears welled up freely to her eyes,
and dropped in large, hot splashes on the
paper, and made great blots of Geoffrey
Doyne's appeal for mercy. Her heart
could be proud enough where it thought
itself insulted ; but one look of tenderness

one syllable breathed in a faltering tone
had the power to transform it into melting
wax. She cried heartily over the note
she had received, before she answered it ;
and she wrote the answer at once, without
any hesitation or forethought. People
who could have seen her emotion and
her impetuous action, and did not know
the united strength and pliability of her
character, would have judged at once
that she was ready to receive back her
old lover with open arms, and, in condoning
the past, to commence a fresh
life with him of renewed passion, and
trust for the future. Even Colonel
Doyne himself, could he have watched
her tears, and the kisses she pressed
upon the letter he had sent her, might
have augured favourably for the welcome
he would receive at her hands. And
they would all have been mistaken.
They would have accepted the sacred
homage she paid to the memory of the
past for a belief in the possibility of the

present. And Fenella had no more such
belief than she had that the bodies of her
dead husband and dead child could be
raised from their graves and re-clothed
with the life of this world. Yet when
Geoffrey Doyne received her answer, his
eyes sparkled and his cheeks flushed with
the renewal of hope conveyed by her acquiescence.
She only wrote a few lines,
but they gave him leave to see her, and
that was ipro tem}j sufficient for his
happiness.

My dear Colonel Doyne,  I have
sinned too much in this life myself to be
able to afford to refuse forgiveness to any
fellow-creature. If, therefore, it will be
any comfort to you to see me, I will remain
at home tomorrow afternoon for
that purpose.  I am, yours faithfully,
Fenella Barrington.'

Geoffrey Doyne never went to bed that
night. He was gazing at her from his

opera stall all the evening ; and when he
was compelled to lose sight of her and return
to his chambers, he paced up and down
the floor like some caged animal, as he
remembered proof after proof of Fenella's
former love for him, and thought it would
be an easy task to persuade her that,
throughout all he had been faithful to her,
and deserved to claim the reward of his
fidelity. And the child, too  he should
see his child. And if the mother's affection
for himself had been somewhat
dimmed by the sorrows, and disappointments
of the passing years, surely she
could never refuse to let him assume his
rightful position as protector and guardian
of their child.

But this was the very thing which Fen-ella
had determined to prevent. She
believed that her own life would be happier
if she were at peace with Geoffrey
Doyne, but she had no intention of letting
him know of the existence of his child,
for Valeria's sake, as well as her own.

The time was past when he could have
been of service to her in that particular,
and now he had a family of children,
and there was no need to excite covetousness
In his heart for the possession of her
one ewe lamb.

And therefore, in order to avoid even
the remotest chance of recognition, and
especially to keep Eliza Bennett out of
the way during the visit of Colonel
Doyne, Fenella despatched both nurse
and child to the Alexandra Palace early
in the day, with orders not to return until
the fireworks had been let off In the evening.
And thus the coast was clear, and
she sat down, with a calm exterior, buta
fiercely throbbing heart, to await the
coming of this one creature who had made
and marred the world for her.

He arrived to the minute. She heard his
familiar voice, now a little deepened by the
lapse of time, asking for her by name ; and
the room went spinning round, and the
bright July sunshine seemed suddenly to

have gone out and darkened, as she Hastened
to his step ascending the stairs.

Colonel Doyne, madam ! ' announced
the servant.

Fenella rose, and placed her hands upon
the back of her chair, as If she could not
trust herself to advance and meet him.
She was dressed In black, with a bunch of
fragrant tea-roses In her bosom ; her hair
was hanging In a thick plait down her
back ; she looked (at the first glance)
almost as youthful as she had done In the
by-gone days. Geoffrey Doyne came forward
quickly, and took her hands In his
both of her hands. And so they met, 
these two, who had parted fourteen years
before upon the sands of Ines-cedwyn.

He was the first to speak.

Let me look at you ! ' he said huskily.
Let me see If you are changed. Not
much ! even In all this while ! There are
the same eyes, the same hair, the same
mouth with Its grave smile. And yet
there Is something gone ! What Is It ?

VOL. III. R

What is it that I miss, Fenella, that
used to be there before ? '

My faith,' she answered sadly. * I left
it in your charge. What have you done
with it ? '

He dropped her hands suddenly and
turned away. She saw that he was moved,
and she dreaded the effect of yielding to
emotion.

Come ! ' she said cheerfully ; * this is
not a lively way of celebrating our reunion.
We have not met to cry over each
other, I hope. Geoffrey ! we are both too
old for that. Let me look at you in my
turn. Why ! what business have you
with grey hair at your time of life ? Let
me see ! you are only six-and-thirty.
Indeed, you should have taken better care
of yourself than that ! '

I have had no one for whom it was
worth my while to take care of myself,
Fenella,' he said brokenly.

'You have no right to say so,' she
answered promptly ; * for until lately you

had a wife who loved you with her whole
heart. Few men can boast as much. And
I, who heard her speak of you in the last
days of her life, can testify to her devotion.'
It was only another reproach to me,'
he said ; ' another drop of bitterness in my
overladen cup.'

Don't you think you are a little morbid
on the subject?' demanded Fenella. 'It
would be folly in me to pretend to misunderstand
you, Geoffrey ! Of course, I
know what you allude to. You would tell
me that the fact of having been my ruin
has cast a shadow on your whole life. Soit
has on mine. We would undo the past,
both of us (if we could), by the sacrifice of
our heart's blood. But that would not
undo it. Let us, then, try and forget it.
It is all over long ago. Even the effects
of it are passed away. Let us be thankful
that it is so, and live the remainder of our
lives in peace.'

But are the effects of it passed away ? '
he inquired gloomily.

I hope so, and If not, let us try and
make them pass. When God forgives,
Geoffrey, He forgives unlimited. He
does not for ever throw the remembrance
of our sins In our teeth. Let us forgive
each other In the same way, without reserve,
without Hit, and take the blessings that
remain to us with grateful hearts. And
we have many left, you know. You (for
example) have your dear children to bring
up to be the comfort of your age.'

I have 07te child,' said Geoffrey significantly,
'whom I have never seen.'

Fenella was thrown off her guard.

Who told you that . ' she demanded.

He came up to her side.

Tell me the truth,' he said earnestly ;
is it not so ? Ten years ago, Fenella,
before I returned to India, I received a
letter, signed 'eliza Bennett'' which told
me that our daughter was alive, and that
the Information I had received at the time
of her birth was a lie. Was that letter
true, or was it not ? '

Bennett zurote and told you that our
child was alive f ' said Fenella incredulously.
' I never heard that she had done
such a elinor until now.'

She has known how to keep her own
counsel, then ; but it is the case. Her
letter reached me at Ryelands, ten years
ago.'

Fenella regarded him solemnly in the
face.

You heard that she was alive, ten years
ago!' she repeated ; ' and yet you have never
asked to see her, nor inquired after her,
until this day ! Oh, it is impossible  incredible
! Could you (or any man) receive
such a piece of intelligence, and not be
moved by it  not anxious to learn if your
child were ill or well, happy or miserable,
reared in the fear of God, or left to go her
own way to heaven or hell ? Geoffrey, I
cannot believe it ! And yoti too ! You
who, I have heard, lead such a religious
life  you who are looked up to in your
regiment as a very pattern of morality and

virtue  who conduct the services for your
men, and lead their hymns, and give up
your time to preach to them on their duties
to their neighbours,  is It possible jj/// could
leave your own child to grow up like a
weed by the wayside ? Geoffrey, when you
stand, at the last day, before the throne
of God, whose soul do you think He will
first demand at your hands  your soldiers,
or that of the creature you brought into
the world ? '

I knew she was safe with you,' he
muttered.

You knew no such thing,' she retorted.
You cared no more for her soul than you
did for mine. When you met me at Ines-
cedwyn, Geoffrey, I was what the world
calls " innocent ; " what / should call
'ignorant"  ignorant of the amount of
cruelty one human creature can practise
towards another. But I was utterly godless.
I had no religion of any sort, and
you knew it. You were my god, and you
proved to be made of clay ; you were my

faith, and you scattered it to the winds.
What sort of a mother do you imagine
you made of me, to whom to intrust the
training and culture of your child ? You
left me without hope, or faith in God or
man ; and then you tell me that you did
not consider it necessary to see after your
child, because you knew she would be safe
in my hands ! I wonder you were not
afraid that I should strangle her at her
birth, lest she should live to grow up like
her father ! '

She spoke so bitterly  so differently
from what he had expected  that she
staggered him. Was this the loving,
soft - hearted girl who had placed her
heart in his hands at Ines-cedwyn ?

Oh, Fenella ! ' he exclaimed, ' I deserve
every reproach you can heap upon
me. I feel  I see  how selfish, how
wrong I have been. But if it be not too
late, let me try and redeem the past ; let
me remedy the evil I have done.'

You cannot,' she said sadly. ' That Is

the sorrow and the pity of such things ;
they cannot be undone. You men imagine
that you can break a woman's heart,
and ruin her life, and destroy her faith in
everything that is good and true, and then
(when it is convenient to yourselves) that
you can patch the evil up with a few tears
and kisses, and perhaps a marriage-ring.
But you might as well try to raise the
dead, Geoffrey. You killed the Fenella
you knew at Ines-cedwyn with your own
hand. You will never see her again
(unless, indeed, she may be given back
to you in heaven), nor be able to repair
the wrong you did her ; for she no longer
lives upon this earth. The voice that
speaks to you now is that of quite another
woman.'

Then let me take that other woman ! '
he cried passionately, ' who is a thousand
times dearer to me for all the trouble she
has passed through for my sake. Let me
take her, and try and fancy she is my
Fenella, and heap upon her the devotion

of a lifetime, until she has forgotten the
sin I sinned against her.'

Fenella shook her head.

It does not depend upon that,' she
said. ' I could overlook my own share
of sorrow easily enough. Geoffrey, it was
not in loving me you sinned against me ;
it was in leaving me.'

Do I not feel it '. ' he exclaimed.
Have I not felt it through all my
mistaken life ? I have never been married
but once, Fenella ; t/mt was the true
marriage  the marriage that God might
have blessed and angels smiled upon,
when we gave our hearts to each other
upon the golden sands.'

Yes,' she acquiesced softly, ' t/iat was
the true marriage  the marriage of perfect
faith and love and unselfishness ;
and it can never be repeated. We might
as well try to taste again the pleasures of
spring when the autumn leaves are falling.'

And are there to be no pleasures left
for autumn, then ? ' he exclaimed.

Plenty, I think, If we know where to
look for them ; but they cannot be the
same as those of spring. Geoffrey, do
you remember the landslip at Ines-cedwyn,
where we had our first picnic, and the
apple blossoms showered down upon our
heads as we sat and talked together ?
They were very lovely, were they not ?
But how soon they were gone ! I have
often thought since how much they resembled
our love! It was just as fresh
and fair, and it perished as soon.'

'No, no, Fenella ! It did not perish.
It never has perished even now ! '

Well, let me say, then, that we
had to bury it. It would have been
better if it had perished before we were
compelled to hide it away. But we
might as soon attempt to bring back
those faded blossoms, as to raise the
love we felt for each other then.'

Let us grant, then, that it is gone. Is
it not still possible to build up a better
a more enduring love upon its ashes ?

Hear me out, Fenella. I know that I
have behaved cruelly to you from the
beginning. I do not wish to offer the
slightest excuse for my conduct, nor to
suppose that I can ever make amends
for the unhappy past. But  will you
some day be my wife ? Will you give
me hope that, in due course of time, I
may have the opportunity of proving to
you how deeply I repent the wrong
I did you, and of feeling, when I see
you once more happy and contented, that
I have, in some slight measure, atoned
for my sin ? '

I can believe that you are sorry,' she
said, ' and that you wish to atone for it,
without becoming your wife ; and I do
not think that that step would be conducive
to the happiness of either of us.'

For the child's sake, then ? ' he urged.
In the name of our child, I beg of you
to let me assume my rightful position asher
protector and guardian.'

But still Fenella shook her head.

I do not think It would be for the
child's happiness either,' she said.

 You love me no longer,' he exclaimed
despairingly. ' I see how it is. My unmanly
conduct when last we met has
killed every atom of love you possessed
for me. And yet  once  once  you refused
me nothing' he added brokenly.

Fenella's spirit rose at the accusation.

You are right,' she exclaimed  ' once
I refused you nothing ; and what was
your requital, Geoffrey ? Do you yet
know what your falsehood and your
cowardly betrayal did for me ? It was
not only my faith in you and every man
that it destroyed ; it stripped my life, oneby
one, of every blessing that might have
succeeded it. It placed a barrier between
my mother and myself that existed
till the day she died. It drove me forth
from the home of my husband, who, as
soon as he knew the truth, refused to
own me any longer as his wife. It has
prevented me (even up to yesterday)

from accepting the affection of a man
whom I feel I might learji to love, because
I cannot deceive him, and I will
not brand my child with the name of
bastard ! At every turn in life the wrong
you did me has met me like the angel
with the flaming sword, to turn me out
of Paradise. And yet you imagine you
can wipe out the remembrance of all this
by the offer of your hand ! Why, the
very fact of living every day in your
society would prevent my acquiring the
power to forget ! '

But you love our child ? ' interposed
Colonel Doyne eagerly. ' My treachery
has not been able to turn your heart
against her ? '

Fenella's eyes suffused with tears.

Love our child ! ' she repeated. ' Oh,
Geoffrey, if you only knew how I love
her ! My precious, precious child ; my
only hope and comfort in this world.'

At the thought of Valeria, and all she
had suffered for her sake, the mothers

heart gave way, and leaning her head
upon her hand, she cried quietly to herself.

Fenella ! ' exclaimed Geoffrey, ' is it
possible you can love the child so much,
and yet have lost all feeling for her unhappy
father ? '

Fenella lifted her eyes to his, with the
tears still standing on her cheeks.

Oh no ! I never said I had ; I never
denied that I love you. I have done so
from the beginning ; I shall do so to the
end. But that does not mean that I
could marry you. Geoffrey, it is too late.
When we first met, you might have made
of me what you chose ; but we have
drifted apart. The world has hardened
us, our own feelings have changed us ; weare
not the same people that we were.
How would you  a man who has been so
careful to bear a character for religion and
propriety before the world  like to hear it
said that your wife had been a public
actress, and not only that, but a woman
upon whose former life a stain had rested ?

For it has rested on me, Geoffrey, and it
will rest so till I die.'

The stain / brought upon you ? ' he
groaned.

Yes, dear, the stain you brought upon
me,' she said quietly ; ' but you could
not tell the world that  you could not
proclaim in public that Valeria is your
daughter, and that all my troubles were
incurred upon that account. It would
only make matters worse instead of better,
and it would be a cruel injustice to the
child. For her sake alone, I would refuse
the offer you have made me.'

You have crushed me,' he replied
brokenly, ' but at least you will give me
one consolation  you will let me know
and embrace my child ? '

Fenella started. She had hardly anticipated
he would ask for this. And her
first impulse was to refuse him.

I think it will be wiser not,' she said.
You are very emotional, Geoffrey  I
remember that of old  and easily upset,

Drifted Apart.

and I am fearful lest you should betray
your identity to Valeria.'

Do you suppose I would shock her
innocence by such a revelation ? '

Not intentionally, of course; but Valeria
is very womanly of her age. and apt to
draw her own deductions from everything
she sees. And  and  she resembles you
so closely, that you could scarcely meet
her without feeling some sort of emotion
at the sight ! '

She crossed to another part of the
room as she spoke, and returning, placed
a coloured photograph in his hands.
It represented Valeria and herself  the
girl with her head leaning against her
mother's knee. Geoffrey Doyne gazed
at it in silence for a few minutes, and
then raised the portrait to his lips. The
action moved Fenella as nothing else on
his part could have done.

Yes, she is your child, dear,' she
whispered softly, as she laid one hand
upon his head.

He caught the hand and carried it
to his Hps.

Fenella, my darling he pleaded, 'you
will let me see our child, my only daughter ?
Don't make me think I am such an accursed
thing in your sight as not to befit
to speak to my own child.'

There was a ring in his voice that reminded
her of the youthful tones that had
once so fascinated her, and all her great
love for him sprung to the surface.'

'Accursed ! Oh, Geoffrey, don't use
such a word to me. If you could but
read my heart, you would know that
(spite of all the trouble and the sorrow
it has passed through) it would part with
everything it possessed in this world,
sooner than with its memory of you.
Oh, Geoffrey ! you were my first love.
There can never be another in this world
to me like you.'

She was weeping freely now, and he
caught her in his arms, and kissed her
passionately, and held her to his heart

VOL. III. s

until her tears were stayed. But if
Geoffrey Doyne argued from that that
his eloquence had overcome her former
reasoning, he deceived himself. It had
only opened the floodgates of her overburdened
heart.

You shall see her, dear,' she said,
when he had released her, and she had
dried her eyes, ' of course you shall see
her ; but it must not be here. You would
be far more likely to betray yourself in a
room than on a public promenade. But
if you will be in Kensington Gardens, on
the Broad Walk, the day after tomorrow,
at four o'clock, I will bring Valeria to
you there. It will be a very trying time
for both of us, Geoffrey, and I shall be
glad when it is over.'

I long so much to see her ! ' said
Colonel Doyne. ' I have thought and
dreamt so much of her ! My little girl !
She is the only one I have, Venetia.'

I am glad of that,' she answered
simply; 'and if it is not wrong, Geoffrey,

I shall wish, when you marry again, that
the second family may be all boys too.'

I shall never marry again, Fenella !
I shall live on the memory of your
sweet . face and voice for the rest of
my life.'

That is foolish, Geoffrey, and it is not
true. You are in the very prime of life !
How can you contemplate living alone
always ? It would be unnatural and
wrong ! Only, don't have another little
girl. Let my little girl and me remain,
alone and together, in your heart, to remind
you sometimes of the murmuring
waters and the golden sands of Ines-
cedwyn.'

Don't, Fenella, dont,' he murmured ;
you are torturing me.'

Geoffrey,' she continued, * do you remember
when you first told me of your
engagement to Jessie Robertson, and we
cried together over the misfortune from
which we thought there was no escape ?
Do you remember trying to console me

with some theoretical notion that In
another world It would take a man and
a woman to make one angel, and that,
though we could not be married on earth,
we might be Incorporated thus for all
eternity ? And you asked me if it would
not be a happier thing to put all our
human passions and jealousies to one
side, and look forward to such a love
that should exist for ever and ever ? '

Did I ? ' he said, with a sigh.

Yes ! I can remember every word,
every look of yours on that occasion.
And don't you think we might put your
theory into practice now, dear, and remain
true and steadfast friends to each other
until the time comes for a more perfect
union ?'

'It is so long in coming,' he said despairingly.


If we were married now,' continued
Fenella, *we should only be disappointed
in each other. I feel and know it. Few
married couples can say they have not

been, and it would come harder to us
than to most people. We have had so
much sorrow on the way, we should
expect perfection when we came together
and perfection is not to be had in this
world, Geoffrey.'

I should be content with anything
you gave me,' he said, with his blue
eyes searching hers.

She lifted up her mouth, and kissed
him on those eyes  those eyes which
she had once thought resembled heaven
in their colour and purity and truth.

'Then I will g\M you a peep at
Valeria,' she said playfully, 'at four
o'clock on Thursday, in Kensington
Gardens, and you have promised to be
content with that.'

The afternoon was waning by this time,
and she reminded him that she had to
dine before she went to the opera.
Geoffrey Doyne looked as if he expected
she would ask him to stay and share
her meal. It seemed so strange not to

have a right to remain by the side of
this woman whom he had owned and
deserted. But Fenella did not even
allude to the subject.

*We shall meet on Friday,* she said
cheerfully ; ' till then, adieu.'

*And what am I to do with myself
meanwhile ? ' he murmured.

She caught up the photograph he
had been examining, and thrust it in his
hand.

Take that with you she whispered.
I will give it to you, Geoffrey. Take
it home, and keep it to remind you
sometimes of the girl you loved at Ines-
cedwyn.'

She gazed into his face, with a smile
that was almost gay, and he left her
presence with a sinking spirit, that seemed
to exclude the possibility of hope. Yet,
could he but have seen Fenella a moment
afterwards, kneeling by her bedside, and
sobbing as if her heart would break, he
would have known how passionately she

still loved him. But it is so hard  so
bitterly hard  to continue to love and to
cherish, when respect and esteem have
taken their flight for ever.

A U R E V O I R.

Wait ! and Love himself will bring
The drooping flower of knowledge chang'd to fruit
Of wisdom. Wait ! my faith is large in Time
And that which shapes it to some perfect end.'

Tennyson,

HE Interview which Fenella had
accorded Geoffrey Doyne in
her own house, had not been
productive of the pleasure he had anticipated.
He had gone to meet her with a
heart full of hope and expectation, and he
had left her presence labouring under a
sense of depression which he found it
impossible to dispel. He had kept the



appointment with a cheek flushed with the
thought of victory, and he had returned
home feeling very much as If he had been
conquered Instead.

And yet she had been very kind to him ;
she had been more than kind  she had
openly showed the depth and fulness of
her feelings In meeting him again. But
Geoffrey Doyne Instinctively felt that she
had wept with sorrow for her own disappointed
life, rather than with excitement
at the prospect of renewed happiness. He
had gone to meet the girl who had loved
h m, even to her own destruction ; the
girl who had been ductile, and yielding In
1 Is hands as spun silk  who would at one
time have rather received a blow from
him than a kiss from anybody else. He
knew that his treachery had darkened all
her youth  that It had cast a burden of
shame upon her shoulders which he had
not attempted to lighten by so much as the
lifting of his little finger ; and yet he had
thought to find her still the same  still,

not only loving and faithful, but ductile,
and ready to condone everything, so that
she might but lay her head upon his breast
again. He had thought to remedy the
grief of years (as Fenella herself had told
him) with a few kisses and a wedding-ring.
And instead of this, he had been
met by a woman whom the world had
taught wisdom, without hardness ; a woman
able and ready to discuss what had passed
between them from a philosophic and
practical point of view  who could argue
quietly on the disadvantages which a nearer
connection with him might entail on her
child and herself, and seriously point out
the evils he had brought upon her, and the
impossibility of his ever being in a position
to remedy them.

Had Fenella given way to vehement
reproaches and tears ; had she inveighed
against the misfortunes of her youth,
and accused him as the author of them,
there might have been some chance that,
whilst playing the part of comforter, he

could have persuaded her to allow him to
try and redeem the past.

But she had not appealed to him for
comfort. She had told him there was
no need of cure ; she had assured him
they were both better as they were ; and
he knew that she had looked down upon
him from a higher eminence, as on something
for which she felt pity, mingled with
contempt.

Certainly Geoffrey Doyne had never
felt smaller than when he crept home
from that interview, with the portraits
of the two creatures whom he felt to
be so much and yet so little, his own
possessions, in his hand.

But he had the meeting in the Kensington
Gardens to look forward to ; and
when he thought of it, his spirits revived.
What he hoped to gain from it, he could
not tell, but assuredly he hoped something.
It would lead to other encounters
(so he told himself) ; and when Fenella
had once more become intimate with

him, the old fascination would reassert
its dominion over her, and she would
be compelled to yield to his wishes.

Geoffrey Doyne was well aware that
his power over women had not yet come
to an end. Though his hair was grey,
and his eyes had assumed a colder and
sterner expression than they had worn
in the old days, the charm of his look
and smile remained the same, and he
bore that distinguished air with him
that the sex value far above handsome
features.

But, before all, he trusted to the influence
of their child to draw their hearts
once more to one another. For a child
is an indissoluble link which lasts, not
only for this world, but all eternity.
The father and mother who have cared
for one another can surely never ignore
the blossom of their mutual love.

As Colonel Doyne dressed himself to
go to the Broad Walk on Friday afternoon,
a dozen projects floated through

his brain for bringing about another
meeting. He would ask Fenella's leave
to send the child some presents ; to take
her to places of amusement ; to introduce
her to his own family ; to do half-hundred
things, in fact, that were equally-impracticable.


He regarded the whole matter from
his own point of view, and forgot how
extraordinary such propositions would appear
to the girl herself, coming from one
who was a perfect stranger to her. But
they occupied his mind, and kept him
from becoming too impatient, as he sat
on one of the benches in the Broad
Walk for fully an hour before the appointed
time.

Valeria was at a loss to understand
why her mother was so particular about
what she was to wear in Kensington
Gardens that afternoon. As a rule, she
was so beautifully dressed that Lady
Marjoram herself would cry out .against
Fenella for such reckless extravagance ;

but neither the mother nor the nurse ever
thought anything too good for the use
of their spoiled darling. Any one of
Valeria's various costumes would have
suited this occasion, and the young lady
was rather disposed to be cross because
Fenella insisted upon her changing her
dress in order to accompany her out
walking.

'Mother dear!' she exclaimed, 'am
I to put on that white costume and hat
that I went to the Horticultural Fete
with Aunt Janie in, just to go to those
stupid old gardens ? Bennett declares
you said so ; but I'm sure she's mistaken.'


No, my darling, she is not. I wish
you to wear the white dress. And make
haste, Valeria ! it is half-past three.'

Where's the hurry, mother dear ?
Oh, what a bore it is to have to change
again. I am sure this piqued would do
well enough.'

I want to get to the gardens by four

Valeria ; you know we must be home to
dinner at five.'

Why need we go at all, mother dear ?
What is there to see there ? '

Nothing, my child! only mother wishes
you to come ; Isn't that sufficient ?'

An appeal to Valeria's affection Invariably
had the desired effect, and In a
few minutes she appeared in the 
arrayed in the white costume.
Fenella thought she had never seen her
look prettier, nor more like her father ;
and her hand trembled as she arranged
the tendril curls that lay upon the child's
forehead, and mingled with the snowy
feather beneath the brim of her hat.

Come, darling ! ' she said, with a sudden
effort, ' the carriage Is waiting. Let
us go.'

What a lovely colour you have in your
face, mother dear. Are you happy ? '
asked Valeria Ingenuously.

Fenella stooped down and kissed her.

'Always happy, my sweet,' she murmured,

* whilst my child loves me and is
with me,' and taking her hand she led her
downstairs.

A few minutes' drive put them down at
the entrance to the Broad Walk.

Wait for us here,' said Fenella to the
servant on alighting; and, still holding
her child by the hand, she entered the
gardens.

Geoffrey Doyne watched them approaching
with a fast-beating heart, and
as they came opposite to the bench he
occupied, he rose and took off his hat.

Ah ! Colonel Doyne,' cried Fenella,
raising her eyebrows as if he had been
the last person she expected to encounter,
is that you ? What a lovely afternoon !
I suppose you have come out, like ourselves,
to enjoy the air. By the way, this
is my little daughter, Valeria, whom I do
not think you have seen before. Val,
dear, this gentleman is Colonel Doyne,
an old friend of mine. Go and shake
hands with him ! '

The child advanced at her mother's
bidding, and put her hand in that of
Geoffrey, looking him full in the face the
while, after the manner of children. He
was terribly agitated more so a great
deal than the woman who held the deepest
reproach she could hurl at him in her
hand. His features worked, his frame
trembled, his eyes were cast upon the
ground ; he could not look his child in
the face. Fenella was alarmed lest Valeria
should observe his want of self-control,
and hurriedly took a seat by his side.

Run on, Val,' she said to her little
girl, * run on to the end of the walk,
and come back to us again. I have a
few words to say to Colonel Doyne.'

The child obeyed, though rather unwillingly.
She did not like the indignity
of being sent out of earshot. As soon
as she had walked a few paces, Fenella
turned to her companion.

You must be more composed, Geoffrey,
or I shall take her home again. It is just

VOL. III. T

as I feared. You have not sufficient mastery
of your feelings to conceal them.'

I am not sufficient master of myself to
feel otherwise than bitterly ashamed when
I look upon you two together,' he replied.
So far I acknowledge you are right.'

I suppose the feeling will be hard to
conquer  at least, at first,' she answered,
quietly ; ' but try and control it for the
short time we shall be here. See, Valeria
is coming back to us, and I have no
possible excuse for sending her away a
second time. Be a man, dear Geoffrey.
You wished to see her, and you may not
have another opportunity.'

What do you mean ? * he asked
quickly.

We leave London on Monday morning,
and start for the Engaldine the week
after. Val is looking forward with great
pleasure to her trip ; are you not ? ' continued
Fenella to the girl, who had again
reached her side.

Oh yes said Valeria, ' because mother

is going too, you know, and Aunt Janie
and the boys, and perhaps Lord Laurence.
Do you know Lord Laurence ? ' she asked,
turning to Geoffrey Doyne.

'No. Is he a friend of yours ? '

'Oh, he is my cousin  at least he was
papa's cousin ; and he is the friend of all
of us, but most of all of mother's. Isn't he,
mother dear ? He is always bringing you
flowers, and presents, and all sorts of things

Colonel Doyne turned, and looked at
Fenella, whose face had somewhat flushed
under the remarks of her child.

Is that the happy man ? ' he inquired,
in a low voice.

No ! not he  nor any one,' she answered.
* I have had enough of that sort
of thing to last me a lifetime.'

He sighed, and turned to Valeria.

And so you are going to the Engal-
dine ' Would you like me to go with
you, Valeria '. '

The child reddened, and glanced at
Fenella.

If mother wishes it she said  not
knowing how far she might compromise
them both by a more decided answer.

I think our party is large enough already,
Valeria, and we have no room for
more. Besides, Colonel Doyne was only
joking with you. He could not leave
England if he would. He has four lite
boys to care for and look after.'

I am going to send the whole tribe
to school,' said the father, with a look of
annoyance. ' A man in my position can
hardly be expected to mount guard over
a nursery full of children.'

I suppose not, poor little things ! ' said
Feneila compassionately.

And they will never have a second
mother now,' he added significantly.

Second mothers can never replace the
first,' she replied.

Geoffrey Doyne grew impatient. She
seemed more inaccessible to-day than she
had been on the first occasion of their reunion.


How long are you to be away ? ' he
said. ' You never told me on Wednesday
that you were about to leave London.'

Did I not ? I thought you would have
guessed that we should go away at the
close of the season. I have several provincial
engagements to fulfil before I join
Lady Marjoram in the Engaldine, which
I hope will be about the beginning of
August And we shall stay there at least
two months, if not more.'

Why do you drag this child about the
country with you ? '

What am I to do with her ? We have
never been separated yet.'

Leave her with me.'

Colonel Doyne I ' ejaculated Fenella,
in a tone of reproach, * is this the way
you keep your promise to me ? '

Is there anything very strange in an
old friend offering to take charge of your
child during your absence } Wouldn't
you like to come and stay with me, Val,
whilst mamma is in the country, and go to

theatres, and ride on a pony, and have lots
of presents ? '

That I should,' said Val unhesitatingly.
I want to ride a pony so much ; but mother
is afraid I shall tumble off and hurt myself.
And I like boys too, Colonel Doyne ! You
know I have never had a brother or sister
to play with, and I should be very kind to
your little boys. And I like you too,' she
added more shyly, ' because you have such
kind eyes.'

My darling child,' cried Geoffrey Doyne
impulsively.

Valeria ! what are you saying ? ' exclaimed
Fenella, almost in the same breath.
You are talking too fast. You are forgetting
yourself! How could you go and
stay with a gentleman who is almost a
stranger to you ?'

In her agitation and excitement, a
new fear presented itself to her. What
if Geoffrey, not content with having
stripped her of almost every earthly possession,
should rob her of the only

comfort she had left  the affection of
her child.

'It is nonsense ! it is folly, Colonel
Doyne ! You shouldn't have mentioned
such a thing,' she continued hotly. ' I
will never allow Valeria to be separated
from myself.'

Then you go too, mother dear,' urged
the child.

No, I can't go too,' replied Fenella
almost crossly.

What a shame ! ' cried her spoiled
daughter ; * and when I want so much
to ride that pony. Never mind. Colonel
Doyne ! I'll make mother go some day
see if I don't.'

Yes, Valeria, make her come,' he repeated,
with a smile of hope irradiating
his features.

Fenella rose from her seat.

'It is time for us to go,' she said.
 Come, Val, say good-bye to Colonel
Doyne.'

Geoffrey took the girl's hand in his.

I wonder which present you would Hke
me to give you best,' he said musingly ;
a gold watch or a bracelet ? '

Oh ! a gold watch, Colonel Doyne ; a
dear, little, tiny gold watch, with blue stones
in it, like Uncle Marjoram gave to Lily on
her last birthday. Because mother has
bracelets, you know, and I can wear them ;
but she never will lend me her watch.
Do give me a watch. Colonel Doyne.'

Indeed, Colonel Doyne will give you
no such thing,' cried Fenella angrily; 'and
I am surprised at him for offering to do
so. Vou are but a child, without any
knowledge of etiquette ; but he  /le ought
to know better.'

Oh, mother dear, how cross you are
said Valeria.

The truth spoken by her daughter recalled
her to herself. She blushed scarlet,
and stammered. She had, indeed, forgotten
what was due to a gentleman whom
she had acknowledged to be her friend
whom she knew to be so much more.

If I have indeed offended you, Mrs
Barrington  ' commenced Colonel Doyne.

No, no ! do as you like. I forgot 
you have a right,' she answered, in a
broken voice.

She says you 7nay exclaimed Valeria,
exultantly.

Very well, if your mother says I may,
I will ; but, Valeria, in all things you must
consult ken' first  remember that,' said
Geoffrey Doyne.

Fenella felt as if she could not remain
another minute. She turned to her child
and said, 

Valeria, when I was a little girl, not
much older than yourself, this gentleman
was  was  fond of me, and  very kind tome.
I cannot thank him for it as I would,
but you can do so for me. Kiss him before
we go, and tell him that mother and
you  thank him for  all that he has done.

The child, fearless and impetuous by
nature, turned at once to Geoffrey Doyne
and flung her arms about his neck.

VOL. III. T 2

Mother says I am to thank you,' she
exclaimed, ' and I do. I think you are a
good, kind man ; and I am to have the
watch, ain't I ? and I will make her go
some day and stay with you

He kissed her several times warmly,
and then Fenella took her hand and drew
her away from him, and they had already
gone some little distance before he remembered
that this was their last interview
for perhaps several months, and
Valeria's had been the only farewell he
had received. The thought struck him
with a sudden anguish, and he sank down
in a disconsolate attitude upon the bench
from which he had risen. What was the
child to him, after all, compared to the
mother ? \Ahy should he value or love
her, excepting for Fenella's sake ?

The woman he was mourning after
guessed his thoughts. Before they had
reached the gate she turned, and saw him
sitting where they had left him, with his
head bowed, and his eyes bent upon the

ground  forsaken and alone. With

quick impulse, she bade Valeria wait her
comines, and hurried back to him. He
had hardly time to realise she had returned,
before he heard her sweet voice
speak his name.

Geoffrey,' she said, ' Geoffrey, forgive
me ! I should not have spoken so, perhaps
; but she is all I have ! A miser
does not watch his gold with more eager
and suspicious eyes than I watch over
the affections of my child. If 1 seem
avaricious and grasping, remember she
is the sole thing that you have left me.'

You will not even let me share her
love ? ' he said sadly.

Not now ! It is so new, so fresh a
thought ! I cannot grasp it now. But
some day, Geoffrey, when the feelings
we have in the present are calmer and
more reasonable, I will ask you to be her
friend and mine. Be content to wait the
time when it may be so.'

'And meanwhile  ' he said, in a faltering
voice.

Meanwhile, you have your children
and your God. Come, sweetheart, lookup
and be brave ! Surely a// is not lost,
because I have not enough faith left to
trust my future in your hands. Think,
Geoffrey  think, at the outside, how short
life is, and that beyond this troublesome
world there looms the great Infinity, and
rest assured that, when once we reach it,
I shall return to you without fear.'

She pressed his hand and left him, and
as he raised his eyes  misty with unshed
tears  to watch her figure to the last, he
saw her clasp her child's hand and turn
back at the gate to wave him her farewell.

So they passed out together, the mother
and the child, and faded from his view, as
the vision of his love had faded from hers
upon the Ines-cedwyn sands.

