CHAPTER I.

Worthily TERRACE, CAMDEN TOWN,

CHAPTER II.

Gresham COURT, GLAMORGANSHIRE,

CAPTAIN NORTON'S DIARY, .

(in THREE CHAPTERS.)

OLD Contrary,
sent TO HIS DEATH !'







CHAPTER I.

Worthily TERRACE. CAMDEN TOWN.

T is the middle of July, but the
London season has not, as yet,
shown any symptoms of beings
on the wane, and the drawing-room
of the Honourable Mrs Carnaby-
Hicks is arranged for the reception of
visitors. Curtains of guipure lace, looped
with pale-blue ribbons, shroud every
window, purple irises and yellow jonquils
as displayed in art needlework, adorn
each chair and sofa ; fanciful little tables
of silk and velvet, laden with Sevres and

VOL. I. A

Dresden china are placed in everybody's
way, and a powerful odour of hot-house
flowers pervades the apartment. A double
knock sounds at the door, and the Honourable
Mrs Carnaby- Hicks starts from the
dose into which she has fallen, and seizing
a novel, sits upright, and pretends that
she is deep in its contents. But she need
not have been so punctilious, for the footman,
throwing open the door, announces
her brother, Mr Tresham. Roland enters
the room, looking fagged, dusty, and out
of sorts, a complete contrast to the dainty
adornments of his sister's drawing-room.

'Well, Roland!' exclaims Mrs Carnaby-
Hicks, 'and what is your news? It is
an age since we have seen you ! I was
beginning to think you must have made
away with yourself.'

No such luck,' replies her brother,
moodily, ' though I believe it would bethe
best thing that I could do.'

He is a handsome man of only thirty
years of age, but the look of care upon
his brow makes him appear older. His
dress is not exactly shabby, but it is the
dress of a needy gentleman, and did not

issue from the tailor's hands this season,
nor even last.

How are you all at home ?' continues
the lady.

Just the same as usual ; a medley of
dirt, ill-management, and punctuality 1
I dread to enter the house.'

Ah ! Roland, it is too late to advise
you now, but that marriage was the worst
day's work you ever did. Not thirty till
September, and with a wife and six children
on your hands. It is a terrible
misfortune ! '

And two hundred a-year on which to
support them,' laughs Mr Tresham, bitterly.
' Don't speak of it, Valeria, unless
you wish to drive me mad. And to add
to my troubles I have just received this
letter ; ' tossing it over to her.

Who is it from ? '

Lady Tresham ! Her generosity seems
to be on a par with his ! You see how she
writes me word that Sir Ralph is in Switzerland
mountain-climbing with Handley
Harcourt, but that if he were at home she
fears he would be unlikely to comply with
my request.'

Did you ask Ralph for money then ? '

Not as a gift. I wrote to him for a
loan of fifty pounds, to carry on the war,
bit of course I should regard it as a debt.
The fact is, Valeria, I don't know where to
look for money ; my profession brings mein
nothing, and we cannot live on the
miserable pittance my father left me. It
is simply impossible ! '

If Roland Tresham has entertained any
hope that, on hearing of his difficulty, his
rich sister will offer to lend or give him the
money, which would be a trifle out of her
pocket, he has reckoned without his host.
She likes Roland in her way, and is always
pleased to see him in her house, but the
woman and the children may starve for
aught she will do to help them. She considers
them only in the light of a burthen
and disgrace.

I don't see why you shouldn't live on
two hundred a-year,' she answers shortly.
Of course it is very little, but if your wife
were worth her salt she would make you
comfortable on it. But that is what comes
of marrying a beauty. They're seldom
good for anything else.'

There's not much beauty left about
JuHet now,' replies Roland Tresham, ' but
I don't think it is entirely her fault. The
children worry her so, she has no energy
left to do anything.'

It's a miserable plight to be in,' sighs
the Honourable Mrs Carnage-Hicks, 'and
I can see how it tells upon your health
and spirits. What do you propose to do . '

'Do ! I should like to hang myself.
Do you think there is any chance, Valeria,
of your husband getting me a foreign
appointment } I don't care where it is.
I would go out to the Fiji Islands, or ,
or to the devil himself, to get away
from it all.'

And leave them at home . ' says Mrs
Carnage-Hicks.

Yes ! Juliet should have the two hundred,
and I would keep myself. Perhaps
if she had only the children to look after,
she might get on better. And the happiest
thing for me would be, never to return ! '

I will ask Mr Carnage-Hicks about it,'
replies his sister. ' If it is to be done at
all, it must be before Parliament is prorogued.
But I wouldn't lose all hope with

regard to Ralph on account of Lady Tres-ham's
letter. When he returns he can
hardly refuse to lend you such a trifling
sum as fifty pounds.'

It does not seem to occur to her that
she would miss the money as little as Sir
Ralph himself.

I shall not ask him a second time,'
says Roland, * nor Lady Tresham either.
They may keep their money to themselves.
But how a father can justify to himself the
fact of leaving ten thousand a-year to one
son, and two hundred to the other, beats
me altogether ! '

The money must go with the baronetcy
remarks his sister coolly, * and your portion
was only intended to supplement your professional
income. You ought to have made
a competency by this time, Roland. You
would have done so, had you not hampered
yourself in such a reckless manner !'

At this moment the conversation is
interrupted by the entrance of a young
lady, dressed in the height of the reigning
fashion.

My husband's niece, Miss Mabel
Moore,' says Mrs Carnaby- Hicks, and

then extending a hand to the girl, she
draws her forward. * Mabel, dear, this
is my younger brother, of whom you have
heard me speak. Ring the bell and let
us have tea. Roland and I have had a
long conversation, and I feel quite fatigued.'

Roland Tresham stares at his new acquaintance
with unmitigated surprise. Miss
Moore is a tall, dark girl with a commanding
figure, clad in a pale, cream-coloured
dress that fits it like a skin. Her rounded
arms, her well-developed bust and shapely
waist are as distinctly displayed as if the
material had been strained across them ;
and the uninitiated Roland gazes at her in
astonishment.

Such a sweet girl,' whispers Mrs 
Hicks to him, as Mabel quits her
side ; ' I love her as if she were my
daughter. As soon as the season is
over, Mr Carnaby- Hicks and I are going
to take her for a tour in Italy. And, by
the way, Roland, could you not manage
to accompany us ? A second gentleman
would be a great acquisition on the journey,
and you would be invaluable to Mabel and
me as a cicerone. Do come ! '

You might as well talk of my going to
the moon, Valeria. I should enjoy it
above all things, but it is impossible.
Only fancy the delight though of change
of scene and air and freedom from all the
horrors of Camden Town. It would be like
a taste of Heaven to me ! '

I am sure you could manage it if you
tried ! Come here, Mabel, and persuade
my brother to join us in our trip to
Italy.'

Oh ! Mr Tresham, do come,' says
Mabel, throwing a glance at him from a
pair of dark, languishing eyes. * It will
double Aunt Valeria's pleasure to have
your company.'

Roland Tresham has not, as a rule, admired
dark eyes in women nor commanding
figures. His wife is very fair, and
slight and fragile in appearance, and when
he married her eight years before, he
thought her the loveliest creature God
ever made. But as Mabel Moore casts
her black-lashed eyes upon him, he feels
a very strong desire to join the travelling
party to Italy.

You hold out powerful temptations tome,

Miss Moore he answers, ' but It is too
important a matter to be settled in a
day. But if I can go, you may be sure I
will;

And then he falls to wondering whether
Mrs Carnage-Hicks intends her offer to
be taken as an invitation, and means to
defray his expenses. For she must know
he has no money to pay them himself.
Meanwhile Miss Moore pours out his tea,
and hands it to him in a porcelain cup with
the most gracious and encouraging of
smiles. It is a strange contrast to the
man who knows what he will encounter
on reaching home, to be seated among all
the refinement of his sister's drawing-room,
sipping the most fragrant Pekoe from a
costly piece of china, whilst he is waited
on by a handsome woman clad in a cream-coloured
skin, every fold of the train of
which shakes out the essence of a subtle
perfume. He revels in it whilst it lasts,
though after a while he rises with a sudden
sigh of recollection, and says he must be
going home.

Don't forget to ask Hicks about the
appointment,' he whispers to his sister ashe

takes his leave. * Remember, I will
take anything and go anywhere just to get
away from this.'

Very good,' she answers, * and don't
you forget that we expect you to be one of
our party to Italy.'

Yes ! indeed,' echoes Mabel with a
parting glance, ' I shall not enjoy my trip
at all now, unless Mr Tresham goes with
us!'

What a good-looking fellow ! ' she exclaims
as soon as the door has closed
behind him. * Aunty ! why did you never
tell me what he was like ? '

My dear child, where was the use of
talking of him ? The unfortunate man is
married, and has no money. Had he been
rich and a bachelor, it would have been a
different thing ! '

I don't know that,' says Miss Mabel,

for my part I prefer married men to flirt
with ; they're so safe. Besides, it's such
fun making the wives jealous.'

It would take a great deal to make Mrs
Tresham jealous,' says the elder lady.

They're past all that, my dear. So you
can flirt with Roland to your heart's content,

only don't go too far. Remember
Lord Ernest Freemantle ! '

Bother Lord Ernest,' returns the
fashionable young lady in precisely the same
tone as she would have used the stronger
word had she been of the stronger sex.

Meanwhile the gentleman is going home
by train to Camden Town : a locality which
he has chosen, not on account of its convenience,
but because he can rent a house
there for the modest sum of thirty pounds
a-year. His immediate neighbours are
bankers' clerks, milliners, and petty tradesmen
from the West End, but the brother
of Sir Ralph Tresham of Tresham Court,
and the Honourable Mrs Carnaby- Hicks,
of 1 20 Blue Street, Mayfair, has no alternative
but to reside amongst them. He has
chosen a profession in which he has signally
failed, and has hampered himself
with a wife and six children, when his
private means are not sufficient to support
himself. He fancies he can hear his
children shouting even before he has
gained the little terrace in which they
reside. They are all so abominably strong
and healthy : their voices will reach to any

distance. And as he comes in sight of the
familiar spot, his suspicions turn to certainties.
Wilfrid and Bertie and Fred,
three sturdy rascals with faces surrounded
by auricles of golden hair like angels'
crowns, but plastered with dirt like the
very lowest of human creatures, are hanging
on to the palings which enclose a patch
of chickweed and dandelions in front of
the house, and shouting offensive epithets
to every passer-by.

Can't you keep inside and behave yourselves
.' How often have I ordered you
not to hang about the garden in this way ? '
exclaims Roland Tresham, as he cuffs the
little urchins right and left. The two youngest
rush for protection to their mother,
howling, whilst the eldest sobs out, 

Mamma said we might play here.'

Then your mother's as great a fool as
you are,' replies the father, angrily, as he
strides into the house.

Juliet Tresham is waiting to receive him,
with a deep frown upon her brow. Any
unprejudiced observer would see at a glance
that she is a lovely woman, but it is the
loveliness of beauty unadorned. Her luxuriant

golden hair is all pushed off her face,
and strained into a tight knot at the back
of her head. Her large blue eyes are dull
and languid ; her lips are colourless, and
her ill-fitting, home-made dress hangs awkwardly
upon her figure. In her husband's
eyes, all her beauty and her grace have
faded long ago. He associates her with
nothing now, but weak lungs and spirits,
squalling children, badly-cooked dinners,
and an untidy home. It is scarcely to be
wondered at that she does not smile him a
welcome home.

You might inquire whether the children
are in the right or wrong, before you hit
them,' she says sharply. ' I told them they
might play in the front garden.'

Then they must suffer for your folly, for
I won't have them hanging about the place
like a set of beggars' brats.'

It's all very fine for you to talk, but
what am I to do with them cooped up in
the house, on a day like this ? If you had
the charge of them, you'd turn them out
anywhere, just to get rid of them.'

Why don't you let the girl look after
them ? '

'The girl!' That's just how you men
talk ! As if one wretched girl of fourteen
had not enough to do to keep the house
clean, and cook the dinner, without taking
charge of half-a-dozen children ! '

Oh ! well, don't bother me about it.
Am I to have any dinner to-day or not ? '

I suppose Ann will bring it up when it
is ready,' says his wife indifferently ; * you
can't expect to be waited on as if you were
the owner of Tresham Court'

D  n you ! I wish you'd hold your
tongue ! ' he answers angrily.

He calls it his dinner, for the good
reason that it is the only dinner he ever
gets, but it is a wretched mockery of the
meal.

What do you call this '. ' he says, as he
examines the untempting-looking viands,
and views with disgust the evident traces
of black fingers on the edge of the dish.
Take it away, and serve it me on a clean
plate. I may be obliged to swallow any
dog's meat you chose to put before me, but
I'll be hanged if I'll eat the smuts off your
servant's hands as well.'

Mrs Tresham, who is occupied at the

other end of the table in cutting slices of
bread and salt butter for the tribe of little
cormorants by which she is surrounded,
just turns her head and calls through the
open door to the maid-of-all-work in the
kitchen.

Ann, come and fetch away this dish ;
your master says it is dirty.'

Do it yourself! ' roars her exasperated
husband. 'It is quite bad enough that
you are so lazy, you won't look after any
of my comforts in my absence, without
your refusing to set matters right now.'

His wife takes up the dish in silence, and
leaves the apartment, whereupon two of
the children, disappointed of their bread
and butter, begin to cry. Roland Tresham,
after threatening to turn them out of the
room if they do not hold their tongues,
leaves his seat and leans out of the open
window, disconsolately. What a position
it is in which to find his father's son !
Outside, his neighbours are sitting in their
shirt sleeves, smoking clay pipes in their
strips of garden, or hanging over the railings
talking with one another ; in the road
itinerant merchants are vending radishes,

onions, and shellfish ; whilst a strong, warm
smell is wafted right under his nostrils from
the pork-pie shop round the corner. Inside,
the children are whimpering for the
return of their mother round a soiled tablecloth
which bears a piece of salt butter,
warm and melting, a jar of treacle with a
knife stuck in it, a stale loaf, a metal teapot,
and knives and forks which have been
but half-cleaned. A vision comes over
Roland of that art-decorated drawing-room
in Blue Street, with the porcelain tea-service,
the silken clad figure, and the
subtle perfume that pervaded the scene ;
and a great longing for all the delicacies
and refinements of life comes over him,
with a proportionate disgust for his surroundings.
When his wife returns with
the beefsteak, he pushes it from him. His
appetite has vanished with the delay.

I can't eat it,' he says impatiently.
Take the filth away.'

Well, it's the best I can do for you,' is
her reply. ' It's quite enough for a woman
to be nurse and housemaid, without turning
cook into the bargain.'

It is a long time since I have expected

you to do anything to please me, Juliet ;
however, stop the mouths of those brats ot
yours, and send them to bed. I want the
room to myself. I have work which must
be done this evening.'

She supplies the children's wants, and
hurries them from the room, whilst her
husband sits sulking and dreaming of Blue
Street. If his brother-in-law can only get
him a foreign appointment, how gladly he
will fly from this squalid home for ever.
He pictures a life by the shores of the
Mediterranean, In the forests of Brazil, on
the plains of India, or the Australian
colonies, and each and every one seems a
paradise compared with that which he leads
at present.

Mrs Tresham, putting her little ones to
rest, feels also that, except for them, she
would lay down her existence. She Is
utterly sick and wearied of her life. She is
almost cross with Wilfrid and Bertie and
Fred, because they will bolster one another,
instead of lying down in their cots and
going to sleep like pattern boys. For
Baby Roland Is whimpering for the breast,
and two-year-old May is fractious with the

VOL. I. B

pain of cutting her double teeth. Lily,
her mother's help and companion, is the
only one that waits patiently until her turn
arrives to be undressed. But when the
rest are at last subdued, or satisfied, and
Juliet Tresham turns to attend to her
eldest daughter, her trembling fingers have
busied themselves but for a few seconds
with strings and buttons, before her arms
are cast around the child, and she bursts
into a storm of tears.

Mamma, why do you cry ? ' asks Lily
anxiously.

Oh, Lily, Lily! It is not my fault 
it is not my fault.'

God help her, poor Juliet, it is not !
Almost a girl in years, yet laden with cares
such as few wives in her position are ever
called upon to bear, she has sunk beneath
the weight of an overwhelming load.
Health and energy have failed her, and
her husband's patience has not proved
equal to the occasion, and so irritability
and discontent have crept in on the one
hand, and disgust and indifference on the
other. And yet they loved each other
once, oh ! so dearly, and believed from

their hearts they would have died sooner
than give up their mutual affection.

But Mrs Tresham does not cry long.
She persuades herself that the man downstairs
Is not worth crying for.

Get into bed, Lily, darling, or papa
will be coming up to see what we are
about.'

I didn't kiss papa nor wish him goodnight,'
says the child.

No, no ! it doesn't signify. He doesn't
care for your kisses, nor for mine.'

She tucks her little girl into her bed
and descends to the sitting-room agaln,
feeling injured and hard of heart. Roland,
as she enters, glances at her with a look
of disgust.

Your hair Is half way down your back.*
She laughs slightly, and, pulling out the
fastenings of her hair, lets the rippling
mass fall over her shoulders. Roland used
to admire It so much in the days gone by,
and say It was the only gold he cared to
possess. Has she any hope that he will
recall his former feellnofs at the sioht of
her loosely falling locks ? If so, she is
mistaken, for he only remarks coldly, 

I mast beg you not to turn my room
into a dressing-room. Go and put your
hair up tidily. I hate to find it amongst
my papers.'

I believe you hate everything except
your own comfort,' she replies. ' You're
the most selfish man I ever came across.'

Perhaps so ! But as long as this house
belongs to me, you'll be good enough to
keep your opinions to yourself. If I can't
have comfort when I come home, I will at
least have peace.'

And much peace / get, day or night.'

It is by your own mismanagement if
you do not.'

How do you make that out ? Has
your want of money anything to do with
my mismanagement ? Have the children
anything to do with it ? You ought to be
ashamed of yourself.'

'Ought I?' he returns, biting his lip.
Then, perhaps, you'll be glad to hear that
I have applied for a foreign appointment
that will take me out to India, or the
Brazils, for the remainder of my life.'

Oh, Roland ! ' she cries, catching her
breath ; * but not to leave us ? '

Certainly to leave you. That was the
sole object of my application. Aren't you
delighted to hear It ? We lead a 
life as things are at present, and the
sooner we are separated the better.'

But the children  and vie /' she gasps,
with a face of chalky whiteness.

Oh, don't be afraid ! you will be provided
for.'

But if you should be 111 ? ' suggests the
woman fearfully.

Then I shall die, perhaps, and so much
the better. You have not made my life
such a heaven to me that I shall lose
much by its resignation.'

Then she falls upon his neck, weeping.

Oh, Roland, Roland ! do not speak tome
like that.'

But he pushes her from him. He has
had no dinner, and that Is a trial that never
improves the masculine temper.

Don't make a fool of yourself! ' he says
roughly.

Juliet raises her head and dries her eyes.
She is a proud woman and a high-spirited
one, and never disposed to take a rebuff
meekly.

I am a fool,' she answers. * Any
woman would be a fool who wasted a
regret upon such an icicle as you are. I
hope to Heaven you may get your appointment
and go out to the Brazils, and never
come back again ; for the less I see and
hear of you the better.'

Just what I said,' remarks her husband
indifferently. ' You are as sick of me as
I am of you, and it's of no use disguising
the truth from one another.'

There was a time when you thought
nothing too good to say of me,' she cries,
hysterically.

Was there ? Well, you can't expect
such things to last for ever, and you have
really made my life such a hell to me of
late that you can't be surprised if I look
forward to any change as a blessing.'

Oh ! It has come to that, has it 
that you want to get rid of me ? Why
don't you put the finishing stroke to your
cruelty and say at once that you hate
me?'

I am afraid you are making me do
something very much like it.'

The truth is, you are tired of me,

Roland ! It is nursing your children and
trying out of our scanty income to provide
for your wants that has brought me down
to what I am, and since I have ceased to
please your eyes, I have wearied out your
fancy

Yes ! my dear,' he says, with provoking
nonchalance. ' You are quite right ; I am
very tired of you, and particularly at this
moment. Suppose you leave me to my
writing, and go to bed.'

Mrs Tresham rushes from the little
room and slams the door behind her. But
she does not go to bed. She takes a seat
amongst her sleeping children, and, resting
her head upon her hands, weeps for the
past which is slumbering like them, although
she thinks it dead. It is just nine
o'clock, and as the hour strikes from a
neighbouring church tower, she sees the
postman coming up the street. He enters
the parterre of chickweed and dandelions,
and gives a double knock at the front door,
whilst Mrs Tresham, sitting at her bedroom
window, wonders vaguely who the
letter can be from. But presently she
hears a shout from below  a mingled

shout of surprise and horror and excitement,
and startled and curious she runs
downstairs to learn the cause.

Her husband's handsome face  flushed
and animated  turns towards her as she
opens the door.

What is the matter ? ' she exclaims
hurriedly.

What is the matter ? ' he repeats.
What Is not the matter . My God ! can
it possibly be true ? '

He has leapt from his seat and passed
his fingers through his hair, which is all
on end. His eyes flame like living fire ;
his whole frame is trembling ; she thinks
for the moment that he has gone mad.

Roland, you are frightening me terribly!
Have you had bad news ? '

Bad news ! No. Glorious news ! At
least I suppose I ought not to call It so,
because he's my brother, but he has never
been like a brother to me. Juliet ! Only
fancy  Ralph Is dead, killed by a fall down
the mountain side.'

Oh ! Poor Sir Ralph ! How terrible !
But perhaps It is not true.'

 It is true. This letter is from Lady

Tresham's nephew, Handley Harcourt,
who was with Ralph at the time of his
death. And they are bringing the body to
England. And  and  can't you understand
? / am Sir Roland Tresham, of
Tresham Court  with ten thousand a-year
to keep it up on, and  Oh, my God ! 
my God ! I believe the news will drive
me mad.'

He casts himself face downwards on the
rickety couch in the corner of the room,
and sobs as if, without that relief, his heart
would burst with joy. Meanwhile his wife
stands motionless, almost unable to comprehend
the sudden change in their condition,
until her husband starts up again,
exclaiming, 

What a child I am. But it only proves
what I have suffered. To be free, once
and for ever, of all this struggling and
starvation  to see my poor children placed
in the position to which they were born 
It is too great a change to be believed In,
all at once. My boys shall enter the
army and navy  and my girls have every
advantage my wealth can procure them.
Oh, it is too much ! It has all happened

so suddenly. I feel as if I should die
before I come into it. Sir Roland Tresham,
of Tresham Court ! Sir Roland Tresham,
of Tresham Court ! Merciful heavens, am
I awake or in a dream ? '

He has never mentioned his wife whilst
enumerating the advantages his new fortune
will bring him. He has never once
congratulated himself on the fact that she
will no longer be obliged to slave and work
and deny herself as she has been used todo.
All he thinks of are the children and
himself

When will you come into all this,
Roland ?' she asks.

I am it now ! I was the Baronet from
the moment of my poor brother's death.'

And shall we go to Tresham Court
soon ? '

Directly the funeral is over. I shall
see the lawyers and Valeria the first thing
in the morning, and know all about it.
But I would rather you went upstairs
and left me alone. I must have time to
become accustomed to the idea of this
wonderful transformation scene. By tomorrow
morning I shall be all right.



Good-night !

Good-night !

There will be
no more trouble about money now. And
Sir Wilfrid shall be at Eton before he
knows what he is about. By Jove ! How
marvellously things do come round.'
He nods her a careless farewell
excited sort of manner, and the new
Tresham creeps up to her bed and

creeps up

m an
Lady
takes

baby Roland in her arms, and sobs herself
to sleep with his chubby face pressed
close against her bosom.

Gresham COURT, GLAMORGANSHIRE.

OW you will be able to take
that trip to Italy with us,' says
the Honourable Mrs Carnaby-
Hicks a few days later, as Sir
Roland and she sit in the artistic drawing-room
in Blue Street together. The funeral
of the late baronet is over  and the new
one is installed in his stead. Lady Tres-ham
and the children are already at the
Court, and Sir Roland has come up to
town to see his sister. ' You can come to
Italy with us,' repeats Mrs Carnaby- Hicks.
You are sadly in need of rest and change,
and it will do you all the good in the world.
You will find our dear Mabel a most

charming companion, and I am sure you
have earned the right to take a holiday ! '

I should enjoy it above all things,'
replies Sir Roland, as he glances at Miss
Moore. * But do you think It would be
advisable. Shall I not be expected to
take up my residence at Tresharn Court,
at all events for a while '. '

Not a bit of It ! I hope you are not
going to make yourself a slave to your
position. Besides, from what you tell me,
I should imagine It will be all the better
for Lady Tresham to get a little accustomed
to housekeeping before you rejoin
her. She must need practice.'

Sir Roland lifts his hands deprecatingly.

Heaven help my guests If she doesn't
improve ! But there seems to be an excellent
staff of servants down there, and the
majority will remain with us. And it would
be so delightful to get away from it all. I
thirst to leave the remembrance of the
past entirely behind me  when do you
start, Valeria } '

The day after tomorrow ! '

That is sharp work. I shall hardly
have time to do my business here and run

down to Tresham Court and back again ina
couple of days

Why go down to the Court ? There
will only be a scene if you do. Write and
tell Lady Tresham of your intention

*Oh, Sir Roland, I shall never forgive
you if you cry off now interposes Mabel.
You know it was a bargain that you
should go with us if you could. And
aunty means to take Venice on our way.
Fancy Venice and gondolas in this
heavenly weather! It will be too delicious.'


Gondolas and Mabel Moore win the
day, and Sir Roland agrees to write to
his wife instead of going down to Tresham
Court.

Now, you are quite, quite sure you
are not telling us a story,' sa3\s Miss
Moore, with a winning smile, 'because I
know If you go home that Lady Tresham
will not let you return to us again. You
promise only to write, don't you ? '

I promise ! ' repeats Sir Roland, with
an uneasy twinge of conscience nevertheless.
But he keeps his word, and a letter
by the next day's post informs Juliet that

her husband is going to visit Italy with
his sister, and that she must manage
matters at Tresham Court as best she
can until his return. This intelligence
falls upon the wife like a sudden blow.
She feels very strange and awkward as
the mistress of this great rambling house,
with its retinue of servants, but she has
been seizing the opportunity of Sir Roland's
absence to try and become acquainted
with the vicinage of the kitchen
and the housekeeper's room, that she may
astonish him with her aptitude on his
return. And now he is going to leave
her to fight with all her new responsibilities
alone, whilst he is enjoying a trip
upon the Continent. Well, she will not
be so mean spirited a creature as to sit
down and weep for his absence. She
will show him that she can enjoy life as
well as himself when she has the means
to do so. Yet the tears chase themselves
rapidly down her cheeks as she thinks
thus to herself, for Lady Tresham has
two nurses now to look after her children,
and can afford to indulge her feelings without
spectators. It is a bright sunny morning

in the first week of August ; the grounds
of Tresham Court are filled with beautiful
flowers and leafy trees and singing birds,
and the pale-faced, weary woman takes
her husband's letter in her hand, and seats
herself beneath the shade of a cedar tree
on the smooth green lawn, and indulges
her sorrowful thoughts to their fullest
extent.

Presently she hears a soft voice calling
her by name. She looks up in surprise ;
beside her stands an elderly lady, dressed
in widow's weeds.

Your servants said you were not at
home. Lady Tresham, but I caught a
glimpse of your dress through the trees,
and hoped you would not deem it a
liberty if I introduced myself to you as
the widow of your husband's brother.'

Lady Tresham !' cries Juliet, springing
to her feet. * I am glad to see you, but I
am very untidy ; I did not expect any one
to call to-day. I did not even know that
you were in the county.'

I have a house of my own about five
miles from here, but I only returned toit
yesterday. And so you are really Sir

Roland's wife. Why, you are a mere
girl.'

Indeed, you are mistaken. It is a longtime
since I was a girl. I am twenty-six ! '

And I am twenty years older than
yourself, so you see I have a right to
consider you a girl. But you have been
crying. Surely you have no trouble now.
I thought all your troubles lay in the want
of means.'

We were very, very poor,' says Juliet,
with proud simplicity, ' and I am hardly
accustomed to the use of money yet. But
I was crying  it is very foolish of me, I
know, but I cannot help it  because my
husband is going away.'

Going away ! and where ? '

'To Italy, with his sister, Mrs Carnaby-
Hicks. He has been very worried and
upset lately. Lady Tresham, and he wants
change, and I know it will be best for him
but  but  '

You feel the responsibility of being left
alone ; that is very natural. Yet, perhaps,
it will teach you self-dependence. And
for my own part, I am glad Sir Roland is
away just now. I want to make friends

VOL. I. c

with you, my dear ; to help you, if it is
in my power. I know your husband has
thought hard things of me, and, perhaps,
of poor Sir Ralph into the bargain ; butin
what we did we believed we were acting
for the best. Now, all that is over ; you
will neither of you ever want money again,
but you may need advice. And I should
like to begin by advising you. Why do
you not take this trip with your husband 1
You look pale and worn out. It would
do you good as well as him.'

He does not want me,' says Juliet,
sadly ; 'he is only going in order to get
away from me.'

That is hardly possible. You are a
wife of whom any man must be proud.'

I used to be told I was pretty,' replies
Lady Tresham, with a faint blush ; ' but
that was a long time ago.'

Rubbish, child ; you are in your prime.
And you have six children ; and I have
not even one. What a happy woman you
ought to be.'

But Lady Tresham does not answer.
The tears are rising thickly to her eyes,
and falling down her cheeks again.

I would give them all up  yes, everyone
! ' she cries, hysterically, ' to regain
their father's love. Oh, Lady Tresham,
what must you think of me for speaking
like this to an utter stranger ? '

Cease to look on me as a stranger,
then, dear child, and let us be friends.
Cannot I do anything to help you out of
this heavy trouble 1 '

Nothing ; nothing. It is incurable, and
I must bear it as best I can. He loved
me whilst I had the means to make myself
look pretty ; when I had a colour in my
cheeks, and a gloss upon my hair. But I
have lost all that, Lady Tresham. Days
and nights of sickness and privation have
robbed me of my beauty and his love.
And then my temper grew irritable, and
he sickened of his home and me ; and I
shall never know any happiness in this
world again.'

If you have somewhat wearied your
husband's love in poverty, you must regain
it in prosperity,' says Sir Ralph's widow.

Indeed, you do not know him, Lady
Tresham.'

I do not know Sir Roland, my dear,

but I have known many men, and they are
all alike. The philosophy of few of them
will survive their personal discomfort. Sir
Roland will find things very different on
his return to England, and the old feelings
will have an opportunity of revival. Come,
my dear girl, you must not lose heart.'

But I am so ignorant how to order
things aright,' sighs Juliet, ' I have had so
little experience.'

I will be your teacher, if you will permit
me. Tresham Court always had the
credit of being well governed under my
reign. And first, I would make an improvement
in your dress. Such a beautiful
figure was never meant to be concealed
under that clumsy thing.'

I was obliged to get my mourning
ready made,' says Juliet, looking down at
her ill-fitting black robe.

True ; but I must send my dressmaker
to you forthwith. And now let me see the
dear little ones. I love children all the
more that I have never been a mother.'
And so the ladies, already friends, drift
away into that most interesting of feminine
topics, the nursery, and great plans are

laid for the benefit of Juliet's little family
before they separate again. On the same
day Sir Roland is making his final preparations
to join his sister's party, though
not without a few self-reproaches, which
he stifles by recalling the establishment at
Worthily Terrace, Camden Town. It is only
fair, he tells himself, that after so many
years of domestic misery he should use
his unexpected liberty by taking a little
change. And for the first few days the
change bids fair to fulfil its promise. The
Carnaby- Hicks proceed South leisurely,
taking the Rhine on their way, and Sir
Roland can conceive of no more delicious
sensation than floating down the River of
Romance on those balmy August evenings
by the side of Mabel Moore. That young
lady does not spare him in any way. From
the beginning she claims his attendance
for herself, and exercises all her fascination
freely upon the unfortunate man, who
cannot help being attracted by the charms
of her person, and the meaning glances she
so liberally bestows upon him.

What a pity that Juliet has not a more
commanding appearance,' he thinks to

himself, as he watches Mabel's fine form
distinctly outlined in the moonlight. * Miss
Moore has twice her importance ; she
Ipoks as if she had been born to a title.'
And Mabel interrupts his reverie by a
heavy sigh.

Why do you sigh, Miss Moore ? '

I was thinking how unequally this world
is balanced, Sir Roland. Everything goes
wrong, doesn't it ? '

I cannot quite agree with that sentiment
; not, at least, whilst you and I are
floating down the Rhine together.'

But it won't last.'

Not for ever, unfortunately' But let
us enjoy it whilst it does.'

I cannot thoroughly enjoy myself when
I know my pleasure must come to an end.
When I am most happy, I remember that ina
few weeks it will all be over, and we shall
be back in Blue Street, and you down at
Tresham Court with your wife and family.'

Don't talk of it please,' says Sir Roland
with a shudder.

'Why?' asks Miss Moore innocently;
don't you love little children ? '

Not particularly. Do you ? '

I don't care for most people's children,
but I should for yours.'

You are very good to say so', replies
Sir Roland : but he knows they are treading
on dangerous ground, and the subject
had better be dropped. As he lies in his
berth that night, and thinks over the
events of the day, he remembers how his
wife told him before their marriage that
she disliked children, and he had twitted
her with the fact on seeing her devotion to
their firstborn. And he recalls how she
had looked into his face with her large
blue eyes  so clear and lovely and loving
as they were in those days  and whispered,
But this is yours, Roland.' There is
something like a tear in Sir Roland Tres-ham's
eye as he turns uneasily in his
berth, and thinks how those happy days
have faded ; but it is of Juliet, and not of
Mabel, he dreams as he falls asleep. The
Honourable Mrs Carnaby- Hicks sees the
flirtation going on between her niece and
her brother, but does not concern herself
in the matter. Miss Moore knows what
she is about, and is perfectly able to take
care of herself; indeed, Mrs Carnage*

Hicks thinks she can already discern
the instinct by which the young lady is
guided. But Sir Roland, who can only
interpret her words and glances by his
own lights, believes himself to be on the
verge of a precipice, and yet has not the
moral courage to fly from a temptation
that is so flattering to his vanity. Mabel's
chief weapon is melancholy. She professes
melancholy whenever it occurs to
her, until Sir Roland is forced to demand
the reason of her serious looks.

How can you ask ? ' she says one
evening  the first of their arrival in Venice
' when you know that auntie has asked
Lord Ernest Freemantle to join our party
tomorrow ? '

What difference will that make to us ? '

Why, will he not expect to be always
by my side, and break in upon the pleasant
tetes-a-tete we have had together ? '

Have they been so very pleasant to
you then, Mabel .''

Oh, Sir Roland, cannot you judge of
my feelings by your own '. '

If I did that  ' he commences fervently,
but there he stops. The vision of two

blue eyes, dimmed with tears, rises before
him, and he stamps the temptation down.

'Whatever I may feel,' he says to himself
afterwards, ' I will not allow my tongue
to turn traitor,' and so Miss Moore is
disappointed of her answer.

Letters came to him frequently from his
wife  long letters, in which she gives him
a full account of her friendship with Sir
Ralph's widow, but not a word of the way
in which she is managing the household.

I shouldn't think the presence of the
dowager will do much to enliven the
Court,' remarks Mrs Carnage - Hicks
spitefully.

She is not likely to teach my wife
extravagance,' laughs Sir Roland ; * but
Juliet and she seem to get on very well
together.'

Perhaps she is a style that suits Lady
Tresham,' says his sister. ' I have always
understood she was a dowdy and a screw.'

Oh, I don't mean to let my wife screw,'
replies the baronet uneasily. '' She has
had little enough pin-money hitherto, poor
girl, and she shall have a liberal allowance
now, if nothing else.'

'Why do you call LadyTresham "poor?*
whispers Mabel in his ear. * I should have
said she was the richest of women.'

Not quite that,' he answers, wilfully
misunderstanding her, * though she need
have no fear for the future. But she has
had barely enough for comfort until now.'

'She has always had you', says Miss
Moore, softly.

Some ladies might consider that an
extra misfortune ! 

'Some might,' echoes the girl with a
heavy sigh, the meaning of which it is
impossible to misconstrue. Lord Ernest
Freemantle proves to be a simple, undersized
little gentleman, who is very much
enamoured of Miss Mabel Moore, and
becomes proportionately jealous of Sir
Roland Tresham. And the latter, delighted
at the feeling he has provoked,
takes pleasure in exciting it to the last
degree, by a still closer attendance on the
young lady. One evening, when she has
refused to accompany Lord Ernest and
her aunt on a walking expedition through
the town. Sir Roland persuades her to
go on the water with him in a gondola.

Mabel assents with alacrity, and they are
soon floating together over the placid
surface of the canal, seated under the
canopy at one end of the boat, whilst the
gondoliers ply their oars to the music of
their own voices at the other.

How I wish we could go floating on like
this Into eternity,' remarks Sir Roland,
presently.

It would be very easy,' replies Mabel
in a low voice. * It Is but to cast ourselves
over the side into those dark waters and
sink out of sight for ever. It would bea
happier fate  at least for me  than any
I have to look forward to.'

*You mustn't talk like that. You are
young, and have every prospect of a happy
life before you.'

Indeed, I have not.'

My dear Mabel, why those tears ? '
exclaims Sir Roland, as the girl dashes
her hand across her eyes. * What have I
said to vex you ? '

Nothing. But life is so hard, and 
and  disappointing.*

He passes his arm around her waist.

Tell me what makes it so to you.'

Oh, Roland,' she whispers, 'you know!

The tone, the words, are too much for
him. To hold a pretty woman in his arms
and hear her murmuring her love for himself
would be perhaps too much for any
man. Anyway, it disperses all Sir Roland's
prudence.

'My darling' he says emphatically, 'why
cannot we end all this misery, and live for
each other from this time forward ? ' But
as he speaks, the gondoliers alter their
chant, and strike up a little Neapolitan
barcarolle. It is a simple plaintive air,
without much merit in itself, but the last
time Sir Roland heard it, it came from
Juliet's lips as she was hushing a fractious
child to rest. In a moment the past scene
rises before him. He can see his wife's
drooping figure, the sad look in her eyes ;
can hear the faltering tones of her weary
voice. He recalls, in fact, the mother of
his children, the woman who has borne,
however impatiently, the burden and heat
of the day with him ; and all the best part
of the man's nature rises up to condemn
his present faithless action.

God in heaven ! ' he exclaims aloud ;

what am I saying and doing? Mabel,
forgive me ! It was the madness of a
moment. It shall never he repeated.'

But he has said the words, and they are
not to be unsaid. Miss Moore enjoys the
situation. It appeals to her romantic proclivities,
and she clings to him tightly even
whilst she murmurs.

Oh no ; you mustn't say such things tome.
It is very, very wrong. But, Roland,
to know you love me atones for everything.
I can die happy now.'

Indeed, I had no right to speak to you
in such a manner, but your tears made me
lose sight of prudence. Mabel, promise
me that you will forget what I said.'

Don't ask me that, it will be so sweet
to remember,' she says, still clinging to him.
He tries gently to disengage himself.

Sit back on your seat, there's a good
girl. These fellows are looking at us.
Mabel, try and be calm. We must never
mention this subject again. It is too
painful.'

But why should we deny ourselves the
poor delights of memory, since it Is all that
is left ? '

We must stamp it out. It can lead to
no good for either of us ; and for you,
perhaps, to irreparable harm. I am not a
Trojan in virtue, Mabel ; you must not try
me too hard.'

But you will love me always, Roland,
will you not ? '

What can he say '. He knows already
that he does not love her at all. But he is
a man, and she is a woman, and he does as
many other men would do  he swears he
shall never cease to care for her.

If I were free ! ' he murmurs ; * but you
see how it is, my darling. I am bound
hand and foot, and we never can be anything
more than we are to one another. I
must not quite forget my poor children.'

But we shall be friends always, shall
we not ? '

The very best and closest of friends,
but we mustn't trust ourselves alone again.
You are too lovely, Mabel, and I  I am
too weak. I am sure you must see the
reason of what I say '. '

Yes ; yes. But let us enjoy this one
last evening together. Don't go home just
yet. Remember it is for the last time.'

He cannot but yield to her entreaty, but
when they reach the hotel he resolves that
it must never occur again. Mabel Moore
is not the woman to let him off easily.
She will make him remember his avowal
of that evening for ever afterwards, and
Sir Roland feels that his only safety lies in
flight. During the self-reproachful night
that follows, when the thought of his wife
and children rises up to make him acknowledge
that nothing in the whole world could
compensate him for the loss of that which
he has held so loosely, he makes a resolution
to return to Tresham Court the very
next morning. Poor Juliet ! Now he
comes to think of it, he does not believe he
has given her one kiss of congratulation on
her newly-acquired dignity. They were
beginning to be very unhappy in the past,
he knows, but it seems hard now that he
should have visited the entire blame on the
head of the woman who had so much the
heavier portion of the load to bear. When
he rises the following morning his first act
is to seek the apartments of his sister, and
inform her of his determination to return to
England. He finds Mrs Carnage-Hicks

radiantly triumphant, and apparently quite
indifferent as to whether he remains with
them or not.

My dear Roland, you must do just as
you think best, and indeed I have this
moment received news that renders it very
improbable that we shall be able to extend
our trip to Italy this year. Lord Ernest
Freemantle has proposed to our dear
Mabel. Mr Carnage-Hicks is delighted,
and so am I. I have had hopes of such
an occurrence for a long time (for no one
could help seeing how Lord Ernest admired
our dear girl), but your taking her
out in the gondola alone last evening
brought matters to a crisis. And indeed,
were it not for the issue, I should feel almost
disposed to quarrel with you, Roland,
for being so careless of her reputation. It
might have turned matters just the other
way. You are too young and handsome to
play such freaks with an unmarried girl.'

From what you say, then, I may conclude
Miss Moore has accepted Lord
Ernest's offer.'

Why, of course ! What else should she
do ? And as he is anxious the marriage

should take place as soon as possible, I
suppose we shall have to go home again.'

Then, will you convey my warmest congratulations
to the bride-elect, and tell her
that I trust we shall meet again in England?'

Won't you stop and see her yourself ? '

I think not  thanks ! I see there is a
midday train to Paris, which I can catch
if I lose no time. So I will wish you
good-bye at once, Valeria ! '

Good-bye, my dear Roland ! We shall,
as you say, soon meet again, and I think
you are wise to return, for I am afraid all
our fun is over for this season ! '

The midday train takes him to Paris,
and the next day he finds himself on his
road to Glamorganshire. The carriage in
which he travels is filled with men, all
strangers to him, but who converse freely
with one another.

Have you seen the new owner of Tres-ham
Court, Conway ? ' asks one fellow of
his neighbour.

What, Sir Roland ? Not yet ! He is
abroad, so I am told, and won't be home
till Christmas ! '

By George ! Well, if I were the owner

VOL. I. D

of Lady Tresham the country wouldn't seeme
that didn't hold her ! '

Is she so handsome then ?'
* She's better than handsome ! She's
one of the sweetest-looking women I ever
saw. I met her at General Carroll's last
week with the dowager.'

Fair or dark } '

Fair as a lily, with glorious golden hair,
and great blue eyes as clear as spring
water. She's as graceful as a gazelle, too,
and got a voice like a thrush. She said
she was awfully out of practice, but she
sung better than anyone there.'

I shall get my mother to take me over
to Tresham Court,' says a young dandy in
the corner ; ' a pretty woman is not to be
despised in Glamorganshire.'

You won't get anything by that, my
boy,' says the first speaker. * Handley
Harcourt, the dowager's nephew, has
found her out already, and is there morning,
noon, and night.'

Sir Roland is just about to proclaim that
the beautiful woman they speak of is his
wife, when the last sentence makes him
shrink back in his seat instead. He feels

ashamed to acknowledge her now. What
if the scandal should be true ! But no, it
is impossible ! Juliet has been his wife
for eight long years, and faithful to him in
thought, word, and deed. He would answer
for her fidelity as for his own. His ow7i /
At that thought the hot blood courses
through Sir Roland's veins, and mantles
in his handsome face. He has not been
faithful to her  he acknowledges it with
shame  but he will atone as there is a
heaven above him.

Gentlemen,' he says suddenly, * the lady
you speak of is my wife, and had you all
been at Tresham Court during my absence,
morning, noon, and night,' it would not
have given me a moment's uneasiness.'
His confession is naturally followed by
apologies, introductions, hand-shaking, and
general invitations to the Court. Sir Roland
even assures the somewhat shy lite
dandy in the corner that he has his hearty
permission to flirt with Lady Tresham as
much as possible. And then they all light
up and try each other's cigars, and become
the fastest of friends in a very few minutes.
Yet as he leaves them at the station, where

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF /LLfNOfS

the carriage is in waiting to convey him
home, he cannot help wondering at the
enthusiasm his wife's looks have provoked
amongst them. She ttsed to be very pretty
in their first wedded days, before she grew
so careless of her personal appearance 
when she took pride in arraying her graceful
little form, and dressing her beautiful
hair, but slatternly clothes and unbecoming
coiffure are sufficient to conceal the
beauty of any woman. Well ! Sir Roland
supposes that such things can be altered,
but if he finds that Juliet's bad taste is irreparable,
he will be content with her as she
is. He has brought enough trouble on her
head already  the present shall never beclouded
by his reproaches nor complaints.
He is so eager to make atonement for the
past, that the  miles between the station
and Tresham Court appear like ten ; but they
are accomplished at last, and the carriage
rolls through the iron gates and up the
wooded drive. Half-way they come upon
a group of children escorted by their nurses
and a groom. Two beautiful boys in velvet
suits, with golden curls falling over
their Vandyke collars, are mounted on op

pony, whilst another animal carries a pair
of panniers, from which familiar little faces
and blue eyes gaze up expectantly to meet
his own.

Can those be my children ? ' exclaims
Sir Roland to himself; and then he gives
the order to stop, and another minute sees
him in the midst of them. But what a
change ! He can scarcely believe they
are the same brats who, six weeks ago,
used to hang over the garden palings in
Camden Town, and put out their tongues
at the passers-by  Lily and May in their
white frocks and black ribbons, and little
Roland in his smart pelisse ; and the boys
looking such noble fellows in their jackets
and knickerbockers, with sunny hair, and
clean faces and hands  it seems like a
dream to the father as he kisses them all
round, and admires the ponies and the
panniers to their hearts' content. He
strides on to the house with his bosom
swelling with pride at the appearance of
his little ones, and is almost too pre-occupied
to notice that everything is perfectly
arranged within the Court and out.

A footman meets him at the door with

the information that her ladyship awaits
him in the morning-room, and thither, still
in a dream. Sir Roland rapidly proceeds.
As he enters the apartment he starts back,
thunderstruck with amazement. A lady
stands upon the hearth rug  a woman delicately
fair, and very lovely, though still
too thin and pale, and with tears of expectation
and suspense within her eyes.

She is robed in black velvet, fitting
closely to her graceful figure  at her throat
and wrists are falls of Venetian lace  and
her dainty feet are cased in silk stockings
and buckled shoes. Her golden hair cut
short upon her brow, is piled in innumerable
little curls upon the top of her head,
which grow longer and longer until they
lay in a flossy mass upon her neck and
shoulders. For a moment. Sir Roland
gazes at this unlooked-for apparition in
utter silence.

Husband ! ' says Juliet shyly, * don't
you know me ? '

My dearest !' he exclaims, rushing forward
and clasping her in his arms ; ' how
beautiful you have become.'

Then, with the touch of his arms and

lips, all her womanhood asserts itself, and
she casts herself, sobbing, on his breast.

Oh, Roland ! forgive me ! forgive me !
Take me back and love me as you used
to do ! '

What have I to forgive you, darling ?

All my ill-temper and impatience and
want of fortitude. I bore our lot so
badly  I did not deserve to have it
bettered  and now that prosperity has
come to us, I feel it will be worthless
without your love.'

But you have my love, Juliet ! you
have never lost it. The ills and discomforts
of poverty soured my nature, and
made me behave like a brute to you ; but
my heart has been yours through it all,
dearest wife, and I have never been more
convinced of the fact than during our
present separation.'

She looks up at him and smiles  oh !
such a heavenly smile of renewed happiness
and hope.

And, Roland, you are quite, quite sure
that you love me best of all the world !
That there is no other woman dearer
to you than myself*'

He has just one twinge as she puts the
question to him ; but men are used to
twinges, and he can answer honestly, 

Not one, my love !  not a single one !
nor ever shall be. Take your husband's
word for it, and let us resolve from this
moment to banish the painful memory of
the Past, and live for each other only in
the Future

And so they have and do, and there is
only one thing that Lady Tresham cannot
understand, which is Sir Roland's rooted
aversion to Lady Ernest Freemantle. He
will not let his wife invite her down to
Tresham Court, although she has often
hinted she would like to visit them, and
all the excuse he can give for his conduct
is that he does not choose to cultivate the
lady's acquaintance.

So the matter rests, and as long as Sir
Roland does not renew it, there is no
need he should confess the little scene
that took place in the gondola on the
moonlighted Venice canal.

