CHAPTER I.
Unexpected News i

CHAPTER II.
Husband and Wife 24

CHAPTER III.
The "Ogre" 40

CHAPTER IV.
Tell Me what it is " 63

CHAPTER V.
j In the "Ogre's" Den 81

CHAPTER VI.
I Never Change My Mind " 100

CHAPTER VII.
;S A Bad Look-Out 116

CHAPTER VIII.
Introduces Two New Characters . . . .132

CHAPTER IX.
Geoffrey Dering . * . 147

PAGE

CHAPTER X.
Qualms 166

CHAPTER XI.
Going Away 188

CHAPTER XII.
The Trehernes 203

CHAPTER XIII.
A Contretemps 228

CHAPTER XIV.
Meetings 247

CHAPTER XV.
A Spoke in the Wheel 262

CHAPTER I.

UNEXPECTED NEWS.

Well, I wash my hands of the whole
affair ! "

Certainly you can, sir. You have no
possible responsibility in the matter, and can't
even be accused of having been ' accessory to
the fact. ' So make your mind quite easy on
that point. But you will let her come here,
won't you ?"

The individual who gives utterance to the
somewhat egotistical speech with which this
story opens, is the Reverend Edwin Saunders,
the very personification of a sleek, well-to-do,
comfortable-looking parson,  a man who

vol. i. * B

chooses to accept life and its many mysteries
with easy philosophy, and is well satisfied
with himself and with his surroundings. One
can see at the first glance, by the cut of his
glossy coat, by the spotlessness of his white
tie, by his general aspect of plumpness and
trimness, that he is well endowed with this
world's goods. Mr. Saunders has a genial,
ruddy countenance, and a hearty manner, and
strangers are impressed with the idea that
he is a kind-hearted, good-natured man. The
latter he may be, when to be so costs him
nothing ! But those who know him best,
and have penetrated beneath that oily surface,
are inclined to dub him a thorough
humbug, hard as a mill-stone where his own
interests are brought into question, his chief
god being his personal comfort. He greets
an acquaintance with a hearty handshake and
overflowing expressions of cordiality, and goes

home to bully his wife and crush her depressed
spirits still more thoroughly by a
new exercise of conjugal authority. He
preaches eloquent sermons on the sins of
self-indulgence and uncharitableness, and goes
straight from the pulpit to his luxurious midday
meal, drinking his choice bottle of pale
sherry with none the less gusto, because he
knows that his cadaverous-looking curate can
afford to support himself on nothing better
than plain water, out of that pitiful stipend
of 60 a year, which is all that he allows
him. Mr. Saunders is "hail-fellow-well-met"
to all men. He does good to himself, and, asa
rule, men speak well of him ; but within
the four walls of his own home he shows
himself in his true colours, and is a perfect
specimen of a narrow - minded, dogmatic
tyrant. But enough of this gentleman. His
type is a common one, and as he is to take

no prominent part in this tale of ours, he
merits not a lengthen disquisition.

His companion is a tall, fair, curly-headed
and blue-eyed young man of eight and twenty,
by name Charles Devereux. He is a Captain
in the  th Hussars, now quartered at Aldershot,
in the immediate neighbourhood of which
place is situated Mr. Saunders' cure. Captain
Devereux has just been making rather a
startling announcement, to the effect that a
week ago, he and Ruth Eyre, the Rectory
governess, were united in the bonds of matrimony,
during her absence for the Midsummer
holidays.

Mr. Saunders is quite aware that Captain
Devereux has been a frequent visitor at the
Rectory during the past three months, but he
has never taken the trouble to inquire into
the motives of his constant appearance there.
On hearing the young man's confession, the

Rector's first feeling is one of actual contempt
for the folly which led to the commission of
such an act. But then, even in the days of
his earliest youth, the clergyman had never
been wont to be governed by impulse himself;
never once did he act without well
counting the cost of what he was about to
undertake. The faults of rashness and imprudence
were never, as he reflects now and
then with a complacent smile, laid to his
charge. He had certainly possessed the old
head on young shoulders, refuting the accuracy
of that old saying, which denies the existence
of such an anomaly.

Under these circumstances, it is too much
to expect from him that he should sympathise
with Captain Devereux's ill-judged rush into
matrimony. Luckily, however, the matter
is not one which immediately affects himself,
and if the young man chooses to make a fool

of himself, and to run the risk of being disinherited,
why, then, he must take the consequences
on himself. So that when Captain
Devereux reiterates a little impatiently, " Well,
Mr. Saunders, you will say Yes, won't you ?
It will be for only a few days, as I shall go
straight off to my uncle, after bringing her
here, and shall be back again directly. Otherwise,
if you object, the poor child will be
quite alone in London, for her uncle goes to
Margate tomorrow with his family," the
clergyman responds amiably enough, 

I must just ask my wife's opinion first,
and if she has nothing to say against it,
we shall be happy to welcome Miss  Mrs.
Devereux here tomorrow."

"Thanks, awfully."

Captain Devereux is quite satisfied with
this half promise, for, in common with the
rest of the Rector's friends, he knows well that

Mrs. Saunders never dares to lift up her
voice in opposition to her husband's, and that
the suggestion of his consulting her is a mere
mason de parler.

At all events," repeats the older man,
with recurring egotism, " if your uncle should
disapprove of the step you have taken, he
cannot reproach me, as I was as ignorant of
all that was going on as "

As the babe unborn ! " interrupts the
other, with a half vexed laugh. " Of course
you were, sir. Didn't I say so before ? If
it would be of the slightest comfort to you,
I'll take care to assure my uncle of the fact.
Not that I except to find any, or, at least,
much difficulty in dealing with him."

Youth is always so sanguine, and so
confident of success ! " returns Mr. Saunders,
with an air of superior wisdom. " You think,
then, that he won't be angry ? "

I don't think so. But even if he does
cut up rusty at first, I think I can get round
him. Though not exactly what you would
call a sweet-tempered old man"  with a
short laugh  "he has always given in to me
somehow, and let me have what I have
wanted. He is not a man with many weaknesses,
either, but I do believe, if he has one
at all, it is for me, curious to say. Everybody
used to say that I could turn him round
my little finger."

"Well, I heartily hope that 'everybody' may
turn out in this case to be right," answers
Mr. Saunders, speaking cordially. " Of course
you know your uncle best, but I can't help
wondering  excuse me  that you didn't think
it would be better policy to seek his consent
before the marriage took place. Miss Eyre's
family is  well, very respectable and estimable,
I have no doubt ; but some men in Mr.

Falconer's position put an exaggerated stress
on connections and "

Oh, I have no reason to suppose that
my uncle cares for that sort of rubbish,"
says Captain Devereux airily. " I didn't
marry Ruth for her family, but for herself,
and I am sure that, when once my uncle has
seen her, he will admire and like her ; indeed,
he can't possibly help it. But as to telling
him of my intention before, that's a very
different thing. He might have had all sorts
of objections and prejudices. Now that the
deed is done, he must bow to the inevitable.
No, depend upon it, I've hit upon the wisest
plan. I know how to manage him."

Perhaps Captain Devereux is secretly less
confident than his words imply, for after a
moment's pause he hastens to add, 

And, even if he does see fit to make a
bother about it all, what then ? I am surely

old enough to do as I like, without asking
any one's permission. I am my own master,
and "

Mr. Saunders raises his eyebrows slightly,
and the young officer is not slow to comprehend
the gesture.

At least, I am not accountable to him for
what I take it into my head to do," he continues,
a little hotly. "Of course, he can
disinherit me, if indeed he has ever decided
to make me his heir, which he never told me
for certain ; but that does not tie me down
to consult him about every trifle that happens.
At my age "

Do you call your marriage a trifle, then ? "
puts in Mr. Saunders, with a little sarcastic
laugh. " Upon my word, I envy you your
power of taking things so easily. Most menin
your position would take some little trouble
to conciliate a relation who has so much in

his power. But youth is romantic, as we all
know, and quite superior to the prosaic, everyday
details of life. Love in a cottage, and all
that sort of thing, has something very attractive
about it, when we are quite young, and
don't trouble our heads about the bread and
butter side of the question."

Hang it, Mr. Saunders ! One would think
you were reading off a copy book ! " exclaims
Captain Devereux, half laughing, half vexed.
Do you think me an utter fool ? I know as
well as anybody else that a fellow can't get
on without a certain amount of money, but I
don't think it's the least likely that I shall
be obliged to try the experiment. Just at
first I half thought of taking Ruth down with
me, and presenting her to them as my wife,
before they had time to collect their senses ;
but I don't think I shall now. I shall go
down alone."

"I would advise that course, rather than the
other," counsels Mr. Saunders.

Well, it would not be a good plan," returns
Captain Devereux, " too like a scene on the
stage, don't you think ? However," he goes
on, looking at his watch, " I see I have only
an hour more to catch the train back to town.
Don't you think, like a good fellow, you could
go at once, and talk to Mrs. Saunders about
letting Miss  Mrs.  Ruth come here tomorrow?
I'll bring her myself, and then goon
straight to Whincote."

Mr. Saunders rises slowly to comply, with
the movement of a man who is not accustomed
to hurry himself much at any time. It is not
difficult to predict that, in ten years' time, he
will have acquired portly, not to say elephantine
dimensions.

"You will join us at luncheon before you
leave ? " he says, stopping as he reaches the

door. " Mrs. Saunders will quite expect
you."

Thanks. I will have a mouthful, and a
glass of sherry, if I can spare the time,"
returns his visitor, inwardly chafing at this
fresh delay.

Oh, this little business with my wife
won't require much time," says the clergyman,
with a light wave of the hand, indicative of
his intention to quash peremptorily any possible
objections she may raise. " Bless your
soul, she'll be only too eager to talk it allover
with you."

Then he really does go upstairs, leaving
Charlie to wander up and down the study
himself for fully five minutes, too restless
to think of sitting down. At the expiration
of that time, the study door is gently opened,
and Mrs. Saunders enters the room,  a
diminutive, timid-looking woman, with a depressed

air about her, inspiring strangers
with the notion that she is ill-treated by her
husband, which is a question often mooted
by their acquaintance. She now appears
more than usually flurried and nervous, being
quite overwhelmed with amazement at hearing
the intelligence just communicated to her.
She smiles kindly, however, on Captain
Devereux, for she has a warm heart, and is
delighted with the permission given her to
hold out a friendly hand to her ci-devant
governess, at this important crisis in her life.
It is a fact, moreover,  which some of her
friends scoff at,  that deep down in her heart
there trickles a tiny spring of unquenched
romance, and this stolen marriage, with its
secrecy, and with its suggestion of a mutual
passion so powerful as to lead them to cast
all prudential considerations to the winds,
appeals irresistibly to her keenest sympathies.

In the course of her own life the poor woman
has had little enough romance, and, perhaps
for that very reason, she is the more ready
take a vicarious interest in that of other
people's lives.

As he hears the sound of the opening
door, Charlie Devereux turns round anxiously,
but a first .glimpse of Mrs. Saunders' enthusiastic
face relieves his mind, and tells him
that the object of his journey down to Mid-marsh
parsonage is gained, a cordial welcome
being evidently in store for his young wife
there.

So glad to see you, Captain Devereux,"
she murmurs, in her shyest manner, as she
shakes hands with him. " And so surprised
at your news, which Mr. Saunders has just
told me ! It quite took my breath away.
Fancy little Miss Eyre being married  and
to you ! Dear me, it is quite like a story ina

novel. But how on earth shall we get on
without her ? What will the children do,
poor little things ? "

Charlie laughs rather unsympathisingly, and
is obliged to own that this is a portion of
the subject which he has not yet taken into
consideration.

You will have to look out for another
governess, Mrs. Saunders," he says, with easy
attractiveness. "They're not difficult to find,
are they ? "

"It will not be every one that will suit me
so well as Miss Eyre did," returns the clergyman
wife, with a sigh of resignation. " The
children were so fond of her, and got on so
rapidly with their lessons under her care.
She was so conscientious, and so sensible
with them. However, I must try "

Mrs. Saunders interrupts her little lamentations,
seeming to have become suddenly

aware that they are rather out of place just
at that moment, and that she is expected
to congratulate the newly-made bridegroom,
rather than condole with herself.

But I am so glad to hear she is married,
and I hope you will both be very happy,"
she adds, with a suspicion of moisture in her
eyes. " I am sure she deserves every happiness,
poor child, for she is as good a girl as
I know anywhere. But she might have let
us into the secret, I think  unless it. was
your wish to keep it from us, Captain
Devereux ? "

"Well, that was my doing, I am afraid,"
he replies. " She was very anxious to write
to you about it, I know, and didn't half like
keeping you in the dark. But I persuaded
her not to, as I did not want it to get
round to my uncle's ears before I broke it
to him myself."

vol. 1. c

You need not have been afraid of its
reaching him through us, of which indeed,
there could be no possible chance," says Mrs.
Saunders, inclined to feel aggrieved. " We
would have kept the secret well, if you had
trusted us with it. But that doesn't matter
now. I am longing to see the dear child
again, and Mr. Saunders says you will bring
her down here to us tomorrow. I shall
never remember to call her Mrs. Devereux,
I'm sure."

You will let her come and stay here,
then ? " asks Charlie.

Oh, yes, of course we will," she answers
quickly. " Mr. Saunders told me that he
had settled with you that she was to come ;
and we will both do our best to keep up
her spirits while you are away. I suppose
you will not be gone long ? "

"Not more than two days, if I can possibly

help it," replies Charlie. " I'd stay
away only one, if I were my own master,
but my uncle might object to so short a
visit. Besides, I must wait for a favourable
moment to tell my story."

There's the luncheon bell ! " cries Mrs.
Saunders, interrupting him. " Do come in
at once, and get something to eat. Ah,
Edwin's calling me ! He does not like to be
kept waiting."

Captain Devereux follows his hostess into
the dining-room, where he swallows a hasty
meal, pulling out his watch every now and
then, to see if he is in time for his train,
with constant apologies for so doing. Mr.
Saunders cuts him slices of cold beef, and
Mrs. Saunders presses cold apple tart and
coffee cream on his notice with earnest entreaties,
for they are both of them people
who feel wretched if they see that their

dainties are unappreciated. Another glass of
claret is forced upon him as he rises to take
leave, and once again expressing warmest
thanks for the hospitality proffered to his
wife, he pats the heads of her two flaxen-haired
pupils, and hastens to depart. Mr.
Saunders has also risen from his seat, and
announces his intention of accompanying his
guest as far as the station. He finds it no
easy task to keep pace with the younger
man's rapid strides, as he hurries along, seemingly
unconscious of the burning rays of
the sun, so anxious is he not to miss his
train.

You'll give my kindest regards to your
wife," he jerks out spasmodically, as they
march along. " And tell her that she'll
be very welcome here, as long as she likes
to stay. Of course I don't, as a rule, approve
of secret marriages  on the contrary,

I consider that they are to be much reprehended
; but still, taking into consideration
the circumstances of this case, I'll judge her
leniently, you may tell her."

Charlie is just a little inclined to take
offence at this apparently officious rebuke,
but, glancing at his companion's face, he
catches sight of a lurking smile thereon, and
comprehends that the vicar affects a jesting
humour in his speech, so he responds in the
same strain.

I'll tell her!" he retorts. " I'll say that
you'll let her off easily, after a pithy sermon
on the evils of marrying in haste and repenting
at leisure. She'll be quite crushed by the
prospect before her."

Where were you married ? At what
church, I mean ? " the clergyman resumes,
more in his ordinary tones, for they have
now arrived within a hundred yards of the

station, and, as no train is yet in sight, Charlie
Devereux relaxes his speed.

At the church of St. James the Less in

M Street," replies the latter. " You can

see it all properly down in the register there,
if you wish to go to town and have a look at
it. You may take my word for it, however,
that it was all done regularly and correctly."

And you were married by banns, I suppose
? " proceeds Mr. Saunders, sitting down
on one of the benches on the sunny platform
and passing his handkerchief lightly over his
forehead.

Banns ! " scornfully repeats Captain
Devereux. "No such thing ! Why, I should
have had to go and stay in the parish for
three weeks beforehand, shouldn't I ? As it
was, I found it no very easy matter to get
leave of absence for a fortnight on * urgent
private business.' No, no, I got a special

license, of course ; it's much the best way.
Oh, here's the train at last. Good-bye, Mr.
Saunders ; thanks awfully for your kindness ;
you'll see me down with Ruth at eleven o'clock
tomorrow morning. I shall just bring her
up to the Rectory, and rush off again at once

to C shire."

Then Captain Devereux swings himself
into a first class carriage, and proceeds to
light a cigar, leaning out of the window the
while, and nodding a smiling farewell to the
clergyman. The latter lingers by till the
train moves on, then turns on his homeward
way, impressed with a certain admiration for
the royal manner in which the young officer
soars high above the paltry considerations of
pounds, shillings, and pence, apparently wholly
untroubled by the possibility that these good
times of travelling first-class may be drawing
very near their close.

HUSBAND AND WIFE.

Arrived in London, Captain Devereux loses
no time in hailing a hansom, and drives rapidly
off to the Grosvenor Hotel, where he knows his
wife is anxiously awaiting his return. Their
brief honeymoon was spent at Tunbridge
Wells, and they only reached London the
previous evening. Very little time has been
allowed to the young bride to lose the strangeness
of finding herself an inhabitant of that
luxurious hotel, which she has hitherto only
gazed at occasionally from outside with somewhat
envious eyes. She feels rather like a
waif and a stray in this unknown world, upon
which she has so suddenly been launched

this young and newly-made wife  and is
watching eagerly for her husband's arrival,
as if they had been separated for years instead
of hours. She is peeping shyly over the staircase
to catch the first glimpse of him as he
enters, and together they pass into the bright
little sitting-room which he has engaged for
her.

Ruth Devereux is rather nondescript and
striking in appearance. She is neither
tall nor short, neither dark nor fair. Her
plentiful brown hair is smoothly drawn off her
face, and plaited in a knot behind, and her
dress is quiet and in good taste, but with
nothing remarkable about its style or " cut."
Nine women out of ten would have dismissed
her at once from their minds with the single
epithet " dowdy," and perhaps not altogether
without reason. They would have wondered
what on earth there could be in that very

ordinary-looking girl to induce handsome,
popular Charlie Devereux to marry her, and
to risk the shipwreck of his future fortunes.
A girl like that, of no family whatever, with
an utter want of good looks, without the faintest
soufipon of " chic,"  without, in short, any
single attraction to account for his infatuation
the thing was absurd ! But the tenth and
more discerning woman might possibly admit
the fact that she had a peculiarly fascinating
smile, and, noting the frequent merry sparkling
expression in her eyes, might allow that
beneath the surface there might be hidden
charms which would be sufficient to explain
his falling in love with her. This smile of
Ruth's is indeed her chief claim to beauty,
for, in smiling, her whole face is transformed,
and few, under these circumstances, would designate
her as a plain woman. She is smiling
now, at this moment,  smiling radiantly, in the

delight of having her husband with her again,
and consequently, she is looking her very best.

Oh, Charlie, I am so thankful you are
back again!" she cries, again and again. " It
has been so forlorn without you, all this
morning ! I do hope you have been successful
with Mr. and Mrs. Saunders, have
you ? Ever since you left, I have been
dreading that they would refuse to have me,
and wondering what I could do in that case.
For, really, I could not stay here by myself,
even for two or three days."

Nor should I have thought of letting you
do such a thing," returns he, with decision.
I would have concocted some better plan
for you than that. But, however, we need
not think of that now, for it is quite settled
for you, just as I told you it would be. Mr.
Saunders is ready to receive you with open
arms, and his wife "

Is prepared to do ditto," interrupts Ruth,
laughing. " You need not try to make me
believe, Charlie, that Mrs. Saunders attempted
to do anything but follow meekly in ' dear
Edwin's ' lead. But it is too bad of me to
laugh at her, for I really am very fond of her,
and "

And I consider she sets you a valuable
example of wifely obedience, my dear ! "

Do you indeed, sir ? I wonder if I ever
could arrive at such a state of crushed submission
as she has done, and resign myself to
being a complete cipher ! Well, but tell me,
Charlie, were they inclined to look upon meas
a depraved mortal, for marrying you in such
a hurry, and for keeping them in the dark
about it ? "

Saunders evidently thought it his ' duty
towards his neighbour ' to assume a little
mild disapprobation at first," answers Captain

Devereux, " but he soon came down from his
stilts, and allowed that it was no business of
his  an obvious fact, which my natural politeness
prevented me from contradicting. As
for Mrs. Saunders, she was all flutter and excitement,
and in her secret heart, I believe,
applauds you heartily. So everything is
smooth with them, and you have nothing todo
but pack up your goods and chattels, Ruth,
and come down with me there early tomorrow."


Oh, how glad I shall be to leave London !"
cries Ruth, impulsively. " It is so hot and
close here, and so glaring ! "

Poor little thing ! " says her husband, compassionately.
" It has been a dull morning for
you, hasn't it ? Well, as soon as it gets cool
this evening, and all the grandees have left
the Park, we'll go out there for a stroll,
and have it all to ourselves, and then come

back and wind up with whitebait and champagne."


Captain Devereux is anxious to keep the
fact of his wife's existence a secret until the
momentous interview with his uncle is over,
and she is recognised as one of the family.
He will not take her to the Park at a fashionable
hour, for he is certain of then meeting
some of his numerous acquaintances, London
being still tolerably full, although it is the
middle of July, and the season is drawing to
its close. Ruth is perfectly cognisant of his
motive in keeping her thus in the background,
and is more than content to fall in with his
wishes, while, with the prospect of a tete-astute
walk with him in the twilight, she would be
only too ready to eschew whitebait and champagne
for the remainder of her life.

I am getting so anxious about your visit
to Mr. Falconer, Charlie," she says, presently.

11 Just fancy, if he should be very angry with
you, and refuse to have anything more to do
with you ! "

Fancying things is a very bad habit, to
which I never give way," returns he, with
mock gravity. "What a little goose you are,
Ruth ! I tell you it will be all right with him.
He has never refused me anything in my life."

Perhaps you have never asked him yet for
anything very important ? "

I've applied to him more times than I
could easily count, for supplies of money," replies
Captain Devereux, frankly. " And in his
eyes, that is the most important request I could
possibly make, for it certainly costs him an
effort to ' shell out.' And yet he has never
said ' No ' to me. Don't you think that is
something to go upon ? I know he's awfully
fond of me, and you'll see if I don't work the
thing well."

You certainly have the most irrepressibly
sanguine nature, haven't you ? " says Ruth,
passing her hands over his fair curly locks with
a smile. " I only hope you are right. Then
there is your cousin to help you, isn't there ? "

Milly ? Oh, yes, she's a regular brick ; and
I know she'll stick to me through thick and
thin. Unfortunately, though she doesn't mind
bearding him the least, she isn't much of a
favourite with him, so it won't better my cause
much if she takes up the cudgels for me. But
still "

Charlie, I can't help wondering how it was
that you didn't fall in love with your cousin,
and marry her," suddenly puts in Ruth. " It
seems such a natural arrangement, and I daresay
it would have pleased your uncle."

I daresay it would ; only a fellow doesn't
generally marry a girl just to please his uncle,"
retorts he. " Besides, marry Milly ! What a

ridiculous idea ! I never dreamt of such a
thing ! We've always been just like brother
and sister, and I'm sure the possibility never
crossed her mind either. What rum creatures
women are ! They jump at conclusions like a
flash of lightning, with no reason on earth."

Their wits work faster than men's do, my
dear, that's all," answers his wife, patronisingly.
Well, anyhow, I hope Milly will do her best
to help you, and I shall feel grateful to her for
the rest of my life. Charlie," she adds, with a
sudden change of tone, " can you imagine 
seriously  what we could do, if Mr. Falconer
cut you off altogether ? "

Certainly I can. I could sweep a crossing,
and you might possibly take in washing. Or
we might "

Seriously, Charlie, I said. Just suppose
for one moment that the worst was to happen,
what could we do ? I might get together a

vol 1. D

few pupils in time, perhaps. And you would
leave the army "

I'll be hanged if I would ! " cries he, energetically.
" Leave the army, indeed ! Not I !
My uncle would have to put on the screw
precious tight before I would do that. But,
for goodness' sake, Ruth, do stop this flow of
harrowing ideas. You're a regular bird of
ill-omen ! "

As he utters these last words rather impatiently,
the door of their room is opened
by a waiter, who ushers in a gentleman, announced
as " Mr. Eyre." Not a very 
person is this new-comer.
There is shabby gentility apparent in his outer
man, and his countenance displays a shifty,
furtive expression, which, together with his
habit of never looking any one full in the face,
would be far from inspiring a stranger with
confidence in the man. He is Ruth's uncle 

her only near relation in the world  as Charlie
remembers now and then with something like
a thanksgiving in his heart, when he has been
in Mr. Eyre's company for any space of time.
He is, by profession, a doctor, whose scanty
clientele, somewhere in the region of Camberwell,
does not afford him very much practice
in the art of healing. The truth is, that Mr.
Eyre's career has hitherto been a complete
failure. Somehow or other he cannot get on
in the world, labour as he will. He began
life with very little, and after fifteen years of
hard struggling, still has very little to show
for his pains. The knowledge that he is unpopular
among his patients, and daily growing
more so, is ever present with him, and acts
as a dead weight on his spirits. A very
little more pressure put upon his moral being,
a few more steps downhill, and it is
quite within the range of possibility that

Mr. Stephen Eyre will degenerate into a
reckless, thorough-going scamp, who will
take his revenge on the world for having
treated him with such contumely, by setting
its laws at defiance, and adding one more
to its already long list of good-for-nothing
rogues.

Mr. Eyre's face usually wears a hard, unyielding
expression  the expression of a man
who feels he has been worsted in the race of
life ; but as he comes into the presence of his
niece and her husband, he does his best to
conjure up a faint shadow of what, by utmost
courtesy, could be called a smile.

So you are back, my dear Char , my

dear Devereux," he begins, with a compound
of servility and insolence in his manner, which
tries Charlie's forbearance to the utmost limit.
You managed that little business satisfactorily,
I hope ? "

Yes ; I am croinof to take Ruth down to
the Rectory tomorrow," returns Captain
Devereux shortly.

"Ah, that is as it should be. Dear Ruth
will then have a pleasant refuge during your
short absence, and I can therefore leave town
with an easy mind. Your Aunt Ellen and the
children are literally pining to be at Margate,"
continues Mr. Eyre, turning to his niece.

I am very glad to think that you need not
delay on my account, Uncle Stephen," she
answers heartily. " Not that, in any circumstances,
I should have expected you to change
your plans for me."

And you will let me know all about your
interview with your uncle, I hope," pursues
their visitor, addressing Charlie. " Poor old
gentleman, I quite feel for him,  I do, indeed ;
it will be such an unexpected piece of news
for him. Ruth, you will not forget to let me

have a line as soon as Devereux comes back.
I shall be so anxious to hear, for I look upon
you, naturally, as almost my own child now,
having so lately acted a parent's part in the
recent  ahem  happy and important event in
your life. And now I will not detain you
longer ; I see you are on the point of going
out."

This fact Captain Devereux takes no pains
to deny. Indeed, he is only longing for Mr.
Eyre to depart, and can scarcely conceal the
impatience he feels. Even Ruth cannot bring
herself to press him to stay on.

Good-bye, Uncle Stephen," she says ; " I
will be sure and write to you."

And when everything is comfortably settled
for you  as I trust it may be  you must ask
me to run down and see you, wherever you
are. I must be the first visitor in your new
home, Ruth." Then he kisses her warmly,

wrings Charlie's limp hand with effusion, and
goes.

Thank Heaven ! " ejaculates the latter, as
the door is closed behind him. " I know you
won't be hurt by my saying it, Ruth, but the
truth is, I don't ' cotton ' to your uncle at all." 

I know you don't, Charlie, and I don't
exactly wonder at it. I know very little of
him myself, for I have hardly seen him since
I was a baby. But I own that he is not prepossessing.
Now, cant we go out for a little
while, don't you think ? These rooms are so
hot."

Captain Devereux takes his wife down to
Midmarsh the next day, and leaving her in
charge of good-natured Mrs. Saunders, who
welcomes her with mingled admiration and
awe, leaves himself by the next train en route
for C  shire, there to carry out his not very
agreeable mission.

THE "OGRE."

On the morning of the day when Ruth
reaches Midmarsh, the master of Whincote
Abbey is hobbling downstairs to breakfast,
with one foot bandaged up in token of a
recent bout with his persistent enemy, the
gout. He leans on the arm of a solemn
old butler, who guides his steps with ostentatious
vigilance. Mr. Falconer is not a very
pleasing old man to look at. He has the appearance
of being much older than his real
age  sixty-one, and his face  the most conspicuous
feature of which is a red-tipped
nose -wears an habitually cross, ill-tempered
expression, while a certain striking contraction

of the lines of his mouth suggests the idea
of his being a mean and a miserly man.
And his mouth does not belie, him. Mr.
Falconer has one strong ruling, and ever-growing
passion  the saving and hoarding of
money, of which he has already more than
he knows what to do with, for what aim
and purpose it is beyond the power of anyone
to divine. A long way after his love
for saving and screwing and pinching comes
a tiny, faint, and altogether 
spark of affection for his nephew and
reputed heir, Captain Charles Devereux.
The old miser is in possession of an income
of some twenty thousand a year, so that he
has more than sufficient to leave to him,
without going to the trouble of heaping up
further savings and scrapings together. True,
there is yet another dependent on his bounty,
in the shape of a niece,  who is the Milly

mentioned by Charlie as being his cousin ;
also, like him, an orphan, and the only child
of a younger sister of Mr. Falconer, and
of Charlie's mother; but Milly, too, could be
amply provided for without any extra effort
on his part, one might think. Mr. Falconer
is absolute master of his property, and if
the fancy takes him, can leave the whole
of it away from his own flesh and blood.
Nor is he behindhand in impressing this fact
on his nephew and niece, both of whom, he
considers, have a pernicious tendency to
under-estimate the power accruing to wealth.
Milly Byron is no great favourite with
her uncle, as has already been hinted. She
gets little else but hard words and querulous
complaints from him ; but the knowledge that
her uncle only tolerates her, if, indeed, he
does not positively dislike her, does not in
the least disturb her peace of mind. She

returns his sentiments with interest, and
makes no attempt to win his good graces.
Indeed, Mr. Falconer is a man who is decidedly
an object of aversion to all who
know him. Children fly from him after
one glance at his ungenial, cross - grained
face. His servants, one and all, hold him
in absolute detestation, and are in the
habit of thanking their stars when his
periodical fits of gout assail him, and keep
him a prisoner in his room, thus giving
them a respite from the unremitting vigilance
of his hawk-like eye, and from the
unabated shower of abuse which is levelled
by him at their heads all day long. Charlie
Devereux is the only individual in all the
world who feels something like compassion
for the unlovable old man.

Poor old chap," he says, on a previous
occasion, when Milly greets him with a hot

recital of some new and most unattractive
trait in the character of their mutual relation
; " you make him out a perfect brute ;
and I can't help thinking you exaggerate
his bad points. I don't find him such an
awful skin flint as you say he is."

I daresay you don't ! " is Milly's response.
"And for the very reason that you don't
see so much of him as I do, Charlie. You
ought to come and stay a month or two
at the Abbey with him alone, and then I
feel confident that your admiration for him
would be unbounded at the end of that
time."

Mr. Falconer, meanwhile, is on the stairs,
chuckling to himself with grim malevolence
as he foresees how his sudden appearance
at breakfast, for the first time after three
weeks of confinement to his room, will result
in the dismay of his niece, and the

discomfiture of the unprepared household
generally. His sharp little ferrety eyes
glance hither and thither, as he makes his
slow progress downwards, eager to catch
sight of unlawfully-left-open doors, or of some
carelessly-slurred-over or altogether-forgotten
house-work ; but, as he peers, and peers in
vain, his naturally sour temper gets worse
and worse. Proceeding gingerly, and unexpectedly
failing in his eager endeavour to
detect any offender in a dereliction of duty,
he turns to the butler, whose eye, more
cognisant of the ins and outs of his fellow-servants'
doings, is quicker than his master's
to descry a glimpse of a housemaid's cap
in a spot where it has no business to be.
He tries to convey a warning sign to the
audacious trespasser to decamp quietly while
there is yet time, a feat successfully performed
by her, with a wild stare of awful

alarm when she perceives who it is that is
coming downstairs. Unfortunately for the
long-suffering butler  May by name  his
good-natured effort on her behalf has for
one second diverted his attention from
the immediate task he has in hand, and
the consequence is a stumble on the last
step.

You blundering idiot ! " cries Mr. Falconer,
whose eyes are blazing with wrath
and pain. " Is that the way you pretend
to help your master downstairs ? Why don't
you look where you let me put my foot ?
You're just as useless as if you had only
half a leg, instead of two ! If you don't
take more pains than that to be of use tome,
I'll find some one else who will, I can
tell you ! Confound you, man, can't you
open the door without all that wriggling at
the handle ? Here, Milly, come and open

it for us. What's the good of your standing
there in the room, without moving a
finger to be of any help ? "

Not a muscle of May's countenance betrays
that he takes any heed of the reproaches
poured down upon his well-seasoned head.
He throws open the door with a jerk, anticipating
Milly's decidedly inert show of
coming forward in response to her uncle's
call, and, having placed Mr. Falconer in his
arm-chair at the breakfast-table, deposited the
letter bag close to his plate, and noiselessly
carried out various directions given him by
the exacting old tyrant in a harsh, authoritative
voice, he withdraws to inform his companions
below-stairs of " the guv'nor being
in one of the very worst tantrums he ever
did see him in." Uncle and niece are left
alone. The former has no very engaging
expression on his face, as he scowls across

the table at her, trying to find something
about her on which he can hang
a complaint, for he loves to live in an atmosphere
of perpetual and often self-created
grievances. He is not a man whom one
would select out of a crowd as a pleasant
companion ; not a man to inspire confidence
in the minds of his fellow-creatures ; not a
man to whom one would care to appeal in
distress, or make a confession like that
which Captain Devereux intends to make
this very day.

Milly Byron sits calmly in her place at the
head of the table, and affects no surprise, or
indeed any emotion whatever, at sight of his
unlooked-for presence. She is a dark-haired,
curly-headed young lady of about three-and-twenty,
with deep blue eyes, faintly-coloured
cheeks, and full red lips. She would
be undoubtedly remarkably handsome, were it

not for the half-defiant, half-apathetic, and
wholly discontented expression, which mars
the beauty of her face. Well may she look
discontented, for the life she leads with the
only relation she possesses in the world, except
her young cousin, is of the dreariest kind ;
blank, and monotonous enough to break the
spirit of any woman, while she has no power
at all in her hands to improve matters for herself.


Some people  and not very few either, fora
man who counts his income by tens of thousands
can always command a certain number
of champions and defenders  declare that there
must be a great deal of good in Mr. Falconer
beneath the surface, for has he not allowed
these two young relations of his to make the
Abbey their home, ever since they lost their
parents, and taken upon himself all the burden
of their maintenance and education ? His

vol. 1. E

critics, on the other hand, stoutly contend that
it would have been a crying shame, if he had
been content with doing less for his own
sisters' children, and that there is no cause for
praise in what is such an obvious matter of
duty on his part. To his nephew the old man
is as indulgent and liberal as it is in his nature
to be ; for the young man has somehow
managed to secure the nearest approach to a
soft corner in that fossilized heart. Perhaps
the very coolness and easy off-mindedness
with which he solicits and receives so many
substantial favours at his uncle's hands go
further in the way of strengthening the
mingled admiration and pride which are
secretly cherished for him by the old man,
than the most eloquent form of outspoken
thanks would do.

With regard to Milly  Milly the unfortunate
who has never yet attained the undesired

prominence of even a second favourite with
the master of the Abbey  the sum total of
the benefits which he bestows on her is easily-counted
up. He gives her free board and
lodging in his house, and allows her a certain
sum  no very large one  for her dress and
other personal expenses. She has a maid to
herself, and a horse is kept for her use, which
she can either ride or drive as she pleases ;
but beyond that, his hand moves no further.
He goes into no society whatever, nor receives
any visitor at the Abbey. Occasionally
very, very rarely  he is induced to let her
go with her maid on a short visit to someone
of her friends, but for many months together
she is usually condemned to lead a
solitary, cheerless existence, with a sour old
invalid for her sole companion, her only recreation
being Charlie's not-too-frequent visits,
when he can get leave of absence from his

regimental duties. Poor Milly has not even
the freedom of action and uncontrolled liberty,
which might in some degree compensate for
the ineffable dulness of the life she leads.
Mr. 'Falconer is always making demands on
her services in a small way. When he is ill,
she must come and read aloud to him, and
woe betide her if her attention wanders the
while ! When he is well, she is liable at
all hours to be called upon to walk with him,
or drive in state along the dusty high-road ina
close carriage, pulled by a pair of fat, overfed
horses. Oh, the misery of those terrible
drives, with the rasping voice of that dreadful
old man buzzing in her ears with an unceasing
flow of grumble! Milly has become
skilled in the art of devising various means
whereby to escape this odious penance. But
she is too frequently baffled by the persistency
of her not easily-hoodwinked captor,

and borne off by him in triumph to this daily
ordeal. And in minor details, in matters so
trivial as to be hardly worth recording, Mr.
Falconer shows an aptitude for inventing
pin-pricks and miniature thumb-screws which
is perfectly astonishing ; so that her everyday
life with him is by no means a bed of
roses. She is gradually growing hardened
against his attacks, and, as time goes on, finds
an increasing pleasure in giving him a Roland
for his Oliver, without the least regard
for the policy of the course pursued.

On this particular July morning, when they
find themselves at breakfast together, she is
even in a less complaisant mood than usual,
for she dislikes his having taken her by surprise.
She had been looking forward to a
comfortable, solitary meal, and behold, here
he is come to interrupt her enjoyment.
Surreptitiously she thrusts the novel  in

which stolen pleasure she is in the habit of
indulging when alone  on her lap under the
table, and resigns herself sulkily to her fate.
Milly is of a romantic disposition, devoted
to novel-reading, and given to weaving perpetual
fancies about the future  a bright,
glorious future, as unlike the dreary present
as possible. In her castles in the air, her
cousin Charlie is always the prominent figure,
the hero of her dreams ; as is but natural,
seeing that her acquaintance with the other
sex is extremely limited. Milly is one of
those girls to whom it is a necessary part
of existence to cherish a beau-ideal, and to
find some one upon whom to lavish their
girlish fancy. Hers is a most impressionable
nature  impressionable, perhaps, rather than
very steadfast ; and her predilections are
very much at the mercy of Fate, who throws
objects in her way. Just at this moment she

believes herself to be deeply in love with
her cousin ; and as all the novels she reads
invariably wind up with a happy culminating
point, so she is firmly convinced that such
will be her lot, and that Charlie and she, in
the natural order of things, will become husband
and wife.

She has been thinking about him only this
very morning, and wondering when he means
to come to the Abbey again. She glances
curiously at the letter-bag lying by her
uncle's side, thinking it very likely that it
may contain tidings of Captain Devereux.

"You look uncommonly glad to see me
downstairs again, I must say," is her uncle's
genial greeting, rousing her from her reverie.

11 1 am glad to see you so much better
again, Uncle John," she responds, with an
effort to say it heartily.

You give me precisely the idea of that

being the case," he sneers. "If that is the
face you wear when you are pleased, I
wonder how you manage to express regret.
Don't try to take me in with that humbug,
miss. You know you would give your eyes
to hear that I was going to stay in bed
another week. It's no good for you to try
and contradict me, for you can't look me in
the face and deny it."

Milly, apparently, has no intention of submitting
to the test. With a disdainful shrug
of the shoulders, she gives up all attempt to
speak smoothly to him, and assumes her most
careless and supercilious manner.

I wouldn't contradict you for the world,
Uncle John," she answers, looking him full in
the face, and speaking slowly and distinctly.

You impertinent, audacious minx ! " cries
the old man, in a burst of wrath. " How
dare you speak to me in that way ? You'd

better take care how you behave towards
me, or you may find yourself in the wrong
box altogether, I can tell you. And pray,
may I ask, by what right do you have three
separate dishes at breakfast, all for your own
eating ? I never heard of such extravagance
such sinful waste. Ring the bell. ,,

Milly rises to obey him, with an imperturbable
face, and without showing the smallest
sign of alarm at his rough manner.

May," says his master, when the butler
appears at the door, " listen to what I have
to say. When Miss Byron breakfasts by
herself in future, you will see that the cook
sends up only one dish. I don't care what
it contains, but there is never to be more
than one. You understand ? I will not have
such reckless waste going on in my house
as three hot dishes,  for one person, indeed ! "

If you please, sir, I think Mrs. Brown

must have sent them up, fancying you was
coming to breakfast along with Miss Byron,"
says May, apologetically.

I don't believe a word of it," storms Mr.
Falconer. " You invent that to get her out
of the scrape, May ; but I'm not such a fool
as to be taken in by you. Tell Brown that
if she spends her time in fancying things,
she must go elsewhere to indulge in her
favourite amusement, for I won't put up with
any of that sort of nonsense. And you're
just as bad as she is. I believe you concocted
that cock-and-bull story. Now don't
stand there staring at me any longer, but be
off and say what I have told you to that
fool downstairs."

May disappears, with his usual " Yes,
sir," too glad to be able to escape so easily
this time, and he casts glances of commiseration
in the direction of Milly as he goes,

for she is looked upon as an object of kindly
pity by the united household.

She sits, meanwhile, as impassive and unconcerned
as if she had been a spectator
of a raging thunder-storm many miles distant,
which could not possibly affect her
peace of mind or her personal safety. She
listens next to  or rather endures, for she possesses
the enviable faculty of completely absenting
her thoughts from the present at willa
rambling diatribe against the shortcomings
of servants in general, and of Mrs. Brown
in particular, which lasts fully ten minutes.
During that space of time she shows no
outward impatience, but her mind wanders
considerably from the subject in hand, as is
shown by her taking advantage of the first
pause to change the conversation.

When are you going to open the letter-bag,
Uncle John ? "

Whenever I choose to do so, Miss Curiosity,"
snaps he, in return.

Another shrug of the shoulders on her
part, and then, after the lapse of a few
minutes, her uncle proceeds slowly to unlock
the bag, having, in reality, forgotten all
about his letters until her words reminded
him.

None for you," he exclaims, after turning
over the contents of the bag with deliberate
hands. There is a tone of spiteful triumph
in his voice as he makes this announcement,
and he glowers maliciously at her under his
eyebrows, while he proceeds to tear open his
own envelopes.

Milly catches sight of Charlie's handwriting
on a letter among her uncle's budget.

You have got a letter from Charlie, I
see," she remarks, with supreme indifference
to the chance of meeting with a severe snub.

What the deuce has that got to do with
you ? " returns Mr. Falconer, reading the 
epistle three times over, with
the most provokingly deliberate examination
of its contents, but without imparting to hera
single word about them.

"Your cousin will be here to-day," he
snarls out at last.

The flush of delighted surprise which
spreads over Milly's face at this announcement
would betray her secret to the most
casual observer, but luckily Mr. Falconer is
not looking at her.

"" Do you hear what I say ? " he cries, in
wrathful accents of his raised voice. " Your
cousin will be here to-day."

I heard you say so, but what the deuce
has that got to do with me ? " retorts Milly,
mimicking his manner, and marvelling at her
own temerity the while.

Mr. Falconer looks as if he could eat her
up in his fury.

Leave the room this instant, miss ! " he
cries, waving her to the door, and shaking
his inst at her in his rage. " I will not have
such an impudent, good-for-nothing, ill-conditioned
creature any longer in my sight.
Be off with you, and see that you mend
your manners before daring to show yourself
again in my presence, or you'll catch it,
young lady, in a way you won't like  mark
my words."

And, grumbling and growling, the old man
returns to the contemplation and completion
of his solitary repast.

"tell me what it is."

Milly goes away from the dining-room,
chuckling to herself as she recalls her uncle's
discomfiture at her audacity, and not one
whit depressed by his parting threat. She
hardly looks on banishment from his august
presence in the light of a punishment, and
she at once resolves on effacing herself effectually
for the whole morning, before it enters
his head to revoke his decree, and send for
her to bear him company in his drive, which
he is well aware that she cordially detests.
Before going out, however, she sends for the
housekeeper, and tells her to see that Captain

Devereux's room is got ready for him ; then,

6 3

playing her part in the farce of ordering
dinner, imposed on her by the head of the
house, but which is indeed a farce, because
he never fails himself to alter every single
dish in her selected menu she snatches up
her hat and parasol, and steals softly out of
the house.

Long experience has taught her which are
the best paths to choose in order to evade
the vigilant sweep of her uncle's ever-watchful
eye, and she has many a haunt and hiding-place
within a hundred yards of the house,
known only to herself, where she can rest
secure from any attempt on his part to unearth
her. She has brought a book in her
hand, but she does not plunge into it this
morning, as usual. On reaching the spot
which has been in her mind's eye for the
last quarter of an hour, a retreat so cleverly
screened from the observation of passers-by

that no one would ever dream of there being-room
for a rabbit to burrow in it, far less fora
young lady to recline at her ease,  she
throws herself down on the ground, and gives
herself up to a train of pleasant reflections.
The world no longer seems dull and dreary
to her now, with the prospect of her cousin's
visit before her. She counts the hours
which must elapse before he can arrive at
Whincote over and over again,  wonders
how long he will be persuaded to stay when
once there, and cons over all sorts of plans
for his entertainment during his, too probably,
brief visit. Stretching herself at full length
on the mossy grass, she tilts her shady hat
over her eyes, to keep off a stray sunbeam,
which slants through a tiny opening in the
thick bushes around, and has selected the
tip of her nose as a resting-place, and remains
motionless in this attitude for a very long
vol. L F

time, occupied with thoughts of the treat in
store for her. In her secret heart, Milly hasa
growing hope and belief that her cousin
reciprocates the feelings she cherishes for
him. Is he not invariably glad to see her,
and impatient if she is not at hand directly he
arrives ? Does he not confide every little
trifle to her still, as in the old days of their
childhood ? His manner  so cordial and
affectionate  must be intended to express
something more than cousinly liking on his
part. She will not believe otherwise, and the
possibility of a rival in his heart never even
crosses her mind. So she reasons to herself,
poor Milly, and dreams happily on, until the
clanging of the luncheon bell summons her
to the house. Fortunately for her, Mr.
Falconer does not appear downstairs, probably
not caring to encounter his belligerent
niece again just at present. So she enjoys

unwonted liberty throughout the afternoon
also, and at about four o'clock, ventures to
emerge from her cool and secluded retreat,
and takes up a position under a tree on
the lawn in front of the house, knowing that
her cousin cannot now be more than half
an hour longer before he comes. And there
she is sitting, eagerly listening for the sound
of wheels, yet outwardly calm, as he drives
up to the door, and, in less than five minutes,
he makes straight towards her.

So here you are, Milly, with a book in
your hand, as usual," is his greeting, not observing
the subdued excitement of her manner
as she rises to welcome him. " Well, and how
is the Ogre ? " he asks, throwing himself carelessly
on the ground at her feet.

The " Ogre " is a nickname invented by
Captain Devereux for the strictly private use
of himself and Milly when talking of Mr.

Falconer, whom, however, in spite of her
representations, he will obstinately persist in
believing that she paints too blackly.

More Ogre-wish than ever," is her emphatic
reply. " You haven't seen him yet, Charlie ? "

Not I. I got a message from His Royal
Highness to say he would see me in his room
in half an hour's time. So I must do my best
to possess my soul in patience till the happy
moment arrives."

"It's one of the pleasures that will keep, I
daresay," returns Milly, composedly. " He
was like a bear with a sore head this morning.
He abused me and May and Brown all in a
breath, collecting together the very choicest
terms out of his own special vocabulary for
our benefit ; and all about such a trifle."

"A storm in a tea-cup," comments Captain
Devereux, laughing. " I suppose he's had a
touch of gout, hasn't he ? "

''A touch of gout!" repeats Milly, with
affected alarm. " For Goodness' sake don't
be so rash as to mention it in that light way
to him when you see him. He calls it ' the
most confoundedly pertinacious bout' that he
has ever experienced," she adds, with an
exact reproduction of her uncle's irritable
accents, and Charlie laughs again  this time
a little abstractedly.

"He doesn't appear to be in a particularly
charming humour, by your description. But
perhaps he'll have had time to cool down a
bit before he honours me with an audience."

14 Oh, yes ; he won't be cross to you," cries
Milly, confidently. " He always shows his
best side to you  though bad is his best, I
must say ; and so you don't believe in his
being what I make him out  the veriest old
tyrant that ever walked the earth," she adds,
with mournful viciousness.

I can quite believe that a closer intimacy
with him might dispel some of my illusions
with regard to his character," responds Charlie,
easily ; " and I cannot pretend that I am so
devoted to him that I grudge every day
spent away from him ; but, for all that, you
do lay the colour on rather strong, I fancy,
Milly. However, it's rather important forme
to find him in a decent humour to-day,
for I've got something particular to say to
him."

Oh, dear ! " cries Milly, sympathizing,
and a little fearfully. " I hope it's nothing
very bad, Charlie. You haven't got into
very much debt, have you ? Or you haven't
been backing a bill "

This vague suggestion is a quotation from
the last novel she has been reading.

I confess," she continues frankly, " that
I have not a very clear idea of the meaning

of backing a bill. Is it to get some
money out of him ? "

Well, I can't say that I should object to
a present of any trifle which he might feel
disposed to bestow on me," is Captain Devereux's
reply. " If he offered me a hundred-pound
note, for instance, I don't know that
I should hurt his feelings by refusing it.
But, wonderful to relate, the chief object of
my visit to him to-day is not directly connected
with money."

Now that the actual moment for confession
is come, even though the recipient of his news
is only Milly, who has always been his staunch
friend and champion, Captain Devereux feels
unaccountably shy about coming to the point.

Tell me what it is, won't you ? " asks unsuspecting
Milly. " Then perhaps we can put
our heads together, and concoct some plan forgetting
round the Ogre."

How often have they hatched these little
plots together before now ! and how often
has Milly's quick wit hit upon a manoeuvre
by which the old man has been cajoled or
outwitted, and their point ultimately gained,
always for Charlie's benefit ! Milly never
fails to throw herself heart and soul into
the task of smoothing the way for him by
the little means in her power. She is ever
the one to devise plans and suggest ideas,
while he, by reason of his superior influence
over their all-powerful mutual relation, is the
one to whom the carrying out of her crafty
advice is entrusted. But the disclosure he has
to make now is evidently of greater moment
than those in previous cases, and Milly is
struck by the hesitation of her cousin's manner,
and by the unwonted flush which dyes his fair
complexion.

Would you rather not tell me what you

have to say to the Ogre ? " she asks, submissively,
yet a little aggrieved at heart, for
he has seldom kept his secrets back from
her.

Oh, I'll tell you," he answers, bringing
it out with a burst. " The fact is, Milly,
that I've been and gone and got married "

He stops short, taken aback by the effect
his news has on his listener. Milly has grown
white as death, and stares at him w T with fixed
eyes, as if utterly unable to take in the sense
of his words.

Married ! " she echoes, with a gasp of
horror. It is all she has power to articulate.

Yes, married," repeats he, trying to carry
it off lightly, but not a little irritated by her
manner. " One would think I had just
owned to having committed a murder, to look
at your face."

Married ! " again cries poor Milly, with

increasing agitation. " Do you mean to say
that  that you have got a wife, Charlie ? "

I believe that is generally what one understands
by a man saying he is married," he
answers, with an impatient laugh. " The fact
of marriage necessitates the existence of a
wife, doesn't it ? For Heaven's sake, Milly,
don't sit there like that, looking as if you
had seen a ghost ! Have you never heard
of a man being married before ? "

You are really married, then, without
telling any one,  without letting me know ? "
cries poor Milly, fighting hard to receive the
blow with a decent show of self-command.
Oh, how could you, Charlie ? "

"Well, I should have been ready enough
to tell you all about it, if I had thought it
safe to do so," says the young man, with a
feeling that he has behaved rather ungratefully
towards her. " But, you see, if the Ogre

had in any way got a hint of it, and found
out that you had known it all along, he'd
have pitched into you like fun ; so I thought
it best to keep quiet till it was all done, and
then to come and take him by storm. You
look awfully taken aback by it all, Milly,
but I suppose it is because you are afraid
for me, and you think he will be put out
about it, don't you? It's really good of you
to be bothered by my affairs in this way,
but I haven't much fear. I think I can trust
myself to bring him round  in time."

Milly looks as if she has not heard a w r ord
he has been saying, and, indeed, her next
question proves that her thoughts have wandered
on quite another tack than the probable
reception of the news by the arbiter of their
future destinies.

"Who is she?" she asks, in low, concentrated
tones.

'she is a Miss Eyre  Ruth Eyre  or rather,
was so," returns Captain Devereux, glibly
enough. " I have been seeing her a good
deal lately at the house of a clergyman near
Aldershot, where she has been staying  no !
I'd better tell you the truth at once  where
she was governess in his family."

This part of his story  the fact of his
chosen wife occupying a position so inferior
to his own  does not seem to strike fresh
horror into his cousin's mind. After the
crash of the first thunderbolt, her ears appear
to be deafened to the reports of any
subsequent minor shocks. Woman-like, she
clings to the particulars which most nearly
affect her.

"Is she pretty?" is her next query, made
also in the same dry, constrained voice as
before.

Pretty ! " cries Charlie, rising from his

lowly position as he speaks. " You just see
her, and judge for yourself, Milly. I'm sure
that you and she will be friends the moment
you meet," he asserts, with the blind confidence
of unobservant mankind. " You'll
think me a fool if I begin to rhapsodize about
her to you, so I'll just hold my tongue, as I
hope it won't be many days before you see
her."

Milly cannot bring herself to respond cordially
to this wish. A cold shivering runs
through her frame as she pictures to herself
Charlie bringing his bride with him on his
next visit, and showering all his affection
upon her,  perhaps expecting his cousin todo
likewise. She clenches her teeth tightly
together, as the ghastly vision rises before
her mind's eye, and inwardly exclaims, " Never,
never, never ! "

Charlie is a little surprised at her moody

silence, but he ascribes it to the fact of her
being still overwhelmed with astonishment
at his unexpected tidings.

"Women are always so long in getting over
the surprise of a thing," he reflects, somewhat
crossly, looking at his watch, which shows
him that it is time to go and keep his appointment
with his uncle. " Well, I must be off,"
he says cheerfully, " if I want to start well
in the coming ordeal You see, Milly, of
course it doesn't signify a rap, but it makes
it a little more doubtful how the Ogre will
take it, Ruth being, or rather having been,
a governess, you know. Not that I have
any reason to suppose he will care about
that ; do you think he will ? Couldn't you
come with me, and make him understand
that point better than I can ? "

This cruel proposal is the last straw which
proves too much for Milly's endurance. In

her opinion, it is the most barefaced instance
of adding insult to injury that she can possibly
imagine.

No, no! That is quite out of the
question," she answers hurriedly, and looking
steadily away from him. 'i'm no good at
all ; he never listens to anything I say. You
can manage much better without me, and "

Here she loses all self-control. She is
deadly pale ; her lips tremble ominously,
and, trying to rise from her seat, she staggers,
and falls back upon it again.

Perhaps you're right, after all," replies
Charlie, who is again consulting his watch,
and does not perceive the state of agitation
she is in. " I must gather up my courage,
then, for single combat with the Ogre, and
I shall do my best to face him, unsupported.
I'll come out to you, Milly, and tell you all
about it as soon as I get away," he adds,

with a wave of his hand, as he turns to
leave her. " I've got a lot to say to you
still."

She waits till he is out of sight, and then
she raises herself from the bench on which
she has been sitting, rushes across the lawn
with the speed of a frightened deer, hurries
upstairs to her own room, locks the door, and,
throwing herself on a sofa, finds vent for the
misery which oppresses her soul in the untold
luxury of "a good cry."

IN THE " OGRE'S " DEN.

Although, up to the present moment, Captain
Devereux has been credited with possessing
more than an average amount of personal
courage, and has never been known to suffer
from nervousness or timidity, he begins to
comprehend the meaning of the expression,
shaking in your shoes," as he makes his
way to his uncle's study. He would give
something, just then, to have done with the
necessary task before him, and to have
accomplished the plunge. But he does not
let a trace of his weakness be apparent in
his face. Nor is there anything in the aspect
of Mr. Falconer, as he sits back in his arm-vol.
i. 8l G

chair, with his leg carefully supported by a
neighbouring sofa, which is in the least calculated
to inspire fresh dread in his mind. On
the contrary, the " Ogre " is decidedly encouraging,
not to say affable, and his usually
forbidding visage relaxes into what is intended
to be a smile as he holds out a hand to
welcome the only individual in the world
for whom he entertains something akin to a
liking.

So you've come to see me  at last," are
his first words. " You don't run the risk of
satiating us with too much of your company,
eh, Charlie ? "

I have been very busy one way or another
lately," is the evasive answer. " It's awful
hard work to get leave of absence at this
time of the year. And how are you, Uncle
John? Milly tells me that you've had
another touch of gout."

o

Milly always makes out that I've had
nothing the matter with me whatever," replies
the old man, angrily. " I wonder what she'd
say if she were laid up as I have been for
three weeks. I wish she had a ' touch ' of it
too, and then we'd soon see who makes the
greatest outcry over it,  she or I. It has
been the sharpest attack I have had for years,
and I feel twinges of it even now," he adds,
with a vicious look at his offending foot on
the sofa.

I'm awfully sorry to hear it," exclaims
Charlie, infusing double sympathy into his
tone, for fear the patient should detect an
inclination to smile. " I quite believe that
you've suffered immense pain, but I don't
think Milly meant to make little of it. She
said, indeed, that you had been very ill."

Don't let us talk of that provoking girl anymore,
for Heaven's sake," says Mr. Falconer,

peremptorily. " She's the most audacious
chit that I ever came across, and some day
she'll repent her impudence, unless she looks
out. Only this morning she laughed in my
very face, and mimicked me in the coolest
manner  mimicked me ! Just conceive such
impertinence. Is it possible that you are
laughing, Charlie ? " he adds, turning his head
sharply round as he hears something suspiciously
like a chuckle at his side.

Laughing ! " repeats Charlie, with commendable
gravity. " I laughing ! I was only
just preventing myself from sneezing."

I don't know why you should trouble yourself
to do that," answers the old man, only half
convinced. " Sneeze away as much as you
want to  what does it matter ? "

I was afraid it would prevent my hearing
what you were saying," meekly observes
Captain Devereux, with ready wit. " And

it has quite passed off now ; I don't want to
sneeze at all."

Hum ! " snorts his uncle, still unbelieving.
However," he resumes, in a more amiable
manner, " I was going to ask you how long
you are going to stay here, now you have
come at last, Master Charlie ? I suppose
you're in very flourishing circumstances, as
usual, and it would be sending coals to Newcastle
to talk of offering you any little extra
advance, eh ? "

This is said in a would-be playful manner,
and has the effect of a Polar bear trying to be
sportive.

Charlie has, by dint of long experience,
become an adept in the art of entering into
the varied moods of this curious specimen of
humanity before him, and responds promptly
to his vein of pleasantry.

You can try the experiment if you like,"

he answers, laughing. " I should be sorry to
baulk you if you are seized with a generous
impulse in my direction."

With an unmelodious cackle, Mr. Falconer
takes out his cheque-book, and hands over a
slip of paper to his nephew, who receives it
with warm expressions of gratitude.

11 You young men are all alike, " remarks he,
leaning back in his chair. " You seem to
think that bank-notes grow upon the hedges,
by the way you chuck them away broadcast.
Where should I be, I wonder, if I had been
as reckless as you are at your age ? Certainly
not in a position to make you a present of
that sort," pointing to the cheque in Charlie's
hand.

"It appears to me, by your own showing
then, Uncle John, that the result of your
saving and screw  economizing in your youth,
is that you are able to provide means for

fostering my 'recklessness,' as you call it,"
returns Captain Devereux, astutely. " I

confess I don't see the use of "

Gathering for others to scatter, eh, Charlie?
No more do I, young man ; but there are
certain limits I set myself, which you would
find it difficult to induce me to overstep.
A fifty-pound note now and then I may
afford, but you mustn't expect it often, I warn
you. I have so many claims on my money
claims which you know nothing about, my
boy."

"Well, if I had lots of money " begins

the young man, impulsively.

Go on, my boy. Pray finish your sentence.

If you had lots of money

I'd better keep my ideas to myself, perhaps."


Not at all ! I should like to hear them.
Besides, there are two classes of people in

this world, who are privileged to say what
they like, you know."

Meaning fools and children? Thanks for
the compliment," says Charlie, with a good-tempered
smile. " Even after that crushing
snub, Uncle John, I will venture to face your
sarcasm. I was going to say, if I had lots of
money, I'd contrive to get all the fun out of it
I could. I rather think I would make it spin !"

I rather think you would!" assents Mr.
Falconer, grimly. " Luckily, I may safely
predict that your present ideas will undergo
some slight modification before many years
have passed by. And now tell me, sir "  with
an abrupt change of subject  " when are you
going to think of marrying ? "

Charlie turns pale. Can he possibly have
heard ? But he is reassured by seeing that
wretched parody of a smile of his again,
guiltless of any latent meaning.

I  I don't know exactly," he stammers
out, much embarrassed.

Because you'll have to marry sometime
or other, you know," pursues Mr. Falconer,
with decision. " There's your cousin, Milly,
now  she's a pert chit, to be sure, and has
the tongue of the very fiend incarnate himself,
but you might not mind that so much, as you
could keep her in order, you know. If you
have thought of her, Charlie, why, I may as
well tell you that I should have no objection
to the marriage. What do you say,
eh ? "

Then Charlie feels that the moment is come
for the fatal leap to be taken.

I have no doubt that Milly would make
a capital wife to any man in the world," he
replies, with as much unconcern as he can
muster. " But," he adds, with an exaggerated
attempt to be humorous, " I am afraid I

couldn't marry her without committing bigamy,
Uncle John."

Bigamy ! What the devil do you mean ? "
asks Mr. Falconer, sharply.

Isn't it called bigamy when a man goes in
for two wives at a time ? " inquires Charlie,
innocently. " And I am already married."

Married ! you married ! " roars the old
man, starting up in his chair, and facing his
audacious nephew with a blaze of anger in his
eyes. " Was it possible that you meant me to
understand that you are already married ? "

Milly's amazement and horror, as she listened
to her cousin's revelation, were as nothing in
comparison with Mr. Falconer's.

Captain Devereux is so immensely relieved
by having got over the worst part of his task,
that he feels able to pull himself together and
fight valiantly in the struggle which he knows
is imminent.

I certainly did intend to convey that to
your mind," answers he, growing a little
nettled. " By the way you take it, Uncle
John, one would think I had told you that
I had got the plague. Why shouldn't I be
married ? You were advising me just now to
been to think about it."

Do you suppose that I meant you to go
and marry Heaven knows whom in this sort of
hole-and-corner way, without letting me know
a word of your intentions ? " storms Mr. Falconer
; then, quickly calming himself down to
a portentous stillness, he inquires : " Who
may be the lady whom you have so promptly
made into Mrs. Charles Devereux ? "

14 She was a Miss Eyre, a young lady whom
I met at a clergyman's house near Aldershot,"
answers his nephew, wincing a little.

Might one inquire what her exact status
in society was ? " asks Mr. Falconer, with increasing

blandness. " Am I to understand
that she is the daughter of the said clergyman
? "

No, you are not," cries Charlie, waxing
hot as his uncle grows cooler. " She was the
governess in his family, if you care to know
every detail, Uncle John."

Governess, indeed ! Then I surmise that
she is not very bountifully supplied with this
world's goods," continues the old man with
biting sarcasm. " Pray don't trouble yourself
to assure me that her mental and physical
charms amply compensate for her lack of more
substantial endowments," he adds, waving his
hand imperiously as Charlie is about to speak ;
then, more suspiciously composed in manner
than ever, he asks in slow, distinct accents, 

"And I suppose that you are come to beg
me to receive this  lady  as my  what is it 
niece-inlaw ?"

11 I certainly hope you will do so," returns
Charlie, still undaunted. " I came down from
town to-day on purpose to tell you of my
marriage."

11 Then all I can tell you is that you are
most confoundedly mistaken," screams Mr. Falconer,
positively shaking all over in a sudden
and overpowering paroxysm of rage. " How
dare you come to me in this  this impertinent
way, and sit down before me to tell me of your
marriage with a girl whom I have never set
eyes on, and whom no one knows anything
about at all ? Then you hope I will receive
her in my house ! How dare you for one
moment think that I will stand such a thing,
sir ? "

And Mr. Falconer, looking like a baited
bull, with the normal red hue of his nose dyed
to a deep purple colour, almost shakes his fist
in his nephew's face.

11 I am sorry I did not tell you beforehand,
Uncle John," says Charlie, trying to control his
temper. " But I thought that "

What the deuce do I care to know what
you thought ? " bawls Mr. Falconer, interrupting
him with increasing anger. " I don't wish
to hear one word more from you on the subject
of your reasons for playing me this trick,
or of anything else. You've gone your own
way to work now, and you may get out cf it
as best you can. But there is one thing you
must get out of at once, and that is my house.
Do you hear me ? Be off with you this
very night, and never let me see you darken
its threshold again. Ten thousand devils !
You marry a governess, and expect me to
receive her ! Your impudence surpasses all
belief."

Poor Charlie looks quite aghast at this
utterly unlooked-for termination to the interview

which he fondly hoped to pass through
so easily.

But, Uncle John " he begins, too bewildered
to know what he is going to say.

Don't Uncle John me, if you please!" returns
Mr. Falconer, harshly. " I'm not your
uncle any longer, from this day forth, and
you're no nephew of mine. I trust I may
never hear your name mentioned again ; and
now, the sooner you leave me, and go back to
your aristocratic and wealthy bride, the better
it will be," he shouts, with spiteful emphasis.

Charlie blazes up in his turn.

You'll have the goodness to be careful in
the way you speak of her ! " he cries, rising
from his chair. " But," he continues, with one
more effort to give the old man a chance of
recovering himself, " I don't mind what you
say just now  in the first heat of your surprise.
I daresay you're vexed at my having kept my

intention secret from the first. You don't
really mean all you say, I feel sure."

'you'll soon see whether I do, or not!"
responds his uncle, furiously getting up, and
hobbling to the bell, which he pulls with a
ringing peal.

If you have unpacked Captain Devereux's
things, May," he says quietly to the butler,
who appears at his summons, "put them back
in his portmanteau immediately. Captain
Devereux will not sleep here to-night."

May looks as if he fancies he could not
have heard the order aright.

What the devil do you mean by standing
there ? Do what I tell you at' once," calls
out his master, promptly.

And the perplexed servant has no resource
but to go, with his usual, " Yes, sir."

Charlie sees now that his cause is indeed
lost.

u One day you will come to repent of your
harshness towards me, I feel sure," he says,
with dignity, and without another word of
expostulation, he adds, " I will go "

Yes, go ! " interrupted Mr. Falconer, with
a malicious scowl. " Go and starve, for all
I care ! And don't presume to show your
face in this house again."

You need not fear that, sir," are Charlie's
last words to his uncle ; and then he marches
out of the room, holding his head high in
the air, and, to all outward appearances,
victor in the recent contest, but inwardly
raging with anger, mortification, perplexity,
and a sense of smarting under cruel ill-treatment.


May meets him in the passage, and, with
the privilege of an old servant, accosts him.
He is devoted to the young man, as indeed
is every member of the household.

vol. 1. H

Is this really true, sir ? " he asks, lowering
his voice to a whisper. " Does Mr. Falconer
mean what he says, that you are not going
to stay here ? "

Most certainly he means it, May," answers
Charlie, with reckless defiance in his
tone. " Look sharp, and put my things together,
there's a good fellow. I'm going oft
directly,  as soon as I have seen Miss Byron.
Mr. Falconer and I have had a row," he
adds, in answer to the inquiring look on the
old butler s face. "He doesn't like my having
taken upon myself to marry without first
asking his permission, and so we've split altogether."


"I am very sorry to hear it, sir," says the
butler, sympathizing. " And you're really
married, sir ? Couldn't you have kept it
back a little longer from him, don't you
think, sir ? "

I'm afraid not," answers Charlie, with a
short laugh. " But I daresay he'll come
round in time, May."

The old butler shakes his head mournfully.


11 Mr. Falconer is not a gentleman who
comes round very easily, sir, I fear," he says,
in still lower tones. " But I hope, for your
sake, that he will this time."

And then he turns dejectedly away to obey
Mr. Falconer's commands, and Charlie, with
an encouraging nod to him, rushes off in
search of Milly.

I NEVER CHANGE MY MIND."

Captain Devereux finds Milly in the ,
sitting by the open window. She

#

has recovered her self-control pretty fairly
again now, thanks to the aid of those timely
tears, which she shed upstairs, far from the
range of prying eyes. She still feels angry
and mortified,  not a little disposed to cherish
bitter thoughts against her cousin, and still
more against his innocent wife. But the first
fury of the hurricane has spent itself, and this
daughter of Eve is now consumed with a
burning wish to learn more details of the
startling event. When she sees her cousin
come in with a dark frown on his good-looking

face, and with all the signs in his demeanour
of being in overwhelming distress,
Milly is unselfish enough to cast aside all
thoughts of her own grievances, and she rises
hastily to meet him, intent only on inquiring
into the cause of his perturbation, and on
helping to chase it away, if possible.

In a few hurried words  for he is anxious
not to delay his departure  Captain Devereux
graphically describes the stormy scene which
has taken place between him and his uncle.

So here I am, literally ordered out of the
house," he adds, in conclusion. " I never
could have believed it possible that he would
be so obstinate and so furious as he showed
himself this evening."

Horrid old creature ! " responds Milly, indignantly,
and shaking her fist vigorously in
the direction of his room. " Perhaps you'll
begin to believe now, Charlie," she adds, with

pardonable triumph in her voice, " that he is
all and more than all that I said. But I
don't really think he can be so inexorable.

I feel sure that he will think better of it, and
retract in a short time."

Well, we'll hope for the best," is Charlie's
answer, given in a perceptibly less sanguine
tone than he had made use of to her only an
hour ago, in prophesying the outcome of his
visit. " But he doesn't look like it yet, I can
tell you. If you had only heard him abuse
me like a pickpocket ! No name was too
bad for me."

My imagination is capable of supplying
those little details," responds Milly, drily.

II Experience has long since taught me that
his vocabulary is not by any means choice.
But joking apart, Charlie  I'm most dreadfully
sorry to hear of this. What will you
do, supposing that he is immovable ? "

"Starve!" cries the young man, bitterly.
I can't conceive what there will be for me
to do, as I've nothing on earth beyond my
pay, and Ruth hasn't a penny. However,
we'll trust that it won't come to that pass."

Oh, no," says Hilly. " I feel certain that
he said more than he meant in his heart.
Are you going now ? " she continues, seeing
that he makes a movement towards her.

I must go, as I don't want the old curmudgeon
to find out that I'm still hanging
about. I'm going to sleep at the Falconer
Arms to-night, and go back to Midmarsh
early tomorrow morning. Nice food this
will be for gossip in the village, won't it ? I
say, Milly, if by chance he should show any
signs of yielding in the course of the evening,
you might just send me a line down there
tomorrow morning before I leave, oughtn't
you ? In any case, if you wouldn't mind

sending to tell me how things are going on,
I should be cad."

o

I will, certainly, Charlie. I shall probably
be invited to the Ogre's presence tonight,
and, if I come out of it without his
having gobbled me up, I'll be sure to keep
you ate courant of the state of his mind."

Thanks, awfully. I know you'll stick tome,
won't you, Milly, like a brick, and do
your best to fight my battles ? I can trust
my affairs in your hands, as I would in no
one else's, and I feel almost certain that this
split won't last long. Good-bye, then, for
the present, dear. Even if the Ogre refuses
to give in, we'll manage some way of seeing
each other now and then, won't we, Mil ? "

And for the first time since they have
passed the age of childhood, Charlie Devereux
stoops down and cordially embraces
his cousin, while Milly, though she cannot

help wincing a little, is too much influenced
by pity and sympathy for him to let him
guess how the action tries her.

Good-bye, Charlie. You shall have a
note from me in the morning. May would
do anything for you, I know, and he'll find
some means of sending it. And, Charlie,"
she adds, with a supreme effort of self-sacrifice,
'mind you give my love to Ruth, and
tell her I hope we shall meet very soon."

I won't forget, Milly. Oh, by the bye,
there is one thing more I want to do," he
says, coming once more back a few steps.
The old fellow presented me with this
cheque for fifty pounds in the early part of
our interview, and I forgot all about giving
it back to him afterwards. I wouldn't keep
it after what he said. So perhaps you'll
return it to him, Milly, with my compliments."


An imperious ring in the direction of the
study is heard at this juncture, and, shortly
after, May enters, and informs Miss Byron
that Mr. Falconer wishes to see her in his
room immediately.

"Say that I'll come directly, May," she
answers, with no pretence whatever of hurrying
herself. " And, May, you know that
Captain Devereux's luggage is to be sent
down to the Falconer Arms."

I was just going to ask where it was to
go, miss," answers the butler. " Everything
is ready packed, and Withers is waiting to
wheel it down now."

With another hurried farewell, Charlie now
takes a final leave of his cousin, and, passing
through the open window, strides quickly
away across the lawn,  an exile from the
only home which he has ever known and
which he loves so dearly, and has almost

unconsciously taught himself to consider in
the light of his certain heritage.

Milly relieves her heavily burdened soul
with a deep-drawn sigh, and then leisurely betakes
herself to her uncle's room, her composure
not being ruffled very much by meeting
May on her way with a second and more peremptory
summons, which he delivers almost
in a whisper, as if her temerity in keeping his
master waiting had taken his very breath away.

Mr. Falconer is seated at his writing-table,
engaged apparently in arranging packets of
old letters. He looks up as she enters, but
instantly returns to his occupation, without
uttering a word. Milly's powers of endurance
do not enable her to support this seeming
disregard of her presence for more than two
minutes.

Do you wish to speak to me, Uncle
John, as May told me?" she asks, coldly.

Your intelligent mind might have suggested
that such a question is superfluous,"
is his sneering reply. " It is not very likely
that I should send for you with the sole view
of wasting your time and mine, or for the
mere pleasure,  a most exhilarating one, I
must admit,  of enjoying your society. Yes,
to be sure, I wish to speak to you, and you
may sit down to listen to me, rather than
stand in that ungainly attitude any longer,
like a soldier on parade. In the first place,
why were you so long in coming ? I sent
May to call you at least ten minutes ago."

I was with Charlie in the drawing-room,"
says Milly, boldly, seating herself with the
utmost coolness.

Were you, indeed ?  hearing from him
his nice little tale, and his disappointment at
my reception of the delightful news of his
romantic marriage ? " asks Mr. Falconer,

with a grim laugh. " Well now, hear what
I have got to say to you, Milly. I imagine
you are endowed with a fair average amount
of common sense, though I can't affirm that
I have seen much evidence of it yet, and it's
precious little that women can boast of at
the best. But perhaps you will be able to
take in what I require of you, and. understand
that I am in earnest. From this day
forth, I desire that you will not mention
your cousin's name in my presence again.
Any attempt that you may think of making
to restore him to favour, no matter in what
form or at what distance of time, will be
utterly thrown away, quite useless, and will
only damage your own interests. So I advise
you to bear this in mind. I know that
you side with him against me," he adds,
contemptuously; " and I am confident that,
in the course of time, you will be persuaded,

or your own foolish head will prompt you, to
try what you can do with me on his behalf.
But once for all, I give you warning that
it will be of no avail, and you know me
well enough to be aware that I never change
my mind. Your cousin has made his bed,
and now he must lie upon it. His future
does not concern me in one way or another.
You understand my commands, I presume ?"
Fully, insomuch that I am not quite an
idiot, and you have succeeded in making
them very clear," answers Milly, with a sneer
excelling her uncle's ; " and, if you want to
know my opinion, Uncle John, I consider
that you have behaved very badly to Charlie !
After all, what has he done ? He has
married a girl a little below him in station,
without consulting you about it first, because
he knew you would have knocked it on the
head. And for this you turn him out of

the house, and say you will have nothing
more to do with him ! I call that a horrid
shame ! "

Pray inveigh against me a little longer,
if it amuses you, my dear," returns Mr.
Falconer, leaning back in his chair, and fixing
his eyes on her indignant countenance
with a disagreeable smile. "It is the last
time that I shall gratify you in this way,
for, if after to-night you bring up your
cousin's name before me, you will find mea
less patient listener, and I shall refuse to
be thus spoken to by an audacious minx
like you," he pursues, with rising anger.

11 You can't prevent me from making use of
my tongue, that I am aware of," retorts his
niece, defiantly. " And I will say "

You will say what you please, I have
no doubt, but not in this room, or in my
presence," he answers, menacingly. " And

while we are on this subject for the last
time, I may as well tell you that my intentions
are to allow your cousin two hundred
a year, and tomorrow I shall write to my
bankers, directing them to pay that sum
quarterly to his account."

How extremely liberal of you, Uncle
John!"

I have no wish to listen to your comments
on my actions, miss. Liberal or not,
it is all that he need ever look for at my
hands, and that you may tell him if you
choose, as I presume you mean to correspond
with him. It's a great deal more than he
has any right to expect from me, after his
conduct towards me,  indeed, he may consider
himself deuced lucky that I don't serve
him out as he deserves, and give him nothing
at all ; but "

Oh, I nearly forgot ! " cries Milly, interrupting

him with slight ceremony. " I have
brought you this cheque, which he says he
wouldn't keep, as it was given to him before
he told you of his marriage. I quite
agree with him."

Indeed ! " is Mr. Falconer s only reply,
as he pockets the cheque. " Take care of
your manners, Milly  take care. That outspoken
frankness of yours is very charming,
no doubt, but it is not the best way of getting
on in the world, and I advise you not
to make such lavish use of it, as your future
prospects in life will depend very much on the
way you conduct yourself, young lady."

"If you mean me to understand that you
might leave me the fortune which ought, by
rights, to be Charlie's," says she, with characteristic
bluntness, <( I can only assure you that
I would never accept it, Uncle John, and that
1 would give it up to him."

vol. i. 1

11 Your purpose does credit to your affectionate
heart," answers her uncle, with a
mocking bow. " Unfortunately, such self-sacrificing
intentions seldom survive the wear
and tear of time. It is really curious to note
how a few years can change our ideas with
regard to the disposal of our property.
Haven't you remarked it yourself ? And
now you may go for the present, as I have
told you all I had to say to you. After
dinner, I shall want you to come and read
the paper to me here. By the way," he
calls out after her, checking her progress to
the door, " I forgot to mention to you that the
butcher's book has been much too high this
week. You must see to it, and bring it down
for the future. I won't stand such waste in
my house."

I will do my best to curtail our alarmingly
high expenditure," replies Milly, with

cool sarcasm. " I suppose you'll be satisfied
if I contrive to reduce it by the sum of one
whole shilling a week, won't you ? Your
income might then just suffice to cover it,
don't you think ? "

And with a scornful laugh, she turns away,
not allowing time for the threatening growl,
which greets her cutting remarks, to expand
into a torrent of sharp words. She leaves
her uncle's presence, to collect her thoughts
after the disturbing occurrences of the day,
to mourn over her shattered hopes, and to
turn over in her mind various schemes by
which her cousin's interests might be forwarded.
At all events, she reflects, there is
a tiny crumb of comfort to communicate to
him in the promised pittance of two hundred
a year.

A BAD LOOK-OUT.

At an early hour the next morning, Charlie
receives the following note from his cousin : 

My dear Charlie, 

I had a long interview with the Ogre
last night, but I am sorry to say that I have
no good news to give you. He is as hard
as granite, and up to this moment shows no
symptom of yielding. He gave me to understand
that any efforts I might make on your
behalf would be labour thrown away, and told
me to let you know that if you wrote to
him, your letters would be returned unopened.
Such is his genial frame of mind just now,

Tl6

and it doesn't look encouraging, does it ? He
means to allow you 200 a year, which you
will hear about through his bankers. Miserly
old wretch ! But don't despair ; I don't, by
any means. I will let you know the very
instant a thaw sets in. Keep up a good
heart, and be patient if you can. I feel as
if I should like to go and shake him for
half an hour without stopping ! I will write
very often.

Your affectionate cousin,

Milly."

Captain Devereux is not a little disgusted
at the contents of this letter ; for, during the
last few hours, he has brought himself to
expect that the tidings of a complete reconciliation
will reach him with the morning's
dawn. In his heart, he never really believed
that Mr. Falconer would keep to his decision,

after having had twelve hours to think it
over. But now that he has proved so obdurate
thus far, what grounds are there for hope that
he will relent in the future ? None, so far
as Charlie can see, even in his most sanguine
moments ; and he fails to find much comfort
in Milly's note, which is meant to be encouraging,
because she wishes to cheer him up 
not from any very strong convictions in her
own mind. Captain Devereux begins to perceive
that the outlook of his future prospects
is tending to gloom and darkness unpalatable
to realize. As he settles himself down in his
corner of the railway carriage, there is a
heavy cloud on his usually sunny face, as he
thinks of the many luxuries he will have to
dispense with henceforth  luxuries which he
has been accustomed to look upon as almost
necessities of life. He will have to set about
it at once, and to retrench on all sides, and

the idea is not a pleasant one to him. He
does not think it incumbent on him to begin
to practise economy all at once, so that he
still takes a first class ticket as a matter of
course, and the porters discover no difference
in the amount of his " tips." The habits of
years are not to be broken through in a
moment, nor are our natures ,to be. transformed
thus easily. Things may have changed
for him for the worst, but he is Charlie Devereux,
ruined, and open-handed still.

He has telegraphed to Ruth from the
Falconer Arms to prepare her for his early
return, and he has scarcely left the station
of Midmarsh, before he catches sight of her
slight figure coming swiftly to meet him.
After an exchange of mutual, joyous greetings,
Ruth takes possession of his arm, and
slowly they proceed towards the Rectory.

And now do tell me, Charlie, what it

means, your coming back so much sooner
than you intended," she asks, eagerly. " You
so carefully worded your telegram, that it was
impossible to guess if you had good or bad
news for me. Does it mean that your uncle
positively jumped at the prospect of a ready-made
niece-inlaw, or does it mean that he
sent you promptly off with "

Don't joke about it, Ruth, please' he
answers, with a return of the cloud to his
brow, and a seriousness of manner most unnatural
to him. " It's all up with me in that
quarter, I fear ; and I'm so bothered about
ft all that I'll be hanged if I know what todo."


And then, as concisely as he can, he lets
her into the state of affairs. Poor Ruth's face
falls considerably, for she begins to feel that,
when Charlie, ordinarily so light-hearted and
so determined to make the best of things,

talks in such a despairing strain, there can
be no possible loophole for hope remaining.
She does not remind him of her counsel not
to be too certain of success before he started
forth on his diplomatic errand, for she cannot
doubt that he is seriously worried and out
of spirits, but she tries hard to encourage him
by a few timely words.

It does sound unfortunate, certainly," she
says, reflectively. " But still, Charlie, I don't
know that I expected much more from him at
first. By all you told me of him, I felt sure he
was the sort of man to be very angry about
it, and to dislike being taken by surprise in
that way ; but I think he won't hold out long."

You think so because you don't know
what he is like," returns her husband, feeling
that the last twenty-four hours have considerably
improved his acquaintance with his
relative's disposition. " When any one dares

to thwart him, or contradict him, he's as obstinate
as a mule, and as malicious as  a
monkey. Milly always said so, and by Jove
she was right ! I wouldn't give much for the
chance of making it square again."

I can't bear to hear you talk in that desponding
way, Charlie, dear," she says, softly ;
you, of all people, to make out that the case
is hopeless ! Why, I thought your favourite
motto was, ' Never say die ! ' "

"Well, of course I don't mean to give it
up without doing all I can," responds Captain
Devereux, roused to momentary energy.
Milly, I know, will help, though that won't
be much. It's no good my writing to him,
for he vows he won't open my letters."

And I wouldn't think of doing such a
thing, if I were you ! " cries Ruth, with spirit.
i( I think he has behaved very badly to you,
and it is he who ought to hold out the olive-branch.

All we can do is to trust to time,
and let him see how we can get on without
him."

Precious badly, I'm afraid," is Charlie's
dejected reply. "What good will his paltry
200 a year be to us ? I have managed to
get through at least four times that amount
hitherto with the greatest ease. I don't
know what we can do, Ruth, if he persists
in this."

." I suppose you must leave the army,
Charlie ? "

Charlie gives a groan of combined impatience
and misery.

Don't talk of it ! " he says. " I see nothing
else for me to do, of course. But after that,
even, how can we live on that wretched,
contemptible income ? "

You'd get something, wouldn't you,
Charlie, by the sale of your commission ? "

Well  something  yes, certainly,' , returns
he, with hesitation. He can barely refrain
from smiling, even in this moment of trouble,
as he wonders how much of that amount
would remain to him after clearing off those
' few little debts," which seem to him to
acquire an alarming degree of importance in
his present state of mind.

And then, you know, you could see if
you couldn't make a little money by your
writings. You told me you had rather a turn
for novel writing," pursues the young wife,
with increasing ardour, being too much occupied
with her own little schemes to remark
on his shifty answer. " Oh, I feel certain
that we should get on somehow, Charlie."

11 Somehow ! " he echoes, with bitterness.
Yes, we might manage to scramble along
somehow, and just keep ourselves from the
workhouse, perhaps ; that's about as much

as we could do, I fancy. But let's drop this
not very lively subject, Ruth. I'm too hot
and cross at present to face it."

Poor Charlie ! Do come and sit down
in this shady corner, and rest yourself," she
suggests, with ready tact and sympathy. " I
am so sorry about it all, my darling, and I
feel so guilty, too ; for, if it had not been
for me, all this bother would never have come
to you."

Now, Ruth, if you ever dare to hint at
such an idea again, I'll I'll throttle you!"
answers Charlie, with playful earnestness.
"What in the name of wonder has that got
to do with the matter at all, you little goose ?
Do I look as if I repented of the step I
have taken ? " he adds, with his sunniest
smile, which speaks of infinite happiness.
"If you take such preposterous notions into
your head, I shall be sorry that I let you

know anything about it. We'll make the old
screw grind his teeth with rage when he sees
how splendidly we can get on without his help,
won't we ? It isn't necessary to have a lot
of money to live on, is it ? only it's better fun
to be rich," he concludes, meditatively.

Well, as I have never known what it is
to be rich, I don't know how much I lose,
I suppose," replies Ruth, with a light-hearted
laugh. " I feel this trouble only for you,
Charlie, as you have been accustomed to such
an easy-going life."

Their conversation is here interrupted by
the approach of Mr. Saunders, who has been
vainly trying to find them, quite unable to
repress his curiosity as to the result of Captain
Devereux's visit to his uncle. He pulls a
long face when he hears what the young man
has to tell.

I am truly sorry for you both," he says,

with an expression of sincerely mournful
sympathy. "All the more sorry for you,
because you started off with such confident
anticipations of success," he adds, addressing
Charlie, with clerically well-turned, if rather
prosy, language. " But, at all events, this
circumstance will have the beneficial effect
of furnishing you with a useful lesson in
bearing an adverse turn of Fortune's wheel
with patience and resignation."

Charlie does not convey the impression of
being an embodiment of these two estimable
qualities, as he stands moodily by, kicking
viciously from time to time at the gravelled
path beneath his feet, and evidently paying
but scant attention to what Mr. Saunders is
saying ; but Ruth answers for him with prompt
readiness.

11 You don't know how well he is taking
his disappointment, Mr. Saunders," she cries.

It's ten thousand times worse for him than
for me, you know, because he has always
been taught to consider himself his uncle's
heir. And now "

Well, there is one favour which you must
promise to grant me," interrupts the Rector,
with an impulse of kindly hospitality  a
quality in which he is far from being deficient.
It will give us the greatest pleasure  I may
speak for my wife too  if you will consent to
stay with us for the remainder of your leave
of absence, with Mrs. Devereux. We were
regretting only this morning that her visit tous
would most likely soon come to an end.
Pray remain here till you shall have time to
think over matters a little."

"And perhaps then,  five days more,
haven't you got ?  there will be a letter
from Mr. Falconer, apologising to you," exclaims
Ruth, with her beaming smile.

Most probably !" he answers, with a
short and incredulous laugh. " I shall be
only too glad to accept your very kind invitation,"
he says cordially, as he turns
towards the Rector, " if you are sure it will
not bore Mrs. Saunders."

"Bore her, my dear fellow!" replies the
friend-indeed. " Not the least in the world.
She is most intensely interested in your affairs,
and delighted to imagine that she is actually
in some way connected with the hero and
heroine of so romantic a drama."

So they stay on at Midmarsh Rectory,
welcome guests to their sympathetic host
and hostess, and their visit would have been
one of unmixed enjoyment to the whole party
were it not for the cloud of doubt and uncertainty
hanging over the heads of the young
couple. Day after day they watch eagerly
for that hoped-for letter to arrive, but day

vol. 1. K

after day are they doomed to disappointment.
Milly writes twice during that period, but
her reports are very far from being satisfactory.
She is obliged reluctantly to confess that the
Ogre " is positively unmanageable for the
present, and that, as she is invariably banished
from his sight whenever she attempts to
bring Charlie's name forward, she sees nothing
that can be done, just now at least. She
therefore advises her cousin to wait quietly,
and to hope for better times, which may
eventually come for him. Charlie's spirits
fall lower and lower as the day of his
obligatory return to Aldershot draws near,
and on the last morning they sink to zero.
Mr. and Mrs. Saunders have entreated him
to let Ruth stay with them still another week ;
and when this period has passed by, still
without any movement in Mr. Falconer's
direction, Charlie puts away from him all

delusive ideas concerning his relenting. With
a spirit of defiant energy he sends in his
papers to the authorities, and thus finally
severs his connection with his cherished
profession.

He and Ruth settle down to battle with
their new circumstances as best they may
in a tiny house in Kensington, where he
turns his attention to light literature, and
she contrives to get together a few pupils,
as a means of adding to their slender income.


INTRODUCES TWO NEW CHARACTERS.

The only person that Mr. Falconer admits to
his acquaintance at all is a certain Mrs. Ver-school,
a widow lady who rents a small cottage
from him on the Whincote estate, and lives, so
to speak, at his very gates. Mrs. Verschoyle is
a pretty, graceful, interesting-looking creature,
with a soft voice and insinuating manner  a
manner indicating a marvellous amiability towards
humanity in general and Mr. Falconer
in particular; but, to Milly, always suggestive of
a cat-like claw beneath that velvety exterior.
Mrs. Verschoyle's age is difficult to guess at.
She maybe anything between thirty and fifty ;
but if one is to believe in the little hints which



she dexterously lets drop from time to time, she
is far nearer the former than the latter decade.

During the nine months she has been a
tenant of " The Wigwam,"  such being the
name of her tiny abode,  her attempts to gain
the good-will and friendship of the occupants
of the Abbey have been persevering and
worthy of all praise. Rebuffed by Mr. Falconer's
persistent avoidance of her, unruffled by
the discordant grunts and discourteous snubs
with which he received her first deprecating
advances, she has never once flagged in her
efforts, never once let slip an opportunity of
making herself agreeable to him, and to Milly
too.

And she has her reward. The process of
thawing Mr. Falconer has been a long and
weary one, but by degrees she has advanced
step by step, and may now be considered to
have won her goal. Mr. Falconer tolerates

her  almost forgets to use strong language in
her presence ; and, on the pretext of coming
"to have a little chat with dear Miss Byron,"
Mrs. Verschoyle's visits to the Abbey are by
no means infrequent. She has the proud satisfaction
of knowing that, with the exception of
the clergyman's wife, she is the only lady who
is ever encouraged to enter its inhospitable
portals. She has made a conquest of the
master of the great house, or what may be
called a conquest in connection with one so
farouche as he, and she piques herself on her
success. As to Milly  well, Milly is not to be
brought over by Mrs. Verschoyle's sweet
smiles and honeyed words as yet. Blunt and
straightforward as the day, the girl distrusts
and dislikes this soft-tongued neighbour of
theirs, and takes but little pains to conceal her
feelings. But of late Milly has appeared to
discourage her friendly overtures less persistently.

Since her cousin was so unfortunately
exiled from the home of his boyhood,
a phase of apathy and indifference to everything
around her has seemed to submerge her,
and for many weeks she has betrayed no interest
whatever in the small events of her daily
life. She has had no spirit left to contend
with Mrs. Verschoyle's minute manoeuvres,
and she has allowed Mr. Falconer's perpetual
sneers and sarcasms to fall on her ears unheeded.
Her uncle believes that the girl is
coming to her senses at last, and is beginning
to realize the futility of opposing his will any
longer. Mrs. Verschoyle, too, notices the
change, and wonders whether the prolonged
depression of her spirits is due entirely to
sympathy with her cousin's wrongs.

But latterly, during the last week or two,
Milly's demeanour has again altered. She
looks brighter, and is once again full of spirits ;

is somewhat restless in her movements, and
apparently unable to sit still for long together.
There is a light in her eye, an elasticity in
her step which speaks of some inward cause
for happiness, and Mrs. Verschoyle's keen
glance is not slow to perceive the alteration.

That girl has found some one to put the
thoughts of her cousin's troubles out of her
head," she says to herself sagaciously. " I
wonder who on earth he can be ! M

Coming one afternoon to pay a visit to the
Abbey, she meets Milly dressed for going out,
on the very steps of the house. The look of
annoyance which momentarily flits across her
face as she catches sight of her visitor is not
unobserved by the latter.

11 She is vexed at my coming to stop her
just when she is going off to meet him," is her
comment, as she gives vent to a low, malicious
chuckle.

Outwardly, she is all smiles and cordiality.

Just going out, dear Miss Byron ? So
fortunate I am just to have caught you ! I
thought I would stroll up to try and get a
peep of you and Mr. Falconer. It is so long
since I have seen you."

You must have had a hot walk," returns
Milly, not too graciously; "and it is very
seldom that I am in at this time of the afternoon."


"Yes, I know. I know your fondness for
being out of doors, and I assure you I quite
enter into your feelings. I quite revel in these
glorious summer days, and could sit out all
day in the sunshine, watching the birds and
flowers. And where were you going to just
now ? For a ride, I suppose ? "

Mrs. Verschoyle is quite aware that such is
not Milly' s intention at this moment.

A ride ? " echoes the girl. " Not I. It is

much too hot, and surely you can see that I
have not got my habit on ! "

Ah, indeed ! " Mrs. Verschoyle lifts up
a gold-rimmed eye-glass, and affects sudden
blindness. " How stupid of me ! Of course I
see now. But I am so used to see you outriding,
and you seemed so devoted to it, that I
naturally supposed you had your habit on.
But latterly you have appeared to have taken
a fancy for walking about."

Very likely ; one gets tired of doing the
same thing always."

Milly's tone is careless, but the colour mounts
up in her face a little, for she feels that there
is a hidden meaning in the other's words.

I am sure you must value the liberty you
have," continues Mrs. Verschoyle blandly ;
you always seem to me to be such an enviable
young lady,  able to do exactly as you
like from morning till night."

11 Except when I have to do things for my
uncle !" puts in Milly grimly.

Ah ! but, my dear, I always think Mr. Falconer
so wonderfully good and considerate in
the way he lays so little claim to your time.
Many men would be always wanting to chain
you to their side, and look for all sorts of little
attentions. And, by the way, how is your
dear uncle ? Has he at all got over the shock
of the disappointment of learning that your
cousin was married ? "

I don't know about the shock of it, but he
has never got over his anger against Charlie,
and never will, I suppose. One would think
that Charlie had committed some dreadful
crime."

My dear Miss Byron, look at the affair
from your uncle's point of view. It was such
a vexatious thing for him to find Captain
Devereux had ruined his prospects in life by

marrying an obscure governess ; and to keep
it a secret from him too  not to give a hint
of his intentions to him."

Really, Mrs. Verschoyle, I do not see any
good in going over all this ground again ! "
interrupts Millie impatiently. " We have discussed
it before, and as we are never likely to
agree about the matter, I think we had better
drop it once for all. I cannot think why my
uncle should choose to talk over these things
with outsiders."

Oh ! but, my dear Miss Byron, you surely
do not look upon me as an outsider  I, who
have been so interested in you and your uncle
since I first came here. And he has been so
kind in always making me feel quite at home,
and treating me, as I might say, quite like one
of the family. Just after this unfortunate
business about Captain Devereux happened,
I ventured to condole with him, for I knew it

must be a severe blow to him, and he at
once accepted my sympathy, and gave mean
insight into the details of the story. So it
is but natural that I should allude to it now
and then."

11 You may allude to it as much as you like
to him," answers Milly, with emphasis, "but
I myself would rather not speak about it. It
is something new to me to find that Uncle
John is so unreserved about his private affairs."

I daresay you do not quite understand
your uncle's character," says the elder lady, a
little patronizingly. " Young people are so
apt to possess superficial observation, and to
form one-sided views of human nature without
taking the trouble to study it thoroughly. I
flatter myself that I understand your uncle
fairly well, and to my mind he is "

The very reverse of amiable," interpolates
Milly, half joking.

On the contrary, I find him a most agreeable
companion, and "

Do you really mean that, Mrs. Ver-school
? "

Indeed I do. To me he has always been
a most considerate friend."

Wonders will never cease ! " exclaims
Milly, laughing. "The idea of his being
called an agreeable companion ! Certainly he
must have two sides to his character! Mrs.
Verschoyle, do you understand German ? "

A little, yes."

Then you know what I mean when I
say that the German expressions ' Hauteur
' and ' Strassengel ' seem to fit him well,
according to your ideas and mine. And very
little of the ' Engel ' there is about him, I am
certain," adds the girl, sotto voce.

Mrs. Verschoyle tries her best to look
shocked.

You naughty girl ! " she exclaims, shaking
her finger at her. " How can you speak of
your kind uncle in that way ? But I know
you are only joking. And now, do you think
he would like me to go in and have a little
chat with him ? I see you are all impatience
to be off, and he is good enough to say sometimes
that my visits cheer him up a little."

I am sure he will be delighted to see
you," says Milly, with suspicious alacrity.
He is in the library."

"You don't think there is anything  anything
odd in my paying him a visit ? " asks
Mrs. Verschoyle, simpering, and trying to look
conscious. " People are so foolish, you know ;
they will talk about nothing."

For answer, Milly bursts into a peal of
laughter.

I really did not know what you meant at
first," she :says, recovering herself. "The idea

of thinking of the proprieties in connection
with Uncle John! I should as soon have
thought of wondering whether it would have
been ' odd ' to pay a visit to Noah in his
ark."

And she laughs again.

My dear, I was only looking at it from a
conventional point of view. It doesn't do
for all of us to set the opinion of the world
wholly at defiance. Not that I am one to be
tied down by those considerations as a rule 
not at all ; on the contrary, I fear I am sadly
negligent of the opinions of other people.
Well, good-bye, Miss Byron ; I hope you will
have a pleasant walk. Don't you find your
solitary rambles a little dull now and then ? "

Again Milly flushes a little, but she looks
Mrs. Verschoyle full in the face as she answers,


Indeed, I do not. I usually like my own

company better than that of most other
people's."

And then she turns away, delighted to beset
free. She walks across the lawn, and
through the garden gate at a moderately slow
pace ; but once out of view of the windows,
she quickens her movements, apparently unheeding
the scorching rays of the sun over
her head. Across the meadow adjoining the
Abbey garden she hastens, then into a shady
beech copse, which offers a cool and inviting
resting-place, and which is, presumably, the
goal of her journey. Turning the corner of
one of the narrow glades which run at right
angles from the principal pathway, she comes
upon a young man clad in a suit of light
grey, sitting upon the fallen trunk of a tree.
He starts to his feet as he hears her approach,
and advances to meet her.

How late you are!" he exclaims reproach-vol.
1. L

fully. " I had almost given you up. What
has kept you ? "

Evidently Mr. Geoffrey Dering is not a
man who appreciates being kept waiting.
But Milly does not resent his tone ; she is
too Mattered by this evident impatience for
her arrival.

GEOFFREY During.

Milly's hero  who is destined to exercise
such a strong and baleful influence over her
life  is of about two-and-thirty years of age.
In appearance he is tall and slight  slight
almost to a fault, according to the standard
of masculine build. His face is one of those
which may be called either plain or good-looking
as criticised by his detractors or his
friends. He has fair hair, which he wears
closely cropped in the fashion of the day,
and a light moustache ; bluish-grey eyes,
which are set deeply beneath his clearly defined
brows, and a somewhat large nose.
His mouth has a curious, wry expression,



which seems to imply that its owner could
on occasion give vent to sarcasms, and even
perhaps venomous little speeches with much
effect. And his eyes have a shifty, furtive
look in them, which would impress a stranger
with the idea that his character lacked openness.


Such is Geoffrey Dering to look at  of an
ordinary type enough, most men would say,
and not of a very prepossessing type either.
Yet to Milly he is the embodiment of perfection.
She is completely fascinated by him ;
with him, she feels herself to be in Elysium ;
without him, life wears a dreary, grey-hued
aspect, and all days are blank. Once again,
the old, old story is being enacted for Milly
poor, impulsive, unreflecting Milly, who, all
unconsciously, idealizes her hero in her own
mind to such an extent as to render her incapable
of judging how much her creation

resembles the original mould. She is in love
with a fantasy, a deified, impossible being,
the offspring of her own imagination, between
whom and the real Geoffrey Dering there
yawns a wide gulf indeed. His voice is to
her like the voice of the gods, his words unlike
the words of ordinary mankind, though
common-place they might appear to outsiders.
To her there is a charm about his
most trivial utterances which interests her
and enthrals her as the utterances of no
other man had ever yet done.

Side by side they sit down on the felled
tree, and she tells him how she was delayed
by Mrs. Verschoyle's arrival. Milly has the
power of relating such trivialities in a manner
as to render them amusing to her audience,
and Mr. Dering laughs heartily as she
recounts the conversation with considerable
humour, and by a few vivid touches, she

paints Mrs. Verschoyle as she is so clearly,
that she furnishes a lifelike portrait to
him.

I don't fancy her by your description, I
confess," he remarks. " I know so well that
stamp of woman  all softness outside, but
spiteful and vicious as a cat all the time."

Milly nods her head in acquiescence.

Yes, that is just what I feel she is. I
do not like her at all, although I have no
reasonable grounds for saying so."

A sheer case of instinct, depend upon
it," returns Geoffrey oracularly. " And it is
generally safe enough to trust to that. If I
were you, Miss Byron," he adds, with meaning,
" I should not be [inclined to make a
great friend or confidante of her."

He has lived long enough in the world 
this shrewd, far-seeing young man  to have
acquired a good deal of celerity in reading

the motives which sway the actions of others,
and he divines enough of the widow's little
game to feel sure that she cherishes no very
friendly feeling towards Milly.

The girl blushes a little under his gaze.

Oh, of course not," she says hurriedly ;
I should not think of doing so  I have not
the least wish to make a friend of her at all ;
but  Mr. Dering"  she grows hot and embarrassed
as she knows not how to put into
words what she would say  " I wanted to tell
you  to say  that I have been thinking how
I am sure I ought not to come like this, and
meet you here."

She brings out the last words boldly
enough, but she does not dare look up at
him. A great tide of shame takes possession
of her soul, for she feels she is violating every
code of propriety in consenting to meet
him here to-day, and Milly is a good, honest

girl at heart, and hates deception and mysteries
of all kinds.

Geoffrey Dering takes one swift, searching
glance at her before he answers  a glance
of which she remains utterly unconscious.

My dear Miss Byron ! " he cries, with
what appears to be astonishment, though
there lurks a curious expression of half
triumph, half contempt, in his eyes, as he
lets them droop downwards again. " What
a very tender conscience you must have !
Why, you don't really mean to say you think
there's anything wrong in your allowing me
to spend half an hour with you now and
then, and exchanging ideas, and doing our
best to wile away a few of the weary hours
of these long summer days ? Do you know
what people say, what the whole country is
saying, of you ? " he continues, warming with
his subject, and watching carefully the effect

of his words on her  " that it is a most
awful shame that Mr. Falconer keeps you
shut up as he does, never letting you see a
soul, or go into society. They pity you most
awfully, and I don't believe there's one other
young lady in England who'd stand it, and
put up with the life as you do."

Milly draws herself up proudly.

I don't care to hear what other people
say about me, and I certainly am in no need
of their compassion."

Of course you're not," he responds
promptly, fearful of having made a false step.
"You're quite right, Miss Byron; the opinions
of the world outside our walls are not worth
repeating or listening to. I would not have
mentioned the subject, only of course I cannot
help hearing things discussed among my
neighbours, and I have felt so very sorry
for you, and have often wished to express

my sympathy for you," he adds, in lower
tones.

And Milly, listening with lowered head,
wonders how he can speak of being sorry for
her, and of feeling pity for her, when she
considers herself one of the most blest and
fortunate women in the kingdom, and would
not change places with the Queen on her throne.

After all," resumes Geoffrey, in his ordinary
manner, " you and I have only seen
each other  how many times is it, Miss
Byron ? "

This is the third time, I think," she answers
quietly. She feels rather hurt at his
not being able to remember the exact number
of their meetings as faithfully as she does.
Every incident connected with each one, every
word which has passed between them, is imprinted
indelibly on her heart, though not for
worlds would she let him discover this.

The first time was when I met you outriding,
and picked up your whip for you," he
goes on, never once taking his eyes off her
face. " I shall always bless that day, as being
the one of my first introduction to you.
Fancy my never having seen you before then !
Although it is true enough that I have been
little at home of late years, and you  you
have been shut up in the Abbey walls, as if
you were an enchanted princess. What a
shame it was ! "

His words and looks so plainly intimate that
he considers his loss in the matter to have
been almost irreparable, that the girl again
reddens beneath the fixity of his gaze, and
hastens to break the silence.

And the second time I saw you," she
says hurriedly, "was here, just close to where
we are now."

Yes. Some good angel must have

prompted you to walk by that day. I hadn't
the faintest notion that such good luck was
in store for me. And when you told me
that this was a favourite walk of yours, was
there anything very wicked in my saying that
I liked it too, do you think, and asking you
if you were likely to stroll this way again ?
Mr. Falconer would not take me up for trespassing
if he saw me, would he ? "

No, no, of course not. But still, he might
not like it. Indeed, I'm sure he would be
angry."

Miss Byron, tell me the truth  be as open
and frank as I know it your nature to be,
and don't be afraid of hurting my feelings.
Do you wish me to come here no more ?
Are you tired of me ? If so, you will only
have to tell me, and I will never intrude on
you again."

How cleverly he knows how to manipulate

the girl, and to rivet his chains yet more
closely ! At the very thought of not seeing
him again, of giving up these stolen interviews,
which have already grown to be so
perilously sweet to her, Milly's heart gives a
great throb, and her whole soul rebels at the
prospect.

Of course I do not wish you to stay
away," she says, as calmly as she can. " Do
you imagine I am so fond of my own company
that I am content to live and die without
ever speaking to a soul beyond my uncle
and the servants ? " with an effort to speak
jestingly. " Only I dislike anything that is
not above board, and this is not that, you
know, and I feel that Uncle John would have
a right to be angry with me if he found it
out."

Mr. Dering is silent for a moment, and
when his words come, they are spoken slowly,

as if he were weighing each one as he utters
it 

Well, perhaps you are right and wise in
considering your uncle's wishes so much," he
begins.

Wise ! Why wise ? " inquired Milly
quickly, struck with the tone of his voice.
What do you mean, Mr. Dering ? "

Again he hesitates.

Very naturally you would wish to try and
stand well with him, and not offend him."

I can't make out what you mean," responds
Milly impatiently, tapping her foot
on the ground. " Why on earth should I be
so afraid of offending him ? To tell you the
truth, there's very little love lost between
him and me, and if I don't like doing what
I am doing now, it is chiefly because
I know I am doing something wrong  not
from fear of displeasing him. Why, I doa

hundred things all day long for which he
blows  he scolds me as hard as he possibly
can."

Geoffrey laughs.

You evidently don't give a thought to
the policy of your proceedings," he remarks
lightly.

The policy ? "  she furrows her brow in
perplexity. " Oh, I see what you mean ! "
abruptly. " You think that I ought to study
him and consider him because of all the
money he has to leave. But I have not the
remotest chance of coming in for that."

No ? The world in general, nevertheless,
looks upon you in the light of the heiress of
the Abbey."

Really ? How very odd ! But even if I
did get the Og  my uncle's money  I should
never dream of keeping it. I should hand it
over to Charlie in a moment."

11 Charlie is your cousin, Captain Devereux,
is he not ? What a fortunate individual he
is ! And I cannot say how I admire you,
Miss Byron, for your utter indifference to the
charms of  s. d"

There is just a suspicion of a sneer in his
voice as he makes this remark, but it fails to
penetrate her ear.

There is not much merit in my being indifferent
to what I feel certain I shall never
possess," she says, with a laugh. " Probably
you think it is a case of sour grapes. But
indeed, Mr. Dering, I have never for one
moment really thought that my uncle would
make me his heiress. He certainly once gave
me a very vague hint "

A vague hint ? " repeats her companion,
trying hard to veil his eagerness.

Yes ; a hint that I must take care how I
behaved to him, or it might be the worse

for me ; which I suppose meant that it had
entered into his brain to conceive that it
might possibly be better to leave his money
to me rather than to a hospital or "

And you are his nearest relation, I think,
are you not ? " inquires Geoffrey carelessly.

Charlie and I are his only near relations,
except some cousins, four times removed,
whom he never sees. Poor Charlie ! what
a pity it is he so completely ruined his
chances by his hasty marriage ! You know
the story, of course ? " she adds, looking up
at him.

He nods his head. Of course he knows
every detail of the ill-starred marriage and
subsequent quarrel. Indeed, he would not
be here now dallying with this girl had it
not been for the facts which have been revealed
to him by means of gossiping friends
and neighbours.

VOL. i. M

He and Uncle John were such good
friends before," continues Milly, pursuing the
thread of her reflections. " There was no
doubt that Charlie would have been heir to
everything money and property and everything.
And now "

And now you must see if you cannot do
your best for your cousin, and give him back
some of what he has lost, when it comes to
you," says Mr. Dering easily.

Some of it ! Of course I should give
him back all!" cries Milly warmly. "And
for that reason, and that only, I do really
try and put up with Uncle John when I
can. Only he is so trying ; you have no
idea ! And we suit each other as little as
fire and water."

I have no doubt that he would try the
patience of a saint," responds he heartily.
And very few people would be as forbearing

as you are, I am sure ; but you will always
have the consolation of thinking it is
for your cousin's sake that you hold yourself
back."

And then he dexterously changes the conversation,
and makes himself so agreeable to
the fascinated girl that time passes by unheeded,
and she is only roused to a knowledge
of the hour by a glance at her watch.
Then she jumps up hurriedly and declares
she must be off  her uncle will expect her to
be back in time to give him his tea. Geoffrey
does not attempt to detain her. He has
gained a half promise from her that she will
walk that way " again tomorrow, and is
quite satisfied with the progress he has made
that afternoon. He has learnt many things
that he wished to know, and he feels confident
that he has advanced many steps in her
good graces. He knows that she will count

the hours till the time of their rendezvous
for the morrow arrives, and that nothing will
induce her to fail him. And for himself, 
well, he may as well pass an idle afternoon in
making himself pleasant to her as do anything
else ; and with the contingency of a possible
heiress-ship in the future, he does not consider
he is altogether wasting his time. And
then the girl herself is lively and amusing,
and is evidently beginning to like him and
he has no objection to carry it on a little
further, at all events, till he can see how
things turn out. So he bids Milly a tender
farewell, and contrives to convey a good deal
of meaning into the depths of his eyes as he
lets them dwell on hers, when they clasp hands
at parting; and then they go their different
ways. He walks off with a brisk, easy step,
whistling as he goes, and busy in thinking of
well, of a hundred things, in which Milly

certainly has no part or lot. She hurries
away in a guilty, noiseless manner, her face
plainly showing that she is anxious to avoid
meeting any one just at this moment. Nevertheless,
she finds time to cast one or two
surreptitious glances in a backward direction,
and an involuntary sigh escapes her as each
time she looks she fails to catch sight of
Geoffrey executing the same manoeuvre on
her behalf. At last he disappears entirely
from her view, and as she runs quickly round
the corner of the wood, she finds herself in
the very arms of the last person she wishes
to encounter  none else but Mrs. Verschoyle
herself!

QUALMS.

Milly recovers her self-possession at the
unexpected meeting as best she may, and
stammers out a profusion of apologies for
having so abruptly cannonaded against the
widow. The latter smiles good-humouredly,
and assures her that it was not her fault in
the very least.

On the contrary, it is / who ought to
apologise to you," she says suavely. " I
very rarely come this way, but it was such
a lovely afternoon, that after I had paid my
visit to your uncle, I was tempted to make
a little detour before going home. I had no
idea I should be an involuntary spectator of
such a pretty little scene," she adds pointedly.

Milly turns scarlet.

What scene ? What do you mean ? "

14 Dear Miss Byron, don't be angry with
me ! I may as well tell you at once that I
saw you taking leave of Mr. Dering just
now ; you made quite a picture, I assure you,
standing there holding each other's hands,
and both looking so happy and so handsome.
But what a naughty girl you are to run off
like that, and pass the afternoon with a young
gentleman without letting any one know
anything about it ! Dear me, I had no idea
you were such a sly puss ! "

Milly positively can find no words to utter
in reply, so completely is she unbounded.

41 Don't look so dreadfully unhappy, my
dear girl, pray ! " continues Mrs. Verschoyle,
in her softest tones. " After all, I don't
see that you have done anything so very
reprehensible. Young people will be young

people to the end of the chapter, and have
their little mysteries and their stolen pleasures ;
and it is not so very long ago that I was
young and impulsive too, and, I dare say,
did just the same. So I can quite well
understand all about it, and you may depend
upon my not betraying your secret. We will
keep it quite to ourselves, won't we, dear ? "

Milly's pride rises up in arms at her
patronizing tone, and at her assuming so
easily that henceforth their interests will in
some sort be identified.

I hate keeping things to myself," she
answers shortly. " I never meant it to bea
secret."

But you surely do not intend to confess
your little  escapade  to Mr. Falconer, Miss
Byron ? Sooner than that, I would strongly
advise you to give up Mr. Dering altogether,
and make up your mind to see no more of

him." (How Milly winces, and how quickly
the other perceives that she does ! ) " For,
you know, gentlemen so seldom understand
or sympathise with this kind of thing.
They are so apt to magnify its importance,
and to be so hard upon us for what is, after
all, but a little harmless love of fun and
excitement. But it is curious that you should
have selected Mr. Dering, of all people, as
your friend."

And why so, may I ask ? "

Because he is  well, if I were to repeat
the exact words in which I have heard him
and his father described, I should say that
they are a pair of most thorough scamps."

Mrs. Verschoyle drawls out the words in
her silkiest tones, and gives vent to a light
little laugh as she concludes.

I don't believe a word of it ! " cries Milly
impulsively.

I dare say not ; and I have no doubt
that it is an absurd exaggeration. Probably
they are no worse than the rest of the world.
But the story goes that they have been living
pretty well by their wits for the last five
years or so, having run through every penny
of their income before that by betting and
gambling, and all sorts of dreadful things.
Now they have come back to that old tumbledown
house of theirs to live, as the only
resource left to them ; and they fill it with
a number of fast friends, and play cards all
night long. How they contrive to get along
at all is a mystery to everybody. But I am
not saying that all this is true," adds Mrs.
Verschoyle rather eagerly. " I am only
repeating to you the common report of the
neighbourhood. And as to the son  but no,
I will not tell you any more, for fear you
should think me ill-natured."

But indeed you must tell me, now you
have begun," says Milly firmly. " As to Mr.
Geoffrey Dering  what have you heard ? "

Oh, nothing much, only that he is a
great favourite with ladies, and that he is
given to flirt desperately with them, and then
suddenly cool off and declare that he meant
nothing by it."

Mrs. Verschoyle smiles serenely as she
mentally contrasts her very mild version of
Mr. Dering's proclivities with the original as
it was told to her.

But this does not matter to you, dear
Miss Byron," she continues caressingly.
14 You are far too wise and sensible a girl tolet
yourself fall in love with a man you know
nothing about, however good-looking and
attractive he may be. It is very natural
that you should like to talk to him now and
then, if only to passer le temps. And your

life is such a very quiet one that no one
could possibly blame you for taking what
little diversion comes in your way. Poor
child ! I always pity you so much shut up
there, with no companions of your own age.
I do hope, Milly,  you will let me call you
Milly for the future, will you not ?  that you
will let me try to do what little I can to amuse
you and be of use to you now ; will you ? "

And Milly, disagreeably conscious that
she has, in some degree, laid herself under
an obligation to this smooth-tongued lady,
feels constrained to answer her as graciously
as she can.

"I have not the least objection to your calling
me Milly," she says, "and I am much obliged
to you for wishing to be of use to me. But
I am afraid Uncle John will not even let me
see much of you. He hates my knowing
any one."

Oh, my dear, trust to me, and I will see
if I cannot manage matters somehow, so as
to make your existence a little less dreary
than it is now. Your uncle was quite cheerful
and genial this afternoon, and I almost feel
sure that I could in time persuade him to
agree to any little request I might make to
him. And now, dear, I must not keep you
talking any longer. Try and not let yourself
be too desperately smitten with the charms
of Mr. Geoffrey, and pray feel easy in the
assurance that your little secret is perfectly
safe with me. And don't waste a second
thought on that silly gossip which I was
foolish enough to repeat ; it has most likely
not a grain of truth in it."

Good-night," says Milly in reply, but not
with any very responsive warmth in her tone.
She feels angry and humiliated to think that this
woman  whom she likes less than ever now 

has her, so to speak, in her power, and has
instituted a claim on her friendship by her
forbearance in keeping her counsel. When
she finds herself alone in her room that night,
and has time to think over all that has
happened, she is more than ever inclined to
distrust her professions of affection, and wishes
with all her heart that fate had not been so
cruelly unkind as to mix up Mrs. Verschoyle,
of all people, in her affairs. She feels confident
in her own mind that that lady is not
genuinely fond of her at heart, and she is
dimly conscious that there is some deep hidden
motive beneath that smiling exterior, which
alone can account for her sudden interest in
her, and in her newly born readiness to serve
and shield her. She passes a sleepless night
in deliberating on what she is to do next.
Once the notion floats across her mind that
it would be almost wisest to go to Mr.

Falconer, and boldly inform him that she
has made acquaintance with Geoffrey Bering,
and so rid her conscience of the burden of
the secret which lies on it. But she laughs
out loud to herself as she pictures the scene
which would follow her voluntary confession,
and finally dismisses that alternative altogether
from her thoughts. In the end, she does
what nine girls out of ten would resolve todo
in her position,  namely, makes up her
mind to temporize. She will see Geoffrey
again first before she decides on anything,
will put the whole case before him, and
be guided by his advice how to act in
the dilemma. One fixed resolution runs
through all her meditations the while,
though she hardly admits its influence even
to herself, and that is, that come what will,
she cannot possibly give up seeing him 
cannot, under any circumstances, cut the

Gordian knot of her difficulties by this very
obviously desirable method. Anything but
that,  but to see him no more, to relinquish
all the sweets of her sub rose " friendship "
now, when she is but just beginning to learn
how unutterably precious it is becoming to
her ! No, she has not the strength for that.
Already he has gained such an ascendancy
over her mind that her usually clearly defined
principles of right and wrong are just a trifle
obscured and blunted, and she is doing her
best to twist and turn every possible argument
she can devise as an excuse and a palliation
for herself in the path of crookedness and
double dealing upon which she has entered.
Naturally true and open as the day, she is
conscious of a falling off from her moral
standard, but she has almost persuaded
herself that such deterioration is excusable,
if not commendable, under certain peculiar

circumstances  such circumstances, for instance,
which seem to surround her existence
at this moment. When one argues and
reasons and persuades one's self after this
fashion, it affords strong evidence of an
outside influence being already at work in
undermining one's better nature, and in
blinding one's eyes, so that one forgets to
note that the first downward step is taken.
After that it all goes on so easily.

Milly thinks over all that Mrs. Verschoyle
has said about Geoffrey Dering's character and
antecedents, too, of course. She is too shrewd
and sensible a girl to dismiss it from her mind
as if it were not worth a second thought, or to
disbelieve it utterly. She is of the opinion that
there is rarely so much smoke without a fire, to
quote a homely saying ; and allowing a good
deal for exaggeration and inaccuracy, she is
quite inclined to admit that there is some truth

vol. 1. N

in what she has heard, and which evidently
most people accept with unmitigated belief.
But, strange to say  or, rather, to those who
have studied human nature, and especially
woman's nature, it is not strange  the knowledge
that he is not exactly the Sir Galahad her
fancy had pictured him serves but to increase
her interest in him tenfold. It gives a sort of
piquancy to the situation, a flavour of naughtiness
and niceness combined  the notion that
the man whom fate has decreed should be
thrown across her path should be one of all
others who is most spoken ill of by the world,
and is metaphorically branded as a black sheep.
It tickles her sense of humour to think of herself
so carefully guarded and pertinaciously
kept apart from all contamination with mankind,
and then, at the first opportunity, becoming
friendly with a man whom rumour
paints as an undesirable acquaintance, to say

the least of it. Her spirits rise as the
novelty of the situation unfolds itself before
her mind's eye. The longing for the forbidden
apple finds a place in most female
hearts, just as much as it took possession
of the mind of our common mother in days
of yore, although in the case of some it may
for ever remain dormant,  and the spice of
wickedness which is attached to it renders
it none the less alluring. Nevertheless, she is
not altogether at ease as she ponders over the
future, and wonders what will be the end of
it all. Like most girls, she has a vein of
quixotism in her nature, and vague dreams
of being the instrument of reforming Geoffrey
Dering from his evil courses, and of hearing
him acknowledge at some very far-off day that
her influence has been the saving of him, and
raised him up to a new life, tend still more to
strengthen her arguments, and to furnish yet

another plausible motive for doing that which
she wishes to do  prosecute the acquaintanceship.
How truly convenient it is when we
can so plainly demonstrate that duty walks
hand in hand with our secret desires !

The next morning's post brings Milly a
powerful aid to the solution of the difficulty
which perplexes her, in the shape of an invitation
from the only young lady friends she can
boast of  Edith and Dorothy Treherne, who
live in a large old house in one of the Midland
counties, with a grandmother, who seems to
have no object in life but to study and gratify
their whims and pleasure. The Trehernes
are the only people with whom Milly is ever
allowed to stay, so that she has but little fear
of a refusal from Mr. Falconer this time.
And she always enjoys going to see them so
much, and just now the invitation happens to
be especially welcome. Besides which, Edith

holds out another strong inducement for her
com in o\ which is that Charlie and his wife have
also been asked to come down to the Park,
and Milly, guiltily conscious of having of late
a little neglected her cousins interests, is all
the more eager to rush off and welcome him
and his bride. Yes, she certainly will go, and
go as soon as she possibly can. She will
run and ask her uncle's leave before her heart
fails her at the idea of leaving Geoffrey so
soon, and then, when the letter of acceptance
is written, it will be impossible for her to drawback.


Before she goes to her uncle's study, she
tears her friend's note into a hundred little
pieces, and throws them in the grate, smiling
to herself as she pictures his fury if he had
been able to read the contents, for this is
an exact reproduction of Miss Treherne's
letter : 

11 Dear old Mill, 

11 Granny says I am to write to you, and
command you to come here immediately for as
long a time as the Ogre can reconcile himself
to the loss of your society. We have asked
Charlie and his bride too, and after keeping
us waiting for four days for their answer, he
writes to say they will come on Saturday for
three nights, as his ' business ' cannot spare
him for more than that. What is his
'business,' I should like to know? I think
the Ogre has been most inhuman in his behaviour
to him, merely because he chose to
please himself in the choice of a wife ; but
between ourselves I can't help thinking Master
Charlie has been rather a duffer to give up
Whincote Abbey and all that for the sake of
a little obscure governess, who, I hear, is
neither startlingly lovely nor alarmingly fascinating.
However, she may be virtue itself incarnate,

as we shall find out when we see
her, and after all it is better to be good than
pretty, isn't it ? She must have something to
recommend her, don't you think ? Of course
you will not breathe a hint to the Ogre of their
being here ; but there is no earthly reason that
I can see why we should cut him and ignore
her simply because he does. Now mind you
cajole or frighten him somehow into saying
1 Yes,' and come off as quickly as you can  tomorrow
or Saturday at latest. We are dying
to see you again, and to try and shake off the
rust of your convent life once more. Granny
sends her love, and says you must bring your
best frocks, for there are lots of tennis parties
going on. Dorothy says very little about it,
but you know that she is aching to catch sight
of you again.

Your loving

Edith Treherne."

The smile conjured up by her friend's
irreverent letter still hovers on Milly's lips as
she enters the " Ogre's " domain, and after the
briefest morning greeting, she rushes headlong
to her point at once.

I have had a letter from Edith Treherne
this morning, Uncle John," she begins, after
having vouchsafed him the very mildest form
of a kiss that can be imagined upon the top of
his forehead.

11 By your condescending to inform me of
that interesting fact, I imagine that your letter
contains something more than the mere idle
tittle-tattle of an empty-headed girl," he
answers pleasantly.

You are quite right, Uncle John. How
clever you are at guessing, to be sure ! They
ask me to go and stay with them, and "

And you want to go, of course. Spare
yourself the trouble of saying it. Gadding

about all over the place, that is your idea of
pleasure, I know."

"Well, really, Uncle John, if you are under
the delusion that / am a gadabout, I wonder
what you would say if you knew what Edith
and Dorothy do?" says Milly, laughing
merrily. " Why, they are never at home for
two weeks together, unless they have the
house full of people."

Then all I can say is, that I thank Providence
that He did not give me Miss Edith
and Miss What's-her-name as nieces or grandchildren,"
says Mr. Falconer, with angry
fervour.

I feel certain they would join you in a
chorus on that score," answers his niece pertly.
But you have not said whether I may go or
not yet."

Go ? Go anywhere you like, so long as
you don't pester me with questions ! " is his

hasty reply. But Milly is too grateful for
the consent to be fastidious as to the terms
in which it is couched. " What on earth
should I want you here for ? You're of no
use to me, or to any one else, as far as I can
see.

Some people, you know, Uncle John, are
created more for ornament than for use, aren't
they ? " asks Milly meaningly.

And you flatter yourself that you are of
the former class ? " sneeringly.

Oh dear no ! I haven't yet quite made
up my mind as to my special mission in this
world ; but there really do seem to be some
people who are intended neither for use nor
beauty, curiously enough. Don't you agree
with me ? "

And she darts him a swift glance, pointing
her innuendo by a sarcastic smile.

11 I don't know what you're talking about,

and I certainly have no time to waste in
listening to your ridiculous nonsense."

' Harebrained utterances of an irresponsible
frivolity,' eh?" quotes Milly saucily.
11 Well, I'll relieve you of my presence, Uncle
John, if you'll only tell me how long I may
stay, and whether I may go tomorrow."

11 You may stay a week, and no longer,
mind ; and you may go this moment for all

care.

"Thanks; that's all right. And now"
(aside) " to tell Geoffrey."

GOING AWAY.

Milly is the first to arrive at the trysting
place that afternoon. Indeed, Mr. Dering is
so long before he puts in an appearance,
that she has experienced all the tortures of
the various stages of suspense, fear, and despair
in the interim, and is finally convinced
that he intends to fail her. After quite three-quarters
of an hour waiting for him, her last
grain of patience ebbs away, and she turns
sick with misery and disappointment as she
vainly strains her eyes in the direction he
ought to come, and perceives no sign of his
approach.

He will not come now. I shall not see
him again," she repeats over and over to herself

a hundred times, and utter blankness
falls over her spirit, and chills her very blood.
He must have been hindered in some unexpected
manner ; it is not his fault, of course,"
she argues, with the blind faith of a woman
deeply in love ; he would not voluntarily break
his appointment with her. But it is very
hard, very trying, and tomorrow she is going
away, and this is her last chance of seeing
him, and of letting him know what her plans
are. And then once again  for the last time,
she tells herself  she takes a long, careful
survey of the path by which he comes, and
with a hopeless, dreary feeling, takes a few
steps in the direction of the Abbey, giving
up all expectation of his coming.

And then  and then her quick ear catches
the sound of a hasty footstep, and she looks
round once more, and, swift as thought, she
finds herself in heaven again, and all her

wretchedness is turned to bliss unspeakable.
He is here  at last! He is coming rapidly
towards her, and she turns and awaits his
coming with the deep red colour mantling in
her cheek, and a smile of welcome, which
betrays more of her inmost feelings than she
has any idea of, irradiating her countenance.
A moment ago she had been inclined to feel
a little sore and indignant with him, but she
has no thought of reproaching him ever so
gently now he is here, and accepts his eager
excuses with easy indulgence.

It was enough to try any man's temper ! "
he exclaims. 'just as I was starting off, an
old friend of my father's took it into his head
to call, and nothing would serve him but that
I must stay and talk to him. He declared
it was years since he had seen me. And
there was I, cursing my luck, and longing to
be here, and yet quite powerless to get away.

The thought of your waiting here for me
nearly drove me mad."

I felt sure that something had prevented
you coming," answers Milly ; " and, indeed,
I had just given you up, and was going home
again."

Never do such a thing as to give me up,
Miss Byron, when I have told you I will
come," he says earnestly. " Always believe
that I will keep my appointments at any cost.
I may be a little late, as I was to-day, but
no power on earth will make me fail. Whatever
happens to prevent you, I will always be
there ! "

And, rightly or wrongly, his tone and his
words carry the most thorough conviction to
her heart, and henceforth her faith in him
will be troubled by no shadow or doubt.

Next time, then, I shall know better,"
she answers, smiling; "and now, as I have

not very much time to spare, let me tell you
at once of my news."

And then she confides to him the story of
her meeting with Mrs. Verschoyle the day
before, and tells him of the invitation she
has this morning received and already accepted.
His face falls visibly.

Going away ! " he repeats, in accents of
genuine dismay. " What do you want to
go away for ? Are you not happy here ? "

Yes," she falters ; " quite  very happy 
but, you see, they are my great, my only
friends, and they have asked me specially to
meet Charlie and his wife, and it would be
so unkind to refuse."

Unkind ! you think far less of being unkind
to me than to your cousin and his wife ! " he
says reproachfully. (Truly their intimacy has
advanced with rapid strides since their clandestine
interviews were planned.)

Even yesterday his manner towards her was
far more deferential and less familiar. But
Milly, silly child, is much too flattered by his
obvious dislike to the prospect of her departure
to note the difference.

What shall I do without you when you
are gone ? " he continues, assuming a gentler
and still more reproachful tone.

"What did you do without me up till these
last two weeks ? " she retorts, with an attempt
to speak lightly, in order to avoid falling into
too serious a vein.

Ah, what did I do, indeed ? " sentimentally.
" I cannot conceive. I cannot even
remember. To me it appears that my real
existence only dates from the day when
accident introduced us to each other. Before
that, everything seems to be a blank ; and
how I could have endured my life I cannot
imagine."

vol. 1, o

And he continues to expatiate in the same
strain for several minutes, and, clap-trap and
commonplace as his utterances and reflections
are, to Milly's inexperienced ears they bear
the charm of utter novelty, and she drinks it
all in with fluttering heart, and believes that
never, surely, did any man's voice own such
melodious tones, or breathe such sweet and
pleasant words. But for all he says and
urges, she yet does not waver in her resolution.


I think it would be better for me to go,"
she repeats. "It will only be for a week, and
then  I know it is foolish of me, but I am
haunted by the idea that something disagreeable
will come of Mrs. Verschoyle seeing us,
in spite of her sugared words, and then "

"Well, perhaps you are right," concedes
Mr. Dering, graciously condescending to give
his tardy consent. " After all, as you say,

it will only be for a week. Where do these
friends of yours live ? "

At Bearsted Park, in H shire," answers

Milly.

Bearsted Park ! why, that is close to the
place belonging to some friends of mine  the
Lesters  who are always begging me to go and
stay with them. Only last week they wrote
and implored me to go and pay them a long
visit. How would it be if I were to propose
myself there for tomorrow, on the same day
that you go ? What do you think of this plan ? "

Think! What did she think of it? If
she were to speak out exactly what is in her
mind, Milly would have told him that she considered
it a heaven-born inspiration, an idea
which suffices to lift her up to the very topmost
heights of supreme ecstasy. But being a
woman, and anxious above all things to cloke
her real sentiments with an affectation of indifference,

her answer is confined to a demure
little, " I think it is a very good notion."

11 Is that all you can find to say about it ? "
instantly returns he. "Just that little cold
speech,  you think it ' a good notion ' ? "

She lifts up her eyes to his, trying her best
to speak frankly and unconsciously. " Of
course I mean that I should be very glad if
you could manage it," she says, making a
supreme effort to appear cordial, but not unbecomingly
eager. Unfortunately, her ability
falls short of her will, and before the words
are well out of her mouth, her eyes droop
again, and a pink hue suffuses her face.

Well, I suppose I must be content with
that," he says. " And, of course, I will manage
it. I am determined to manage it. I
will throw over all my present engagements,"
which exist only in his imagination  "and
telegraph to old Lester the moment I get

home, to say I am coming down tomorrow.
I know them so well that I need have no
scruple about proposing myself. And how
about these friends of yours ? Are they the
sort of people who will let me come and see
you at their house, or must we "

Oh, Mrs. Treherne is the kindest person
in the world," answers Milly hurriedly, guessing
the alternative he is about to suggest,
and curiously anxious to prevent its utterance.
She will always make you welcome."

Blessings on her ! Then we will make
the most of our time, and try and enjoy ourselves
to our hearts' content in that one week.
Perhaps, on the whole, it is as well that you
should go away now, as Mrs. Verschoyle has
thought fit to mix herself up with your affairs.
She is the most inveterate gossip "

11 I thought you did not know her."

"No more I do, personally ; but I have

heard a good deal about her. And so she
made herself pleasant to you yesterday, and, I
suppose, gave you to understand that anything
she had seen or overheard ' by pure accident '
would be sacred with her ? "

Something of the kind," replies Milly.
She was so amiable, that for that very reason
I was disposed to doubt her."

You are quite right  she is not a woman
to trust. And now tell me, Miss Byron, did
she not give you a slight sketch of my character
gratis, as well ? Did she not throw out
hints of my being a most disreputable acquaintance
for you ? Ah ! you look guilty.
You need not answer me ; I can pretty well
guess what her insinuations were like."

I hardly listened to what she said," answers
Milly, in low tones, intent on showing
him that Mrs. Verschoyle's innuendoes have
had no power to influence her against him.

I am sure you did not. You are far too
generous-minded and too just to let yourself
be swayed by the paltry gossip of a silly
woman like that. Once for all, Miss Byron,
you may accept it as a pretty safe rule never
to believe more than one half of what you
hear from similar unreliable sources. But
even if her story were true  and I have never
made a pretence to you of being a saint, have
I ?  if I were indeed as black as I feel sure
she painted me, would you think it necessary
to turn me the cold shoulder, and pass me by
on the other side ? Would you do this ?
Answer me."

He has drawn closer to her as he speaks,
and is bending eagerly forward, mercilessly
fixing his gaze on her averted face.

I don't think I would," she answers at
last, in a voice scarcely above a whisper. " I
do not generally give up my friends without
very good cause."

And I may consider myself as one of
your friends ? It is awfully good of you to
say so. Well, Miss Byron, I will be frank
with you. I will tell you that it is possible,
even probable, that in the course of time you
will be forced to listen to all sorts of sad tales
about me. There is always a grain of truth
in all these things ; as I said before, I have
no wish to set myself up to be better, or even
nearly as good as other men  but you will
bear in mind that there will be a great deal
that is false and exaggerated mixed up with
it all, won't you ? I have had a hard life,
perhaps, in some ways, and have, I think,
been more sinned against than sinning ; but
there, I don't attempt to find excuses for
myself; it is a mean way of trying to shift
one's burden upon other people's shoulders.
If I had an incentive, a motive,"  looking at
her meaningly,  " it is more than likely that

it would be the saving of me. But, however
much you may come to despise me and pity
me, will you promise me now that you won't
throw me off altogether  at all events, without
a hearing ? "

He holds out his hand as he speaks, and
Milly feels she can do no less than give him
hers, and respond to his pleading eyes by
making the required promise. Nor does she
even affect to be offended when he retains
his clasp of her hand for full three minutes,
and before releasing it, raises it to his lips.
She feels as if she were walking on air as
she leaves him to turn homewards, and all
that evening she remains in a semi-trance, too
wholly engrossed with her happy dreams to
pay any attention to what is going on around
her. The gibes and sharp remarks which
Mr. Falconer gives vent to fall on deaf ears.
She is living in a world of her own creation,

and her mind is occupied entirely with recalling
every syllable that Geoffrey uttered.
Again and again she goes over every detail
of the afternoon's interview in her memory ;
and in dwelling on his most trivial speeches,
and in tracing his every feature and expression
in her imagination, she is feverishly, supremely
happy.

It is superfluous to add that Mr. Dering is
not guilty of a similar weakness. He has not
put many hundred yards between him and
Milly before he brings out his betting book,
and becomes absorbed in its contents, and,
beyond ruminating for the space of five
minutes on his chances of finding: it a good
speculation to carry matters to the utmost
extent in her direction, he almost forgets the
fact of her existence.

THE TREHERNES.

You darling duck of a girl ! How delighted
I am to see you ! No, Dolly, you shan't touch
her till I've had a good hug ! I got down
first ! "

Now, Edith, do go away ! I can't get
near her if you fasten her in your arms in
such an absurd way ! Oh, Milly dear, how nice
it is to have you here ! "

Such is the joyous greeting bestowed on
Milly at her arrival at Bearsted Park on the
Saturday afternoon, and, laughing and breathless,
she returns their warm embraces with
interest, and feels, as she always does when
with them, how good it is to find herself

there !



u Perhaps you will let me have a chance
of saying ' How do you do ? ' now, girls," says
a cheery voice behind them, and Milly runs
up the steps to meet a charming old apple-checked,
silver-haired lady, who stands there,
benignantly smiling at her granddaughters'
enthusiasm.

Dear Mrs. Treherne, it is so kind of you
to ask me to come here," says Milly, lovingly
kissing her. " It is just as if I had escaped
from prison for a time."

And she glances round the familiar old hall
with an expression of ineffable content.

And pray, what leave of absence has your
jailer granted you ? " inquires Edith, linking
her arm in her friend's, and dragging her
towards the tea-table.

One whole week ! " says Milly, with supreme
satisfaction.

<( Only one wretched little week ! How

intensely scrubby of him ! Well,"  thoughtfully,
 " we must try and cram as much as
we possibly can into that space of time, if you
really must not stay longer ! Granny, you
must think of something jolly for us to do
every single day while Milly is here ! "

I think you will have plenty of plans in
your own frivolous little head, without having
recourse to me, chatterton," returns the old
lady, smiling indulgently on the spoilt pet of
the family. " You don't find her much wiser
or less giddy-pated than she was when you
last saw her, do you, Milly ? " she adds, turning
to her guest, who answers cordially, 

I hope Edith will never be very different
to what she is now."

She won't let me get in a word edgeways,"
grumbles the younger sister  a quieter, smaller,
fairer edition of Edith. " Never mind, my
turn will come presently "

"Milly, are you aware that Captain and
Mrs. Devereux are under this roof at this
very moment?" breaks in Edith, without
waiting" to let her sister finish her sentence.

Not really ? Charlie here ? and Ruth ?
Oh, why didn't you say so before, Edie ?
Where are they ? and when did they come ? "

Half an hour ago, and they are gone
upstairs to take off their  things,' or something,
before they have tea. They'll be herein
a second. Charlie is as nice as ever, only
he looks thin and pinched ; but Mrs. Charlie !

oh, Milly, what a woful You haven't

seen her yet, have you ? "

No ; I've never had the chance."

11 Well, you won't mind my saying what
I think, I know ; she is one of the most
ordinary-looking people I have ever seen.
So dowdy, and so utterly uninteresting. She
may be as good as gold, of course, but I

must own to being a little curious as to
what extraordinary charms Charlie saw in
her, which are certainly not visible to the
casual observer."

My dear Edie, you have hardly spoken to
her at all," remonstrates Mrs. Treherne.

11 My dear granny, you know that there
never was my equal for taking a person's
measure  mental and physical  in the space
of two seconds. I saw quite enough of Mrs.
Charlie to know that she is not pretty ; in
fact, / should call her plain  not attractive,
and I should say, decidedly not clever. Then
she has no money, no family, no aiiy\\\m<g ;
so there must be something in her which my
dull eyes cannot discern  something hidden
very carefully away from sight, which will
explain Charlie's infatuation for her, and, we
will hope, amply compensate him for having
given up Whincote Abbey, etc., for her sake.

But what this extraordinary powerful charm
is, I confess I have not yet discovered."

Well, I think she is a nice, pleasing little
thing, and I am sure she is very devoted to
her husband."

"I can't think how she could be 'off' it,
granny, to use a vulgar expression," returns
Edith, refusing to be checked in her eloquent
flow of talk. " When she thinks of the sacrifices
he has made "

Edie, do stop talking for a moment ! "
puts in her sister impatiently. " I hear them
coming downstairs."

And as they enter the room, Milly goes
forward impulsively to meet them, and feels
all her old affection for her cousin revive,
as she catches sight of his familiar face.

Oh, Charlie, I was so glad to hear you
were here!" she cries. " How are you ? You
don't look particularly flourishing."

Oh, I'm all right, my dear Milly; at least,
I shall be after a few days' quiet and country
air. But here's Ruth waiting to be introduced
to you. I hope you two will be great
friends," he adds, rather shyly.

I am sure we shall," answers Ruth
brightly, and Milly tries to respond cordially
to her advances. But she cannot help agreeing
with Edie that her new cousin's appearance
is not prepossessing. Ruth is one of
those delicate, fragile-looking people who show
traces of fatigue or worry very readily, and just
now she has a more than usually careworn expression
on her face. Her dress, too, of dark
brown merino, is not very becoming to her,
and looks out of place on this bright August
afternoon. Nevertheless, Milly resolves that
she will do her very utmost to make Charlie's
wife like her, and that she will try her best
to make her visit at the Park a happy one.

vol. 1. p

Then they all take their places round the
tea-table, and a good deal of talking and
laughing goes on, in which Mrs. Treherne
joins as heartily as the others.

And the Ogre, Milly, how is he ? " asks
Charlie of his cousin.

Very flourishing in bodily health," she
answers. " Increasing age does not accomplish
much in the way of mellowing his little
infirmities of temper that I see. I am afraid
I have not been a very successful ambassador
for your cause, Charlie, but indeed it is
hopeless at present. He will not let your
name be mentioned."

I am sure, Milly, you have tried to do
all in your power, and the only thing left tous
is to get on as best we can, and hope
that he'll think better of it one of these days."

Charlie tries hard to infuse a cheerful tone
into his words, but Milly sees his face fall

a little, as if her report had dashed some
tiny spark of expectation to the ground, and
the half smothered sigh which escapes him
almost unconsciously fills her heart with compassion
towards him.

We won't bother ourselves by talking
about him any more just now," he continues,
more lightly. " I have lots to say to you
when we can get an hour to ourselves, Milly ;
and then we'll put our wise heads together,
and see if we can devise any plan for melting
his heart. Meantime, I must say again
how very glad I am to see you here, dear
old Milly. It was awfully good of them to
think of asking us, and to get you to come
at the same time. I suppose the Ogre is
quite unaware that we are within a hundred
miles of Bearsted ? "

Oh, yes, of course. If he had known it,
I am sure he would not have let me come."

"The change will do you good, I'm sure.
But you are looking very well, Milly  particularly
well, I think."

I can't say the same about you, Charlie,"
answers she, wondering why she finds herself
blushing under his close inspection of
her face. " You are looking decidedly pale
and pinched."

Well, I've enough bothers to make me
look so," he says, a little impatiently. " If
you only knew  but I will tell you all about
it later on. Ruth is the best wife in the
world, and the cleverest manager, but I never
knew till I tried it what a grind life is when
one has to think twice before spending a
fourpenny-bit."

Poor Charlie ! " says Milly softly.

"Poor Charlie, indeed!" cries Miss Tree
thrusting herself unceremoniously into
their conversation. " My blood positively

boils when I think of the way in which he
has treated you ! He's an inhuman old
wretch, and I only trust that one day he'll
get what he deserves ! "

My dear Edith ! "

My dear granny ! But I mean what I
say ; I really do. I wish I had a chance of
giving him a bit of my mind ! " concludes
Edith viciously.

"It is very good of you to champion our
cause so zealously," says Charlie, laughing.
11 And now, Mrs. Treherne, I know you will
let me take Ruth out for a turn in the
garden before it gets too late. I want her
to see how pretty it all is. No, pray don't
trouble to come with me "  as Dorothy is
about to speak  " I know my way quite welland
I shall enjoy ciceronian her."

11 Don't you see, my dear Dolly, that the
dear man is still in the lover-like stage of

married life, and wants no third person with
them?" says Edith reprovingly, almost before
the husband and wife are out of earshot.

And is that so very absurd, my dear
Edith ? " asks her grandmother. " After all,
they have only been married little more
than a month."

"Time enough for them to have got over
their first ecstasies, I should think," returns
the incorrigible girl. " However, I don't
want to talk about them any more for the
present. Let them go and be happy in their
own way, and romance about the bliss of
marriage as much as they like  I am going
to talk to Milly. Do you know, my dear
child, that you are looking oceans better and
brighter than when I last saw you ? What
has come over you, Milly ? You are quite
a different creature. Your eyes are so bright,
and you have got so much more colour. I

tell you what I firmly believe "  jumping
suddenly up in an excited manner  " I do
really believe that there s some man "

Edith, my dear, you really do let your
tongue run away with you ! How can you
talk in that way ? "

I can't help it, granny. I feel sure it
was an inspiration on my part ! I know I
was right! Milly, can you look me in the
face and say there is no man "

You silly child, how can you ask such
absurd questions ? You know perfectly well
that Milly sees no one but her uncle and "

If the ' Ogre ' is the cause of that telltale
blush, I'll  I'll  eat my hat ! " exclaims
Edith undauntedly. " It will be the first
case ever known of a girl looking conscious
when her own uncle's name is mentioned !
I'm not such a fool as to swallow that !
Milly, tell me the truth."

Edie, don't be so silly ! " remonstrates
Dorothy. " Come away with me to my
room, Milly, and don't trouble yourself to
answer her nonsense."

"Ah, that's all very well to shirk the
question in that way," says Edith, with conviction.
" But see if I don't get it all out
of you before you lay your head on your
pillow to-night, my dear child ! "

And Milly knows that it will be useless
to attempt to evade her curiosity now, if she
wishes for any peace whatever during her
visit. So she makes the best of her circumstances,
and that same evening confides her
little tale to the ears of a select and sympathising
audience, consisting of the two sisters
Dorothy as well as Edith listening to her
recital with unfeigned interest.

Well, it only proves the truth of what
I have said a hundred times," comments

Edith,  she is always the first to find her
tongue,  " and that is, that ' neither bar nor
bolt can keep my own true love from me.'
Even you, guarded closely by the Ogre, contrive
to hoodwink him."

11 Oh, Edie, that sounds so dreadful ! "

What, hoodwink ? Oh, that doesn't mean
anything. And, after all, what can he expect,
when he treats you in such a ridiculous
manner ? Of course you will break out in
some way or other ! I should do the same
in your place ! "

Well, but tell us a little more about
him, Milly, if you don't mind," says Dorothy,
who is much quieter and less impulsive than
her sister. " Is he very, very nice ? "

I think he is  very nice," answers Milly,
trying to speak dispassionately, and quite suppressing
Mrs. Verschoyle's account of her hero.

11 And his name is Geoffrey  Geoffrey Dering

 and he is coming to stay at Beresford
to-day ? " proceeds Dorothy. " I have never
heard the Lesters mention him among their
friends  have you, Edie ? But it will be
pleasant for you to meet him again, Milly."

And a satisfaction to you to do it all
in a legitimate way," says Edith; "for of
course granny will ask him to come here  
she'll do anything we want. And you'll
get to know him well, and he'll propose to
you before you leave here, and Mr. Falconer
will have to say ' Yes and, after all, you'll
be married before we are ! How sly of you,
Milly, to steal a march on us like that!"

How you rattle on, Edie ! And how can
you talk of his proposing to me, when I am
sure he hasn't an idea of such a thing ! In the
first place, he hasn't a penny. I believe "

That doesn't signify. You'll most likely
have Whincote "

11 Very unlikely, I think. I don't see that
I have a chance of it."

Why, of course the Ogre will make you
his heiress, if you can only bring yourself
to be decently civil to him. Who else should
he leave it all to, I should like to know ? "

11 I don't know, but "

11 But of course it will come to you.
Naturally it will  I feel convinced of it ;
and I do sometimes wonder a little, my dear,
that you don't try and recollect that Whincote
Abbey is trembling in the balance, and make
a superhuman effort to study his whims and
fancies now and then."

If he did leave it to me, I should hand it
all over to Charlie," says Milly decidedly.

Should you, really ? How refreshing it
is to find a person with such liberal ideas
in these degenerate days ! Well, if only for
Charlie's sake, I am surprised that you do

not behave a little more diplomatically. Now
if it were me in question, I'm afraid I should
positively grovel in the dust before Mr. Falconer
"

I am sure you wouldn't, Edie."

I declare to you I would. As a matter of
fact, I possess a most mercenary nature, and
my one wish in life is to be rolling in riches.
I almost think, under the circumstances, I
could bring myself to  yes, I am sure I could
to offer to rub Mr. Falconer's foot when he
has the gout in it. And if that wouldn't be a
test of friendship, I don't know what would."

Edie, you really do talk more nonsense in
ten minutes than other people do in a week.
Luckily I know you well enough to feel sure
you don't mean half of what you say."

You are quite mistaken, my child ; I am
most thoroughly in earnest, and if you'll take
my advice, you'll reform your ways, give your

mind to the task of fascinating the ' Ogre,' and
then, when he dies  don't look so shocked,
Dolly, for in the course of nature he must die
before very long, mustn't he ?  you will be able
to crow over us all, with Whincote as the
reward of your devotion, and then you'll be
able to have a jolly good fling."

Do you know, Edie, that you have taken
to slang much more than you used to ? "

11 I am quite aware of it. One must be in
the fashion, and my last chum, Teddy Brooks,
said it was absurd for girls not to use a little
of it. And so many of the expressions are so
fetching. But to return to the subject of your
Geoffrey "

I do wish you wouldn't call him my
Geoffrey," says Milly, turning scarlet. " Do
you remember I have only seen him four times
in my life ? "

That doesn't matter one little bit. In this

sort of thing people's likings are not measured'
by the number of times they have seen each
other ; and whether it's four or fourteen times,
I can see you're dreadfully ' gone ' on him
already. But now, mind you make hay while
the sun shines, my dear; for remember your
leave only extends to a miserable week. I
wonder when you'll see him first ? Do you
expect he will be at church tomorrow ? "

"He never went to church at Whincote that
I know of," Milly is obliged to confess.

That doesn't follow that he won't go here.
Probably he had no very powerful inducement
to take him there. I've no doubt that the
Ogre kept you well hidden from the gaze of
the vulgar crowd ; but tomorrow I bet you
anything you like he'll be there. Oh, I know
what sort of creatures men are much better
than you, you poor little nun."

Edie, I wish you'd take yourself off now,

and leave Milly to me for a little. I am sure
you must be quite hoarse with talking, and I
have hardly spoken to her yet."

I'm going, my child. I'm beginning to feel
a decided tendency to yawn, and when once
that begins, you never know when it will stop.
Good-night, my dear Milly. Pleasant dreams
to you of the delectable Geoffrey. I'm quite
curious to see him myself. I'm not certain I
shan't go in for him as well, if he is very, very
too-too. Will you let me have an innings, or
will you scratch my eyes out if I dare to lift a
glance in his direction, Mill ? "

And without waiting for an answer, she
dances out of the room, humming a tune as
she goes, and continuing to fire off her little
mischievous speeches until she gets outside
the door.

11 What a rattletrap she is ! " remarks Dorothy,
unable to repress a smile.

Yes, she is just the same as ever. I never
met anybody with such high spirits as she has.
She never appears to be the least out of sorts
or depressed. And how pretty she is looking,
Dorothy ! "

Yes,; she is very much admired. I am
sorry to say she is the greatest flirt I know.
She always has at least ten men dangling after
her, and she never seems to care for one more
than the other."

Her day will come, sooner or later, depend
upon it," answers Milly, with the gravity of a
sage. " And you yourself, Dolly,"  looking at
her affectionately,  " how have you been all
this time ? You do not look strikingly
flourishing."

Oh, I am much as usual, thanks. I confess
I get rather tired of the perpetual round of
gaiety which Edie so delights in, and which
never leaves me time to think of anything else.

I should be much happier if I were allowed to
keep quiet now and then, and to devote myself
to my painting and music. But granny is so
miserable when I want to get out of going anywhere,
that I never have the heart to hold out.
What a curious thing life is, isn't it, Milly ?
And doesn't it seem rather hard that we should
be forced to do things we don't really like, and
which really can't be good for us, merely
because, by refusing, we should make other
people unhappy ? I think every one ought to
be allowed to go his or her own way as much
as possible in this world. After all, it can't
really be such an immense gratification to
granny to take me out to parties when she
has Edie with her, who enjoys it all as much
as she does herself; and I would so far rather
be left in peace."

I suppose Mrs. Treherne thinks it would
be bad for you to give up society altogether."

vol. 1. Q

I don't believe it would be half so bad forme
as is the being taken here and there against
my will, and feeling irritated and bored everyday.
But there, it is of no good to worry
one's self over things which one cannot mend,
is it ? And after all, what will such trifles
matter fifty years hence ? "

Nothing at all, to be sure ; but that reflection
never reconciles me to the bothers of
the present moment. One has to live through
the fifty years all the same, and one doesn't
care to be miserable all that time. But do you
know, Dorothy, I sometimes think it is rather
odd that you, at your age, should so dislike
society, and enjoy everything so little ? Sometimes
I fancy "  she looks curiously up in her
friend's face  " there must be some special
reason for it."

Dorothy, the self-contained, flushes a little.

I don't know why you should have thought

that," she answers, after a slight pause ; " but
you are partly right, Milly, and some day or
other perhaps I will tell you my story  such
story as there is to tell. Not to-night, for I
am not in the mood for it, and it is already
very late. What would granny say if she
knew we were still sitting up talking ? And
you, after your journey, too ! Hush ! Walk
gently along the passage, for fear she should
swoop down upon you."

Half an hour later both girls are wrapped in
the deep, dreamless slumber which seems to bethe
peculiar property of a vigorous youth, and
is the result of an unimpaired digestion and
an untroubled conscience.

A CONTRETEMPS.

Edith is quite right in her conjecture 
Geoffrey Dering does make his appearance in
church the following morning. Milly catches
sight of him in the Lesters' pew the very
moment she enters the building, and is
further informed of the fact by an energetic
kick from Edith, and a loud whisper of
Didn't I tell you so ? " She tries hard not
to let her thoughts be distracted by the knowledge
of his presence in her neighbourhood,
and, beyond that first fleeting glance, never
once lets her eyes travel in his direction. But
for all that, she cannot help being very glad
when the service is over, and the feeling of

restraint which hung over her is withdrawn.



Geoffrey joins them in the churchyard, and is
by her shyly introduced to Mrs. Treherne and
her granddaughters. The old lady makes
herself very pleasant to the young man, having
been duly primed beforehand to that effect by
Edith, and, in response to an expressive gesture
from that young lady, invites him to come upto
the Park and see them all that afternoon.

If you have nothing better to do," she says
smilingly. " I know that Sunday afternoon
is generally rather an idle time for young
men."

And Geoffrey, with a quick glance towards
Milly, declares that he shall like nothing better.
Then they all separate, and during the short
walk home to the Park, Milly has to submit to
the fire of comments and cross-questionings of
the whole party as best she may. But she is
far too happy to care in the very least for their
remarks.

After luncheon is over, Charlie asks his
cousin if she will come out for a walk with
him.

I have not had five minutes' conversation
with you yet," he says, "and there are such
heaps of things I want to hear about, and to
tell you. Don't be frightened "  promptly divining
her thoughts  " I will not fail to bring
you back in good time to welcome your
friend."

Do go with him, Milly, won't you ? "
urges Ruth. " I know he is longing to talk
to you."

Ruth is one of those amiable women whose
chief object in life seems to be the furtherance
of her husband's wishes in every possible
way.

Of course I will go," says Milly blithely.
There is nothing I should like better thana
walk with you, Charlie."

Except, perhaps, one with Mr. Geoffrey
Dering," interpolates Edie maliciously.

"Let's start at once, shan't we, Charlie ? "
continues Milly, ignoring the interruption entirely.
" I'll be ready in half a second."

Certainly I advise you to lose no time
in going off," said Edith teasingly. " These
young men are so erratic, you never know
what time they may take it into their heads
to turn up."

It seems quite odd to me, Milly, your
having got to know this fellow," begins
Charlie, as they saunter off together.
When I was last at Whincote, you had
never even heard his name, that I know
of."

And it was only by pure accident that
I made his acquaintance," returns she, having
no wish to make a mystery of it with him.
I told you how it was I first met him. I

have a dim recollection of having heard the
name Derinor mentioned as one of our near

o

neighbours, but as I was never likely to see
anything of them, I took very little interest
in them."

And the Ogre remains in blissful ignorance
! And now, Milly, do tell me a little
more about him, and about the dear old
place. How often I wish I could transport
myself there ! "

And the next half-hour is spent in discussing
trifles connected with her home-life,
which Charlie listens to with the avidity of
an exile gathering up every crumb of information
concerning a past which appears to
be for ever shut off from him now, and
which he yet clings to with an affection that
will outlive all time. In return, she questions
him closely as to his affairs, and hears
with dismay of the struggle which he has

daily to go through to make both ends meet.
He tells her of the many discouraging failures
which he has had to encounter in his
literary career  how publisher after publisher
has sent back his novel rejected on his hands,
and how if it were not for Ruth's strenuous
exertions, and the fair amount of success
which has attended her efforts to obtain
pupils, they would have found it difficult to
get on at all. He does not in so many
words own that he regrets his hasty marriage,
which has brought him to this pitch, 
it would indeed be early days for him to do
that,  but she can see quite well that the
burden of poverty is a very galling one to
him, and the vein of discontent and grumbling
which pervades his whole conversation
strikes her as being something new, and excites
her pity.

11 Poor Charlie ! If I could only do something

for you ! " she exclaims, with a despairing
sense of her own impotency to help.
11 But you understand it all  how utterly
powerless I am. I have such very little
pocket-money too, that I never have even
a spare five-pound note."

11 As if I would take it from you if you
had ! " he cries indignantly. " My dear
Milly, I am not dreaming that you can do
anything for me. I know you will always
be the best friend I have to turn to, and
will look after my interests as if they were
your own. I am only letting you know
exactly how matters stand with us, as you
are the only person to whom I care to talk
about it. But it is a miserable life at the
best, and unless I can get a start by my
writings soon, I don't know what we are todo."


Never say die, Charlie, you know," she

answers hopefully. " Some publisher will
be sure to take your novel one of these
days."

I wish I thought so," gloomily. " But it
seems to me to be almost impossible to get
a work taken unless one is well known or
has a name. Now if I was only Lord Charles
Devereux, I feel convinced that they would
discover a thousand good points in my book
at once."

' But let a lord once own the happy lines,

How the wit brightens, how the style refines ! ' "

quotes Milly, laughing. " Where have I
heard that, I wonder ? But, seriously, Charlie,
I am dreadfully unhappy about you. It is
horrible to me to think of my living on at
the Abbey with everything I can want, in a
certain sense, and you tied down to that tiny
little house in an obscure street in London,

with hardly enough to eat. What can we
do about it ? "

Nothing, as far as I can see. I must
pull myself together when I get back, and
hunt up all the remaining publishers I can
think of, and I suppose, if I persevere, fortune
must shine upon me some day. The
hard part of it is, that, without wishing to
brag, I know in my own mind that my novel
is quite up to the average, and really more
amusing than nine out of ten that come out.
I read it all out to Ruth, and she went into
fits of laughter over it."

Then, depend upon it, Charlie, it will
make its way, and one of those stupid men
will find out there is really good stuff in it,"
says she soothingly, stifling the reflection
which involuntarily flits across her mind, 
that Ruth's appreciation of her husband's
efforts is hardly a criterion of the book's

merits. " I've heard everybody say that if
a book is really good it cannot fail to be
found out."

Yes, but while the idiots are slowly taking
the fact into their dull heads we may be
starving, for all they care ! "

Oh, it won't come to that pitch, Charlie,
I feel certain. I do hope you are not losing
all your natural hopefulness."

I hope not, but it is precious difficult to
feel sanguine when everything seems to go
against you. And poor Ruth has to slave
herself to death day after day with those detestable
children, to earn the paltry pittance
which, however, we couldn't do without. It's
awfully hard on a fellow, it really is ! "

Of course it is  awfully hard," sympathises
Milly, forbearing to remind him that it is entirely
by reason of his own imprudent act that
he is brought to such a pass.

11 And another thing," pursues Charlie, with
masculine egotism  " what I find such hard
lines is the being obliged to give up all the
things I cared for. I can't afford to belong
to any decent club, and I have to cut all my
former friends, for fear they should ask me
to do this and that, for which I cannot possibly
find the money, and because I would
not for worlds let them see me in my present
straits. So I positively live the life of a hermit,
my dear Milly, and very soon I shall forget
that I ever aspired to the position of a
gentleman."

Oh, don't say that, Charlie. Keep up
your heart, whatever happens, and don't let
your troubles pull you down. Brighter days
will come, I feel assured of it. And Ruth
will do her best to cheer you up."

Ruth ? yes. She is the pluckiest little
thing . that ever lived. I wish, Milly, you

would try to draw her out, and make her confide
in you. She's very shy and meek, and
half inclined to be scared at you ; but she'll
soon get over that if you take her in hand."

"I will, indeed, Charlie." Milly's conscience
smites her as she is conscious that
the prospect of Geoffrey's arrival had been
her uppermost thought up till now, affording
her but scant leisure to cultivate her cousin's
wife. " You will be here all tomorrow, you
know, and I will take care to get Ruth to
myself. Oh, Charlie ! " with a note of dismay,
looking at her watch ; " do you know it
is just a quarter to five ? "

And you want to get back to see that
fellow ? " he says good-naturedly. " All right,
Milly; let's make the best of our way back.
I had no idea it was so late. Which path
was it we came in here by ? "

A question easier asked than answered, asa

number of exactly similar paths branch off
from where they had been sitting, and the
dense foliage of the wood prevents their even
catching a glimpse of a decided opening.
First they select one path, and find that it
is the wrong one, then they try another, with
an equally unsuccessful result. Finally, after
the loss of at least half an hour in ineffectual
attempts, they succeed in getting out, and
hurry across the meadows to the park. But,
alas ! the clocks are then striking the half-hour
after five, and one glance into the ,
where the rest of the party are assembled,
tells her that her delay has resulted
in her losing the pleasure to which she has
all day long been looking forward.

Come in, my dear," says Mrs. Treherne
genially. I am sorry to say "

Too late, too late,  ye cannot enter now,"
chants Edie, with a provoking emphasis.

"My dear Milly, what have you and Charlie
been doing with yourselves ? Mrs. Devereux
was quite resigned to the notion that you had
eloped. To my certain knowledge your walk
has lasted two hours and a half. And oh, my
dear, what have you not lost ! "

Charlie and I lost our way in the wood, or
we should have been here long ago," answers
Milly, too eager to know her fate to be reticent
of asking the question which hovers on her lips.
Has Mr. Dering been, Edie ? "

Indeed he has. He came before four, with
an apology for being so early ; but he had an
appointment at five, which he said he must
keep. He didn't say what appointment it was,
but I must say it looked rather suspicious, and
I advise you to be on the look-out for a rival,
my dear."

Don't talk such nonsense. And he really
has been ? How long did he stay ? "

vol. 1. R

Something: under an hour, I think. He
left just before five. He was disgusted to find
you were out, and kept craning his neck out
of the window all the time he was here, looking
for you. Poor Milly ! it is too hard on
you.

I daresay I shall manage to survive it,"
says Milly, with an insane wish to burst into
tears. " I wish I had come in before, but we
had no notion it was so late, and "

Charlie made himself very agreeable,
evidently," puts in Mrs. Treherne soothingly.
But console yourself, Milly ; you will see him
tomorrow, for he is going to meet us at the
Chapmanss' tennis party."

And Milly's spirits instantly recover their
wonted equilibrium.

Yes, after all, it is only deferring your bliss
for twenty-four hours," says Edith. " And to
console you still more, Milly, I must tell you

that he talked about you the whole time, and
asked me no end of questions, and I sung your
praises till I was quite hoarse, and I offered
him the gratuitous information about you inheriting
Whincote."

H Oh, Edie ! how could you ? And you
know it is not true."

11 Fiddlestickss, my dear ; you are safe to have
it. And you should have seen how he
brightened up, and how excited he got when
I rattled on, and dilated on your charms to
him. I believe he was quite ready to kiss me
for being so contented to discourse on the
subject nearest his heart. I assure you I
proved myself the most disinterested friend.
And we have all fallen in love with him,
haven't we, granny ? Now I have seen him,
I can quite enter into your feelings, my
child."

"He is an agreeable young man, with plenty

to say for himself," says old Mrs. Treherne
cordially ; " and he took pains to make himself
pleasant to the old woman too, which is not
always the case with young men of the present
day."

Ah, he is wise in his generation, and is
quite aware of which side his bread must be
buttered," sarcastically comments Edith, in a
sot to voce, aside. " As if there could be any
possible credit to him in making himself agreeable
to an attractive young girl like you," she
says aloud, running up to her grandmother's
side to give her an impetuous hug. " But,
seriously, Milly, we are all quite ready to
approve of your taste, and to offer you our
united blessing when the moment comes for
it to be asked for. As to Dolly "

Milly's eyes wander towards the younger
girl, and mutely ask for her opinion.

Oh, it's no good asking Dolly what she

thinks of him," continues Edith decidedly.
She reserves her criticisms till she is alone
with you, I know. Besides, I have a suspicion
that he isn't exactly her ' sort' To tell you
the honest truth, Mill,  you won't mind my
saying it in strict confidence, will you ?  I'm a
little bit inclined to think that your Geoffrey,
fascinating as he is, has a decided touch of
the devil in him."

My dear Edith!" " How can you say so,
Edie ? " "My dear child, what strong language
you make use of ! "

11 I knew I should raise a fearful storm by
that speech," says Edith, pretending to stop
her ears to the sound of disapproving voices.
But I don't care. I will say what I think ;
and mark my words, one of these days he'll
show you the cloven foot, and then you'll have
to own that I was right. And now, Milly,
come away with me, there's a good child. I've

got lots more interesting details to repeat to
you, intended for your ears alone, and you
shall have a turn with Dolly afterwards."

MEETINGS.

How unkind of you, Miss Byron, to have
kept out of my way yesterday when I called."

This is Mr. Dering's greeting to her as they
meet on the Chapmanss' tennis lawn the following
afternoon.

Indeed it was not my fault  you know it
was not," she answers eagerly. " Charlie and
I went out walking, and we hadn't the faintest
idea how late it was till "

What a fascinating person your cousin
must be to have made you so oblivious of the
flight of time ! Well, you may console yourself
with the reflection that you spoilt the
whole afternoon for me. Of course I came
solely and simply to see you. But look here,

do not let us waste any more time in this unprofitable
discussion of what is past. We'll
make the most of the present, I vote. You
are not going to play tennis, are you ? "

They asked me if I would, but "

But of course you will do no such thing,"
he says automatically. "Can't you come fora
stroll towards the river ? "

11 I don't know what Mrs. Treherne would
say.

Instantly Geoffrey steps up to the old lady's
side, and in his most fascinating manner informs
her that he is going to take Miss Byron
down to the water to have a look at the
swans.

Oh, very well ; I daresay she will like
to go," answers this most complaisant of
chaperones. " Don't overture yourself, Milly
dear."

And then Mrs. Treherne turns away to

speak to some other friends, thinking it only
natural that her young charge should wish to
have a little private conversation with the only
person among the guests with whom she has
some previous acquaintance.

This is splendid ! " says Geoffrey enthusiastically,
as he succeeds in persuading M illy tolet
him tempt her to enter one of the many
boats moored to the river bank, and they find
themselves rapidly journeying down stream,
with, apparently, no one to observe them.

And now, of course, we must meet everyday
while you are here," he proceeds, leaning
on his oars, and letting the boat drift downwards
at will. " Mrs. Treherne has asked me
to come to the Park and have some tennis
tomorrow. What a delightful hospitable old
lady she is ! "

Yes, isn't she ? " assents Milly warmly.
I don't believe she ever refuses anything that

either of the girls chooses to ask her. I think
they are the luckiest people I know. They
have such heaps of fun, and as much going
out as they can possibly want."

11 That is just what you ought to be having
too," he answers. " At your age you ought to
have no end of balls and parties, and all that
kind of thing  instead of which, there you are,
mewed up, as if you were an enchanted
princess. It really is a shame. But, however,
you never know what may come  in all the
story-books we read as children there was
always a charming prince who came sooner or
later to break * the spell, wasn't there ? and
rescue the hapless prisoner. I have no doubt
that day will come for you too."

Milly laughs a little constrainedly, for she
finds it difficult to control all outward sign of
the strange thrill which takes possession of her
soul as he discourses thus.

11 I am afraid that sort of thing belongs to
story-books alone," she answers quietly. " I
have given up expecting the improbable to
happen to me."

So soon ? Oh, no, surely not. When I
was your age, I remember I never woke up in
the morning without feeling a conviction that
something totally unlooked-for  and delightful,
of course  would occur in the course of the
day. I had rather a dull childhood and youth,
but I always felt confident that it would not
last  that the future held grand capabilities forme."


'which never were realized, however?"
asks Milly, laughing.

I am afraid not. But the hope of their
coming buoyed me up for, I may say, years
together. Now I fear I have come to that
time of life when I believe that changes, if they
do come, will probably be for the worse, and

not for the better ; and I do not even wish for
them. But you, Miss Byron, are too young to
part with those illusions yet."

I don't think I feel so very young," says
Milly thoughtfully. M I suppose it comes of
living so much by myself. I am not half so
light-hearted as my friend Edith Treherne,
for instance, who is older than I am."

She is a lively young lady, isn't she ? But
we are getting quite into a dolorous mood, I
think, and I protest against it on this lovely
afternoon. I suppose we ought to turn round
now, oughtn't we, and show ourselves to the
rest of the party ? To-morrow we will have
a splendid time at the Park, and on Wednesday
 on Wednesday your friends and mine
are all going to meet at a tennis party,
somewhere or other, which is to end in a
dance. I am looking forward to Wednesday
more than I can say."

u And why to Wednesday in particular ? "

Oh, I don't know," he replies carelessly,
after a moment's pause, during which he flashes
her a glance pregnant with meaning. " I've
no special reason for saying so, but I know I
shall enjoy Wednesday, and I mean to do so.
You will give me a dance or two, Miss Byron?"

She nods assent.

My partners will not be very numerous,
I fancy, as I know no one about here."

That will soon be remedied. But I am
thankful to have so much in my favour. And
now tell me"  as the boat rounds the corner
and brings them once again in full view of
the crowded lawn  "is that tall fair-haired
fellow your cousin  the ' Charlie ' you speak
of, the man who considers that the world is
1 well lost ' for love ? "

Yes, that is Charlie," says Milly, looking
in the direction he indicates.

" I cannot say that he strikes one as being
a very powerful argument in favour of his
theory. He does not look as if poverty
particularly agreed with him."

Poor Charlie ! Of course it is hard on
him to have to lead such a different life to
what he has been accustomed. He has to
give up all his luxuries one by one."

And finds that mere love in a cottage
hardly compensates him for their loss," puts
in Geoffrey cynically. " Not likely he would.
Forgive my saying it, Miss Byron, but it
is so peculiarly like a woman to pity a man
for what are the only natural consequences
of his own imprudence and folly. He must
have been certain that Mr. Falconer would
resent his hasty marriage,  ergo, he should
have looked a little more before he leapt."

But if everybody hesitated and waited,
and thought of the consequences so much

before they made up their minds to such a
step, there would be an end to all romance,"
suggests Milly, rather indignantly.

Ah, if you come to romance, there you
will get beyond my depth altogether. I am
not at all romantic  no one was ever less so.
I am hopelessly, uncompromisingly prosaic,
and a firm believer in the substantial charms
of  s. d"

There is no time for more conversation
between them, for by this time they have
reached the rest of the party, and Milly is
taken possession of by Charlie and Ruth,
the latter of whom has taken a decided liking
for her. But Mr. Dering contrives to get her
alone for one moment before she leaves, and
makes the most of the occasion by impressing
on her mind the promise she has given to
dance with him on Wednesday evening.

You alone have it in your power to make

it a delightful or a detestable party to me,"
he says in low tones, and with a world of
expression in his eyes. " You will be kind
to me, won't you, and not throw me over
when the time comes ? "

Why should I do so ? " she answers,
every now and then futilely struggling to
shake off the spell which the influence of
this man throws over her, and to regain her
natural vivacity of manner. " Have I not
said I will dance with you already ? "

You promise, then, to give me as many
dances as I shall ask for ? "

I will not go quite as far as that," she
says, laughing, but well pleased at his eagerness
; " but anything in reason."

11 1 place myself in your hands. If ever
the reality equals the anticipation, Wednesday
will be the most distractingly blissful day of
my life. Till tomorrow, then."

"Well, my dears, I hope you have all
enjoyed your party," says Mrs. Treherne
genially, as she takes her place in the
wagonette. " Dorothy dear, you look very
grave."

11 1 am rather tired, granny. I had enough
of it long ago."

M My dear grandmother, haven't you yet
found out that Dolly has got a mind which
soars far above the pomps and vanities of
this wicked world ? She is one of those
people who decidedly like to take their
pleasures sadly. All the time she was there
she was thinking what a frivolous waste of
time it was, and was longing to get back to
her painting or her beloved "

Don't tease her so, Edie, if she is tired,"
interrupts Milly good-naturedly, always ready
to champion the younger sister.

No, Edie, leave her in peace. I need

VOL. I. S

not ask you, Miss Giddypate, if you enjoyed
yourself. I saw what you were about, though
you did not think I was observing you.
Flirting right and left, you naughty girl ! "

I always try and make the most of my
opportunities," says Edie composedly. " And
you are the best of old ladies to go about
with, for you never bother your dear old head
about us, or worry us with everlasting reminiscences
of the superior manners which
girls had in your day, as most grandfathers
and grandmothers do ! You are what I
should call delightfully lax in your notions
of a chaperones duties. Well, Milly, and
how did you get on in the gay scene ? Was
your young man up to the mark ? "

Edie, how cart you ask such questions ? "
"That blush speaks for itself! It tells
me more eloquently than any words could
do that Mr. Geoffrey Dering has made what

Captain Austin calls ' a tremendous lot of
running,' and is making the most of his little
day. Bering is getting very daring, isn't
he, Mill ? "

In vain Milly tries to put on a severe
aspect and look as if she is displeased with
her friend's mischievous banter. Edith is a
privileged person, and no one ever dreams
of resenting what she says, even though
they wince at her thrusts at the time. She
is no respecter of persons, and old and young
come in alike for a share of her insatiable
love of teasing. The only way to disarm
her is to take it in good part and retaliate
to the best of one's ability. Milly is quite
aware of this, and is rarely imprudent enough
to let her see that her shafts go home.
Besides which, she is far too excitedly happy
to mind such trifles. She is engrossed with
wondering whether Geoffrey "meant anything"

by his pointed and repeated allusions to
Wednesday's meeting. Whether  whether
it is possible that he has any intention of
asking her the question which will make
her the happiest woman in Christendom 
the very thought of which is sufficient to
cause her heart to throb with such painful
rapidity even now. Surely  surely his tones
and his looks are intended to convey something
more than mere ordinary liking to her
mind, or a passing admiration. Surely he
cannot be so cruel, so heartless as to single
her out in the manner he has done, with no
motive but to amuse himself, and to inveigle
her into a flirtation pour passer le temps !

Ah, poor Milly, what would she have said
had any one, gifted with the sense of second
sight, penetrated into the workings of Geoffrey
Dering's mind, and set her doubts at rest
as to his intentions, which, promptly formed,

owe more than she would approve of to
Edith Treherne's gratuitous and decidedly
unauthorized information concerning her
prospects.

A SPOKE IN THE WHEEL.

And so you think that is the best plan 
for me to write tomorrow and learn our fate
before we leave ? "

I certainly think so. My uncle cannot
possibly be quite so disagreeable on paper
as he would be in a personal interview. Oh,
how shall I ever live through the suspense
till the answer comes ? "

And what if he utterly refuses to listen tome
r

Oh, he won't do that, surely. Why
should he ? What reason have you for
supposing that he will ? I think that he
will be only too glad to be rid of me at
any price."



Geoffrey Dering is by no means so sure
of the fact. He does not say so to Milly,
but in his own mind he is well aware that
any inquiries which Mr. Falconer may think
it advisable to prosecute as to his character
and mode of life will not be met with any
very satisfactory replies. He has made a
bold stroke in asking Milly to be his wife
so soon, being still so very uncertain as to
her future expectations, and for once in his
life has paid no heed to the dictates of his
ordinarily calculating judgment in so doing.
But Edith's hints and assurances as to her
reputed position as the heiress of Whincote
have taken deep root in his mind, and, not
knowing when he may again have such a
favourable opportunity of prosecuting his
acquaintance, he has elected to bring his
wooing to a speedy end, and this very
afternoon  only half an hour ago  has poured

out the old, old story in her ears. It is a
pity that in this case such well-simulated
passion should be only simulated. But
fortunately Milly does not detect the false
ring in the well-chosen words with which
he pleads his cause. Her answer is, of
course, a foregone conclusion. Geoffrey
suffers none of the pangs of suspense and
doubt which most lovers have to undergo
before she pours forth her timid confession of
love. And up till the moment when he
suggests the possibility of Mr. Falconer's
putting difficulties in the way of their union
her perfect happiness knows no alloy. It
has never occurred to her that she is a person
of sufficient importance in her uncle's eyes
for him to raise objections as to her disposal
of herself. She has been so systematically
snubbed by him, and made to feel herself
of no account in his eyes, that she firmly

believes that her marriage will be a matter
of indifference to him  that, as she tells
Geoffrey a little bitterly, he will " only be
too glad " to set r id of her.

But Geoffrey Dering  worldly-wise Geoffrey
knows better. While he continues to regard
Milly in the light of a possible heiress
to his much-prized wealth, it is highly unlikely
that Mr. Falconer will approve of her
marriage with a penniless good-for-nothing
as such he knows he will be represented
to the owner of the Abbey  and will be
satisfied with the prospect of his revenues
passing ultimately into such unworthy hands.
Highly unlikely, indeed ; but yet Geoffrey
argues the game is worth the candle. It
will not hurt him to make the attempt, and
even if he fails, he will be no worse off
than he was before. Besides which, he has
grown, to a certain extent, fond of Milly,

and is flattered by her deep affection for
him. Who knows what may result in the
end if she remains stedfast to him, and if
he is content to bide his time in patience ?
And then, he is not wholly worthless,  no
man is,  and he cannot help feeling a little
bit touched by her loyal faith in him, and
by her loving determination to believe no
ill of him, but, through evil report and good
report, to cherish in her mind that lofty
ideal which he knows to be so absurdly unlike
the original in the flesh, but which he
is yet grateful to her for preserving. And
so he does his best to soothe her, and allay
the fears which he himself has raised in her
breast, by tender words and assurances that
he does not himself think that there will
really be any hitch.

I will come up to the Park the first
thing on Saturday morning with the answer,

darling," he says earnestly. " But of course
I shall see you heaps of times before that.
Shall you write a line to your uncle as
well?"

Oh, no; I cannot," she answers, visibly
shrinking. " Do you know, I have never
written to him once in my life yet ? He
always tells me he doesn't want to be bothered
with my nonsense. So I just write a line
to May to say what train I am coming back
by. Oh, no ; I really could not write to him.
I should not know what to say."

Very well. After all, I daresay he would
not expect it, and he could only give you
the same answer as he does to me."

And you won't mind if his letter to you
is not  well, not particularly polite ? " asks
she, clinging to his arm. " You know, Mr.
Dering "

Mr. Dering, Milly ? Are you still going

to call me that for the next three days, when,
for all I know, it may be my only chance of
hearing my name spoken by your lips ? Let
me have that scant satisfaction, at all events."

11 Geoffrey, then," puts in Milly, blushing.
Of course I will call you Geoffrey ; but
somehow  until Uncle John's letter comes
I cannot realize that we are really engaged."

And so I am not to mind a few hard
names from him ? I promise you, dearest,
I will not take umbrage at the most vituperative
language he can conceive, so long
as he says ' Yes ' to what I am going to
ask him. I don't care two straws about the
manner of it, so as the matter is what I wish
it to be."

Which assertion, coupled with the vehement
emphasis he lays on the words, goes farther
to convince Milly  as he intended it should
of the depth of his devotion to her than

any mere protestations of affection could have
done, and disabuses her mind of the last
lingering doubt  if, indeed, she ever held
any  of her love for him exceeding that on
his side. And so another half-hour glides
by all too quickly for Milly, who would ask
nothing more of Fate than to stay where
she is for the rest of the evening, so long
as he is with her. Possibly the time passes
less swiftly to him ; but if such is the case,
he is clever at concealing all symptoms of
boredom or weariness. He has a real talent
for love-making, and a special faculty for
being able to insinuate pretty little flatteries,
even more than for uttering them point-blank
the result, probably, of many years' long
practice. His wooing has been very short
unusually so  but, at all events, Milly cannot
complain, and he is determined she shall
have no cause to complain, of any lack of

warmth in his manner of prosecuting it.
Nevertheless, it is he, not she, who makes
the move, and suggests that they should return
to the dancing-room  the scene just
narrated having taken place in the little
conservatory, which is fitted up in a way
admirably suggestive of romantic tete-a-tetes.

You will tell them "  indicating the Tree
party with a glance  " all about it, I
suppose?" inquires he, as he leads her back
to the ball-room, radiant and triumphant, on
his arm.

Yes, indeed I shall. And it w r ould be
useless to try and keep it a secret from
Edie  she would be sure to guess it at
once."

What is the other Miss Treherne like ?
She is very quiet and silent, and I don't
quite make her out."

Dorothy ? Oh, she is quite charming,

and I am very devoted to her ; perhaps, on
the whole, I like her even better than Edith.
But she does not care for society, and is
wishing herself home the whole time. I
fancy "  and Milly lowers her voice  " that
she had a great disappointment not long
ago ; some one threw her over, I think, from
what Edie hints. Too bad of him, wasn't
it?"

At last ! " is Edith's greeting, as her
friend draws near. " I thought you were
never going to reappear on the scene, and
granny had serious thoughts of sending out
a score of men with lanterns to look for you.
But pray don't take the trouble to make
excuses, my dear. I was not alarmed about
you  oh no, not at all ; and I did my best
to reassure granny, and convince her that
she must look for you nearer home."

Miss Treherne, will you give me this

valse ? " asks Geoffrey, addressing Dorothy.
He had been rather attracted by the patient,
indifferent expression of her face, and is
curious to find out whether she is very unlike
other girls in her conversation, as she
is in her tastes.

Being thus left completely to Edith's mercy,
Milly is exposed to a running fire of cross-questioning,
teasing, and pitiless ridicule,
varied with warm congratulations and outspoken
comments on the object of her choice.

I still maintain that there is a decided
touch of the horned and hoofed wicked creature
in him, my dear," she says obstinately ;
11 but I am not sure that I object to the
least little soup$on of that in a man, and I
quite see that there is something very taking
about him. He has rather a knack  as
some one said of somebody once  of making
even commonplaces sound interesting. I

think it is the look he gives you with those
odd eyes of his which does it."

You seem to have studied his ways very
closely, my dear," mildly remarks Mrs. Tree


They are all on their homeward drive,
when Edith thinks fit to give them the
benefit of her theories about Mr. Dering's
character.

Of course I have, granny. Knowing
that in every probability he would be Milly's
husband some day  if you want to blush,
Mil, you can safely do so under cover of this
dim light  I thought it my duty to turn all
my wits to the task of making him out. I
don't think he is viciously disposed "

-Really, Edie ! " cries Milly half-indignantly.


I am sure Milly must feel grateful for
your opinion," puts in Dorothy quietly.

vol. 1. t

No, I don't think he is vicious," continues
Edith, totally ignoring the interruption. " As
far as my observation goes, he is not inclined
to gamble, to bet, or to swear  much "

"He hates swearing ! " exclaims Milly
quickly. " He says he cannot see the fun
of it, and it prejudices him against a man
directly he hears him make use of strong
language."

I am delighted to hear it. Probably Mr.
Dering, like many other men, agrees to compound
for the sins he is inclined to by 
ahem  running down swearing, which is no
temptation to him. Of course, he may bethe
greatest gambler going, for all I know,
but "

I really think, Edie, you might have
something pleasant to talk to Milly about
than Mr. Dering's possible taste for gambling,"
interrupts her grandmother, half-laughing,

half in earnest. " You needn't mind
her nonsense, my dear. It is only that she
thinks herself cleverer than the rest of us,
and a kind of magician in discovering people's
weak points. And now, here we are at the
lodge gate, and before we get in let me
give you a warm kiss, dear child ; and let
me say how glad I am that you are so
happy. And I hope and trust that nothing
will occur to disturb your prospects."

11 Or to prevent the course of true love
running smooth," adds Edith promptly. " I
say ditto to all that, Milly, and I think you
are a very clever girl to have chosen such
a nice, good-looking man. Dorothy doesn't
think he is good-looking, but I do. And I
do hope that provoking old Ogre won't put
a spoke in your wheel. If he does, he
ought to be chopped up into mince-meat ! "

And then Dorothy gives her a loving

embrace, and whispers a few words of affectionate
congratulation in her ear, and after
that Milly is allowed to escape to her own
room, in solitude to reflect on the marvellous
brightness which has crept into her formerly
grey and cheerless life, the presence of which
already causes the world in general to wear
a totally different aspect in her eyes. Alas !
that her golden visions should be so rudely
and so quickly shattered ! that her rose-coloured
pictures of an unattainable glorious
future should so soon have to be displaced
by the stern realities of prosaic, every-day
existence. The blow falls the more heavily
because it is almost entirely unexpected. In
her ignorance, in her youthful hopefulness,
she had barely dwelt on the possibility of
any obstacle being put in the way of her
wishes, and is proportionately unbounded
by the contents of Mr. Falconer's letter,

which duly arrives on the Saturday morning,
in response to Geoffrey's appeal.

11 Dear Sir,"  it runs 

I was not aware that you had even
made the acquaintance of my niece, Miss
Byron, until your letter informed me of the
fact ; therefore you will not be surprised at
my feeling a little bewildered when I mastered
your object in addressing me. I am
obliged to you for the honour you do mein
asking her hand in marriage, which
honour, for various reasons, I regret I must
decline, once and for always. My niece's
husband, unless she chooses to marry without
any regard for my opinion, must be in
possession of a certain assured income, and
his antecedents must be able to bear the
strictest investigation. I feel sure I need
add no more, except to remind you that

Miss Byron's prospects are entirely dependent
on my will and pleasure, and that unless
she marries to please me she will goto
her husband literally penniless. I am
writing to her by this post to inform her
of tidings which will in some degree affect
her future life. I allude to my newly formed
engagement with Mrs. Verschoyle.
I am, sir,

Yours truly,

"John Falconer."

Having launched which dual thunderbolt
on his niece's head, Mr. Falconer chuckles
complacently to himself as he drops the
letter in the box with his own hands, and
amuses himself with contemplating the dismay
with which it will be received.

Sutler & Tanner, The Sehvood Printing Works, Rome, and Lcndca.

3 0112 04975931

mm

--' **mm i i iminiiniwuiiiwiiwiwHiiiiiiiiminiiwuiii mnummmmmmmimM

PECCAVI."

g BobfL

EMILY F. D. OSBORN,

VOL. II.

SWAN SONNENSCHEIN, LOWREY & CO.,

PATERNOSTER SQUARE.

1888.

The Selwood Printing Works,

Fro.me, and London.

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

PAGE

CHAPTER I.
Home Again i

CHAPTER H.
The Bride-elect . 24

CHAPTER in.
Mrs. Falconer 40

CHAPTER IV.
A "Thoroughly Good Fellow" 63

CHAPTER V.
Charlie in Trouble 82

CHAPTER VI.
News from Nice 97

CHAPTER VII.
The Shoe Pinches 112

CHAPTER VIII.
"On with the New" 131

CHAPTER IX.
Monte Carlo-155

f'AGE

CHAPTER X.
A Last Throw 176

CHAPTER XI.
The Day is Fixed 194

CHAPTER XII.
'femme qui Ecoute" 215

PECCAVi:

CHAPTER I.

HOME AGAIN.

And so your young gentleman was not
particularly pleased with the reception I gave
to his beautifully turned phrases ? I thought
he would not be."

It is Mr. Falconer who makes this speech.
Milly is back at Whincote once again, burning
with impotent wrath and indignation
against her uncle and his stern decree, and
in no humour to spare him by refraining to
speak out what is in her mind. But her
anger is of no avail against the hard, impenetrable
surface of his stinging sarcasms.
It delights him to behold her rapidly rising

VOL. II. ' B

temper, and in proportion as she grows hot
and desperate, so does he become cooler and
yet more irritating.

Pray marry him, if you wish it," he repeats
sneering! y. *' I shall not say a word
to deter you from such an advisable course
of action, only do not expect me to play the
benevolent parent in the farce. If you decide
to marry Mr. Geoffrey Dering, do so by all
means, but make up your mind to live on air
henceforward."

'' You know perfectly well. Uncle John, that
it is impossible for us to marry on nothing at
all ! " returns Milly indignantly. " I think
you have behaved very unkindly to us all
through. I don't want your wretched money,
I'm sure, but I think many people in your
place would allow us just enough to makeup
a comfortable home. We do not want
much "

Indeed ! How very modest of you. And
is Mr. Dering of your opinion ? Would he,
too, be contented with such a moderate competency
? There Is one thing which I confess
I do regret, and that Is not to have been
within earshot to have heard all he said when
he got my letter. The arguments he made use
of to convince you that all this folly would have
to be given up must have been most edifying,"

"He said  which was the only thing left
for him to say  that he could not think of
dragging me down to share his poverty, and
that he wouldn't be so selfish as to ask me
to give up so much for his sake."

"In short, he went through those old stale,
worn-out platitudes, of which every man In
his place has rung the changes since the
world was created," answers Mr. Falconer
contemptuously. " Of course it never occurred
to him to ask you whether you were

willing to run the risk. He knew that women
are always idiotic, and think it a fine thing
to sacrifice everything they have for the sake
of what they call ' love.' They wouldn't think
twice of throwing away half a million of
money if they get the man they have a fancy
for, the fools ! And they never ask themselves
what they are to live upon, or what
is to happen to them three months later,
when they are dead sick of one another, and
the tradesmen are clamouring for their unpaid
bills. But Dering has more nous than
to be deluded by such confounded rot, unless
he's a very different man to what I believe
him to be. He knew that if he left the decision
to you you'd swear that anything on
earth was better than behoof obliged to give
him up. And so he determined not to run
the risk, but to stop your mouth with all that
high-sounding palaver, and make out that he

was donor it all out of consideration foro



you.

You are very unjust towards Mr. Bering,

and there is not a word of truth in what you

say," is Milly's angry reply. " What should

you know of being in love, and such things,

I should like to ask ? "

'' Nothing, my dear, I am glad to say, from
personal experience, but a great deal from
the fact of having kept my eyes open all my
life," is his cool reply. '' He's a sharp one,
depend upon it, this young man of yours, who
scratched up an acquaintance with you on the
sly, and proposed to you before you had had
hardly time to tell what colour his eyes were.
And of course it was all disinterested,  his
sudden, passionate attachment for you. Naturally,
quite disinterested ! And so he did
not like my letter ? Well, I never meant he
should do so ! "

VI.

You might, at least, have been ordinarily
civil to him in your answer ! " exclaims poor,
worried Milly, who is much too sore and indignant
to be careful of her words.

"Why should I be civil to him? I consider
it a mean, shabby trick for him to make
love to you behind my back as he did. And
as I have never set eyes on him in my life,
and all I have taken the trouble to inquire
about him has been anything but to his
credit."

'' Of course I knew you would try and find
out things to his disadvantage," says Milly,
with quiet contempt.

*' I hadn't far to go before I heard quite as
much as I wanted. Of all the reckless, good-for-nothing
young blackguards for you to
take up with, I don't know of any one who
could hold up a candle to this Dering. He
and his father together got through every

penny they had in the most scandalously
dissipated manner. They consort with the

very scum "

** You may spare yourself the details of
any more of the marvellous iniquities ascribed
to them," answers Milly, with dignity ; ** for
I may as well tell you that I do not believe
a word of them, and never shall. I will say
once again, that I think your conduct towards
me has been both harsh and unfair, but I
don't know why I should have expected
otherwise from you. I might have known
that it would be an immense pleasure to you
to thwart my wishes, if you possibly could.
I do not see the use of discussing the subject
any more. I must, I suppose, give in to
you, as it seems that you have everything in
your power ; but if it will be any consolation
to you to know that you have spoilt my
life "

*' Pooh ! " Mr Falconer cannot restrain a
prolonged chuckle of disdain. '' My dear, do
you suppose I pay the faintest attention to
that sort of speech ? As if every love-sick
earl hadn't said the same thins a thousand
times within the memory of man, and then
consoled herself by marrying some one else
at the end of three months, and some one,
moreover, who is totally unlike the first fellow
that she made such a fuss about, and cried
her eyes over. And now, perhaps you'll
kindly listen to me for a moment, after that
little ebullition of nonsense oh your part."
Mr. Falconer's tone takes a harsher shade ashe
speaks. '' I've tolerated all your  well,
uncomplimentary remarks, to say the least of
them, with a good deal of patience for the
last half-hour, because they were not worth
noticing, and because I was prepared for a
certain amount of effervescent anger on your

part. But I am in no mood to jest any
longer." (The notion of Mr. Falconer jesting
is almost too much for Milly's gravity.) '' I
want you to understand, once for all, that
sooner than let that disreputable puppy have
the power to dispose of one single farthing
of my money, I would will it all away to the
county hospital, or leave every stick to those
Scotch cousins of mine, whom I care no more
for than the man in the moon. If you and
he choose, in spite of this, to marry on the
hopes of my some day changing my mind
and dowering you with all I have, that is
your affair. I only tell you that that hope
will be a sorry reed to depend upon. I suppose
this disappointed lover of yours is still
hanging about the place ? "

He is going abroad next month," said
Milly curtly.

"Ah, yes! When he hears how useless it

is for hint to wait for the chance of my giving
in, he'll soon see what a fool he is to waste
any more time dangling after you ! " comments
]mr. Falconer pleasantly. " And let me tell
you, young lady, it entirely depends upon
yourself and your behaviour as to what I may
do for you some day."

I wouldn't touch your miserable money
with a pair of tongs!" cries Milly, with flashing
eyes. '' I have told you before, Uncle
John, and I will repeat it a hundred times \{
you like, that if such an improbable thing
happened as your leaving your money to me,
I would give it all to Charlie the next
second ! "

And as she mentions her cousin's name
Milly has the slight satisfaction of seeing her
uncle visibly wince.

'* Surely you would reserve a trifling portion
of it for yourself and Mr. Dering } " he

asks, with a sneering laugh. ** And now you
can go ; I have no wish to detain you longer.
Oh, wait ; by the bye, I told you in my letter
of my engagement to Mrs. Verschoyle."

'' Yes, you did ; but if you think I am going
to congratulate you and wish you joy, you
will be disappointed," abruptly interrupts the
girl, in her most defiant manner.

*' Pray don't trouble yourself to do that. I
can quite well dispense with those ordinary
forms of politeness from my own niece ! I
merely wished to remind you of the fact, and
to convey to you my wish that you should 
if it Is possible to you  be at least outwardly
civil to the future Mrs. Falconer."

And he bends his keen, searching eyes
upon her, hoping for some look or sign which
would betray her repugnance to the prospect
which he knows cannot be welcome to her.
But Milly is more than a match for him : her

face expresses calm indifference,  nothing else,
and her tone is indicative of simple boredom
and weariness as she answers, 

'you need not shout at me so loud. Uncle
John. I am not deaf. I hear every word
you say."

' And will make note of it, I request," he
returns sharply.

And then Milly asks him if he has anything
else to say to her before she leaves him.

No; pray go. I've stood as much of your
impertinent remarks as I can put up with in
one afternoon ! When I see you again, I hope
I shall find you in a better temper. Deuce
take it ! there's another twinge of that confounded
gout ! And there's the door-bell.
Who on earth can that be ? "

Mrs. Verschoyle, if you please, sir, and
she is asking for Miss Byron," announces May,
at the door.

Well, I can't see her this afternoon, at any
rate," says Mr. Falconer irritably. " She's
come to see you, of course, Milly. You'd better
go to her at once. Hang the woman! she's up
here at all hours of the day ! " he adds, almost
to himself, but not so low as to prevent Molly
catching the words.

o

*' I really will go, and lose no time In congratulating
Mrs. Verschoyle on her conquest ! "
she cries maliciously. '' I'll ask her. If you
can say ' Hang the woman ! ' now, at this early
stage of your engagement, what she'll imagine 
the anathemas heaped on her will be like at
the end of three months ! " and without giving
him the chance of detaining her, she hurries
off, conscious of having had the last word in
their not-too-peaceful interview.

Mrs. Verschoyle Is in the drawing-room, and
advances to meet her future niece with the
utmost effusion.

My dearest child ! my dear Milly ! " kissing
her on both cheeks. *' I am so delighted to
see you again, and to meet, as it were, under
such fresh and charming auspices ; for you
and I must be great friends, dear. I am sure
we shall. I somehow had a sort of instinct
that we were destined to be something more
to each other than mere ordinary friends.
Curious my having that feeling, wasn't it ?
And what do you say about it all, * dear?
Weren't you a little taken by surprise ? Now,
confess you were ! "

I certainly was," admits Milly frankly. " I
had no idea, when I went away, that you were
on terms of any but the slightest acquaintance
with my uncle."

Ah, my dear child, these things are not
the outgrowth of days and weeks of intimacy,"
says the widow sentimentally; " but spring into
life and ripen in an hour, a moment, a beat of

time. It takes so little to make two hearts
which throb in unison understand each other."

Mllly has hard work to keep her countenance
at the notion of any one's heart beating
in unison with Mr. Falconer's !

'' And then you left your poor uncle to himself,
you know," continues Mrs. Verschoyle
plaintively. ** Naughty little puss ! you ran off
to enjoy yourself, and have your fun, and
break an endless number of hearts. You
needn't blush so  your uncle has confided all
your doings to me ; and in his loneliness of
course he naturally turned to me, and I was
only too glad to be able to comfort him. I
always had such a very sympathising heart ! "
she concludes feelingly.

And so Uncle John has told you all about
about Mr. Dering, has he?" inquires Milly,
ruthlessly cutting short her companion's self-laudatory
remarks.

Indeed he has. He came and told me all
about it directly. He has been two or three
times down to the ' Wigwam ' lately, and we
have had some long, confidential conversations ;
and I felt so sorry for you in your disappointment,
dear Milly."

And Mrs. Verschoyle gives a soft pressure to
the hand, which, sorely against the girl's will,
she retains in hers as she talks.

*' I would rather not be pitied, a great deal,"
returns Milly, rather ungraciously. " I can't
bear to talk of it yet."

'' I quite understand, dear. It all feels so
new and painful to you at present. We will
talk no more of it until the time comes when
you feel you would like to unburden your
little troubles to me. You will always find
me ready and willing to listen ; and oh ! so
anxious to do what I can to soothe your grief!"

And Mrs. Verschoyle stoops forward with

her sweetest smile, and imprints a feathery-kiss
on Milly's forehead. But her sugary
words and silvery tones fail in finding their
way to the girl's heart, or in convincing her
of their owners sincerity. Milly has an instinctive
prejudice against this plausible lady,
and cannot bring herself to utter any very
cordial response to her professions of affection.
Quick to perceive that she is not making much
progress in that direction, Mrs. Verschoyle
dexterously turns the subject.

** And your poor dear uncle  I was so
grieved to hear from May that he is suffering
this afternoon, and hardly feels up to seeing
me. That cruel gout ! You and I, dear
Milly, must do our best by our united efforts
to cheer him and brighten him up, when
these attacks come on  later on  I mean,
when "

She stops short, apparently overcome with

VOL. II. c

a sense of embarrassment at her involuntary
reference to that memorable future epoch of
her marriage, as if she were too bashful to
continue the subject. Milly has no intention
of trying to extricate her from her palpably
affected confusion.

I assure you, Mrs. Verschoyle, that you
will find that Uncle John is best left to himself
when he has these fits of gout," she
answers shortly.

Ah, my dear, I don't think you quite
understand the inestimable value of a little
timely sympathy given at the right moment,"
says Mrs. Verschoyle, with a sigh. 'rit should
never be obtruded or thrust upon a person
at the wrong time, but just allowed to be more
felt than expressed. It very often irritates an
invalid to be openly commiserated ; but with
a little tact one can contrive to accomplish so
much without any ostentation of compassion."

To which eloquent dissertation Mllly makes
no reply whatever.

'' And a little cheerful, lively society would,
I feel confident, be of the greatest benefit to
your dear uncle when he is just recovering
from these sad seizures," pursues Mrs. Ver-school,
in her purring tones. " He has lived
too much the life of a recluse. Shutting himself
up from the outside world to the extent
he has done cannot be a good thing for anyone.
No ! we must try by degrees to alter
all that  you and I and my little girl "

"Your little girl!" repeats Mllly, genuinely
astonished ; " have you got a little girl .- "

Indeed I have  one precious child left in
my sole charge, and an awful responsibility to
poor, weak me. Many an anxious hour have
I passed in the contemplation of her future,
and in debating how best I can fulfil the
sacred charge bequeathed to one by Providence

! Ah ! dear Milly, you can little guess
at the cares and doubts which assail the
mind of a forlorn, helpless woman, who is left
in a position like mine, and has to battle with
the trials of life unaided ! And so you had
never heard of my little Lucilla ? Well, It
is not to be wondered at, for she has spent
her last two holidays with friends ; and,
after all, I have only been here nine
months "

"She is at school then?" inquires Milly.
'' And about how old is she ? "

Oh, my dear, quite a little innocent child 
only fit to be a plaything to you. Dear
Lucilla is a perfect baby. Your uncle has
been good enough already to suggest that she
should be taken away from school, and put
under a good governess in her future home ;
but of course I have had no time really to
think of these things yet. My whole thoughts

have been occupied with the wonderful change
which will soon take place in my life, as you
may imagine. Naturally it is a very important
crisis to me, and the hope that I may perhaps
be the means of adding somewhat to the happiness
of a fellow-creature's existence causes
all minor interests to sink into insignificance."

And here Mrs. Verschoyle pauses, and looks
so sentimental and so full of emotion that,
were it not that Milly is too miserable to take
notice of it, she must have laughed outright
at the idea of so much fine feeling being
wasted on such an unresponsive object asher
uncle.

' The wedding is to be as quiet as possible,"
continues Mrs. Verschoyle, whose monotonous
flow of small talk seldom ceases for more thana
moment together. '' Your uncle inquired
of me what were my wishes on that subject,
and I answered him at once, * Oh, if you

consult me, I say, let us do without any
grandeur, any outward show, only just you
and I go quietly to church, accompanied only
by our near and dear ones ! ' Fuss and
parade of all kind is quite opposed to my
taste, and doubly, trebly so on that day
which will be of such sacred import to me,
and usher in the dawn of a new life. And
now, my dear child, there is one other little
trifle I wish to mention while I recollect it,
and that is, about the name you are henceforth
to call me by. What shall it be ? Mrs.
Verschoyle is so ridiculously formal ; besides,
it will soon have to give place to another,"
with a simper. " I think it must be Arabella.
What do you say ? "

'just as you like," answers Milly indifferently.
'''What's in a name .' ' as they say."

Then that's settled, dear one ! It will be
such a pleasure to me to hear the name from

your lips ! It shows that you no longer
consider me as a stranger, and I am one of
those people who never can remain on stiff
terms with any one  mine is such a clinging
nature; yours, dear Milly, I always think

Is more like the oak's, strong and sturdy "

And Milly has to listen to this and similar
meanderings with such patience as she can
muster, too weary and heart-sick to attempt
to stem the current of the ceaseless ripple
of the vapid small talk.

THE Bride-elect.

** I AM SO vividly sorry, dearest Mil, to hear
of the finale to your ' love's young dream,' "
writes Edith Treherne to her friend. '' In my
opinion, you have never painted the Ogre
in sufficiently black colours before. I never
imagined he could be guilty of such cold-blooded
tyranny. I should punch his old
head if I were you, and ask him what right
he has to interfere with the happiness of
two spoony, romantic young people ! Unfortunately,
that wretched complication of
pounds, shillings, and pence always steps
in, and ties our hands ! I don't know
what to say to console you. You might
consider it an insult if I were to remind you

that there are as crowd fish in the sea as ever
came out ! Personally, I am afraid I am too
cold-hearted ever to believe that the whole
of my life's happiness Is wrecked because
something prevented my marrying the first
man I cared for.

' When love is kind,
Lightsome and free,
Love will find

A welcome from me.

When love brings

Heartache and pang,

Tears and such things,

Love may go hang !'

Those lines pretty well express my
feelings ; but I know you are different, and
take things much more ati grand sSrietix,
But try and not be too despondent, my dear,
and don't sit at home brooding over your
troubles ; nothing is so bad for one as that."

Spite of which wholesome advice, Milly

does the very thing against which Miss
Treherne warns her. She thinks of Geoffrey
Bering morning, noon, and night, and laments
over the abrupt downfall of her brightest
hopes with never-ceasing regret. She is as
thoroughly and passionately In love as it is
possible for any girl to be, and hers is no
superficial nature, to take a fancy one moment
and the next seek for consolation elsewhere.
Hers is a steadfast, unwavering disposition,
and with her to love once is to love always.
Everything in her life seems to wear an
altered aspect to her now ; every ray of sunlight
seems suddenly to be quenched, and
all is flat, weary, and monotonous. Her disappointment
has the effect of hardening her
and rendering her bitter and supercilious.
Mr. Falconer's fits of temper have power
to irritate her spirit more than they did
formerly, and at times she feels that It-is all

she can do to respond with bare courtesy to
Mrs. Verschoyle's honied words and wearisome
prattle. She is so tired of it all, so
intensely depressed by the trifles which up
till now she had had the ability to thrust
aside from her notice, as unworthy of a second
thought. And yet she is quite helpless in
the matter ; she can do nothing of her own
self. If Geoffrey had but said one word to
encourage her, had showed the slightest inclination
to cast prudence to the winds, and
suggested that they should risk the consequences,
and, as her uncle had not in so
many words forbidden it, asked her to marry
him then and there, in an impulse of romantic
passion, she would have gone to him instantly.
But he says no such word. On the contrary,
in the only interview they are able to snatch
before he departs from England, he reiterates
with yet greater decision that the only course

left open to them is to submit. He draws
a vivid picture of the miseries of unknown
poverty to which they must descend if they
were so foolish as to take the law into their
own hands. He impresses upon her that
his scruples arise solely on her account, and
from a determination never to be the means
of inducing her to sacrifice her present and
her future out of her love for him. He is
firm in adhering to this text, but he takes
pains to intersperse it all with loving words
and tender caresses, and inveighs bitterly the
while against the tyranny of fate which decrees
to separate them. At the same time he gives
Milly to understand that her best policy for
the future wall be that of conciliation, and
gently hints at the possible harvest they may
reap, if she does her utmost to gain a good
place in her uncle's good graces. Who knows
what bright days may yet be in store for them ?

he asks, building golden visions of Mr.
Falconer translated to another sphere, and
Milly sole heiress of all he possesses, in his own
mind, as he speaks. One never knows what
may happen In this world, and so Mr. Dering
thinks It just as well to make his position
with Milly yet more secure by assurances that
he will never, never care for any other woman,
and by passionate entreaties to her not to
forget him altogether! And when he parts
from her, he is satisfied that any other man
would find It well-nigh impossible to usurp
the place which he has won in her affections.
He may rest In the knowledge that her heart
Is altogether given to him, and will never
swerve from its allegiance.

And so they take leave of one another. He
goes to fresh scenes, fresh pleasures, and erelong
comes to look back upon the whole
affair as a mere troublesome episode, disappointing

and vexatious, it is true, but by
no means overwhelming, He had, indeed,
failed in his object and met with a repulse,
but after all he had held very small hopes of
success, and it was only one out of many
ventures with which he had sought to propitiate
the goddess of good luck. Some day
or other, perhaps, he would make a still more
bold stroke for fortune, and win it.

But for poor Milly there are no such
consolations to be looked for. She has to
endure the hardest of all fates  " to suffer
and be strong "  to sit at home and wait, with
nothing new to distract her mind from the
contemplation of her misery, with all the
former peace and contentment gone out of
her life for ever, and in their place an utter
sense of forlornness and desolation.

Added to all this burden of care and sorrow,
she has to face the distasteful prospect of

the coming marriage, and to brace herself for
the ungenial task of being at least outwardly
pleasant to the bride-elect, whose daily increasing
assumption of airs and graces frets
her soul beyond measure. How intensely
irksome it all is ! And how she secretly
rebels against it all, and is almost disposed
to feel captious because the weather
is bright and lovely, and the September sunbeams
forth with unclouded brilliancy day by
day, as if to mock at the gloom which overshadows
her heart. She feels very sore
towards her uncle, and betrays that she is
so in every word and look. And all Mrs.
Verschoyle's attempts to propitiate her, and
consult her as to the arrangements for the
wedding, result in signal failure. She wraps
herself up in a thick cloak of reserve and
rebellious silence, from which nothing can
succeed in rousing her. How can she interest

herself in the respective merits of silk or
satin, when her Avhole mind is absorbed with
wondering what Geoffrey is doing at that
moment ? how is it possible that she can
respond graciously to Mrs. Verschoyle's suggestion
that she should change the room she
has hitherto been occupying for one with a
south aspect, when, so long as Geoffrey is
away, it is perfectly immaterial to her where
she finds herself?

Mrs. Verschoyle is by no means unsympathetic
about the girl's unhappiness. On the
contrary, she is always pitying her, and giving
her to understand that she can so exactly
enter into the state of her feelings. She has
even gone so far as to mention the subject
to Mr. Falconer, and made a faint attempt to
put in a plea on behalf of the lovers. But
her future husband very promptly and decidedly
lets her know that any interference

on her part will be so much time wasted, and
she is too wise a woman to jeopardize the
position she has gained by prosecuting an
unwelcome subject. But she openly tells
Milly that she considers she has been hardly
treated, and even, unless her words bear quite
another interpretation to that which they appear
to have, goes so far as to hint that at
her age, and under similar provocation, she,
Mrs. Verschoyle, would have been strongly
tempted to act "just a little on impulse, dear,"
thereby implying that impulse would have probably
carried her with a rush through the very
doors of the church, almost without her being
conscious of it. She is always dropping
little hints in this direction, so that Milly understands
thoroughly that were she to commit
the folly of a clandestine marriage, she would
never have a stone thrown at her by her
uncle's wife. What Mrs. Verschoyle's motives

VOL. II. D

are In disseminating such lax principles into
the mind of a girl, Milly does not even ask
herself, but possibly she would not be averse
to her taking a step which would necessarily
destroy her last chance of retaining her uncle's
favour, and thereby pave the way for other
claimants.

Her own child, for instance  Lucilla  what
more natural than that she should step into
Milly's place, if anything happened to disqualify
the latter for the heiress-ship ? She
must be schooled at first, and taught to behave
to Mr. Falconer with more than ordinary deference
and consideration, and perhaps intime
her innocent ways would commend themselves
to this child-hating old bachelor. One
never can tell what may happen, or what
curious changes may be brought about by a
turn of fortune's wheel. At all events, there
is no harm in Mrs. Verschoyle amusing 



self with these and similar castles in the air,
only, to any one who knew Mr. Falconer
fairly well, there would be something just a
little ludicrous in the notion of his ever
choosing Lucilla Verschoyle to be the recipient
of his carefully guarded thousands.

A long, lank, red-haired, short-petticoated
girl of twelve or thirteen, with bony arms
and spindle legs, with a preternaturally shrewd
expression on her plain little face, and a fatal
tendency to blurt out the most inconvenient
remarks, and ask the most searching questions
 in short, the most outrageous specimen
of the 'enfant terrible!' This Is a true picture
of Miss Lucilla Verschoyle as she presents
herself to the astonished gaze of Milly
and ]mr. Falconer. Not a very likely individual
to attract the fancy of a crusty, sour-tempered
old gentleman, one would think ; but
Mrs. Verschoyle is of a sanguine disposition,

6 ''Pecca\

and has unlimited confidence in her own
powers of management and in the co-operation
of time.

Lucilla is duly brought up to the Abbey
by her mother, to be introduced to her new
relations, and provokes the most genuine burst
of laughter which Milly has given vent to for
weeks by her greeting of Mr. Falconer.
The child walks up to him without an atom
of shyness, gives him a hasty kiss on his
forehead before he has time to check her,
and accosts him With, " How do you do ?
Am I to call you papa after you have married
mamma ? "

The notion of his standing in that relationship
with this curious specimen of humanity
has certainly never crossed Mr. Falconer's
mind before, and for the first time in his life
he looks utterly confounded. Milly is far too
much amused with watching the scene to be

able to interfere, but Mrs. Verschoyle comes
to the rescue with gentle suavity.

My dear child's heart is so overflowing
with affection for her new relatives-to-be,
that she cannot control the impulses of her
loving nature," she says. " So ingenuous of
her, is it not ? Ah, it is easy to see that she
inherits my clinging, impressionable nature.
She is longing for everything to be put on
a pleasantly familiar footing at once. Cilia
love, come and speak to Milly now  your
Cousin Milly, whom I have mentioned so often
to you. We must settle that little matter for
her satisfaction later on," adds the widow in
an aside to her fiance, who looks as if he
did not know whether to feel insulted or
flattered.

Lucilla next marches straight up to Milly's
side, and kisses her in precisely the same
fashion, saying in a shrill treble voice.

'' Mamma said I was to make myself quite at
home here. But I expect you don't care forme
to do that, do you ? "

My dearest child, you must not suppose
that dear Milly is not very glad to welcome
you here," interposes Mrs. Verschoyle. " I
look to you, dear Milly, a great deal, I assure
you, to help me in forming her character
and in rounding off the sharp angles. Dear
Cilia ! She is so wholly ignorant of the
ways of the world, and so naively outspoken
! "

'ein which characteristics she is certainly
unlike her mother," is Milly's mental reflection.
" I am so surprised to see such a big
girl," she says out loud, addressing the mother.
From the way you spoke of her, I quite
imagined she would be about eight or nine
years old at the utmost."

'' That's mamma's wa}-," says the precocious

child. " She always talks of me as if I had
just left oft' long clothes. And I can't think

why she does it, unless "

Cilia dear, you mustn't be so ready to
run into conversation when your elders are
present," interrupts Mrs. Verschoyle hastily.
'' I quite thought, my dear Milly, that I had
mentioned to you the age of my little girl.
I had no intention of making a mystery of it.
But really my poor head was so full of other
and more important matters "  with a sentimental
glance in Mr. Falconer's direction 
that you can hardly wonder at my not being
able to give my mind to such trifling details ! "

MRS. FALCONER.

' Dear John, here is such a nice kind letter
from young Mr. Tomklnson, asking us all to
dine at Moor House next week."

*' Where the deuce is the kindness, I should
like to know, of asking us to drive nine
miles out to dinner in the middle of November
? You won't catch me, for one, making
such an ass of myself, and so you may tell
the young fool as soon as you like ! "

The speakers are Mr. and Mrs. Falconer.
The wedding is a thing of the past now,
and they have been man and wife for nearly
six weeks, and have apparently settled comfortably
down to the new order of things.
That is to say, Mr. Falconer no longer

considers it desirable to lay any check on
himself in the presence of his wife, but
allows himself as much latitude in the selection
of expressive, if not particularly elegant,
language as he has enjoyed from childhood
upwards. It is presumable that he, at any
rate, has found all that he expected to find
in matrimony, for he certainly does not fly
into a rage with his wife quite as often ashe
did and does with Milly ; he even lets
himself be insensibly influenced by her now
and then, thanks to her diplomatic ability.
Whether Mrs. Falconer has gained all that
she hoped for in her union with the master
of the Abbey is more difficult to say. At
all events, no one can accuse her of neglecting
him, for she is unremitting in her care
of him, and takes the greatest pains to
make Lucllla show him every possible attention.
His surly humours and unpleasant

little sarcasms seem to slide harmlessly off
the polished surface of her smiling amiability.
She rarely thwarts him or contradicts him,
and she never resents any cross word or
uncomplimentary remark which falls from his
lips. By slow degrees  very, very slow she
would tell you  she has somehow gained a
certain slight ascendancy over his mind,  a
feat of which she has real cause to feel
triumphant,  and probably she is well satisfied
with her progress. Towards Milly her
manner is still as caressing and affectionate
as ever, if a little patronising, and the girl
has nothing to complain of in her new aunts
treatment of her. She has brought herself
to call her by her Christian name, and tries
her best to put up with her affectations and
her little gushing speeches; in short, she can
just tolerate her, so long as she does not
interfere with her own pursuits and habits.

As to Lucilla, she Is by turns the enHven-
ment and the torment of the whole house 
her Innate truthfulness and outspokenness
formlnof a strangle contrast to her mother's
soft-tongued plausibility, and almost counterbalancing
her unpleasing and unconquerable
love of making mal a propos and uncalled-for
remarks. And so this strangely assorted
family party manages, somehow, to shakedown
In some sort of fashion, and outwardly,
at least, to amalgamate.

The Immediate subject under discussion
by the heads of the household Is an Invitation
to dine by the rich young owner of
Moor House, Mr. Hugh Tomklnson. Of
course all the neighbours far and near have
hastened to call at the Abbey and welcome
the bride, curiosity being the predominant
motive In most minds, urging them to lose
no time In performing this social duty. But

C shire is by no means a very sociable

county, and the inhabitants of Whincote
Abbey have been so long shut out from all
intercourse with the outside world that
every one is just a little doubtful as to
whether it is advisable to proffer hospitality
or no to the new mistress. So it happens
that Mr. Tomkinson's note contains the first
hint as to any prospective gaiety, and is
valued by Mrs. Falconer accordingly. She
knows the young man well by repute. His
father has been dead about two years ago
a self-made man, who rose literally from
the gutter to be the possessor of an enormous
fortune, amassed in commerce, which
fortune is left entirely to the disposition of
his only child, this same Hugh Tomkinson.
The father was a shrewd, hard-hearted, unpolished
man, but the son has had the advantage
of a public school and university education,

and report speaks highly of him in every
way. Every man who knows him dubs him
a thoroughly good fellow " ; every lady
speaks of him as " charming." A wealthy
bachelor, not yet forty years of age, with a
large house possessing every facility for entertaining,
and a reputation for being generally
agreeable, is an acquisition by no means
to be despised in a quiet, sleepy neighbourhood.
Mrs. Falconer is secretly much
gratified by receiving this proof of Mr.
Tomkinson's wish to be friendly, and her
mind is quite made up as to the necessity
of accepting the invitation. She is determined
to go, and equally anxious not to let
her husband see that such is her intention.
So when he reiterates a second time, with
still greater emphasis, that he would see Mr.
Tomkinson farther first, before he would beat
the trouble of driving so many miles to

sit at his dinner-table, she makes a feint of
gracefully yielding to his wishes.

'' Of course, my dear John, you shall do
exactly as you wish. I feel sure that Mr.
Tomkinson would never expect you to make
such an unusual exertion in his favour if it
is at all too much for you. He would not
think it likely you should go."

Then what the devil does he ask me for,
pray ? "

'' I have no doubt the young man did it
out of a wish to show an attention to me''
answers Mrs. Falconer blandly. "It is only
natural that he should be anxious to offer
some extra civility to me  in my position.
And then Milly is asked as well  and for
her sake "

"If you are thinking of accepting ]mr.
Tomkinson's invitation on my account, Arabella,"
puts in Milly uncompromisingly, "pray

don't hesitate a moment. I have not the
slightest wish to go."

Mamma knows you would rather stay at
home, really I' chimes in Miss Lucilla, with
relentless frankness, 'because you told her
the other day you hated going anywhere.
But she wants to go herself, and so she
makes you a  what do you call it ?  a stalking
horse."

*' My dear Cilia, it is quite ridiculous of
you to interfere in the matter at all, when
you know nothing whatever about it," is her
mother's dignified reply. '' As regards you,
Milly, I really consider it my duty to try
and overcome your mistaken and unnatural
aversion to society. At your age, it is quite
wrong to shut yourself up and give out that
you wish to see no one, and I know well
that I shall be the person to be blamed if
I don't try my utmost to rouse you out

of your bad habits. As you may imagine,
society has no attractions for me  none at all.
I would far rather stay quietly at home,
by the shelter of my own fireside. The
company of my little home circle is more
than sufficient for my wants."

Your spirit of devotion to Milly's interests
is beyond all praise," remarks her husband,
in his most disagreeably sarcastic tone.

But in your interest, and because I wish
you to enjoy every possible advantage that
it is in my power to let you have," continues
Mrs. Falconer, calmly disregarding this
interruption, " I have decided to put aside
my own wishes, and take you with me to
Moor House. I am sure, John, you agree
with me in the necessity for letting Milly
see a little of her neighbours. And Mr.
Tomkinson is such a nice young man 
every one says so."

Mrs. Falconer's one aim and object in life
is to see Milly safely married, so as to
have the field open for her own machinations.
She would willingly lend her aid
well, s2Lb rosa, of course  in the matter of
bringing her and Geoffrey Bering together,
in spite of knowing that such a step would
infallibly cut the girl out of any chance of
her uncle's favour. But as there seems to
be no prospect of anything resulting in that
quarter  men are so stupidly impulsive
now-a-days, she tells herself  why, she must
look out for some other opening. And Mr.
Tomkinson seems to be the very person she
is actually in search of, and in her mind's
eye she sees him already settled down as
Milly's husband. Once removed from the
precincts of the Abbey, Mrs. Falconer thinks
that Cilia's prospects will wear a more promising
aspect, the more so if Milly is provided

VOL. II. E

for with a rich husband, and has, so to speak,
no further claims. And decidedly the first
step of all for the prosecution of her schemes
Is to induce Mllly to go with her to this
dinner. So she sets to work to persuade her
husband to back her up In her preliminary
attempt.

'' He Is quite a young man to be cultivated,"
she proceeds impressively.

Then by all means cultivate him," returns
Mr. Falconer, his manner expressive of
intense boredom. " Do as you like, Arabella,
or as Milly ought to like, according to your
way of thinking, but for goodness' sake don't
bother me any more about the matter. You've
got plenty of fal-lals to go In, I know, for I
consider you were recklessly extravagant in
the way of such nonsense at the time of your
marriage. "

** Yes, dear, I can manage very well about

my clothes," she answers, with unruffled
serenity. '' I am so glad you see the matter
in my light. Now Milly will see how wise it
is to accept the invitation, and I feel convinced
she will be grateful to us both one of these
days for urging her to make the effort. Cilia
love, give your papa another cushion for his
chair."

I don't want another cushion in the
least "

My dear love, do let the child wait on
you. She longs so always to be of any use
to you that it is quite a pleasure to her when
you want anything she can do. Isn't it, Cilia
dear ? "

*' I don't believe a word of it ! " answers
Mr. Falconer politely. ** Come here, child,
and tell me  now speak the truth, mind, 
what do you think about me ? Do you think
I'm a nice old gentleman, and are you very

lINlVEnSilY OF

fond of me, or do you think I'm a crusty old
bear, ready to eat you up ? "

Lucilla gives him a long, deliberate survey
before she answers him.

'' I like you pretty well  sometimes, " she
says, with an air of weighing well each word
as she speaks.

Mr. Falconer gives vent to a sardonic
laugh.

'' I congratulate you on your very apt pupil,"
he says, addressing his wife in the blandest
possible accents. " You have successfully
moulded her on your own lines."

Mrs. Falconer affects to misunderstand his
meaning.

You know, dear John, how I always impress
on Cilia the necessity for being strictly
accurate and truthful," she says suavely.
But for all that, I think it is a mistake to
force a child to speak out on matters in which

It becomes an Impertinence on her part to
give an opinion. And you know that Cilia
feels everything that is proper towards you,
only it is difficult for her to give words to her
exact sentiments. Now, Milly love, what do
you say to our putting our heads together  
my stupid one and your sensible one  and
seeing what we can do to make your ddbtit
at Moor House a success in the matter of
costume ? "

She gains the day, of course, and leads Milly
off in triumph in her wake, although the latter
cannot even brings herself to felon an interest
in the subject, and wishes with all her heart
that she could be left In peace to the solitude
which becomes daily more necessary to her.

Certainly she does not give one the idea
of being "on pleasure bent" when she makes
her appearance at Moor House on the evening
in question. As far as her dress is concerned,

she is above all criticism, for her step-aunt has
devoted a good deal of attention to the subject,
and the result proves that she is thorough mistress
of the art of developing the good points,
and of concealing any defects, of her subject.
Milly looks her very best that night, but her
listless, indifferent air makes her seem almost
out of place at what is intended for a festive
gathering, and attracts the attention of her
host himself. She is startled out of a reverie
by the sound of a man's voice at her elbow,
addressing her. A pleasant, genial voice it is,
and a kindly, honest face is that which meets
her glance as she turns round to survey the
new-comer.

Mr. Tomkinson cannot precisely be called
good looking; he has none of Geoffrey Bering's
variety of expression, for instance, nor is his
countenance suggestive of hidden capabilities,
the possibility of which often attracts others

more than mere surface charms. But one can
tell by the first sight of him that he is a good-hearted,
straightforward, steadfast man, of
whom one could make a friend without a fear
that he would prove unworthy of the confidence
reposed in him. Not a man likely to
take a girl's heart by storm, or to be called
in any sense fascinating ; one of those characters,
in short, whose virtues and indisputable
merits seem somehow never to meet with
their due share of appreciation here below 
doomed to stand by Impotently, and see
others win, with no apparent effort of their
own, the popularity of the many, and,
maybe, the love of all others that they covet
so ardently, conscious of a want in their own
nature which causes them to fail where they
would so fain succeed.

Such a one Is Hugh Tomklnson. Singularly
modest as to his own merits, and almost

morbidly distrustful of his powers of pleasing,
even though he has been reared in an atmosphere
redolent with the fulsome adulation of
wealth, and its paramount influence over the
minds of men, his disposition is so genial
and so overflowing with the milk of human
kindness, that he cannot endure the sicrht of a
fellow creature in trouble or In eries, and the
dreamy look In M lily's eyes excites his compassion.


'* This Is almost your first Introduction into
the society of the neighbourhood, I think,
Miss Byron ? " he begins.

' Not even almost. Before to-night, I
hardly knew any one of my neighbours by
sight," she answers, with her usual abrupt
directness. And then, recollecting the one
exception she could make to this confession,
she reddens consciously, and pulls herself up
in some confusion.

But he does not appear to notice her embarrassment.


'' I hope you will find a few spirits congenial
to you amongst us," proceeds he good-naturedly.
'' From what I hear, you have
been living a very secluded life hitherto, have
}-ou not ? And, though this Is said to be nota

very lively county  I heard C shire

described as the depths of dreariness the
other day by some outsider  yet one may
just as well make the best of the society one
has, don't you think so ? "

I don't care In the very least for society,"
returns Mllly uncompromisingly. '' I have
done very well without It up till now, and I
think I could easily dispense with It for the
term of my natural life."

He glances at her with a slightly curious
expression In his face, and his voice takes a
more serious Intonation as he answers her.

*' Perhaps you could, Miss Byron. But the
question to my mind is, whether there is nota
certain duty involved in our making ourselves
pleasant to our neighbours, and In cultivating
their acquaintance. I daresay we often feel
inclined to shut ourselves up In our own
interests and fancies, and to hug the belief
that the trouble of being forced to be
sociable and friendly certainly far exceeds the
pleasure to be derived from the effort. But
wee have not only ourselves to consider "

Oh, if you make it a matter of right and
wrong, I have no doubt you would have the
best of the argument on your side, " breaks in
Milly, somewhat impatiently. " But if ever
you are so unfortunate as to know me well,
Mr. Tomkinson, you will see that the ruling
motive of my daily life is the pleasing myself
in every possible way. I am afraid I have no
principles whatever."

That is a fact which I should find hard to
believe," he answers, smiHng at her, though inwardly
a little bit disappointed  why, he knows
not  in this assumption of recklessness on
her part. " You do yourself a great injustice
in trying to make others accept you at your
own valuation."

'rit is the true one, I assure you," reiterates
Milly obstinately. She somehow feels that
it is almost a duty she owes to the memory
of Geoffrey to encourage herself in the
distaste she feels for general society, and she
has a strange, unaccountable longing to let

this man know the worst of her.



'' I am the most despicably selfish person
I know," she repeats, with decision, seeing
that he does not seem to be so thoroughly
impressed with her self-detraction as she
could wish. " And I don't suppose I am ever
likely to grow less so."

And then he answers jestingly, " Ah,
you don't know what miracles time can work,
even in such a seemingly hopeless direction
as your hardened egotism, Miss Byron," and,
with a pleasant smile, turns away to distribute
his attentions amongst his other guests.

Dearest Milly, may I not congratulate
you upon your little conquest ? " begins
Mrs. Falconer, in her silkiest tones, on the
first occasion when she can say a few words
to her niece unobserved. " I think he is a
most charming young man, and I have every
reason to believe that you have inspired an
Interest in him."

'' Are you speaking of Mr. Tomkinson,
Arabella ? "

To be sure I am, love."

Then you really are talking great nonsense,"
Is Mllly's sharp response. '' What
conquest on earth do you mean ? What did

he do beyond coming to sit by me, and
exchanging half a dozen words with me, ashe
did with every other girl in the room ?
And you instantly jump to the conclusion
that I have made an impression on him.
It Is too utterly absurd! I suppose you
mean it really as a joke, but if so, I
must say I completely fail to perceive the
point of it."

'well, my dear Milly, we will say no more
on the matter," returns Mrs. Falconer, with
undisturbed good humour. She has never
yet been drawn into showing the least
resentment at the girl's frequent discourteous
reception of her advances, although one would
imagine that her rough and ready manner
must inevitably grate against the polished
surface of her own more pliable nature.
*' But I have seen so much more of the world
than you have "

That you might very easily have done,"
puts in ]willy, with stinging sarcasm.

'' That I feel I have acquired a certain
insight into human nature," proceeds Mrs.
Falconer, taking no heed of the interruption.
And from what I noticed in Mr. Tomklnson's
manner "

'arabella, if you say another word about
Mr. Tomklnson's manner, or even mention
his name once more, I vow that I will never
go out with you again ! " cries Milly wrathfully.


And even Mrs. Falconer sees that it would
be prudent to hold her peace.

A '' THOROUGHLY GOOD FELLOW."

A NEW and very wholesome element Is
introduced Into M lily's life from the date of
her first acquaintance with Hugh Tomkinson.
The young man is' evidently sociably Inclined,
and anxious to secure a certain footing with
the inhabitants of the Abbey. Before many
days have passed by, he has ridden over
there, and left his card, which attention is
shortly followed up by a note begging Mrs.
Falconer to bring Miss Byron to luncheon
to Moor House on a certain day, to meet a
few friends. Secretly intensely gratified by
this proof of Mr. Tomkinson's wish to
cultivate their society, Mrs. Falconer Instantly
accepts the invitation, and endures the



subsequent stormy discussion with her wilful
niece with smiling serenity, confident of victory
in the end. And even Milly, when once she
is there, is fain to admit that she has enjoyed
her afternoon. Mr. Tomkinson has filled
his house with a large batch of visitors, for
the occasion of the annual " shoot," which
takes place at this season of the year in the
well-stocked preserves belonging to the estate.
And as they are all pleasant, lively people,
utterly devoid of stiffness or frigidity, Milly
very soon finds herself at her ease amongst
them all, and by degrees loses her last remnant
of shyness, and feels more like the Milly of
former days than she has for a long time.
Once or twice, when she gives vent to a
spontaneous burst of laughter, or when she
is led into making a repartee with some of
her old readiness and vivacity, she looks upto
find Mr. Tomkinson's attention drawn

towards her, with an amused and partly
wondering smile on his face. Perhaps he
is marvelling at the transformation which
has come over her since that first evening
they met, when she maintained such an austere
demeanour, and pertinaciously aired her
sentiments with regard to the hollowness
of society for his benefit. Something in the
expression of his gaze has a curious power
of irritating her, and of rousing the innate
spirit of defiance in her disposition ; and, as
if inspired with a wish to mystify him yet
more, by displaying more markedly a hitherto
unrevealed phase of her character,  she instantly
redoubles her efforts to make herself
agreeable, and the merriment on her side of
the table attracts every one's attention. Mrs.
Falconer is delighted, and privately sets
Milly down in her mind as a most accomplished
flirt, and, above all, as a successful actress.
VOL. 11. F

Probably, after all, her liking for Mr. Dering
was not so deep as she had genuinely believed
it to be ; and if this is the case, why, then, how
much more likelihood is there of her pet
scheme being" carried out. As she meditates
thus, Mrs. Falconer casts a rapid glance in
Mr. Tomkinson's direction. He is standing
by Milly's side just now, saying a few words
to her, the gist of which Mrs. Falconer, withall
her wish to do so, cannot possibly encompass.
But she would not have been able
to glean much from their short conversation 
for this is all that passes between them, 

*' Well, Miss Byron, for a young lady who
professes to hold society in disdain, you
certainly set us all a wonderful example of
forbearance," he begins, in half jesting
tones.

I never profess anything, Mr. Tomkinson,"
returns Reilly coldly ; '' and as to the example

I set, It would not be particularly polite oi
me to come out to luncheon and determine
to be a complete dummy, would it ? "

** Certainly not ; if one accepts invitations,
one ought to make an effort to be pleasant,
otherwise "

Otherwise one ought to stay at home,
you would say," she puts in. '' I see what
you mean,  if I were consistent to my views,
I should refuse to come out at all."

But I trust you will not think it necessary
to be consistent," he answers quickly. ** We
should all be great losers thereby. Miss Byron.
You will not think it incumbent on you to
carry your views so rigidly into practice, will
you ? " he adds persuasively, looking smilingly
up into her face. Even Milly's defiant spirit
is not wholly proof against the influence of
that kindly smile.

Never ask me what I mean to do," she

responds lightly. " I can never answer for
myself for two hours together. When you
know me well  if ever you should do so 
you will discover that I am the veriest butterfly
on earth  ' to one thing constant never.' "

That I never shall believe," he answers,
with much significance of tone. " You are
fond of underrating yourself, I know, but I
am not easily induced to alter my first impressions,
Miss Byron."

First impressions are nearly always wrong,
I assure you' she answers lightly ; and ashe
turns away without another word, she sees
that he is hurt by her flippant manner, and,
strange to say, the moment afterwards she
repents her of her thoughtless words. But
she has no opportunity of making the amende
to him that evening, unless it is conveyed to
him in the friendly shake of the hand, which
she feels bound to proffer him as she takes

leave. Perhaps some subtle instinct enables
him to divine the unspoken meaning in her
unusually cordial adieu, as also in the half-appealing,
half-defiant glance with which
she favours him at parting. Certainly his
face clears as his eyes meet hers, and there
is genuine sincerity in his tone as he expresses
a hope that they may meet again
before long.

Mrs. Falconer is quick to respond to the
young man's neighbourly speech, which she
happens to overhear.

Ah, that is so kind of you to say that,
Mr. Tomkinson," she says gushingly. " You
will always be a most welcome visitor at the
Abbey, for Milly and I lead a very quiet, retired
life by ourselves ; do we not, dear one ?
You see, Mr. Falconer is so often suffering
that I do not like to urge him to entertain ;
but he will be equally glad to see you, I am

sure. A little friendly society will do him all
the good in the world."

Thus encouraged, Hugh Tomkinson Is not
slow to profit by the opportunities given him,
and by degrees it becomes a rare event that
more than two or three days pass by without
his putting in an appearance. Mrs. Falconer
sees with growing satisfaction that he is
undoubtedly attracted by Milly, marvelling
to herself the while that her niece's b7'usq2teric
and outspokenness should have any charm fora
man of his stamp. But as one of the chief
aims of her life Is to see Milly married, she
wisely keeps her opinion to herself, and is all
sweetness and softness towards the girl, rallying
her on her '* conquest," and now and then
venturing on little suggestions In the way of
dress or demeanour wherewith to rivet yet
more firmly Mr. Tomklnson's chains.

So overflowing: with satisfaction is she at

the desirable turn that matters are taking that
she cannot resist saying a word to her husband
on the subject.

Dear John, I believe we have reason to
congratulate ourselves that our dear Milly's
future may be said to be secured," she says to
him one day, in her purring tones. '' Mr.
Tomkinson's attentions are getting more
marked "

Confound it, Arabella, don't talk to me of
that provoking girl at a moment when I am
suffering such intense agony," replies Mr. Falconer
irritably, writhing under the twinges of
his old enemy, the gout. ** Let her marry Tomkinson,
and welcome, if she can get him ; but
don't let me hear any palaver about it before
the thing is come off. How do you know he
won't slip off without coming to the point ?
He can't know what a handful he'll have if
he asks Milly to be his wife, I'm sure ! "

"" I don't think Mr. Tomkinson has any
intention of not coming to the point, clear,"
continues Mrs. Falconer, with unruffled serenity.
'' He is a young man I feel I can thoroughly
trust and esteem, and I am confident he will
prove a true friend to our wayward Milly."

'* And that other chap  that young scamp
who wrote to me and proposed for her as if
he had known me all my life and then sheered
off when he found out that Milly was not the
heiress he fancied  how about him ? " asks
her husband gruffly.

Oh, my dear John, I am certain Milly has
quite given up all thoughts of him. He is
gone out of her way altogether, and she is
recovering her spirits fast."

Of course. Give a woman a new bonnet,
or take her out to a party, and trust her for
forgetting the man she howled over and vowed
she couldn't live without! And now, Arabella,

i 3

I've had enough of that subject. I want
some one to come and read the Times to me.
If Milly had any sense of duty, she would
have come and suggested doing It for me."

My dear John, Cilia will be only too glad
to read it to you. The poor child is so anxious
to make herself useful, and really she reads
very nicely."

** Yes, like a parrot learning to talk," answers
Mr. Falconer contemptuously. '' Just as if
she were wound up by machinery."

You never do my child justice," said his
wife, with a decided inclination to whimper 
an inclination suppressed instantly, however,
on meeting the angry glance he darts at her.
Poor little soul ! she is longing to be a real
daughter to you, and you do your utmost to
repress the yearnings of her tender heart.
When Milly marries, you will be obliged to
depend on Cilia for all these little services."

*' When that day comes, you may be sure I
shall make arrangements for my own comfort,"
answers Mr. Falconer grimly. *' ind now,
Arabella, if you have nothing better to do,
yoic had better read the leading articles tome.
Your voice is terribly weak, and you
jumble your words together in the most tiresome
manner ; but you are better than nobody."


Which flattering remark Mrs. Falconer does
not dare resent, for fear of incense him still
more. She sits down to her uncongenial task
with the best grace she can assume, busying
her mind as to what that vague remark about
the future " arrangements " can mean. Surely
he cannot Intend to engage some one to read
to him and to look after him generally ? Such
a proceeding would not suit her plans at all,
in ousting Cilia from the position which her
mother intends her to occupy as soon as Milly

is well disposed of. On second thoughts,
Mrs. Falconer finds consolation in the remembrance
of her husband's penurious habits, and
feels assured that he would not readily incur
the extra expense of another individual added
to the establishment. Nevertheless, her cogitations
have the effect of making her mind
wander from the work she has in hand, and
draw down upon her head the merciless abuse
of her lord and master for the half-hearted way
she is performing her duties. She is thankful
when the ordeal is over, and mentally resolves
that i\Iilly shall not shift this burden on to her
shoulders so long as she remains an inmate of
the Abbey.

About this period of her acquaintance with
Hugh Tomkinson Milly has her first approach
to a quarrel with him. Had Mrs. Falconer
known of it, she would have augured still more
hopefully for the future, for that lady's theory

is that these Httle ups and downs in the course
of love-making tend greatly to a better understanding
in the end. The cause of the quarrel,
curiously enough, is Geoffrey Bering. Mr.
Tomkinson had ridden over to the Abbey that
afternoon, and Mrs. Falconer had at once despatched
Milly with him to the gardener, with
some trifling message to deliver from her.
As they stroll along the walks together, the
conversation somehow turns on their mutual
neighbours. The name of Bering is mentioned,
naturally enough, amongst others, and
the moment Mr. Tomkinson replies to her remark
Milly feels confident from his manner
that that episode of her past life is known to
him. Possibly Mrs. Falconer has seen fit to
acquaint him with an outline of the story.
Milly is very conscious that her face flushes
a little at the sound of that well-known name,
and, partly to hide her confusion, partly from

a girl's curiosity to learn his opinion of her
lover, she turns to him eagerly, and asks, 

What do you think of him  Mr. Geoffrey
Bering?"

For one instant Mr. Tomkinson hesitates.
Were he inclined to be strictly truthful, he
would have answered, " I think he is an unmitigated
scamp." But knowing, as he does,
the interest the girl by his side cherishes for
the individual in question, he casts about in his
mind the best means of reconciling policy and
sincerity. That moment's delay is fatal to
him.

With flashing eyes, Milly stops short in
front of him, and faces him with defiance.

"You do not like him!" she cries. "You
believe all the things which the wretched
old gossips about here say against him. You
need not deny it, Mr. Tomkinson ; I see it
in your face ! "

eccavi.

I am not going to deny anything," he
answers quietly. " I don't know that I
ever heard much gossip about Dering, but
having known him in a sort of way for
years, I have certainly formed my own
opinion of him."

And that opinion is unfavourable '. "
Again Mr. Tomkinson pauses.
"If you press me as to what I think of
Geoffrey Dering," he answers deliberately, '' I
own that he is not a man I should make a
friend of. Not a man I should care to see
very intimate with a sister of my own," he
continues, more hotly, and forgetting any
cause for speaking with reserve. '' In short,
he is not a man I thoroughly trust or believe
in."

Milly makes him a mocking curtsey, her
heart hot with indignation.

"Thank you, Mr. Tomkinson. No one

can accuse you of want of frankness when
you are asked for your opinion. You might
have known that Mr. Dering was a friend
of mine," pursues the girl, growing hot in
her turn. '' You do know it, I know,  I
don't care if all the world knows it ! " with
a gesture of disdain,  '' and therefore you
might have been a little more sparing in
your remarks. It cannot be very pleasant
to me to hear a man I  I  knew well described
as unworthy of being trusted or believed
in."

She turns away in high dudgeon, and
makes towards the house. Hugh strides
after her as soon as he is aware of her
purpose, and tries to detain her.

Miss Byron, you are right and I was
wrong," he says penitently. '* Please say
you forgive me. Don't be angry with me
for such a trifle. Just listen "

But she tears herself away from his light
touch with determination not to be overborne.


'' I hardly consider it a ' trifle ' to abuse my
friends so freely," she says, in her haughtiest,
chest manner ; and with these words she
leaves him standing there ; and he feels that
it is useless in her present mood to attempt
to mollify her. Reproaching himself for his
own stupidity, Hugh Tomkinson leaves the
Abbey that afternoon at an earlier hour than
he had contemplated, hoping to find Milly
in a more complaisant frame of mind when
he pays his next visit the following day.

Meantime, Milly herself, sore and angry,
retires to the privacy of her own room,
stamps her foot on the ground as she recalls
the past scene, and in her own mind sets
Hugh down as 'horrid" and "spiteful" for
speaking of her hero as he did. Nevertheless,

she peeps out from behind her window
curtain to watch his further movements, and
when she sees him ride away down the
avenue, without even a backward glance towards
the house, she feels even more indignant
still with him, and thinks, were she a
man, she would not be so easily frightened
away by a few sharp words and angry
o-lances.

VOL. II.

CHARLIE IN TROUBLE.

MiLLY is graciously pleased to accept Mr.
Tomkinson's humble apology on the morrow,
when he presents himself at the Abbey at
the earliest hour he can decently do so. She
has by this time fully repented of her outbreak
of childish temper, and is rather anxious
to know whether she has sunk in his estimation
by her somewhat unreasonable pettishness.
She hardly knows why, but it is an
undeniable fact that Mr. Tomkinson's good
opinion is valued by her. The knowledge
that it is so has lately begun to dawn on
her mind ; and although inclined to be angry
with herself for being influenced by it, she
cannot force herself to feign an indifference

which she does not feel at heart. Milly is
in all things sincere to the backbone, and
transparent as a child ; and Hugh has no
difficulty in comprehending the meaning of
the half shame-faced look upon her face, accompanied
by an unwonted lowering of the
eyelids, as she puts her hand in his. Almost
before he has had time to entreat her pardon
for his uncharitable remarks of yesterday,
he feels that he is forgiven. From that
moment  when the girl beams her frank
smile on him, and begs him, more by look
than by words, to refer no more to the matter
Hugh Tomkinson's fate is sealed : he becomes
a willing, devoted, and unconscious
slave to Milly's charms. Her very waywardness
and variety of moods have the power
to attract him, and from this day dates his
fixed determination to try and win this girl
for his wife.

Meanwhile, Milly, all unaware of the
thoughts in his mind, is absorbed by a new
worry of her own, the cause of which she
can confide to no one. She has received
this morning a letter from her Cousin Charlie,
written from London, asking her whether
she could possibly find means to let him
have a few pounds by the end of the week.

'' I hate asking you this, dear Mil," he
writes, " for I know your purse is not often
too full, and you may be certain that nothing
short of dire necessity would drive me
to appeal to you. But, upon my word, I
am awfully hard up just now, and have no
money coming in at present. Ruth is very
good, and slaves away as best she can, but
she has not got many pupils, somehow, and,
after all, it is a mere pittance that she can
earn. Then fellows in my old regiment will
ask me to dine here and there with them.

and I do not like to refuse; and so I have
to give them a dinner In return at my club.
You will understand all this, dear Mllly, and
how hard it Is for me to bring my expenses
down to the miserable Income which the
old codger allows me. At present, my literary
ventures have not succeeded, though I
live In hopes that they will, and that I shall
awake some morning to find myself famous.
If I were a gay bachelor again, of course I
could rub on somehow, but with a wife and
a household  such as it Is  to maintain, ita
hard pull on a man. Can you possibly
help me, Mllly dear ? Of course I will pay
you, capital and interest, the very moment
that my ' Fetters of Gold ' receives the appreciation
it deserves."

Mllly puts this missive down with a sigh.
There is something In the tone of it which
jars upon her. Is It possible that poverty

and misfortune are making Charlie selfish ?
Else why that allusion to the sacrifices
which concern himself only, and which are
the inevitable sequence of his rash act.
And then that rather contemptuous mention
of Ruth's efforts to add to their slender Income
 poor Ruth, who, Mllly knew, is straining
every nerve to obtain fresh pupils, and
who, at this moment, is actually the only one
who Is earning anything by her own exertions.
Did that reference to his marriage
imply that he regretted having taken the
step ? Is he already wishing himself free
again ?

Milly is devoted as ever to her cousin, and
quite as loyal to his interests as heretofore ;
but the first sentiment evoked by his letter
to her Is pity for his good little wife. The
next thing that occurs to her Is the question
of procuring the money for him. That it

must be obtained by some means or another
is plain, and is a conclusion very soon arrived
at by her. But how to get it ? She feels
sure that nothing less than twenty pounds
will be of any real service to him ; and to her
it would be just as easy to produce ten times
that sum. In fact, she has not as much as
twenty shillings in her possession. Mr. Falconer
allows her the princely sum of two
pounds ten a month for pocket money and
little etceteras, himself doling out with niggardly
hands the money to buy the modest
stock of dresses, bonnets, etc., which are kept
well within the bounds of strict necessity.
Milly is literally a penniless orphan, her father
and mother having died deeply In debt, bequeathing
to their only child nothing more
tangible than a parental blessing. So the
problem how to get twenty pounds is a very
real one to her. In vain she racks her brain

for an answer to the question, and turns over
a thousand visionary plans in her bewildered
head, each of which she is forced to reject
with an impatient sigh in turn, rebelling
against her own impotency. What is therefor
her to do ? What possible means is therefor
a girl in her position to obtain such a
sum ?

Ah, how many times has such a question
been asked before under similar circumstances,
and no answer to it been forthcoming. Milly
is not fated to be the fortunate individual to
solve the perplexing riddle. Try as she will,
she can originate no feasible mode of earning
twenty pounds  a feat as impossible to her
as scaling Mont Blanc would be to a plethoric
old gentleman, or as holding her tongue to a
woman. Finally, she, in her despair, makes
up her mind to the bold step of acquainting
Mr. Falconer with the circumstances, in the

faint hope that he may be induced to come
to his nephew's aid. *' Taking the bull by
the horns," she mentally phrases this audacious
scheme of hers, and she cannot forbear a
smile at her own temerity as she figures to
herself her probable reception. She has very
little expectation of succeeding, but none the
less does she stick to her resolution, and, with
commendable courage, determines to make the
plunge in the first heat of her newly born
impulse.

Instinctively feeling that Mrs. Falconer
would do her best to dissuade her, were she
aware of her errand, she chooses her time
when that lady is out of the way, and marches
straight into her uncle's sanctum.

It is one of Mr. Falconer's comparatively
good days to-day, and he looks a few shades
less grim than usual as he leans back in his
favourite armchair, stretching his feet out towards

the blazing fire, his occupation being
supplied by a pile of household books at his
side.

Not so bad ! not so bad ! " he is saying
to himself, as Milly enters. " She is beginning
at last to understand my ways ; still, the
consumption of coal is greater than it ought
to be. I must see to that "

Good-morning, Uncle John," begins Milly,
abruptly cutting short his faint appreciation
of his wife's managing capabilities.

He looks round sharply at her entrance,
and grunts out,  '* Good-morning. Surely this
visit is an unusual attention on your part."

** Yes, it is. I have got something to say
to you," returns she frankly, knowing by experience
that the only chance of gaining her
end is by going straight to her point.

Something to ask me for, I have no
doubt," he corrects, with emphasis. " The

way of the world all over ! No trouble Is
too great for any one who has his own interests
to serve."

If it is the way of the world, it is not
surprising that I should share the universal
weakness, is it ? However, so far you are
wrong, Uncle John. I have not come to you
to ask a favour for myself, but on behalf of
some one else  for Charlie."

Even her brave spirit quails a little as she
brings out that forbidden name and sees the
brow of the old man grow black with fury.

How dare you come to me and, in flat
disobedience to my orders, mention a name
which I have told you is not to be spoken
in my house ? " cries he angrily, half rising
from his chair in his amazement at her venturing
to defy him thus. ** Of all the impertinent
proceedings I ever knew "

"Just listen to my story first, and then you

can abuse me as much as you like," puts in
Milly quietly. '' I have had a letter from
Charlie this morning, Uncle John, and he
writes to me in great distress. They are so
poor that they hardly know how to get on,
and hitherto he has failed in his attempts to
get his novel accepted."

I never expected otherwise," interpolates
Mr. Falconer shortly.

He is at this moment actually In need of
a few pounds, and has been obliged to apply
to me," proceeds Milly, growing more eloquent
as she warms up to her subject. " Of
course I have no means of supplying him
with any money; but you  surely, Uncle John,
you do not like to hear of his being in want
when it would be so easy for you to spare
him a fifty-pound note ? You used to be so
fond of Charlie in old days. Surely you cannot
-"

Now look here, Milly."

The old man interrupts her with a set determination
of manner which bodes ill for the
success of her mission. Once, as she spoke,
Milly had fancied that a gleam of remorse
flitted across his rugged countenance, and had
hoped fondly that it might prove a forerunner
of absolute relenting. Perhaps it was not
altogether fancy on her part ; perhaps he had
yielded to a momentary yearning towards the
only human being who had had the power
of entwining himself round that stubborn old
heart. Maybe, for the space of one second,
he was seized with a pang of self-reproach
on learning to what straits his nephew was
driven. But if so, the better impulses of his
nature are instantly checked, and pride and
obstinacy once again regain their way. Hard
and cold is the voice with which he addresses
his niece ere she has completed her pleading ;

pitiless and immovable is the expression of
his small grey eyes as he turns them full on
her.

You have had your say ; now it is my
turn to have mine. I don't care what stories
you cook up about your cousin, or how much
he plays upon your silly credulity by representing
himself on the brink of starvation.
I will not listen any more to anything you
have to say on the subject. Once for all, understand
me, I will not have his name spoken
in my hearing. He has made his bed  he
may lie upon it as best he can. He may
starve in the streets for all I care," continues
Mr. Falconer, with increasing wrath ; " he may
bee his bread from door to door, but I won't
stretch out a finger to help him."

Then I only hope that you may live to
repent of your cruelty," answers Milly, rising
from her chair and speaking with a ring of

indignation in her voice. She is horrified and
amazed at the bitter animosity displayed by
her uncle, and realizes the futility of any
further contest. " I cannot think how you
can bring yourself to say such hard things,
Uncle John. After all, what has poor Charlie
done ? Married a girl not in his own rank
of life "

'' We will not discuss the matter any more,
if you please," puts in Mr. Falconer, with sarcastic
politeness. '' For once in a way I
will pass over your exceeding impertinence in
flying in the face of my express commands,
but you will not find me so lenient another
time. Take care, young lady, what you are
about, or you may go too far, and try my
forbearance beyond bounds."

It is quite a piece of news to me that
you owned such a quality as forbearance, Uncle
John," responds Milly, with a reckless laugh.

too irritated and sore with her failure to be
very careful of her words. And, without
giving him time to answer, she sweeps him
a mocking curtsey, and beats a hasty retreat,
leaving him to vent his fury on the unfortunate
next comer.

And the next morning, when she has just
made up her mind that the only resource left
to her is to dispose of some of her slender
stock of jewellery for Charlie's benefit, a letter
arrives by the post to announce to her the
death of a god-mother, whom she has never
even seen, and to inform her that by her
will she is to receive a legacy of five thousand
pounds. For once in a way. Fortune
takes it into her head to be kind, and to
bestow her favours in the very nick of time,
instead of, as is too often the case, evoking
by her caprices that most bitter of all cries 
'Too late!"

NEWS FROM NICE.

When she has at last succeeded in making
herself believe that the astounding news Is
really true, M lily's thoughts Instantaneously
fly towards her whilom lover, to the temporary
exclusion of Charlie's stern necessities. The
first Idea that thrills through her frame on
finding herself mistress of such totally unexpected
riches, as they seem to her, Is, that
possibly the barrier between her and Mr.
Bering may by this means be removed.
Presently cooler reflections take the place of
these visionary Impulses, and sadly she calculates
the interest which will accrue to her
from those five thousand pounds. Few girls
are more Ignorant on such subjects than is

VOL. II. 97 jj

Milly ; but even she knows enough to be aware
that, turn and twist it as she will, and bring
all the hopefulness of her nature to put her
prospects in the most rose-coloured light, she
can still only reckon on an income of two
hundred a year at the most. Her heart sinks
rapidly at the sound of that two hundred a
year ; for would not that be but a drop in the
ocean, according to the ideas of any man
brought up as Geoffrey has been ? Is not
that the very sum allowed to Charlie by
Mr. Falconer ? and yet he finds it impossible
to struggle along, even with the addition of
his wife's earnings. It would be but genteel
poverty, and in her heart of hearts Milly
has an instinctive feeling that Mr. Bering is
not one of those men who can '' rough it " with
ready grace, and make himself happy with a
few hundreds a year. Had she only herself
to consider, Milly would not hesitate a moment.

Like other romantic girls, she has a rooted
belief that she would be more than content
to live on a crust and glass of water so long
as she possessed that one supreme gift  the
love of the man who is all the world to her.
She dreams of a perpetual atmosphere of love-making
and rapturous bliss, with all the unwelcome
adjuncts of poverty well in the background.
Discomfort and worries of all kinds
are things unknown in this visionary picture
of hers, and if certain luxuries have to be
curtailed, what cares she for such trifles, when
Geoffrey is at her side, turning each day into
a perfect Elysium of everlasting happiness ?

But when she comes to think of Geoffrey
himself under such circumstances  Geoffrey
living in a very humble way, Geoffrey possibly
feeling himself fettered and cramped by the
narrow horizon of their daily life  Milly's mind
misgives her. It is all so easy for a woman

Vito

bear, but men are different. Their requirements
are far greater, and the perpetual round
of small events and trifling duties by no means
content them. And, oh ! if the day should
come when Geoffrey, like Charlie, should write
of his marriage with her in a strain similar to
that which had so struck her in perusing her
cousin's letter ! That the day should ever
come when he should accuse her of having
doomed him to a life of petty bothers and
irritating economies and makeshifts !

Poor Milly ! she begins almost to wish that
she had never heard of her legacy, since it Is
of no use to her for the object which is so near
her heart !

However, at least it will be enough to render
her independent of Mr. Falconer, and will enable
her to give Charlie substantial help.
With a pang of reproach at her own forgetfulness,
Milly instantly sits down and answers

her cousin's appeal, telling him of the good
news, and asking him if he can wait until the
money is handed over to her ; if not, she empowers
him to make any arrangement which
he likes with *' some money-lender," writes she,'
with delightful vagueness, " to advance you
the money you want. Surely that will not be
difficult to manage, if you tell them they shall
be repaid the moment I get my legacy."

Milly's great wish, but one she hardly hopes
to carry out, is to keep the intelligence a secret
from her uncle. She knows well that he will
make it an excuse for forcing her to defray
various expenses which at present fall on his
shoulders. It is more than probable that,
guessing that her impulse will be to bestow
every penny of it on Charlie and his wife,
he will checkmate her schemes by putting it
out of her power to do so.

Unfortunately, however, in the first flush of

her surprise, she had communicated the contents
of the letter to Mrs. Falconer, and that
lady, having her own ends in view, sees no
reason why the master of the Abbey is to
be left in ignorance of what has happened.
Just as Milly remembers her indiscretion, and
wonders if she is still in time to repair it.
Miss Cilia rushes uninvited into her room,
and announces in shrill tones that she has
been to 'papa,"  as her mother has taught
her to call Mr. Falconer  and told him *' all
about it."

'* How tiresome of you, Cilia ! " answers
Milly, provoked. 'why need you run allover
the house, telling people things which
don't concern you ? "

' I haven't told 'people.' I only told papa,"
says the imp promptly. " No one told me it
was a secret."

"At all events, you might have let me look

after my affairs, without mixing yourself up in
them. And what did he say, pray ? "

Instantly Cilia throws herself in a chair,
leaning back in the attitude peculiar to Mr.
Falconer, and contrives to twist her face into
some faint resemblance of that of her " papa."

'' He looked just like this," she says, with
conviction. '' Look at me, Milly."

And even in her vexation against the child
Milly cannot restrain a smile at the strange
contortions she is making.

'rand he said  oh, let me see, what were
his first words ?  * That fool of a girl ! She
is no more fit to have possession of five thousand
pounds than a paralytic duck ! ' "

Again Milly laughs, for the voice is Mr.
Falconer's to the life. The next moment she
remembers that she ought not to encourage
Cilia In her mimicry of her elders, and essays
a faint remonstrance.

** Cilia, you know you ought not to take off
Mr. Falconer like that "

You never do it yourself, do you ? " returns
the unabashed Cilia. '' I think he was rather
cross at your having got the money, do you
know, Milly. He was grumbling away at
mamma when I left the room. I don't care
to stay with him very long," continues she, with
perfect candour. '' He doesn't like to have me
there, I'm sure, though mamma does her best
to represent me to him as an angel dropped
down from heaven. But he's not so easily
taken in, is he '. "

'' Really, Cilia, you should not talk in that
way. What would your mamma say if she
heard you ? "

She would say, ' My darling treasure, try
and control the natural impulsiveness of your
ardent nature, ' " is Cilia's reply, with a mischievous
laugh. 'rand here she is herself,

I declare. Well, mamma, did you hear my
last speech ? "

My dearest one, no. What was it, love ?
Something a lite foolish, was it ? You must
not let your spirits run away with you, sweet
lamb. And now, my child, will you leave me
to have a little quiet talk with dear Milly.
Why can't I stay, too, mamma ? "
*' Because it is a matter which refers to
Milly alone, dear one, and would have no
interest for you. Well, Milly dear," continues
Mrs. Falconer, as the door closes behind the
unwilling Cilia, 'your uncle has been told
of your good fortune, as I daresay you know,
and is very much taken up about it. He
wishes me to say that he would like to see
you in his study at twelve o'clock, to talk
it over with you. But that is not what I
came to speak to you about," continues Mrs.
Falconer, drawing a letter from her pocket.

'' I, too, dear Milly, received a letter this
morning, which has some interest for you.
I hope and trust, dear child, that though the
news I have to impart may be somewhat
painful to you, yet you will believe that it is
only from a sense of duty that I inflict it upon
you. Duty, my dear Milly, makes sad martyrs
of us all in turns, and forces us to many
an unpleasant task."

I daresay," answers Milly, trying to control
her irritation. " But can't you tell me
what this obnoxious duty of yours is, Arabella
? "

'' My letter Is from a great  I may say, a
bosom  friend of mine who is staying at Nice,"
says Mrs. Falconer, coming to the point without
further circumlocution.

*'Ah!" as Milly utters an involuntary exclamation.
" I see you guess the purport
now. She has heard a good deal about Mr.

Dering at Nice, Milly, and that which she
hears is unfortunately not to his credit. He
spends all his time at Monte Carlo, and is
never seen away from the tables. In fact,
he has a passion for gambling "

'well, and is that the worst your friend
can say against him ? " interrupts Milly
sharply  " that he goes a great deal to
Monte Carlo ? So do thousands of other
men ! So should I," adds the girl defiantly,
if I had the chance."

'naughty Milly!" sighs Mrs. Falconer, with
the tone of indulging the caprice of a child. " I
fancy, love, that any little play you might be
induced to share in would be a very different
affair to Mr. Bering's systematic devotion to it.
I fear that he is leading a very dissipated life,
Milly. My friend says that he is seen about
with all sorts of  well, undesirable people, and
she has heard a report of his "

Mrs. Falconer hesitates a moment, and
glances at M lily's face before she proceeds.

Go on," says the latter impatiently.
"What is the good of telling me half a
story 1''

There is a report that he is engaged
to a lady belonging to the theatre at Nice."

'' I don't believe a word of it," answers
Milly stoutly; "not a single word. Your friend
has heard some silly report in the place, and
takes it for gospel, of course. I suppose," she
asks, looking the elder lady straight in the
face, "that you wrote to ask your * bosom
friend' to give you any news she could of
Mr. Bering?"

Mrs. Falconer's face flushes a lite.

"Well, naturally  feeling interested in him
for your sake  I mentioned his name to her,
and asked her if she had met him at Nice.
And this is her answer this morning. You

would not have wished me to keep it back
from you ? "

Oh dear, no. It was natural, of course,
that you should tell me. In a general way,
gossip does not interest me, you know "

But, my dear Milly, you do not look upon
all my friend tells me as pure gossip ? "

Certainly I do, unless it were confirmed
by other people. That it may be true that he
goes to Monte Carlo, I don't doubt, nor do
I see the great wickedness of that. A man
must do something to amuse himself. But
of his engagement to that actress, I don't
believe one word, nor will I, till I hear of it
from more reliable authority."

I don't know why you should imagine that
my friend's authority is not a reliable one,"
answers Mrs. Falconer, bring a little. " But
I know that you do not easily give up your
own opinions, Milly, and it is, I fear, hopeless

to convince you. If you take my advice, you
will give up all thoughts of that graceless
young man, and take the goods which the
gods send you in his place."

Which being interpreted, means Mr. Hugh
Tomkinson and Moor House," says Milly to
herself, with a contemptuous smile, as Mrs.
Falconer takes her departure, well satisfied with
herself at the adroitness with which she conveyed
that parting innuendo. And her efforts
are so far rewarded that Milly's thoughts,
when left alone, naturally flow in Mr. Tomkinson's
direction, and she wishes she could
make a confidant of him in her troubles.
Mrs. Falconer's communication has ruffled
her spirit more than she chose that lady
to discover, and she feels that it is necessary
to her peace of mind to have the reports
confirmed or contradicted. Not that she
really believes in his engagement, but that he

should have been talked about in that way 
that any girl's name should have been linked
with his in such a short space of time, arguing
that some sort of flirtation must have existed,
is a heavy blow to her. So constant as she
has been to him in her thoughts, so utterly
impossible has been to her the remotest idea
of a flirtation with any one else !

And then once again she thinks of Mr.
Tomkinson, and with a gleam of hope remembers
that he once mentioned having some
friends at Nice that winter. She instantly
resolves to appeal to his kindness, and ask
him to obtain for her the desired information.
And, thus resolving, she feels
thankful that she has such a staunch friend at
hand, one whom she feels confident will throw
himself heartily into her service, nor ever
grudge time or trouble so long as he can
be of use to her.

THE SHOE PINCHES.

Charlie Devereux is not a man who has
the capacity for accepting the reverses of
fortune with resignation. When he and his
wife first took up their abode in the tiny-house
in an obscure street in Kensington,
the question of his rapid descent on the
social ladder had not troubled his mind very
deeply. His is an easy-going, sanguine
nature, and, with the unreasoning confidence
which often forms part of such a character,
he had believed profoundly in his own talent
for novel writing. Money, he thought to
himself, would surely come to them sooner
or later, in this or that form. Mr. Falconer
would never hold out against him for any

length of time, Ruth would soon earn enough
to raise them above the level of want, and
his " Fetters of Gold " would certainly make
a great coup and bring him in a nice
round sum. But in the meantime, while the
novel which is to brine him fame and fortune
is going on its weary round of benighted
publishers, who lack discrimination
sadly in not at once descrying its merits.
Captain Devereux finds life under his altered
circumstances decidedly slow. Ruth is out the
greater part of the day, busy with her pupils.
Charlie had at first been very loth to give his
consent to her undertaking such drudgery.

*' My dear Ruth, it really Is not necessary
for you to take pupils," remarks he, when
the plan is first mooted. '' After all, we are
not quite paupers. You seem to forget that
the old skin flint is going to allow me two
hundred a year."

VOL. II. I

But when, as time goes on, two hundred a
year begins to assume less elastic proportions
in his eyes, he realizes what it Is to feel
the want of ready money, his objections to
Ruth's repeated pleadings become less strenuous,
and he finally yields the point altogether,
and, with the help of one or two
friends, his young wife manages to collect a
scanty allowance of pupils.

As is natural enough, Charlie feels uncommonly
dull during her enforced absences
from home. The only break in the monotony
of his days Is the periodical return of his
beloved MSS., containing a politely worded
printed rejection from one publisher after
another. At first, Captain Devereux takes
these disappointments lightly enough. ''No
one can expect to succeed all at once," he
says to Ruth, who takes the refusals to heart
far more than he does. And he loses no

time in despatching his treasure to another,
and yet another firm, feeling confident that it
is merely a question of time ere he sees his
book in print. But one must possess a very
hopeful spirit indeed to be able to bear up
for a lengthened period against the depressing
atmosphere of those repeated ' Declined
with thanks." The weeks, nay months, of
waiting which elapse before any answer is
returned at all are sufficient to try the
patience of a very Job, and the perpetual
siofht of the unwelcome MSS. time aftertime,
a little more crumpled and dog-eared
on each occasion, becomes a weariness to the
flesh, and almost leads the author to wish he
had never been tempted to put pen to paper.
Almost, not quite, for surely among no other
fraternity of mankind does there exist such
tenacity of belief in their own powers as
among would-be authors. Discouraged and

disheartened for a time they may be, but
only to rise again in a short period, once
more hopeful, once more undaunted, with
the marvellous faith in their capabilities still
strong within them.

All these experiences fall to the lot of
Charlie.

He refuses to believe in ultimate failure,
and Ruth dutifully and sincerely encourages
him with similar assurances on her part.
But for all that he grows impatient and
irritable during those long intervals of waiting
for news, and rejects his wife's advice to
employ his leisure in writing shorter serial
stories, so as to have other chances to fall
back on.

You don't understand the unsettled feeling
it gives one to expect the post day by day
to bring you a letter to decide it one way
or the other," he says fretfully. '' I couldn't

possibly sit down and give my mind to
other stories while I am still in suspense
about my novel. No ! I must wait till I

hear what F and M say about it,

at all events. By the bye, Ruth, that reminds
me  I really think I shall have to
join a club again. I gave up the Naval
and Military directly after we married, but
upon my word I'm sorry I did. You see,
I have nothing on earth to do with my
time when you are out, and it would bean
object to me every day "

'' But isn't the subscription very expensive,
Charlie ? "

Nothing to speak of." Charlie feels emboldened
to speak in this careless sort of
manner, as if pounds, shillings and pence
are beneath his consideration, for his quarterly
allowance of fifty pounds has just been paid
into his hands that morning. '' It's all very

well for you, Ruth," he continues, a little
aggrieved at her faint remonstrance. '' You
have no time on your hands, and are occupied
all day long ; but what's a fellow to do
with himself, hanQInQ- about the house from
morning to night, or walking aimlessly along
the streets ? "

** My dear Charlie, I didn't mean for one
moment to make any objection," returns Ruth
submissively. '' I often think it must be
terribly dull for you, and I certainly think
you ought to belong to some club again, and
be able to meet your friends."

And in this way Captain Devereux begins
to lead a life a little apart from that of his
wife. He was always popular in his regiment,
and his old brother officers greet him
with open arms when he comes among
them again. They are a little curious as
to where he has been hidlnof himself so

carefully for the last few months, but he
manages to evade all direct questionings, and
only one or two of them contrive to learn
the whereabouts of his abode. Then follow
invitations to dinner, to bachelor entertainments,
to shooting parties. Once or twice
his friends go through the form of asking
if Mrs. Devereux will not come too." But
as most of them are ignorant of Ruth's
social status the invitation is tendered in a
somewhat hesitating manner, and Charlie's
hasty reply that his wife does not care to
go out at all very soon suffices to prevent
their repetition.

I felt sure you would not care to dine
with the Foetuses or the Carruthers," he
says to her now and then. *' You don't
know them, and I don't fancy they would
interest you. Besides, you see, your going
would entail our driving to all these places,

which we cannot really afford, while it is, of
course, no trouble to me to walk."

[To walk, yes ; but on how many wet
evenings did you contrive to produce the
money for cab fare for yourself, Master
Charlie ?]

Ruth answers cheerfully, 

Of course, Charlie dear, I could not
possibly go. It is very kind of your friends
to ask me ; but, you see, I have never been
accustomed to go out at all, and then I
should have to dress better, and we cannot
possibly spare any money for that. It is
much better that you should go by yourself"

'' Well, it seems so to me. A woman's
get-up is such a different thing to a man's.
And, as you say, you wouldn't care for it. But
you won't mind my going now and then, will
you, dear ? " He has gained his point, and
can afford to make a show of being considerate

towards her. " You see, really in the
way of business I ought to go and mix with
other people. Otherwise, how can I get
any ideas for my novels, cooped up in these
four walls ? "

'' Exactly."

Ruth represses a sigh at the Impatient note
in his voice.

'' By all means go whenever you can,
Charlie. I shall miss you, but I would not
have you stay home on my account for anything.
I have always plenty to do in the
evenings."

And unfeelingly Ruth betakes herself to
the uncongenial task of mending stockings,
sewing on buttons, and keeping their stock of
clothes in order generally, while her husband
goes out to enjoy himself after his fashion,
perfectly convinced that in doing so he is
but fulfilling his duty as an embryo author.

He is always in good spirits when he comes
back from his various entertainments, and
amuses Ruth with a lively account of the people
he has met, and the good thiuQs which he
has shared. And she lets no trace of sadness
cloud her brow, but even lends an animated
attention to his recitals, and listens with unwavering
interest to details of pleasures in
which she takes no part, and to plans for the
future which concern her, personally, not at
all.

This renewal of old ties and social intercourse
is very pleasant as long as it lasts, but,
unfortunately, the day comes when Captain
Devereux discovers that the expenses connected
with his mode of life are hardly to be
covered by two hundred a year. The thousand
and one absolutely necessary ite!iis, such
as new dress clothes, gloves, cab fares, and,
above all, the occasional duty of returning

his friends' hospitality by a dinner at his club,
make a formidable hole In his slender Income.
Ruth does her very best to prevent his feeling
the want of ready money, and pinches and
screws In every possible way to supply his
Increasing demands. He never guesses how
many comforts  even necessaries  she denies
herself In order to furnish him with the means
of enjoying himself with his friends. It never
occurs to him to ask her how she manages
to save those extra pounds which she always
proffers him with so much cheerfulness. In his
frequent absences from home she is able to
practise many little economies unnoticed by
him ; her meals are of the scantiest description
when by herself, her clothes of the humblest
cut and material, and many a cold autumn
evening is spent by her plodding away at her
endless tasks without a fire to warm her
stiffened fingers. He certainly does remark

now and then that her dresses are growing
very shabby,  possibly the contrast with his
smart lady friends' attire calls his attention
to the fact,  and once or twice he asks her if
she ought not to buy herself a new gown or
bonnet. But her quiet answer,  " My dear
Charlie, what does It matter how I dress,
so long as I am fairly tidy ? I never see
any one but my pupils, and my old gown will
last well for this winter,"  is quite sufficient
to make him dismiss the subject from his
mind, and he salves his conscience by buying
her a bright coloured ribbon, or a pair of
gloves, the next time he has any shillings to
spare.

But even Ruth's resources are not inexhaustible.
She finds it become more and more
difficult as time goes on to keep pace with her
husband's requirements. It seems to her that
hardly two days pass now without his coming

to her to ask for 'just a few odd shillings,"
and at last she holds up an empty purse in
despair, and for the first time declares her
inability to help him. Thus brought face to
face with the stern reality of poverty, Charlie
gives vent to an impatient railing against the
hardships of his lot, and, leaving Ruth alone
with her regrets, makes haste to leave the
house, which, at that moment, as the scene
of such a vexatious experience, has become
odious to him.

An obliging friend, to whom he confides
his temporary difficulties, helps him to tide
over his trouble for the time being. When
Ruth hears of this, she looks grave.

Oh, Charlie dear, how will you ever
manage to pay him } "

"Oh, I'll pay him some day or other, my
dear," he replies lightly, jingling the welcome
sound of the borrowed coin in his pocket.

having quite recovered his good temper again.
Besides, what does a loan of  a few pounds
signify to a fellow like Lascelles, who is
literally rolling in money, and does not know
how to get rid of it? He never misses it."

Still, you surely must pay him back,
Charlie."

"Of course I must. Miss Particular, and of
course I mean to one of these days. But
don't bother your head about it, there's a good
child. It'll be all right. And really, I need
not begin to think about repaying the money
the very moment I have got it."

Having found Major Lascelles to be of such
an obliging disposition, Charlie has less compunction
in applying to him again in his next
'' temporary pressure " ; and after that he easily
discovers other friends who are equally willing
to put their hands in their pockets when they
hear of " poor Devereux's " necessities. Of

course Charlie does not think himself obliged
to confide all these particulars to his wife ;
and though she wonders a little now and then
how it is that his demands on her are far less
frequent than formerly, she is too simpleminded
to guess at the reason.

Finally, after this state of affairs has been
going on for some weeks, Captain Devereux
begins to feel that he has taxed his friends'
forbearance to the utmost limit,  at all events,
for the time being,  and yet, once again, he is
in absolute want of funds. Then it is that he
bethinks himself of Milly  of Milly, his staunch
and steadfast friend, who, he feels certain, will
somehow or other contrive to give him what
he asks. He would have thrown himself on
Mr. Falconer's compassion if he could have
deluded himself with the faintest hope of
succeeding in that quarter, for there is nothing
which kills all pride so quickly as the pressure

of an empty purse, and, spite of previous
rebuffs, Charlie feels no modesty in making
the attempt. But then he reflects, that if the
thing could be done, it were better done
through Milly, who could best judge of her
uncle's state of mind, being on the spot ; and
Captain Devereux feels certain that she will
not shrink from the experiment if necessary.
And, as we have seen, he judges her correctly.

On receiving the news of her lucky stroke
of good fortune. Captain Devereux's delight is
extreme. He almost feels It to be the same
thing as if the legacy had fallen to his share,
for he knows Milly will be the most complaisant
of bankers, and his lively imagination,
scorning details, foresees a satisfactory
ending to the harassing pinching to which he
has been exposed for so long.

He is in such high spirits at the news that
he bestows a voluntary embrace on his wife

before going out, not to, according to Milly's
suggestion, '' some money-lender," but to a
long-suffering friend, and see what immediate
sum he can raise on her prospects. Poor
Ruth ! such tokens of affection on his part
are becoming somewhat rare events in her
experience now, but she never lets him
divine that she perceives his growing carelessness
of manner, and Is genuinely glad to see
him so blithe and gay once more.

And so things flow on more harmoniously
than before in that little house in Kensington,
and the sunshine of Milly's prosperity makes
Itself felt with cheering effect. And then, one
morning, about six weeks later on, another
surprise for them is dealt out by Milly's own
hand again. In a letter announcing her Intended
marriage with Mr. Hugh Tomkinson.
And In his supreme content at the notion of
possessing such a well-to-do relation. Captain

VOL. II. K

Devereux pays but little heed to the language
in which the intelligence is couched. Nor
does he express-any surprise at Milly's somewhat
rapid transfer of affections, though, when
he last saw her, she had appeared to him
desperately in love with penniless Geoffrey
Bering. But Ruth, who knows the whole
story, listens to the news in silent wonder,
and feels a pang of disappointment on hearing
of Milly's fickleness.

'' ON WITH THE NEW."

Her enoraorement to Mr. Tomklnson is a
matter of almost as great surprise to Milly
herself as to Ruth. She feels entirely unable
to realize how the affair came about. It all
seems to her so bewildering, so unreal, that
she fancies herself walking and speaking ina
dream. She  the promised wife of Hugh
Tomklnson ! she, Milly Byron, who, but a
short time ago, had no thought save for
Geoffrey Bering, and who would have thrust
the bare suggestion of marrying any one else
from her with indignant scorn !

The real truth of the matter is, that Mr.
Tomkinson's success in his suit has depended
a good deal on his own pertinacity and quiet

determination to gain his point. Also, circumstances
have aided him considerably.
When he wrote, at M lily's request, to his
friends at Nice, to beg them to forward any
news they might hear concerning Mr. Bering's
doings, the answer he received was distinctly
unfavourable to his rival. It was quite true
that the individual in question spent all his
time at the tables, and was said to be losing
every penny he possessed there. That was
only what he expected to hear, and Mr.
Tomkinson knew Milly too well to dare to
hope that this part of the business would
affect her deeply. But the succeeding paragraph
would be more likely to put her loving
faith to the test.

'' As to what you ask me about the truth
of Mr. Bering's engagement, I cannot positively
say. But it is a well-known fact that
he is very devour to Mdlle. Therese Main,

OJ

the pretty little actress at the theatre here,
and they are always to be seen about together.
They say she is a good little thing,
and is quite a lady in her ways. Mr. Bering
is evidently attracted by her blue eyes and
mignonne style of beauty. He is certainly
not a young man I should care to have about
my house, and, indeed, many people fight shy
of his acquaintance, for he has the reputation
of being very fast and dissipated."

This is the account which Mr. Tomkinson,
according to his promise, faithfully retails to
Milly. He is only human, after all, and though
a kind-hearted, generous man, who shall say
that he is totally free from a feeling of gratification
that the report he has to deliver can
hardly be called satisfactory ? He would not
keep back an iota of the truth from her were
it crowd news he had to tell ; but as it is not 
as Geoffrey has chosen to walk in such crooked

ways  Mr. Tomklnsoii may deplore the sin,
but cannot honestly bring himself to wish that
the sinner shared his abhorrence of it. Fickleness
and unsteadiness of disposition are faults
much to be deplored, of course, but it is wonderful
how lenient one can afford to be sometimes
towards frailties which do not come in
one's especial line of temptation.

Mr. Tomklnson reads out the letter to
Milly, doing his very best to prevent any
outward sign of his inward elation being visible
the while, and watches her face very narrowly
as he does so. But, though the words
sink deeply Into her soul, she contrives to put
on a mask, and hide her real feelings from
him. She says very little beyond asking one
or two questions as to the reliability of his
information, thanks him for the trouble he
has taken on her behalf, and then shows him
very clearly that she wishes to drop the subject.

And a very long period elapses before
she mentions Geoffrey's name to him again.

And as Insensibly from that time forth her
manner to Mr. Tomklnson becomes decidedly
softer and more encouraging, It Is not surprising
that his hopes should take firmer root.
Backed up by Mrs. Falconer's representations,
who assures him that she feels certain that
"dear Mllly will eventually see that It Is for
her true welfare to reward such steadfast affection
as his," Mr. Tomklnson Is not long before
he lets Mllly know of the state of his
feellnors towards her. Nor Is he disheartened
by a prompt rejection. Once, twice, three
times he returns to the charge, combating her
objections, refusing to take her '' No " as a
final answer, a mode of dealing which, In
nine cases out of ten, obliges the fair combatant
to lay down her arms and finally give
In. Mr. Tomklnson Is not a lover of the

J

fierce, overmastering type, such as Geoffrey
Dering was ; he is not, perhaps, the kind of
wooer who takes a girl's fancy by storm, and
lords it over her in arbitrary fashion, such as
women love. But he is very much in earnest,
and he does his best to convince her how all
his future happiness is bound up in her decision.


And, at last, she begins to say to herself,
as many a girl in like circumstances has said
before, "If I can make life happier for him,
why should I hold out against his wishes ? I
myself have lost the one supreme good which
could make existence a thing worth having
to me, and look forward to nothing beyond a
future of comparative contentment, if, indeed,
I ever achieve that much of negative happiness.
But if it really is in my power to be a
comfort and a benefit to a fellow-creature, is
it not better that I should consent to make

the attempt, and brighten the path of another,
though a perpetual shadow clouds my own
lot in life ?

And Mr. Tomkinson Is not slow to perceive
the state of her mind, and to take
advantage of it. When she tells him that
she is not in love with him  that, however
much he may have forgotten her, Geoffrey
Bering's is the one image which will be
present to her mind, shutting out all others, so
long as this life lasts  he makes no attempt to
contradict her, nor does he affect to disbelieve
her vows of eternal constancy. He only
answers her that, even under these circumstances,
he is more than willing to make her
his wife.

But surely not when I tell you that I have
no love to give you," she urges ; " when I tell
you that I still care for Geoffrey as much as
ever, and always shall."

Even then," he answers, smiling  '* even
then I will risk it, Milly, if you will but have
me. I will make you love me one day, I
know very well. Until that moment arrives,
I will not ask you to care for me ; I will give
you all I have to give, and will not demand
anything in return until you offer it as a
voluntary gift. Only say ' Yes,' and make me
happy, and I think I can promise that you
shall never repent it."

With the sound of these and similar pleadings
daily in her ears, with the very ground
cut from under her feet by his acceptance of
her objections, what can Milly do ? Day by
day her resistance waxes fainter, and she
knows not what further plea to bring forward.
Besides which, the notion of marrying Mr.
Tomkinson is by no means repugnant to her.
She cordially likes him and trusts him, and he
has acquired an influence over her which she

finds It hard to withstand. And she certainly
would regret the withdrawal of his friendship
were he to carry out his threat of never seeing
her again should she finally reject him. Such
being her sentiments towards him, the result
is easy to divine. Milly wavers, hesitates,
demurs and objects for a long time  for so
long, indeed, that many a man less patient,
less persevering, would have given her up in
disgust, and taken her at her word. But in
the end she lets herself drift into her " fate,"
as she calls it, and their engagement is an
accomplished fact.

A proud and happy man is Mr. Tomkinson
that day  so exhilarated with his triumph
that he refuses to listen to any more scruples
from his betrothed, and loses no time in
spreading the good news right and left. Mrs.
Falconer congratulates him with effusive
warmth, and even her husband is roused to

unwonted excitement on being informed of the
event.

That's the only sensible thing I ever
heard of that troublesome minx having done
yet," he remarks, with would-be affability.
** But what a deluded fellow that Tomkinson
is to undertake the management of her !
What's become of that other chap she was so
sweet on two months ago ? " he adds, with
a sharp glance at his wife, who is the bearer
of the tidings to him.

** My dear John ! " with a persuasive smile,
*' don't you think that that expression to be
sweet on ' is just a  a little unrefined, dear ?
And it is a great deal more than two months
aoo since she fancied herself in love with him,
and since then I have heard sad reports of him
at Monte Carlo, and I feel sure that dear Milly
no longer gives him a place in her mind."

Gone to the dogs, is he ? Well, that

doesn't surprise me much ! All women are
weathercocks, I know, but I wouldn't give
much for Tomkinson's chances if some other
fellow turns up and makes love to that fool of
a girl before the wedding comes off."

But his wife knows better than to risk such
a contingency. She herself is very well content
with affairs as they stand, but she does
not feel so very assured of Milly's stability of
purpose, and is resolved not to run any risks
until the fatal knot is securely tied. She is
thankful that the girl's future is settled, and
that she will henceforth prove no obstacle to her
own particular private schemes. With Milly
married and out of the house. Cilia will naturally
come to the fore, and by a little skilful management,
the interests of her child no doubt can be
secured.

Pluming herself on the tact she has displayed
throughout the whole affair, Mrs. Falconer

does her best to impart a tone of motherly
sympathy when she discusses the important
event with her niece.

*' Dear, dear Milly." She contrives to
conjure up to her aid genuine tears of
emotion as she presses her Hps to the girl's
reluctant cheek. '' You know how deeply
I am feeling for you, love, in this trying
but most happy crisis in a woman's life. I
myself have gone through all the different
phases "

'' When you married my uncle, do you
mean ? " asks Milly, unable to resist the
temptation to be satirical.

My sweet child ! you forget I have been
married before ! So young when I first
entered upon matrimonial cares, dear Milly,"
with a well-timed display of pockethandker-
chief,  'rand so early left a widow to mourn
the loss of one who was indeed the guiding

star of my existence. And now it is your
turn "

To lose my guiding star, too ? Why
should you think he is likely to find an early
grave  that is, if you are speaking of Mr.
Tomkinson, though / should say he gives one
more the idea of a moon than a star  his face
is decidedly verging on the round."

Milly says this in her most flippant manner.
Her aunt's remarks appear to exasperate her
more than usually this morning. Mrs. Falconer
restrains an impulse to box the girl's
ears, but continues with unruffled suavity, 

'' You are in one of your funny moods today,
dear one. I am so delighted to find you
so happy and in such spirits. I feel sure
that a bright future is dawning for you, my
dear Milly. It carries me back to my young
days, when I was equally merry and full of
delightful anticipations, before I knew what

trouble was. And my sympathy and advice
will be always at hand at your service, whenever
you may stand in need of them, dear.
And when are we going to hear the dear
name of Hugh on your lips, I wonder ? It
has not become familiar to you yet. I remember,
when I was engaged, how bashful
I felt when I first made my attempt to comply
with my beloved Augustus' wish, and shyly
pronounced his name. One feels a curious
reluctance to begin "

*' I am sure I have no objection to calling
Mr. Tomkinson ' Hugh,' if he wishes it," says
Milly indifferently.

'* Ah, you have a bolder, less shrinking
nature than I have," says Mrs. Falconer,
with a sentimental sigh, patting her on the
shoulder. 'rand now I will leave you for the
present, dear one. No doubt you have many
pleasant thoughts to fill your mind, and Mr.

Tomkinson will soon be here to claim your
attention. I must go and look after my Cilia.
She is so excited with the news of your
engagement, poor child, that I have some
difficulty in keeping her exuberant spirits
within bounds."

]meeting Mr. Tomkinson on the stairs, Mrs.
Falconer holds out both her hands to him in
the excess of her amiability, and smiles her
congratulations, informing him of her conviction
that he will prove '' a sure anchor "
to " our dear wayward Milly."

I almost think I hate that woman ! " cries
Milly impulsively, when Mr. Tomkinson
repeats that remark of hers.

He looks rather grave.

Why should you hate her, poor thing ?
She seems to me to be well meaning, and to
be really interested in your affairs."

"She is as deep as a draw-well!" flashes

VOL. II. L

out Milly hotly. 'you don't know her as I do,
and don't understand her half as well. Why,
even at this moment she is inwardly chuckling
at the notion of getting rid of me, so
that Cilia may have a chance of becoming
first favourite with Uncle John."

*' I don't like to impute unworthy motives to
people without any real grounds," returns Mr.
Tomkinson soberly.

*' You speak just like a book ! Never mind,
you'll come round to my opinion some day,
and see her in her true colours."

At all events, she is a very harmless
person."

Is she ? So is a worm, and yet I dislike
the very sight of one. Why didn't you
ask her to marry you when she was Mrs.
Verschoyle, instead of me ? "

She is, I should think, fifteen years my
senior, to begin with," he responds, smiling.

*' And then, I had the bad taste to prefer
you of the two."

'' I hope you may never repent of your
bargain."

'' I feel sure I never shall."

Don't make rash assertions. You know
as little of me as you do of the Queen of
Sheba."

*' Rather more, I think. And I shall soon
get to know you well"

** And you know what the result of familiarity
is said to be."

Milly, you are in a perverse mood today.
Mrs. Falconer has contrived to ruffle
your serenity."

'' Oh no, she hasn't. It was ruffled before ;
or rather, I never had any serenity to boast
of."

Such-like dialogues between them, with
sharp and sarcastic speeches on Milly's part

are by no means an uncommon affair during
those days of Hugh Tomkinson's wooing of
her. The truth is, that she feels irritated
with herself for having let herself be placed
in her present position ; and, seeing that her
lover does not resent anything she says, she
finds vent for the unsettled state of her
feelings in taking advantage of his forbearance.
She rather dislikes the gene of feeling
herself engaged to him, and in her hours of
solitude her thoughts dwell regretfully and
longingly on Geoffrey Bering, and she finds
herself contrasting the present with what it
miofht have been were he to stand in Mr.
Tomkinson's place. She does not care for
him ; she does not find herself becoming more
attracted by him as time goes on ; and yet
she is somehow under the spell of his influence,
and recognises in him a will superior
to her own. She respects him at heart, and

defers to him more than she herself is aware
of. She even holds him in a certain amount
of awe, and involuntarily restrains herself
from giving utterance to speeches which she
knows would offend his taste and judgment.
But, at the best, she is a trying person, with
her fitful moods and varying tempers, and,
but that Hugh Tomkinson possesses one of
those sunny tempers which are slow to take
offence, and against which the shafts of
petulance seem to glance off unnoticed, he
might have been many a time roused to indignant
remonstrance. He has an intuitive
inkling of all that is passing in her mind ;
he guesses at her impatience at feeling her
self-imposed shackles, and her half-formed
wish to find herself free again, but he
decides that it is wiser to take no notice of
her mute rebellion. He laughs at her
vagaries ; he pays no heed to her sarcasms ;

he is always bright, overflowing with spirits,
and apparently perfectly content with his
prospects; and now and then Milly is compelled
to feel a little ashamed of her own
disagreeable humours, and makes an effort
to recover herself.

I know I am not what you call an
amiable person," she says, one day, deprecatingly,
when she is undergoing one of
these repentant phases.

I don't think you are," he answers slowly,
as if he were revolving the question in his
mind. " In fact, it would never occur tome
to describe you as amiable."

I fancy I must have got what somebody
once called 'a crook' in my mind," continues
she gravely. " I think, on the whole, I rather
dislike my fellow-creatures than otherwise. I
never have that extraordinarily overflowing
affection for every man, woman, and child

that I meet, like some people seem to have.
You, for instance. I believe it is your
natural instinct to like every one you come
across. Now I am not the least disposed
that way  on the contrary, I certainly start
with a predisposition to be antagonistic to
my species. I have no doubt I inherit it
from Uncle John, who is  well, not exactly
flowing over with the milk of human kindness.
He thinks you a veritable idiot to be
willing to be plagued with me."

*' Poor Mr. Falconer! You and he have
not been a harmonious couple."

I should think not ! After the manner he
treated Charlie, I only wonder that I ever
behave with common decency to him. It
was shameful to cut him off in that way ! "

We must see if you and I together can't
plan something for Charlie's benefit," suggests
Mr. Tomkinson. " He cannot go on as he

is now. I wonder if I could get any opening
for him in some line suited to his
capabilities ? "

** Oh, you will try, won't you ? " asks
Milly impulsively. ** Poor Charlie! It is so
bad for him to lead an idle life. Charlie is
one of those people who are born for prosperity,
and deteriorate when circumstances
go against them. Do find something for
him to do, and you will earn my everlasting
gratitude ! "

"Well, it is something to be assured of
that from your lips," returns he quietly.
Of course I will do my very best. You
are very fond of your cousin, aren't you,
Milly .' I wonder why you never fell in
love with each other."

Probably for the very reason that it
appeared such a natural consummation,"
answers Milly, laughing. Her short-lived

attachment to her cousin has by this time
almost faded from her recollection, and she
feels no embarrassment in discussing the subject.
*' All things go by contraries in this world,
don't they ? Charlie and I knew each other
too well, I suppose." Then, with a sudden
earnestness of tone very rare on her part,
she adds : *' Oh, Hugh, I do hope that when
you get to know me better, you won't
wish you had never asked me to marry
you ? "

She asks It in all good faith and sincerity,
and Mr. Tomkinson can scarcely restrain a
smile as he answers her.

Don't trouble yourself to imagine that,
you little goose. I fancy I know and understand
you already a great deal better than
you think, Milly. And at present I decidedly
do not find anything to regret.
Only try and like me a little in return  that

is all I ask of you. That will make me
more than content."

Ah, we cannot regulate our likings as
we wish, can we ? " she says wistfully,
wishing for the moment that she could indeed
give him that for which he craves. And
on her face comes that far-away look, as of
one whose thoughts are at a long distance
off, showing that, with all her lonoinor to
reciprocate his affection, she Is still hankering
after the forbidden fruit.

MONTE CARLO.

Meanwhile, what is Geoffrey Dering doing
with himself while our heroine is entering
upon a new path of life ? He is, he would
tell you, enjoying life to the utmost. He is
a most persevering visitor to the tables at
Monte Carlo, a familiar figure to the croupiers,
and, in fact, earning a reputation as one of
the most reckless of gamblers. Luck has
never been very much in his favour from
the beginning, but the more he loses, the
more he continues to persevere, as if determined
to court Fortune, and compel her to
respond to his solicitations. It is, of course,
by no means his first visit to the place  indeed,
it is the exception when he lets a

winter pass without taking up his quarters
at the Hotel de Paris, and giving himself
up for some weeks to this enthralling pastime.
The monotonous cries of ** Faites voice jetty
messieurs,' '' Le jeu est fait, rien ne va plus,'
are music to his ears ; the marvellous glamour
created by the uncertainty and the charm of
speculation has taken firm hold of him this
year more than ever, and he has no wish,
and hardly the power, to drag himself away
from the alluring scene. Sometimes he goes
there accompanied by a companion, but most
often alone. His whole attention is given
to the business before him. He never loses
his head, and his stakes are laid on with a
good deal of careful calculation and foresight.
His outward demeanour is at all times calm
and impassive, except when, very rarely, a
dark frown passes over his brow at a more
than usually continuous run of ill-fortune. For

the matter of that, one is struck by the general
air of indifference and lack of excitement which
pervades the faces of the greater number of
frequenters of the tables. One can discern
the novices at a glance by the eager flush,
the smile of satisfaction with which they
pocket their most trifling winnings, the ill-repressed
look of disappointment when their
stake is ruthlessly swept away by the croupier s
rake. But, with these exceptions, the crowd
gathered round that tempting green cloth are
remarkably quiet and self-possessed, and one
looks in vain for any traces of those violent
emotions depicted by the brush of one of our
great painters in a picture descriptive of this
curious scene.

And Geoffrey is apparently the most philosophical
of them all. One would fancy, after
watching him, that the loss of a thousand
francs or so is an affair of entire indifference,

and that he is playing more for the sake of
amusement than with any ulterior object. And
yet gain or loss are to him very serious matters
indeed. He has had some difficulty in
procuring the ready money necessary for his
journey and hotel expenses, and not having
recouped himself yet, as he fondly hoped todo,
he is almost at the end of his resources.
He has left himself enough to take him back
to England in a few days' time, but he has
positively only a paltry hundred francs in
hand which he can afford to risk ; and if that
goes the way of all the rest, he will have to
abandon his amusement for this season. He
anathematizes his evil fortune as he recalls
the proceedings of the day when left to himself
in private, and almost makes a vow to
tempt his fate no more. Nevertheless, he
is there again at the same hour next day,
going through the same experiences once more,

and again for the hundredth tune, and haunted
by the remembrance of a sarcastic jibe he
has heard somewhere long ago :  Jouez sur
Rotige, toties sir Noir ; nimis best toujours
Blanc qui magnet

He has a certain number of acquaintances
at Nice, who now and then succeed in luring
him away from Monte Carlo, and make much
of him at their parties  that is to say, the
young ladies do, attracted by his good looks,
and still more by his not very creditable
reputation. Their mothers are more inclined
to fight shy of him, looking on him as a
dangerous black sheep, who must be well
watched if allowed to enter in the family fold.

He goes to the theatre, too, whenever there
is anything special going on, and he suns
himself with a good deal of appreciation in
the smiles of Mdlle. Therese Manin. She
is lively, and manages to amuse him with

her outspoken remarks on things in general,
and Geoffrey belongs to that numerous class
of men who enjoy being amused. And the
next best thing to having an entertaining companion
is to find some one who lets you see
that you are amusing, and Mdlle. Manin,
who thoroughly understands men and their
little vanities, very quickly flatters him with
this assurance. And there is no doubt that
Geoffrey can be amusing when he chooses.
He has plenty to say for himself, and shows
some originality in the way he treats even
a most commonplace subject. He can be
very sarcastic, too, and puts little restraint
on his mode of expressing himself when ina
discursive mood. And the soupon of recklessness
and dare-devilry underlying his freely
expressed opinions has a touch of fascination
for most women. He enjoys his flirtation
with Mdlle. Manin, but of course he has no

thoughts of letting it drift into marriage.
With all his impulsiveness and apparent disregard
of consequences, Mr. Bering is a man
who reflects well before he acts, and rarely
takes any important step without weighing
the consequences beforehand. He knows well
that marriage with the pretty young actress
would mean social ruin to him ; and, under
his present circumstances, would be about the
most foolish action he could commit.

No ; it does very well to pass an idle hour,
but mr. Bering has no intention of letting
his admiration for Mdlle. Therese assume the
proportions of a serious affaire de cceitr.
When he leaves the Riviera, he will bid her
farewell with a careless word of regret, but
with no bitter pang, no lasting sorrow. And
probably she understands that it will be so,
and knows as well as he that it is but a
pastime they are indulging in, a playing at

VOL. II. M

being in love ; and very possibly, amongst
her numerous stock of admirers, she can very
well afford to let this particular one go.

It is during the time he is in the *' Sunny
South " that Geoffrey learns of Lilly's engagement
through the medium of the Morning
Post. The intelligence does not come upon
him in the light of a shock, nor even as a
surprise. He has not been sufficiently in love
with her for it to be a bitter thing to him that
she should be so soon thinking of letting another
man take his place. But he knows very well
that she was seriously in love with him, and
a sneering smile crosses his face as he reads
the announcement once again.

They are all alike, these women," he says
to himself. " They pretend for a time to care
for a poor devil out at elbows, and with nota
penny to bless himself; but as soon as he
has received his cong, they manage to put

him out of their heads with laudable promptitude,
and hold themselves in readiness for the
highest bidder. And she has secured a prize
worth having in Tomkinson, in the way of
money, and the fact that he is a fool, and has
no brains to speak of, is not worth considering.
Well ! I hope she may be satisfied
with her bargain ! "

And in such a careless fashion does this
young man accept the knowledge that he has
lost for ever the girl to whom, only a few
months back, he vowed such passionate devotion,
such undying love. Talk of the
fickleness of women, and their capricious ways,
it never equals the changeableness of man,
and his capacity for putting aside unwelcome
memories. '' To one thing constant never,"
he rarely likes to feed on the disappointment, as
poor foolish woman does, but does his best to
consist it to oblivion, and seeks distraction in

one of the many resources ready to his hand ;
while she, poor thing, indulges in the luxury
of nursing wild longings for the unattainable,
and hugs the dreary pleasure of what " might
have been " to her faithful heart.

Geoffrey goes as usual to the tables that
day, and perhaps a very keen observer might
have detected that he plays a little more recklessly
than in an ordinary way, and bears his
losses with something less than his everyday
philosophy. But beyond that he gives no
sign of taking any notice of that paragraph
in the paper.

And so time speeds on, carrying the golden
hours away, never more to return ; and, as we
have said, the day comes when a hundred francs
is all that is left to him in his purse with which
to make ducks and drakes. He has positively
no means of replenishing his exhausted coffers,
for he has applied to his most intimate friend

once too often, and his father, a broken-down,
impoverished specimen of humanity, is in the
same miry straits as his son. And so he
carries his hundred francs with him, fully comprehending
that unless his luck changes for
the better, he is entering those alluring precincts
for the last time for many a long day.
His 'face is as calm as ever, and his step
firm and decided, as he walks up to the group
around the fatal roulette table, and takes his
stand behind the croupier s chair. He has resolved
to halve his miserable little stake, and
to risk it all in two attempts  two final chances.
And he patiently bides his time, and when
the moment arrives, he places his little heap
of gold on the number he has selected according
to some inexplicable " system " of
his own. Not a muscle of his face moves
as he sees his first hope mercilessly destroyed
by that omnivorous rake. One

would almost have fancied that he smiled
as he looked on at the withdrawal of his
stake, but if so, surely a very bitter smile
indeed. Once again, after an interval of ten
minutes, he launches his last venture ; and
once again he is doomed to a repetition of
the same sorry farce played out. He has lost
it all !

With a smothered imprecation which embraces
Dame Fortune, frontiers, Monte Carlo,
and the world in general, he pushes his way
out from that pressing throng, and strides away
through the various rooms leading to the entrance
hall, closing the door behind him with a vicious
fling. He takes his way to the terrace in front
of the Casino, and seats himself on the stone
balustrade which stretches from one end of the
terrace to the other. It is nearly nine o'clock,
and the evening is chill and raw, as February
evenings, even in that genial climate, are apt to

be. But Geoffrey takes no heed of the damp
fog permeating his bones. There is a bright
silvery moon shining clear amidst the swiftly
passing clouds overhead, and a gradually rising
wind makes a faint rustle amongst the rich
foliage of the many shrubs around him. The
scene displayed to his view is very lovely, very
peaceful and soothing, and, on the whole, one
not to be excelled by any other part of the
known world. The tideless blue ocean 
azure blue even in that chastened light  lies
before him  a glorious expanse of slightly
ruffled waves, with the luminous rays of the
moon dancing joyfully upon their frothy
crests ; the greyish-green olive-trees  dark
and sombre when not Illumined by the beneficent
Influence of the all-powerful sunshine ;
the lighter tints of the orange groves ; here and
there a group of tall, graceful palms, and of
sturdy aloes ; the outline of the irregular coastline

fading away into hazy distance towards
Mentioned, and to the right the dark
walls of the Prince's palace at Monaco,
with the surrounding tangle of roofs of the
town itself and the village of Contained,
and beyond, a faint suggestion of the
promontories of Villafranca and Nice ; 
a scene which has been described a hundred
times by skilled and able pens, but a
scene which never loses its charm, or grows
stale by repetition. And yet, as far as
Geoffrey Bering is concerned, it might have
been a sheet of waste paper. He "cares
for none of these things " ; indeed, in his
present mood, he almost hates the sight of
that familiar landscape. He is wondering
idly, as he sits there, his head bent forward,
his arms folded, and his gaze fixed upon
vacancy, what will happen to him next, and
what is to be the end of all this unsatisfactory

dallying with existence. Has life nothing
better in store for him than that which
has hitherto fallen to his lot ? Has he, at
two-and-thirty, run through the whole gamut
of pleasures and enjoyments, and is there
nothing more satisfying to come ? Is he to
go on for ever leading this kind of hand-monmouth
existence, seeking vainly for fresh
distractions by which he can kill that archenemy,
Time ? He has lived two-and-thirty
years in the great world, and during that
whole period he can lay his finger on no
useful deed that he has done for the benefit
of his fellow-creatures  can recall no action
on which he can look back with even-tempered
satisfaction. Self and self-enjoyment
have been the ruling principles of his aimless
life, and he has spared no pains or
trouble to attain those ends. He has lived
for himself alone, and the happiness or the

well-being of others has never been allowed
to enter into his calculations. Why do these
reflections take possession of his mind just
at this moment ? Why does that visionary
picture of himself twenty or thirty years hence
flit across his imagination, and present itself
to his mind in the form of an unloved, miserable
old man, with all the sweetness eliminated
from his joyless life, and with but the
memory of a profitless past, and the prospect
of a sunless future, to cheer the remainder
of his lonely days ? Why do such thoughts
trouble him now, in this black hour of trouble,
when Hope seems to be bidding him a final
farewell, and no light appears to cast a gleam
across the monotonous blank of the dreary
years to come, and to be lived through somehow
?

And then his glance falls on the ocean
lying beneath his feet, and he gives way to

a vague wonder why he and others situated
as he is do not take refuge in that easy
method of solving the knot of their cares
and their perplexities. It is all done in a
moment : one instant's courage is all that is
needed, and then the cold waters close over
your head, and your worthless, purposeless
life is done with, and oblivion is mercifully
granted to you. What is there in life which
makes it worth having ? and why does everyone
cling to it with such pertinacity, as if
it were a treasure beyond all price, while
one is at heart weary and sick of it, and
knows not what more to make out of it ?

Geoffrey Bering sits on there, and ponders
on these and like questions with a curious
dreaminess of thought most opposed to his
usual state of mind, which gives a wide berth
to such philosophical matters in general. He
is in a condition of quiet despair, and feels

perfectly callous as to what is to become of
him next,  just in one of those moods ripe
for any mischief which the evil one may
prompt, bitter, reckless, and defiant, hoping
nothing, caring for nothing, a ready tool for
the powers of darkness.

*' Yes," he thinks, " Shakspeare certainly
goes to the very pith of the question when
he talks of ' rather bearing the ills we have
than flying to others that we know not of.'
That is the very thing, the only thing, which
in nine cases out of ten prevents mankind
from putting himself out of this cross-grained
world by his own hand. The uncertainty of
what may be our hereafter, the shrinking back
from the vast unknown  that is the real reason
why so many of us dread to carry out our
frequent impulses to have done with it all,
and to take that tempting leap in the dark.
At all events, the troubles we have to put

up with here are tangible and real ; we know
what they are ; and If we cannot overcome
them, we can fioht against them and struoofle
on somehow. And then we always  at least,
most of us do  at the bottom of our hearts
have a faint hope that the worst is over,
and that something  a very vague ' something
'  may turn up unexpectedly to set
us on our feet again. * Physically brave
and morally cowardly!' I heard some one
describe suicide once, and I am Inclined to
think that isn't badly put. It does need a
moment's pluck to throw yourself in the sea,
or drink down the poison you hold to your
lips, knowing that that will be the last dose
of anything which you will swallow in this
world. I've always had a certain amount
of respect and admiration for the fellows
who could do it. But, upon my word, I
think you want courage of another kind, and

a greater amount of courage, too, to go on
dragging out a weary existence, from which
you derive no sort of enjoyment, nor can
expect to have any. Such as mine, for
instance. Here I am, penniless and beggared,
with not the remotest chance of ever
rising beyond my present depths of misfortune,
with no one on earth to care particularly
for me, my only near relation a father,
who doesn't care two brass farthings whether
I am dead or alive, so long as I leave him
in peace, and don't bother him for tin. I
do believe that little fool Milly cared forme
once, but even she threw me aside like
an old shoe. Hang It all ! I certainly have
got a fit of the blues to-night ; it's because
I'm so clean cleared out, I suppose. Well,
I must see about getting away from this
place tomorrow ; if I don't, the probabilities
are

'hallo, Dering ! what In Heaven's name
are you sitting mooning here for, like an owl
on a perch ? "

The Interruption comes from some one behind
a group of aloes near at hand, and, turning
round, with a mingled feeling of relief and irritation,
Geoffrey Dering recognises the voice and
form of Major Malnwaring, a Nice acquaintance
of his, also an habitual visitor to the Casino,
and a man In whose presence melancholy
and morbid reflections would seem strangely
out of place.

A LAST THROW.

Major Mainspring is a big, jovial-looking
man of five-and-forty or thereabouts, with a
loud voice, a ruddy, weather-beaten complexion,
and a good-humoured expression in
his eyes. He glances keenly at Geoffrey's
sullen face as he repeats his inquiry, 

What's up with you, old fellow ? Have
you got incipient mumps, or has your ladylove
thrown you over, or has the wheel of
Fortune refused to turn your way ? You look
doleful enough for all three things to have
happened to you. And you, of all people,
whose cool cynicism I have often envied and
admired. What is it, Geoff, my boy ? "

*' Nothing particular," answers ]mr. Bering


coldly. " What a fellow you are for chaff,
Mainwarhig ! Did you never see any one
temporarily down on his luck before ? "

Countless times," is the prompt reply.
But I never thought to see you so completely
bowled over as you are. Why, my dear
Dering, it's the way with all of us  down today,
up again tomorrow. There's no use
in looking so awfully glum about it. Things
generally right themselves when they come
to the worst ; at least, that's my experience.
Why, I left the tables just now because I
was losing to the tune of some hundred francs,
and thought that I had done enough for one

o o

night. But, bless your soul, I know I shan't
sleep a whit the worse for that, and tomorrow
I shall be here again, as merry asa
lark ! "

That's all very well for you, who have
something to fall back on," answers Geoffrey

VOL. II. N

moodily ; '' but it's a different thing with me.
I've staked and lost my very last centime."

Major Mainwaring elevates his eyebrows.

'' Your very last ? No more supplies
forthcoming .- Well, I'm glad to see you
have not taken refuge in a last resource,"
and he glances significantly at the watch and
chain hanging in his waistcoat pocket. " Well,
after all, you've had a good bout of it this
year, Dering, and you'll come again next
autumn, just as the swallows will return in
the summer. And I suppose a man must
pull himself up some time or other before
he gets completely to the end of his tether."

" Yes ; but it's rather a different thing
pulling one's self up to getting pulled up
without your will by the stern force of circumstances."


*' I agree with you, my boy. It is not
exactly pleasant ; but still, I often think

that Fate is very hard on poor devils Hke
you and me. If we only had the chances some
have, we should know how to make the
best of them, I fancy, shouldn't we ? " And
after a short pause, " And what are your
plans for the present ? Shall you go back to
England, or stay on here ? "

'' I shall take the first possible train
to England, and then  Heaven knows what
I shall do there, for I don't ! " responds
Geoffrey, casting a vacant glance over the
shimmering moonlit sea.

'' Probably enjoy yourself thoroughly, and in
two weeks forget all about your unsatisfactory
experiences here, " answers Major Mainwaring
equably. " Who was the chap who said it
was ' better to have loved and lost than never
to have loved at all ' ? Shelley or Byron,
wasn't it ? Well, I say it is better to have
played and lost than never to have played

eccavi.

at all. I don't envy those people who have
never known what the thrilling excitement
of gambling is ; and though my losses  taking
the last ten years through  have on the whole
decidedly outstripped my gains, I don't for
one moment regret the fact, for I have got a
jolly lot of excitement and pleasure out of it
all."

To this assertion Mr. Derinor makes no sort
of reply. Perhaps the retrospect of his experiences
does not present the same charm
to his mind ; perhaps in his heart he wishes
that he never had " loved at all " that luring,
fascinating, treacherous syren, the Goddess of
Fortune.

Major Mainwaring continues to puff away
at the cigar on which he has been employed
for the last ten minutes, and then takes up the
parable again. He is a man who rarely keeps
silence for five minutes together, and at this

present moment he considers it his bounden
duty to do his best to try and enliven his
woebegone fellow-creature.

You belong to C shire, I think you

told me once ? " he asked. '' I had a letter today
from a friend of mine  or rather, a distant
relation. Did I ever tell you that some of my
kith and kin live in those parts ? This fellow
tells me of a marriage coming off there in about
ten days' time. A Mr. Tomkinson, of some
place or other,  a very rich chap, who has
made heaps of money in trade or something, 
and a Miss  Miss  I forget the name just now
a neighbour "

Miss Byron, isn't it ? " puts in Geoffrey,
the faintest interest stirring in his face ashe
pronounces the name.

That's it  Byron ! Of course it is ! Do
you know her  or him ? "

I know him slightly  that is, he lives a

few miles from us ; but I have never met
him much. I know Miss Byron  well."

Another keen glance from Major Main-waring
follows the slight hesitation with
which Geoffrey utters this last word.

"Oh, really! I hear she's just come into
some money, too. Sure to be the way !
Money always sticks together in the most
unaccountable way, as if on purpose to spite
outsiders like you and me, who don't get a
chance of "

'' You are mistaken in the present instance,"
interrupts Geoffrey, cutting him short.
Miss Byron has no money whatever of
her own."

I think you must be wrong. My friend
tells me for a fact that she has lately come
into an unexpected slice of luck  some old
aunt, or grandmother of somebody, has left
her "

Have you got the letter in your pocket ? "
'* I think I have. Yes," after fumbling a
moment or two. "Wait a bit ; I can't
read it by this Hght, but I'll strike a fusee,
and read you out the paragraph. Here it
is. ' The bride-elect is Miss Byron, niece
of that old curmudgeon, Falconer, of Whin-cote
Abbey. Some people say she is safe
to come in for the old miser's hoardings,
but anyhow she is not empty-handed, for
some distant relation of hers has just kindly
removed herself from this sphere, and left
Miss Byron a pot of money.' There ! that's
clear enough, isn't it } " adds Major Main-waring,
returning the missive to the depths
of his pocket.

To which Geoffrey makes no sort of answer.
'* Are you still unbelieving, Bering ? "
Upon which Mr. Bering descends deliberately
from his perch, puts his hands in his

pockets, and after a prolonged stare at the
moon, responds absently, " No."

*' Why, you haven't been In England this
last I don't know how long," proceeds Major
Malnwaring, still keeping his eye fixed on
him with steady Intentness. '' Why shouldn't
this Miss Byron have come into two or
three fortunes since you had the pleasure of
seeing her ? Such things do happen. What,
are you off ? " as Geoffrey turns sharply on
his heels, and makes a movement to take
his departure.

'' Yes, I'm off. I must go and get ready
for my start tomorrow."

'' Do you mean for England ? I had no
idea you were going off at a moment's notice
like that."

I must go. I have got  business there,"
returns Geoffrey, still with the same absent
air, as if hardly conscious of what he is saying.

Then, observing his friend's look of
surprise, he pulls himself together with an
evident effort, and adds, with a constrained
laugh, " The fact Is, Malnwaring, Tm utterly
shelved out, as I told you a little while ago.
Under those circumstances, the landlord of
the Hotel de Paris would be more glad of
my room than my company. Good-night,
old fellow."

Well, good-bye, Dering, since you really
are going. Good luck to you wherever you
are. I suppose you'll turn up here again
some day. As for me, I'm a fixture, as you
know. Ta-ta."

''I wonder whether there's anything 'up'
between Dering and that Miss Byron," ponders
Major Malnwaring, gazing after the
other's retreating form. "It looks uncommonly
like it, his being so Interested In my
news, and then rushing off In that insane

fashion, like an arrow from a bow. Very
odd thing if it is so. I always thought that
he was one of those fellows who liked to
philander about every girl and that kind of
thing, but if I'd been asked who, among my
acquaintance, would be the last man to think
of marrying, I should have backed him fora
thousand pounds ! Well, I suppose there
isn't one among us who hasn't got a soft
spot somewhere about him, and who has got
off quite deathless."

And Major Mainwaring's bronzed face
softens, and a half-sad, half-thoughtful expression
takes the place of his ordinary
good-natured, careless bonhomie, as his mind
travels back to bygone days, and he recalls
wistfully the gleam of a laughing blue eye,
and the sheen of fair golden curls. Ah !
how pleasant it was while it lasted, that foolish,
tender, enthralling dream of love ! Is

there anything Hke it in the world ? And
what a different sort of man he might have
been, he thinks, if that far-off dream had
been realized, if he could have called the
owner of those blue eyes and those fair curls
his own! He pictures himself as he would
have been under her guiding influence, and
he pictures something very different from
the blast, devil-may-care, thoughtless and
hardened individual who stands now on that
terrace, looking down with glowing eyes into
the waters beneath. Ah well ! of what earthly
avail to stand there and mourn over the unattainable
; and, after all, he is not sure that
he wants it back again  that forever vanished
past, with its follies and its ignorance,
its sweet illusions and its ridiculous visions
and ambitions. Now he has learnt to enjoy
life after another fashion, and knows how to
get out of it all he wants, and  and, with a

sigh and a short laugh at his own sentimental
mood, INIajor Mainwaring turns away,
and betakes himself slowly down the steps
to the station.

Meanwhile Geoffrey is engaged in thrusting
his worldly goods into his portmanteaus
with no very careful hand. His friend's
intelligence has had the effect of deciding
his movements. He is going to England
tomorrow, and he is going to see Milly, and
make a desperate effort to snatch her from the
grasp of Hugh Tomkinson. Yes, even now,
at the eleventh hour, within a week or so of
her wedding, he intends to make the attempt ;
nor, truth to say, does he feel much doubt as
to the success of his enterprise. " A pot of
money ! "  those words ring in his ears all
the time he is making his hasty preparations,
urging him on to renewed exertions, and
holding out a promise which makes his heart
warm as he thinks of them.

A pot of money! " What fearful exaggeration
of the moderate little legacy which those
words really represent ! But of course Geoffrey
Bering knows nothing of that  how should he?
An hour ago he was in a state of desperation,
ready to cling to any straw which might be
thrown out to him, and lo ! by the merest
chance, a glorious opening is cast at his very
feet, and a golden mine is likely to be his for
the asking. He would be a fool indeed to let
such an opportunity, such a providential chance,
slide. And to do him justice, he has no
intention of not taking advantage of it. He
means to travel to England as fast as steam
can carry him, make his way straight to Milly,
and, by all the power of her former love for
him, work upon her feelings, and persuade
her  if there be any force in persuasion at
all  to throw over her intended husband, and
accept him in his place. But of course it must
be done carefully and well. JMilly must never

suspect the real reason of his sudden appearance.
She must be led to believe that he has
just heard of her marriage, and that the knowledge
has been too much for him ; that he
has rushed off at a moment's notice to wrest
her from his rival, and that, rather than let
her pass into the keeping of another, he is
willing to run the risk of poverty and the
wrath of her relations, which contingency he
contemplates with easy disdain. He makes
a mental sketch of the line he means to
adopt, and smiles grimly to himself as he
foretells an easy victory. And having completed
his packing, he rings the bell, issues
his orders for the next day, and gives himself
up to the attempt of snatching a few
hours' sleep before the morning dawn. The
next day finds him as determined as ever to
carry out his purpose. He steps into the
train with a nonchalant air, envelops himself

in the numerous wraps he has with him,
and resigns himself to the weary hours of
traveling with a readiness which argues
that the object of his journey is such as to
neutralize the discomforts entailed by those
prolonged hours of monotony and irritating
motion. And all the time, throughout the
night, in his moments of resting sleep,
the magic words, '' A pot of money ! " are
ringing in his brain. Waking or sleeping,
they are for ever present with him, in
harmony with the continuous roll of the
carriage wheels, the click of a half-drawn
blind, the general whirr and buzz of a train
in rapid motion. He crosses by the shortest
route to England  vzd Calais and Dover ;
he reaches London in fairly good time,
spends that night at an hotel, and leaves

for C shire by the first available train. He

has concocted the whole plan beforehand.

and worked out every detail in his mind, and
there is no hesitation, no diffidence visible in
his demeanour or in his actions.

It is on a mild, fine February morning when
he sets foots in the little station of Fenwick,
the nearest point for reaching Whincote
Abbey, still two miles distant. He undertakes
that last bit of his journey on foot. The
air, balmy and soft, as is seldom the case at
that time of year in ungenial England, fans
his cheek as he walks along ; there is a repressed
twittering of song-birds to be heard,
rejoicing in the signs of release from the
thraldom of winter. There is even a faint,
a very faint, perfume of early primroses and
violets distinguishable in the breath of the
west wind as it faces him in his onward
progress. " Spring, gentle spring," is dawning
on the face of the earth, and all Nature is
waking up from its long sleep.

But of none of these things does Geoffrey
Bering take any heed. He strides on, casting
now and then a furtive glance from side to
side, and is presently lost to sight in the
depths of the Whincote plantations.

VOL. II.

THE DAY IS FIXED.

Certainly the period of his engagement to
Milly does not pass very smoothly for Hugh
Tomklnson. She is amiable only by fits and
starts, uncertain in her moods, captious and
fretful for no apparent reason. It is with
great difficulty that he induces her to give
her attention to fixing the date of their marriage.
On one pretence or another, she contrives
to evade the question from day today.
Why is he in such a hurry ? Why
need they think of settling the day yet ?
She has hardly had time even to grasp
the fact that she is going to be married
at all, and now he comes and urges her
to say when the wedding-day is to be !

Certainly not for a very long time  not for
six months, at least !

This is all he gets at first in response to
his pleadings. But one day, when she is in
rather a more pliant humour, he contrives towring
a promise out of her that it shall take
place in the first week in March. Once having
won her consent to this, Mr. Tomkinson
is serenely happy, and sets himself to carry
out the preparations for the important event
with unremitting energy. He consults Milly's
taste about every trifling alteration which he
intends making at Moor House in honour
of his bride, and in all things tries his best
to gratify her likings to the very utmost. It
is unnecessary to say that Milly shows no
gratitude for this consideration of her wishes.
Sometimes she refuses to give any opinion
at all  at others she criticises and finds fault
with all he suggests, and even frequently contradicts

flatly her own views of the day before.
Mrs. Falconer has to stifle many a
longing to box the provoking girl's ears,
when she stands by and listens to the sharp
replies with which Milly favours her betrothed,
and is secretly boiling with rage as she notes
the airs and graces which her step-niece assumes.
There is no doubt but that Milly
is an 'worked one" to deal with, nor is there
any disguising the fact that she is more than
ever capricious and snappy whenever Mrs.
Falconer happens to be within hearing. It
seems as if she took some special delight in
showing off her whims and fancies in her
presence, and of testing Mr. Tomkinson's forbearance
to the widest limit. But he never
takes any notice of Milly's disagreeable manner.
He is always the same to her, always
genial and good-humoured, not taking any
particular pains to smooth her down, or soothe

her ruffled feelings, but coolly putting the
whole thine aside, as if indulging the foolish
whims of a pettish child. He knows well
that Milly is in no wise in love with him yet.
But he trusts simplicity to Time to bring
about a warmer feeling towards him, and he
is but carrying out a plan of his own conceiving
in the way he treats her now. He
is very desperately in love with her, this
steady-going, not very impressionable, young
squire, nor is he a man to fall in love deeply
twice in a lifetime. He has given his whole
heart to Milly,  by what subtle law of attraction
she has enchained him so firmly, it is
difficult to say,  and should she fail him, he
will not easily recover from the blow. His
is one of those trusting, simple natures which
are apt to lose all faith in womankind generally
if one of the sex prove false. Cynical,
<5/5 Geoffrey Dering would only give vent

to a mocking sneer, and, though his vanity
might suffer, his real nature would undergo
no distinct shock, perhaps hardly experience a
sensation of surprise. But with Hugh the effect
would be lasting. His whole moral being
would undoubtedly contract and deteriorate,
never again to regain its former equilibrium.
But no thought of such faithlessness on
Milly's part crosses his mind in these days
of his enoraorement. Of course he knows the

o o

whole story of her love for Geoffrey Dering
once or twice she has alluded to it voluntarily,
for Milly is truthfulness itself, and it
is part of her creed of honour to have no
secrets in the past from the man with whom
she is destined to pass the rest of her life.
So he knows all about it, and, just at first,
he may have felt slightly unquiet as to what
Mr. Bering's next move may be when he
learns of Milly's contemplated marriage. But

as time goes on, and Geoffrey remains silent
and quiescent, Mr. Tomkinson puts the
thought of him out of his head, and almost
manages to forget his existence. His one
wish is for the wedding-day to arrive, when
he may take Milly into his own keeping,
and by his loving care and influence induce
her to throw aside all memories of a foolish
past, and make herself happy and contented
in the bright future which he is determined
shall dawn for her. Nor is he doubtful of
his power of accomplishing this.

Meanwhile, Mr. Falconer sends for his
niece one day, about a fortnight before the
date of the important day, and places in her
hand a cheque for 100.

** That sum is for your trousseau or whatever
you women call those gimcracks you
think it necessary to fill your trunks with
when you marry. My advice to you is to

take good care of every penny of it, and
not waste it in useless rubbish, and things
which it will take you half a century to wear
out," he says. " If you are so foolish as to
buy more than that will pay for, well, you
must draw upon your own resources."

Her own resources ! Very meagre they
are indeed at this moment, for the supplies
to Charlie out of her very moderate legacy
have been extensive of late, in answer to
his not very modest appeals. She wishes
she dared tell her uncle that she just possesses
the sum of 2s. 6d. in her purse at the
moment, and that bills to the amount of
more than double the sum he grudgingly
tenders her have arrived by that morning's
post. But, having her own reasons for wishing
to conciliate him, she controls herself,
and accepts the gift with a good attempt at
hearty gratitude.

*' Oh, thank you, Uncle John, so much!"
She really looks as If it is quite a surprise to her
to receive a present at all. 'rit is very good
of you to give me such a handsome present.
I will take the greatest care of it "  meekly 
'' and of course I should not think of buying
any things I did not really want."

** I'm glad to hear it. If there's any over,
sou can put it in the savings bank. And
I am glad to hear, through your aunt, that
Tomkinson does not expect the whole county
to be bidden to the wedding, to eat and drink
at my expense. It's a thing I could not possibly
think of doing. It's a cause for thankfulness
that he has no near relations "

' Sisters and brothers have I none,' " quotes
Milly, sotto voce,

*' What's that you're saying ? I wish you
wouldn't interrupt me with your flippant remarks.
I suppose he must have a best man, "

with a look half expecting dissent from her,

"and he talks of two cousins, and an old
aunt, whom he must ask to come  goodness
alone knows why. But, beyond this, I'll have
no more people sitting here the whole afternoon
and boozing away till they don't know
whether they're standing on their head or
their heels. You can have the parson's
daughter to be bridesmaid, besides Cilia and

What are you mumbling behind my

back ? "

I  I wanted to ask you, Uncle John,
if  if you would not ask Charlie and his wife
to come ! "

You might just as well ask me to Invite
a mad dog ! " roars the fiery old man. " How
many more times am I to tell you, miss, that
that name is not to be spoken in my hearing .
Really, for impudence and audacity you beat
the whole of the girls in the United Kingdom

put together ! No, I certainly will not ask
that individual and his confounded wife,
or dream of such a thing  so now you
know ! "

Yes, I know," returns Milly, too disheartened
by her ill-success to answer pertly.
''I am sorry you said 'No,' Uncle John. I did
hope, on this occasion, you would have given
way. It's so horrid being married without
Charlie here. And you needn't see him if
you didn't like, you know. He might keep
out of your sight."

'' Will yo2L get out of my sight, you ungrateful,
vexatious girl ? " thunders out her uncle,
with a movement almost as if he contemplated
striking her. " Have the goodness to go at
once, and think yourself lucky that I don't
take that cheque back, as a punishment for
your disobedience and pertinacity ! "

You might have It back, and welcome, if

you would only promise to let me have Charlie
here in return," responds Milly, determined to
have the last word, but turning towards the
door in compliance with his mandate.

'' I had no idea he could be so hard and hold
out so long," she says, when narrating the scene
to Mr. Tomkinson afterwards. " I don't believe
any power that exists could get him to relent
towards poor Charlie."

*' Well, how much has he given you ? "
asks Cilia, dancing towards Milly as she issues
forth from her uncle's room, sad and depressed.
Only a hundred pounds ! Why, that won't
go very far, I know ! " says the precocious child,
looking scornfully at the paper Milly holds out.
I know mamma spent a great, great deal
more on that last year when she married papa.
I hate calling him papa, " adds the imp, with
a shake expressing disgust. "He isn't a bit
like a papa to me, and I know he hates to hear

me, too. He always makes a face when I say
It. Mamma, what do you think ? Milly has
only got a hundred pounds for her trousseau !
Why, you spent "

Hush, Cilia love ! Don't talk of things
of which you know nothing, my child. My
expenditure was regulated by the position I
was about to fill. Dear Milly will, of course,
hardly need the outfit which was necessary
for the mistress of Whincote Abbey. She
will, I trust, make the most of her uncle's
handsome gift "

Do you call it handsome ? " asks Milly
coolly. "Well, dogs ought to be thankful for
broken bones, I dare say ; and according to
his Ideas, it may be princely, but "

Dearest Milly, you forget how many claims
your uncle has on his purse."

I should have thought I might have come
under the head of one of the 'claims'" returns

Milly quietly. '' However, I really never expected
more, which is a blessing, and so I am
not disappointed. "

I'm sure, Milly, you could not have
managed him well," puts in Cilia, the irrepressible.
" If it had been me, now, I should
have made myself so sweet and nice to him
for a long time beforehand, so as to have got
something jolly out of him. No, I feel
certain you have missed your opportunities.
Oh ! what a goose you are ! ' Silly' rhymes
with 'Milly,' doesn't it ?"

*' And by a little stretch of Imagination, we
might rhyme 'sillier' with 'Cilia'" retorts Milly
sharply. " Don't be pert. Cilia."

Oh, my goodness ! Milly thinks she can
lecture me, now she's going to be married
and to be a fine lady," says Cilia, not the least
repressed by this rebuff.

Dear Milly, the child means no harm,"

puts in Mrs. Falconer soothingly. "You
hardly understand the playful promptings of
her infantile heart,  so full of spirit, and yet
so very careful not to wound the feelings of
any one. Cilia love, what shall you and I
do when Milly abandons us ? We shall feel
so lonely, you and I, dear one. You will
have to be mamma's right hand and comfort,
won't you, my precious treasure ? And you
must try and take her place with your poor,
dear, suffering papa, and make yourself useful
to him."

That won't be a hard task, I imagine,"
answers Milly shortly. '' But I cannot
honestly say that I regret handing over that
part of my duties to you. Cilia. Perhaps
you'll carry them out with more completeness
than I did. And be sure"  waxing facetious
" be sure you always remember to be very
sympathetic when his fits of gout come on,

and never get Into disgrace, as I did once,
by calling one of his worst attacks ' a touch
of gout ' ! "

And Milly laughs grimly as she recalls
that bygone scene.

'' I'm sure your poor dear uncle is severely
tried by his wearying attacks of gout," says
Mrs. Falconer, with dignity. *' You should
not laugh at the distressing infirmities of age,
Milly."

"No? What a bad example for Cilia, isn't
it ? Well, for fear of my saying something
still worse, I will decamp. Some day. Cilia,
I will initiate you into the signs and mysteries
which precede an attack of gout, so
that you may be prepared."

And with a light, mocking laugh, Milly
passes on to her own room, leaving Mrs.
Falconer to sigh over her " sad, brusque
manner," as she takes advantage of the

moment to point out to her daughter the
depravity of an undisciplined spirit.

Milly goes to her room, and, sitting down
at the window, gives herself up to a train
of not very cheerful thought. Now that the
time is drawing near for her to leave it, she
begins to discover that she really has some
natural love for the old Abbey, which has
been her home for so many years, and for
all its well-known haunts. It seems curious
to her how loth she is to bid it all farewell.
She cares nothing for Moor House, in comparison,
inwardly stigmatizing it as a " horrid
new place," whereas the Abbey walls have
stood the wear and tear of centuries. She
looks out upon that gently undulating expanse
of meadow and wood stretching faraway
into space, gleaming with the chastened
rays of the February sun, and lying still and
calm in the quiet peacefulness pervading the

VOL. II. P

landscape. She looks on it, and a heavy
sigh escapes her. Even so far as her eye
can reach there are memories of the one
love of her life brought back to her. She
has walked with him across yon sloping
field ; she has wandered by his side in that
high, shelving lane which twists and winds
round that plantation on the left-hand side.
She can even, by straining her neck, catch
a glimpse of that little plantation where she
first met him, and which was afterwards the
scene of their rendezvous. And so musing,
she suddenly remembers, with a start, that
henceforth Geoffrey is to be shut out from
her life altogether, and with a shudder the
thought of the future which lies before her
presents itself to her mind with newly acquired
force and vividness. What dreariness
and monotony will be her fate ! Shall she
ever be able to endure it ? Shall she ever

be able to become a good wife to Hugh
Tomklnson, putting aside . the dreams of her
fond fancies, and making herself contented
in his society ? Contrasting him now with
Geoffrey in her mind, she is fain to own that
she finds him a little dull and heavy at times.
Thoroughly estimable, of course, and a man
calculated to make most girls quite happy,
yet to her just a little wearisome and prosaic.
Will this feeling on her part grow
stronger day by day, she wonders ? Will
it at last take the form of repulsion ? Will
she ever come to feel a positive dislike to
him, a distaste for his presence, and all the
same be obliged to make the best of it, and
strive vainly to prevent his finding it out ?
Has she made a mistake in accepting him
as her husband ? and will she suffer for it
hereafter, and, through her own regrets, entail
suffering on him  on him who, whatever

else his shortcomings, is genuinely and unselfishly
devoted to her at this moment, and,
in blind confidence, looks to her as the instrument
of future happiness for himself?

Oh ! if only life were not such a hard thing
to understand ! if it were not so perplexing
to know which course is best to take ! If
only Time would stand still when we are
content and happy, and not hurry us onwards,
against our will, to situations unwished for
and difficult to deal with ! Alas, poor Milly !

Our life is a state of progression,

Though weary and rough be the way :
And ere we get good in possession,

Hard labour's the price we must pay.
Then pause not, though dark and alarming

The sky in the distance may lower;
Press on,  there be regions more charming, 

The sunshine comes after the shower.'

And, perhaps feeling that it is useless to
dwell upon the vanished past, or to strive

to change the course of circumstances, Milly
determinedly rouses herself from her reverie
as she sees Mr. Tomklnson's figure approaching
the house, and resumes her ordinary indifferent
manner. But from that day forward
she is less aggressive in her manner towards
him, and altogether more amenable. The
days pass quickly by, and now it only wants
one week of her wedding-day. She is quite
resigned to the prospect of her marriage now,
and is now and then touched by the unwearying
display of affection which Mr. Tomlinson
lavishes upon her, in spite of all her
vagaries. She even condescends to take a
real interest in one or two of his last alterations
at Moor House, for her behoof and
interest ; and once she positively sides with
him in a question of taste, as opposed to that
of Mrs. Falconer. And Huofh, overflowing
with delight at her softened demeanour, is

as proud as Punch, and as happy as a
king. He begins to fancy that jNIilly is really
learning to care for him at last, and his hopes
rise high of one day, at no very distant
period, gaining her whole heart, and of effacing
from her mind all recollections inimical

o

to his complete success.

And then  it is on a Thursday morning,
and the marriage is to take place on the following
Wednesday  Milly is accosted by a
little ragged boy as she is walking down
towards the village, who, without a word of
explanation, thrusts a three-cornered note into
her hand, and vanishes instantly, having fulfilled
his commission. With a presentiment
of something important about to happen,
Milly opens the note with trembling fingers,
and this is what she reads, 

Come to the wych-elm in the plantation
at 4 p.m. this afternoon.  G. D."

"femme qui scouts."
A GREAT rush of colour floods Milly's cheek
as she reads those words, and sees those
familiar initials once again. In one moment
everything else in the world  her approaching
marriage, Hugh Tomkinson's self, her engagement
to drive with him that afternoon  recedes
into the background, and the one fact  the one
overwhelming, all-absorbing fact  of Geoffrey's
presence takes complete possession of her
mind. Geoffrey here ! close at hand ! and
wanting to see her ! Possibly he is not far
off even now, perhaps somewhere in sight
this very moment ; and as the thought strikes
her, she glances furtively round, as if expecting
to see him by her side. But no sign of Mr.



Bering's form Is visible in the landscape.
She turns again to the perusal of those few-words,
scrutinizing every letter with hungry-eyes,
trying vainly to discover another scrap
of writing which she had overlooked at first.

She is in a wild tumult of repressed excitement.
She, who was walking along so quietly
and soberly a few minutes before, is now transformed
into a passionate, impulsive creature,
whose flushed cheek, throbbing pulse, and
eager glance betoken the unsettled state of
her mind. She can scarcely contain herself
from rushing wildly, then and there, somewhere
 anywhere  in search of him. Oh,
why had she not detained his messenger, and
made close inquiries of him, and so learnt
Geoffrey's whereabouts ? Is it of any use
to go to the wych-elm now in the chance of
his being there ? But no ! Is it likely that
he would have appointed a particular hour

for the meeting had he been able to come
earlier ? No ; there is nothing for her to do
but to endure as best she can those long hours
of waiting before four o'clock arrives. Four
o'clock ! and It Is now not much past twelve !
The awful ordeal of luncheon must be got
through somehow first, and she must control
herself sufficiently to prevent Mrs. Falconer
and Cilia from guessing that anything has
happened. As to refusing his request, and
not going to meet him, such a notion never
once crosses her mind. Of course she must
go ! Geoffrey's word Is law to her, and no
arguments, no persuasions would have Induced
her to disappoint him.

Very slowly she turns round again after a
few moments' waiting, and walks back to the
Abbey. Half an hour afterwards she presents
herself at the luncheon table, much In her usual
demeanour, though her manner Is a trifle absent

and preoccupied. But that is a thing not
much to be wondered at just now, and no one
takes any notice of it. She eats the food
placed before her mechanically ; she takes
her part in the conversation with a set smile,
while all the time the words, '' Four o'clock,
four o'clock," are repeating themselves over
and over again in her whirling brain, with
a persistency which well-nigh distracts her.
She is thankful when the meal is over, and
she can get away to the solitude of her own
room.

She is much too restless and too overwrought
with excited feeling to be able to
form any definite plan for the afternoon. She
has no excuse ready wherewith to proffer
Mr. Tomkinson for failing in her engagement
with him. All she thinks of is that
she must leave the house at an early hour 
before three o'clock, when he is to come for

her  so as to be out of the way of Inconvenient
questions. She knows that her Hps would
be powerless to frame a connected excuse
were she to find herself face to face with him,
so she must trust to being able to make her
peace with him at some future time, and leave
him to wonder at her disappearance, and
explain it to himself with what ability he can.
What matters if he is angry with her ? She is
going to see Geoffrey, and after that the anger
or the reproaches of any one else in the world
will be as so many empty words to her.

A little before three she steals guiltily
out by a side door of the Abbey, takes her
way through a secluded part of the garden,
and reaches the plantation in safety. There
she remains in its most hidden depths for the
space of an hour, too impatient and uneasy
to stay in any one part for more than ten
minutes together. Almost before it strikes

four she is at the trysting place  and finds
Geoffrey already there !

He steps forward with an eager movement
to meet her.

My darling ! "

The next instant his arms are round her,
and she forgets all in the perfect bliss of that
silent meeting.

'' Oh, Geoffrey, I thought I should never
see you again ! " she murmurs, as soon as he
releases her from his embrace.

'did you, you foolish little Milly ? As if
it was likely I should let you pass out of my
life like that ! As soon as ever I got the
news of your engagement "  (Oh, Geoffrey,
stick to facts!)  '' I rushed off at a moment's
notice  and here I am ! And now I want to
ask you  do you suppose I am going to let
you marry that stupid clodhopper Tomlinson
'> "

Oh, Geoffrey, he is very good  and  and
very fond of me."

But as she makes this faint attempt to take
her fiancd's part, Milly involuntarily draws
a step nearer to him, and looks up in his
face with depths of passionate love, not intended
for the absent Hugh, gleaming in her
eyes.

'' Well, that's not to be wondered at, hardly,"
responds Geoffrey, with a smile which is to
her as the radiance of an angel beaming down
on her. " And as for his being good  well,
he may be so, but he's such a fool that he
hasn't wit enough to be anything else. You
know it's true, Milly. You don't care a rap
for him, do you, darling ? "

"Not very much, I am afraid, Geoffrey."

And you do care for me,  still } "

You know I do  as much as ever."

She makes this confession without any

wavering, any hesitation, and Mr. Bering
rewards her for the speech with another tender
caress.

*' Then there is but one thing for you todo,"
he proceeds, with decision. " You must
throw him over altogether, and come to me,
and be my wife. Yes, Indeed you must," as
Milly opens her eyes in startled alarm. " Do
you think I can bear to see you the wife of
another fellow ? Do you imagine I would ever
have allowed the marriage to take place, though
I had only been able to stop it at the church
door ? "

Geoffrey's language is apt to become a
little high-flown and exaggerated when he is
roused to eloquence, and he Is anxious to
produce an effect on his hearer in the shortest
possible time.

** But, Geoffrey,"  she objects timidly, 
*how can I do It ? What could I say to

them all ? How explain It possibly to Hugh
Mr. Tomklnson ? "

"It shall not be explained at all," returns
he promptly. And then he hastens to unfold
his plans for an elopement and secret
marriage. She will have to oo back to the
Abbey, to make some adequate excuse for
her absence that afternoon, and for the next
two days to go on behaving to them all just
the same as usual.

This is Thursday  I will have everything
in readiness for Saturday," he says.
"It would not do to put It off longer, as I
might be seen about here, and people might
begin to suspect something. At present, no
one knows that I am at home except our
ancient factotum, and he Is safe enough. I
wish with all my heart," adds Mr. Dering, Ina
burst of well-simulated sincerity, " that I
could come forward boldly and ask for you

before the face of the whole world. But you
know how I should be received. You know
how Mr. Falconer welcomed me before.
And he would object to me as much as ever
now, for I am afraid I am no richer than
I was."

He concludes with a sigh, and pauses a
moment to give Milly an opportunity of referring
to the " pot of money " which has
fallen to her lot. But her thoughts are
elsewhere, and she makes no mention of it.

So there is no other chance of doing it,
that I see, than the way I have just proposed.
Once you are out of his reach, you
can send Tomkinson a few lines if you like,
or leave a note behind for him to break
the news to him. Milly dearest, look up,
look up and tell me that you will agree todo
what I ask of you ? "

He gendy puts his hand beneath her chin,

and turns her face upwards, and in the
glance which meets his he knows that the
victory is nearly won.

*' Oh, Geoffrey, I never thought of this 
I never dreamt you would ask me to do
this ! " she cries breathlessly. " Oh, what
shall I do ? What will they think ? And
the presents are all there, and my wedding
dress come home,  and the marriage fixed
for next Wednesday. What a commotion it
\vill make ! "

** What does that matter, when you won't
be there to hear anything of it ? " replies
Geoffrey, with energy. " Milly darling, if
ever you loved or do love me  and I feel
certain you did once  you will not refuse me
this. It would be wicked of you to marry
Tomkinson, not caring for him, and owning
that you still love me ! I fear I have
little but poverty to offer you,"  another

VOL. II. Q

pause, and again with no result,  " but, in
spite of that, I cannot let you go, my sweet.
I must and will have you for my own ! "

There are visible signs of capitulation in
her now. '' Ferme qui dcoitte, et chateau, qui
park sont perdus!' and standing there, listening
to his specious arguments, to his impassioned
words, what chance has poor, weak
Milly?

He pleads well, with all the assumed
force and fire of a genuine lover, and never
for one moment does a doubt of his sincerity
arise to trouble her breast. She
believes in him simplicity, in his love for
her. Why else, she would argue, would he
have taken that long journey for her sake,
and be pouring forth such fervent entreaties
in her ear ? And so curious is the power
of self-delusion that Geoffrey himself almost
forgets that he is acting a part in a great

measure, and is ready to swear at the
moment that the dearest wish of his heart
is to win her consent to marry him, whether
she come to him a penniless, or as a wells
bride.

It need not be said that Milly is talked
over by him. It is a strong point in his
favour that there is no one to whom she
feels bound to render obedience and duty.
She does not in the least mind doing a thing
which may cost her the displeasure of her
uncle  still less of her uncle's wife. She
cannot plead the fear of disapprobation of
parents, of a loving mother or a tender
father ; nor has she to consider the force of
a bad example on the morals of a herd of
younger brothers and sisters. She is, to all
intents and purposes, alone in the world,
and accountable to no one for her actions
and follies. But it cannot be denied that

her conscience smites her deeply as the
thought of Mr. Tomkinson crosses her mind.
The treachery to him, the wrong she is
meditating against him in his utter unconsciousness
and trusting faith in her loyalty,
she does not easily get over. She knows it
will be sinning terribly against him ; she
feels that she is about to deal a blow from
the effects of which he will probably never
recover, and in her heart she has a lurking
esteem and admiration for his honest nature,
and is touched with remorse as she pictures
to herself the suffering he will undoubtedly
endure. For a long time not all the persuasions
which Geoffrey pours forth are
sufficiently powerful to induce her to consent
to do this thing. She has a keen sense of
honour, and not even the representations of
the man she so passionately loves can prove
to her that it is not a dishonourable deed

which she Is contemplating towards the man
she does not love, but who loves her with
a true and unselfish affection.

He is so good, he has been so patient
with me, and I have provoked him a thousand
times," she says. '' I should never be
able to forgive myself."

Thereupon Mr. Bering changes his tone
from entreaty to stern decision. He tells her
that she must choose between them then
and there. If she is soft-hearted enough
to be so wonderfully considerate for Hugh
Tomkinson's feelings, why, then she had
certainly better go back to him, and fulfil
her engagement with him.

Only, I should have thought," he adds,
"if it is your opinion that you are wronging
him in throwing him over, it is better that
the wrong should be perpetrated against a
man you say you do not care for, rather

than that two Ives should be Involved, two
people's happiness sacrificed. But choose for
yourself; I shall say no more to Influence
you one way or the other. Go back to
him by all means, If you shrink so much
from the fear of his anger, only  don't be
surprised If, after that, I must decline to
believe In your professions of love for me.
Such milk-and-water affection as yours, to
my mind, hardly comes under the head of
love, such as I feel for you."

His coldness naturally has the desired
effect on her. In one Instant she Is clinging
to him with all her force, beseeching him,
begging him to believe anything rather than
believe that her love for him Is waning.
All considerations for her other lover are
thrown to the winds In the agony of fear
which possesses her  lest Geoffrey should
deem her wanting In love for him. She gives

him her promise to accede to all he asks of
her, and is rewarded by seeing him smile upon
her acrain, and hearing him call her '' his sweet
little Milly," his "precious darling."

And after that they arrange between them
all the details of the scheme they have on
hand, and in everything she yields to him
uncompromisingly and without reserve, having
given herself voluntarily over to his sole
guidance, and not daring to risk any further
thwarting of his wishes. Then they part,
not to meet again till that early hour on
Saturday next which they have fixed upon
as the moment of their flight. He decides
that it is wiser for them not to see each other
again in the interval, for fear of detection,
although she begs humbly for one more
meeting, urging that she will stand in need
of all possible encouragement to enable her
to go through with the difficult part she has

to play throughout the morrow. But he overrules
her in this once again, and she makes
no very powerful effort to induce him to reconsider
his fiat.

So they part  he triumphant, and, to all
appearance, in the highest of spirits, but in
reality wondering whether he has not made
a fool of himself, and inwardly anathematizing
the unpractical natures of women, who have
a faculty for leaving out the very information
one is most anxious to secure, just as if it
were a matter of no moment at all.

And Milly  what of her ? She has pledged
her word to him, and she has no thought or
wish of taking it back. The glamour of his
presence and his passionate words are with
her still as she hurries back through the
deepening twilight, and the knowledge that
two days hence she will be Geoffrey's wife
is so bewildering, so indescribably sweet, that

it almost wholly shuts out from her mind
any minor considerations. And yet  and yet
for all that  for all that she is experiencing
bliss beyond what she ever imagined  bliss
which she has never dared to hope would
fall to her lot  she cannot quite stifle the
pangs of conscience. She cannot but be
aware that she is doing wrong. She tries
her best to put the unwelcome belief aside,
but she cannot altogether succeed. Her
standard of right and wrong may not be
very high, her principles not of the most
steadfast, the most enduring kind, but her
moral perceptions are tolerably, inconveniently
clear, and she knows that she is about to be
false, and faithless, and to sin against one
who has been all goodness and kindness to
her. But f nest qiie le premier pas qui
route  once having given her promise she
finds it easier to eo on with it all, and all

her remorse and contrition do not suffice to
make her turn back In the path she has
chosen to walk in. So it comes to pass that
early on that memorable Saturday morning
M lily's room is found to be vacant, and the
only word of explanation for her absence to
be seen is contained in this note for Hugh
Tomkinson, 

You will never forgive me, I fear, when
you hear what I have done. Try and be a
little merciful towards me, for I could not
help it  indeed I could not. I am going to
be Geoffrey's wife. I have always loved
him, as you know, and I should have been
doing you a wrong had I married you,
caring only for him. You will be happier
without me. If you can, believe me when
I say that I am very, very sorry to give you
pain.  MiLLY."

Butler & Tanner, The Selwood Priiitin. Works, Frome, and London.

V

'V

3 0112 049759324

m

OF THE

U N IVLR5ITY

or 

t /S

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/peccavinovel13mcdo

PECCAVI."

a fB,ii)fi.

BY

EMILY F. D. OSBORN,

VOL. I.

SWAN SONNENSCHEIN, LOWREY & CO.,

PATERNOSTER SQUARE.

iS88.

The Selwood Printing Works,

Frome, and London.

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

-*-

PAGE

CHAPTER I.

Unexpected News i

CHAPTER II.
Husband and Wife 24

CHAPTER III.

i

The "Ogre" 40

" CHAPTER IV.

 "Tell Me what it is-63

(J

J CHAPTER V.

 In the "Ogre's" Den 81

t-

' CHAPTER VI.

("I Never Change My Mind" 100

i CHAPTER VII.
 A Bad Look-Out 116

 CHAPTER VIII.

 Introduces Two New Characters . . . .132

i CHAPTER IX.

geoffrey Bering 147

Image

CHAPTER X.
Qualms i66

CHAPTER XL
Going Away i88

CHAPTER XII.
The Trehernes 203

CHAPTER XIII.
A Contretemps 228

CHAPTER XIV.
Meetings 247

CHAPTER XV.
A Spoke in the Wheel 262

CHAPTER I.

UNEXPECTED NEWS.

*' Well, I wash my hands of the whole
affair ! "

'' Certainly you can, sir. You have no
possible responsibility in the matter, and can't
even be accused of having been ' accessory to
the fact. ' So make your mind quite easy on
that point. But you will let her come here,
won't you ?"

The Individual who gives utterance to the
somewhat egotistical speech with which this
story opens, is the Reverend Edwin Saunders,
the very personification of a sleek, well-to-do,
comfortable-looking parson,  a man who

VOL. I. " B

chooses to accept life and its many mysteries
with easy philosophy, and is well satisfied
with himself and with his surroundings. One
can see at the first glance, by the cut of his
glossy coat, by the spotlessness of his white
tie, by his general aspect of plumpness and
trimness, that he is well endowed with this
world's goods. Mr. Saunders has a genial,
ruddy countenance, and a hearty manner, and
strangers are impressed with the idea that
he is a kind-hearted, good-natured man. The
latter he may be, when to be so costs him
nothing ! But those who know him best,
and have penetrated beneath that oily surface,
are inclined to dub him a thorough
humbug, hard as a mill-stone where his own
interests are brought into question, his chief
god being his personal comfort. He greets
an acquaintance with a hearty handshake and
overflowing expressions of cordiality, and goes

home to bully his wife and crush her depressed
spirits still more thoroughly by a
new exercise of conjugal authority. He
preaches eloquent sermons on the sins of
self-indulgence and uncharitableness, and goes
straight from the pulpit to his luxurious midday
meal, drinking his choice bottle of pale
sherry with none the less gusto, because he
knows that his cadaverous-looking curate can
afford to support himself on nothing better
than plain water, out of that pitiful stipend
of 60 a year, which is all that he allows
him. Mr. Saunders is '' hail-fellow-well-met "
to all men. He does good to himself, and, asa
rule, men speak well of him ; but within
the four walls of his own home he shows
himself in his true colours, and is a perfect
specimen of a narrow - minded, dogmatic
tyrant. But enough of this gentleman. His
type is a common one, and as he is to take

no prominent part in this tale of ours, he
merits not a lengthen disquisition.

His companion is a tall, fair, curly-headed
and blue-eyed young man of eight and twenty,
by name Charles Devereux. He is a Captain
in the  th Hussars, now quartered at Aldershot,
in the immediate neighbourhood of which
place is situated Mr. Saunders' cure. Captain
Devereux has just been making rather a
startling announcement, to the effect that a
week ago, he and Ruth Eyre, the Rectory
governess, were united in the bonds of matrimony,
during her absence for the Midsummer
holidays.

Mr. Saunders is quite aware that Captain
Devereux has been a frequent visitor at the
Rectory during the past three months, but he
has never taken the trouble to inquire into
the motives of his constant appearance there.
On hearing the young man's confession, the

Rector's first feeling is one of actual contempt
for the folly which led to the commission of
such an act. But then, even in the days of
his earliest youth, the clergyman had never
been wont to be governed by impulse himself;
never once did he act without well
counting the cost of what he was about to
undertake. The faults of rashness and imprudence
were never, as he reflects now and
then with a complacent smile, laid to his
charge. He had certainly possessed the old
head on young shoulders, refuting the accuracy
of that old saying, which denies the existence
of such an anomaly.

Under these circumstances, it is too much
to expect from him that he should sympathise
with Captain Devereux ill-judged rush into
matrimony. Luckily, however, the matter
is not one which immediately affects himself,
and if the young man chooses to make a fool

of himself, and to run the risk of being disinherited,
why, then, he must take the consequences
on himself. So that when Captain
Devereux reiterates a little impatiently, "Well,
Mr. Saunders, you will say Yes, won't you ?
It will be for only a few days, as I shall go
straight off to my uncle, after bringing her
here, and shall be back again directly. Otherwise,
if you object, the poor child will be
quite alone in London, for her uncle goes to
Margate tomorrow with his family," the
clergyman responds amiably enough, 

'' I must just ask my wife's opinion first,
and if she has nothing to say against it,
we shall be happy to welcome Miss  Mrs.
Devereux here tomorrow."

*' Thanks, awfully."

Captain Devereux is quite satisfied with
this half promise, for, in common with the
rest of the Rector's friends, he knows well that

Mrs. Saunders never dares to lift up her
voice in opposition to her husband's, and that
the suggestion of his consulting her is a mere
faon de parler.

*' At all events," repeats the older man,
with recurring egotism, '' if your uncle should
disapprove of the step you have taken, he
cannot reproach me, as I was as ignorant of
all that was going on as "

'' As the babe unborn ! " interrupts the
other, with a half vexed laugh. '* Of course
you were, sir. Didn't I say so before ? If
it would be of the slightest comfort to you,
I'll take care to assure my uncle of the fact.
Not that I except to find any, or, at least,
much difficulty in dealing with him."

Youth is always so sanguine, and so
confident of success ! " returns Mr. Saunders,
with an air of superior wisdom. " You think,
then, that he won't be angry ? "

I don't think so. But even if he does
cut up rusty at first, I think I can get round
him. Though not exactly what you would
call a sweet-tempered old man"  with a
short laugh  '* he has always given in to me
somehow, and let me have what I have
wanted. He is not a man with many weaknesses,
either, but I do believe, if he has one
at all, it is for me, curious to say. Everybody
used to say that I could turn him round
my little finger."

"Well, I heartily hope that 'everybody' may
turn out In this case to be right," answers
Mr. Saunders, speaking cordially. " Of course
you know your uncle best, but I can't help
wondering  excuse me  that you didn't think
it would be better policy to seek his consent
before the marriage took place. Miss Eyre's
family is  well, very respectable and estimable,
I have no doubt ; but some men in Mr.

Falconers position put an exaggerated stress
on connections and "

'' Oh, I have no reason to suppose that
my uncle cares for that sort of rubbish,"
says Captain Devereux airily. '' I didn't
marry Ruth for her family, but for herself,
and I am sure that, when once my uncle has
seen her, he will admire and like her ; indeed,
he can't possibly help it. But as to telling
him of my Intention before, that's a very
different thing. He might have had all sorts
of objections and prejudices. Now that the
deed is done, he must bow to the Inevitable.
No, depend upon It, I've hit upon the wisest
plan. I know how to manage him."

Perhaps Captain Devereux Is secretly less
confident than his words imply, for after a
moment's pause he hastens to add, 

And, even If he does see fit to make a
bother about it all, what then ? I am surely

old enough to do as I like, without asking
any one's permission. I am my own master,
and "

Mr. Saunders raises his eyebrows slightly,
and the young officer is not slow to comprehend
the gesture.

'' At least, I am not accountable to him for
what I take it into my head to do," he continues,
a little hotly. '' Of course, he can
disinherit me, if indeed he has ever decided
to make me his heir, which he never told me
for certain ; but that does not tie me down
to consult him about every trifle that happens.
At my age "

'' Do you call your marriage a trifle, then ? "
puts in Mr. Saunders, with a little sarcastic
laugh. " Upon my word, I envy you your
power of taking things so easily. Most menin
your position would take some little trouble
to conciliate a relation who has so much in

his power. But youth is romantic, as we all
know, and quite superior to the prosaic, everyday
details of life. Love in a cottage, and all
that sort of thing, has something very attractive
about it, when we are quite young, and
don't trouble our heads about the bread and
butter side of the question."

*' Hang it, Mr. Saunders ! One would think
you were reading off a copy book ! " exclaims
Captain Devereux, half laughing, half vexed.
Do you think me an utter fool ? I know as
well as anybody else that a fellow can't get
on without a certain amount of money, but I
don't think it's the least likely that I shall
be obliged to try the experiment. Just at
first I half thought of taking Ruth down with
me, and presenting her to them as my wife,,
before they had time to collect their senses ;
but I don't think I shall now. I shall down
alone."

'*I would advise that course, rather than the
other," counsels Mr. Saunders.

Well, It would not be a good plan," returns
Captain Devereux, '' too like a scene on the
stage, don't you think ? However," he goes
on, looking at his watch, '' I see I have only
an hour more to catch the train back to town.
Don't you think, like a good fellow, you could
go at once, and talk to Mrs. Saunders about
letting Miss  Mrs.  Ruth come here tomorrow?
I'll bring her myself, and then goon
straight to Whincote."

Mr. Saunders rises slowly to comply, with
the movement of a man who is not accustomed
to hurry himself much at any time. It is not
difficult to predict that, in ten years' time, he
will have acquired portly, not to say elephantine
dimensions.

"You will join us at luncheon before you
leave ? " he says, stopping as he reaches the

door. " Mrs. Saunders will quite expect
you."

Thanks. I will have a mouthful, and a
glass of sherry, if I can spare the time,"
returns his visitor, inwardly chafing at this
fresh delay.

*' Oh, this little business with my wife
won't require much time," says the clergyman,
with a light wave of the hand. Indicative of
his intention to quash peremptorily any possible
objections she may raise. " Bless your
soul, she'll be only too eager to talk it allover
with you."

Then he really does go upstairs, leaving
Charlie to wander up and down the study
by himself for fully five minutes, too restless
to think of sitting down. At the expiration
of that time, the study door is gently opened,
and Mrs. Saunders enters the room,  a
diminutive, timid-looking woman, with a depressed

air about her, inspiring strangers
with the notion that she is ill-treated by her
husband, which is a question often mooted
by their acquaintance. She now appears
more than usually flurried and nervous, being
quite overwhelmed with amazement at hearing
the intelligence just communicated to her.
She smiles kindly, however, on Captain
Devereux, for she has a warm heart, and is
delighted with the permission given her to
hold out a friendly hand to her ci-devant
governess, at this important crisis in her life.
It is a fact, moreover,  which some of her
friends scoff at,  that deep down in her heart
there trickles a tiny spring of unquenched
romance, and this stolen marriage, with its
secrecy, and with its suggestion of a mutual
passion so powerful as to lead them to cast
all prudential considerations to the winds,
appeals irresistibly to her keenest sympathies.

In the course of her own Hfe the poor woman
has had Httle enough romance, and, perhaps
for that very reason, she is the more ready
to take a vicarious interest in that of other
people's Ives.

As he hears the sound of the opening
door, Charlie Devereux turns round anxiously,
but a first glimpse of Mrs. Saunders' enthusiastic
face relieves his mind, and tells him
that the object of his journey down to Mid-marsh
parsonage is gained, a cordial welcome
being evidently in store for his young wife
there.

So glad to see you, Captain Devereux,"
she murmurs, in her shyest manner, as she
shakes hands with him. " And so surprised
at your news, which Mr. Saunders has just
told me ! It quite took my breath away.
Fancy little Miss Eyre being married  and
to you ! Dear me, it is quite like a story ina

novel. But how on earth shall we get on
without her ? What will the children do,
poor little things ? "

Charlie laughs rather unsympathisingly, and
is obliged to own that this is a portion of
the subject which he has not yet taken into
consideration.

'' You will have to look out for another
governess, Mrs. Saunders," he says, with easy
attractiveness. " They're not difficult to find,
are they ? "

"It will not be every one that will suit me
so well as Miss Eyre did," returns the clergyman's
wife, with a sigh of resignation. '' The
children were so fond of her, and got on so
rapidly with their lessons under her care.
She was so conscientious, and so sensible
with them. However, I must try "

Mrs. Saunders interrupts her lite lamentations,
seeming to have become suddenly

aware that they are rather out of place just
at that moment, and that she is expected
to congratulate the newly-made bridegroom,
rather than condole with herself.

But I am so glad to hear she is married,
and I hope you will both be very happy,"
she adds, with a suspicion of moisture in her
eyes. '' I am sure she deserves every happiness,
poor child, for she is as good a girl as
I know anywhere. But she might have let
us into the secret, I think  unless it was
your wish to keep it from us, Captain
Devereux ? "

"Well, that was my doing, I am afraid,"
he replies. " She was very anxious to write
to you about it, I know, and didn't half like
keeping you in the dark. But I persuaded
her not to, as I did not want it to get
round to my uncle's ears before I broke it
to him myself."

VOL. I. c

You need not have been afraid of its
reaching him through us, of which indeed,
there could be no possible chance," says Mrs.
Saunders, inclined to feel aggrieved. " We
would have kept the secret well, if you had
trusted us with it. But that doesn't matter
now. I am longing to see the dear child
again, and Mr. Saunders says you will bring
her down here to us tomorrow. I shall
never remember to call her Mrs. Devereux,
Tm sure."

You will let her come and stay here,
then .' " asks Charlie.

Oh, yes, of course we will," she answers
quickly. '' Mr. Saunders told me that he
had settled with you that she was to come ;
and we will both do our best to keep up
her spirits while you are away, I suppose
you will not be gone long '. "

"Not more than two days, if I can possibly

help it," replies Charlie. '' I'd stay
away only one, if I were my own master,
but my uncle might object to so short a
visit. Besides, I must wait for a favourable
moment to tell my story."

** There's the luncheon bell ! " cries Mrs.
Saunders, interrupting him. " Do come in
at once, and get something to eat. Ah,
Edwin's calling me ! He does not like to be
kept waiting."

Captain Devereux follows his hostess into
the dining-room, where he swallows a hasty
meal, pulling out his watch every now and
then, to see if he is in time for his train,
with constant apologies for so doing. Mr.
Saunders cuts him slices of cold beef, and
Mrs. Saunders presses cold apple tart and
coffee cream on his notice with earnest entreaties,
for they are both of them people
who feel wretched if they see that their

dainties are unappreciated. Another glass of
claret is forced upon him as he rises to take
leave, and once again expressing warmest
thanks for the hospitality proffered to his
wife, he pats the heads of her two flaxen-haired
pupils, and hastens to depart. Mr.
Saunders has also risen from his seat, and
announces his intention of accompanying his
guest as far as the station. He finds it no
easy task to keep pace with the younger
man's rapid strides, as he hurries along, seemingly
unconscious of the burning rays of
the sun, so anxious is he not to miss his
train.

You'll give my kindest regards to your
wife," he jerks out spasmodically, as they
march along. " And tell her that she'll
be very welcome here, as long as she likes
to stay. Of course I don't, as a rule, approve
of secret marriages  on the contrary.

I consider that they are to be much reprehended
; but still, taking into consideration
the circumstances of this case, I'll judge her
leniently, you may tell her."

Charlie is just a little inclined to take
offence at this apparently officious rebuke,
but, glancing at his companion's face, he
catches sight of a lurking smile thereon, and
comprehends that the vicar affects a jesting
humour in his speech, so he responds in the
same strain.

'i'll tell her!" he retorts. 'i'll say that
you'll let her off easily, after a pithy sermon
on the evils of marrying in haste and repenting
at leisure. She'll be quite crushed by the
prospect before her."

*' Where were you married ? At what
church, I mean ? " the clergyman resumes,
more in his ordinary tones, for they have
now arrived within a hundred yards of the

station, and, as no train is yet in sight, Charlie
Devereux relaxes his speed.

"At the church of St. James the Less in

M Street," replies the latter. " You can

see it all properly down in the register there,
if you wish to go to town and have a look at
it. You may take my word for it, however,
that it was all done regularly and correctly."

'* And you were married by banns, I suppose
? " proceeds Mr. Saunders, sitting down
on one of the benches on the sunny platform
and passing his handkerchief lightly over his
forehead.

Banns ! " scornfully repeats Captain
Devereux. '' No such thing ! Why, I should
have had to go and stay in the parish for
three weeks beforehand, shouldn't I ? As it
was, I found it no very easy matter to get
leave of absence for a fortnight on ' urgent
private business.' No, no, I got a special

license, of course ; it's much the best way.
Oh, here's the train at last. Good-bye, Mr.
Saunders ; thanks awfully for your kindness ;
you'll see me down with Ruth at eleven o'clock
tomorrow morning. I shall just bring her
up to the Rectory, and rush off again at once

to C shire."

Then Captain Devereux swings himself
into a first class carriage, and proceeds to
light a cigar, leaning out of the window the
while, and nodding a smiling farewell to the
clergyman. The latter lingers by till the
train moves on, then turns on his homeward
way, impressed with a certain admiration for
the royal manner in which the young officer
soars high above the paltry considerations of
pounds, shillings, and pence, apparently wholly
untroubled by the possibility that these good
times of travelling first-class may be drawing
very near their close.

HUSBAND AND WIFE.

Arrived in London, Captain Devereux loses
no time in hailing a hansom, and drives rapidly
off to the Grosvenor Hotel, where he knows his
wife is anxiously awaiting his return. Their
brief honeymoon was spent at Tunbridge
Wells, and they only reached London the
previous evening. Very little time has been
allowed to the young bride to lose the strangeness
of finding herself an inhabitant of that
luxurious hotel, which she has hitherto only
gazed at occasionally from outside with somewhat
envious eyes. She feels rather like a
waif and a stray in this unknown world, upon
which she has so suddenly been launched

this young and newly-made wife  and is
watching eagerly for her husband's arrival,
as if they had been separated for years instead
of hours. She is peeping shyly over the staircase
to catch the first glimpse of him as he
enters, and together they pass into the bright
little sitting-room which he has engaged for
her.

Ruth Devereux is rather nondescript and
striking in appearance. She is neither
tall nor short, neither dark nor fair. Her
plentiful brown hair is smoothly drawn off her
face, and plaited in a knot behind, and her
dress is quiet and in good taste, but with
nothing remarkable about its style or " cut."
Nine women out of ten would have dismissed
her at once from their minds with the single
epithet " dowdy," and perhaps not altogether
without reason. They would have wondered
what on earth there could be in that very

ordinary-looking girl to induce handsome,
popular Charlie Devereux to marry her, and
to risk the shipwreck of his future fortunes.
A girl like that, of no family whatever, with
an utter want of good looks, without the faintest
so2ipon of " chic,"  without, in short, any
single attraction to account for his infatuation
the thing was absurd ! But the tenth and
more discerning woman might possibly admit
the fact that she had a peculiarly fascinating
smile, and, noting the frequent merry sparkling
expression in her eyes, might allow that
beneath the surface there might be hidden
charms which would be sufficient to explain
his falling in love with her. This smile of
Ruth's is indeed her chief claim to beauty,
for, in smiling, her whole face is transformed,
and few, under these circumstances, would designate
her as a plain woman. She is smiling
now, at this moment,  smiling radiantly, in the

delight of having her husband with her again,
and consequently, she is looking her very best.

Oh, Charlie, I am so thankful you are
back again !" she cries, again and again. "It
has been so forlorn without you, all this
morning ! I do hope you have been successful
with Mr. and Mrs. Saunders, have
you ? Ever since you left, I have been
dreading that they would refuse to have me,
and wondering what I could do in that case.
For, really, I could not stay here by myself,
even for two or three days."

*' Nor should I have thought of letting you
do such a thing," returns he, with decision.
I would have concocted some better plan
for you than that. But, however, we need
not think of that now, for it is quite settled
for you, just as I told you it would be. Mr.
Saunders is ready to receive you with open
arms, and his wife "

'' Is prepared to do ditto," interrupts Ruth,
laughing. "You need not try to make me
believe, Charlie, that Mrs. Saunders attempted
to do anything but follow meekly in ' dear
Edwin's ' lead. But it is too bad of me to
laugh at her, for I really am very fond of her,
and "

And I consider she sets you a valuable
example of wifely obedience, my dear ! "

Do you indeed, sir . I wonder if I ever
could arrive at such a state of crushed submission
as she has done, and resign myself to
being a complete cipher ! Well, but tell me,
Charlie, were they inclined to look upon meas
a depraved mortal, for marrying you in such
a hurry, and for keeping them in the dark
about it ? "

Saunders evidently thought it his * duty
towards his neighbour ' to assume a little
mild disapprobation at first," answers Captain

Devereux, "but he soon came down from his
stilts, and allowed that it was no business of
his  an obvious fact, which my natural politeness
prevented me from contradicting. As
for Mrs. Saunders, she was all flutter and excitement,
and in her secret heart, I believe,
applauds you heartily. So everything is
smooth with them, and you have nothing todo
but pack up your goods and chattels, Ruth,
and come down with me there early tomorrow."


*' Oh, how glad I shall be to leave London !"
cries Ruth, impulsively. *' It is so hot and
close here, and so glaring ! "

Poor little thing ! " says her husband, compassionately.
"It has been a dull morning for
you, hasn't it ? Well, as soon as it gets cool
this evening, and all the grandees have left
the Park, we'll go out there for a stroll,
and have it all to ourselves, and then come

back and wind up with whitebait and champagne."


Captain Devereux is anxious to keep the
fact of his wife's existence a secret until the
momentous interview with his uncle is over,
and she is recognised as one of the family.
He will not take her to the Park at a fashionable
hour, for he is certain of then meeting
some of his numerous acquaintances, London
being still tolerably full, although it is the
middle of July, and the season is drawing to
its close. Ruth is perfectly cognisant of his
motive in keeping her thus in the background,
and is more than content to fall in with his
wishes, while, with the prospect of a tete-astute
walk with him in the twilight, she would be
only too ready to eschew whitebait and champagne
for the remainder of her life.

*M am getting so anxious about your visit
to Mr. Falconer, Charlie," she says, presently.

** Just fancy, if he should be very angry with
you, and refuse to have anything more to do
with you ! "

Fancying things is a very bad habit, to
which I never give way," returns he, with
mock gravity. '' What a little goose you are,
Ruth ! I tell you it will be all right with him.
He has never refused me anything in my life."

*' Perhaps you have never asked him yet for
anything very important ? "

I've applied to him more times than I
could easily count, for supplies of money," replies
Captain Devereux, frankly. *' And in his
eyes, that is the most important request I could
possibly make, for it certainly costs him an
effort to ' shell out.' And yet he has never
said ' No ' to me. Don't you think that is
something to go upon . I know he's awfully
fond of me, and you'll see if I don't work the
thing well."

*' You certainly have the most irrepressibly
sanguine nature, haven't you ? " says Ruth,
passing her hands over his fair curly locks with
a smile. '' I only hope you are right. Then
there Is your cousin to help you, Isn't there ' "

Mllly ? Oh, yes, she's a regular brick ; and
I know she'll stick to me through thick and
thin. Unfortunately, though she doesn't mind
bearding him the least, she Isn't much of a
favourite with him, so It won't better my cause
much If she takes up the cudgels for me. But
still "

** Charlie, I can't help wondering how it was
that you didn't fall In love with your cousin,
and marry her," suddenly puts In Ruth. *' It
seems such a natural arrangement, and I daresay
It would have pleased your uncle."

*' I daresay It would ; only a fellow doesn't
generally marry a girl just to please his uncle,"
retorts he. '' Besides, marry Mllly ! What a

ridiculous idea ! I never dreamt of such a
thing ! We've always been just like brother
and sister, and I'm sure the possibility never
crossed her mind either. What rum creatures
women are ! They jump at conclusions like a
flash of lightning, with no reason on earth."

Their wits work faster than men's do, my
dear, that's all," answers his wife, patronisingly.
Well, anyhow, I hope Milly will do her best
to help you, and I shall feel grateful to her for
the rest of my life. Charlie," she adds, with a
sudden change of tone, " can you imagine 
seriously  what we could do, if Mr. Falconer
cut you off altogether ? "

** Certainly I can. I could sweep a crossing,
and you might possibly take in washing. Or
we might "

"" Seriously Charlie, I said. Just suppose
for one moment that the worst was to happen,
what could we do ? I might get together a

VOL. I. D

few pupils in time, perhaps. And you would
leave the army "

** ril be hanged if I would ! " cries he, energetically.
** Leave the army, indeed ! Not 1 !
My uncle would have to put on the screw
precious tight before I would do that. But,
for goodness' sake, Ruth, do stop this flow of
harrowing ideas. You're a regular bird of
ill-omen ! "

As he utters these last words rather impatiently,
the door of their room is opened
by a waiter, who ushers in a gentleman, announced
as " Mr. Eyre." Not a very 
person is this new-comer.
There is shabby gentility apparent in his outer
man, and his countenance displays a shifty,
furtive expression, which, together with his
habit of never looking any one full in the face,
would be far from inspiring a stranger with
confidence in the man. He is Ruth's uncle 

her only near relation in the world  as Charlie
remembers now and then with something like
a thanksgiving in his heart, when he has been
in Mr. Eyre's company for any space of time.
He is, by profession, a doctor, whose scanty
clientele, somewhere in the region of Camberwell,
does not afford him very much practice
in the art of healing. The truth is, that Mr.
Eyre's career has hitherto been a complete
failure. Somehow or other he cannot get on
in the world, labour as he will. He began
life with very little, and after fifteen years of
hard struggling, still has very little to show
for his pains. The knowledge that he is unpopular
among his patients, and daily growing
more so, is ever present with him, and acts
as a dead weight on his spirits. A very
little more pressure put upon his moral being,
a few more steps downhill, and it is
quite within the range of possibility that

Mr. Stephen Eyre will degenerate Into a
reckless, thorough-going scamp, who will
take his revenge on the world for having
treated him with such contumely, by setting
its laws at defiance, and adding one more
to its already long list of good-for-nothing
rogues.

Mr. Eyre's face usually wears a hard, unyielding
expression  the expression of a man
who feels he has been worsted in the race of
life ; but as he comes into the presence of his
niece and her husband, he does his best to
conjure up a faint shadow of what, by utmost
courtesy, could be called a smile.

So you are back, my dear Char , my

dear Devereux," he begins, with a compound
of servility and insolence in his manner, which
tries Charlie's forbearance to the utmost limit.
You managed that little business satisfactorily,
I hope ? "

Yes ; I am going to take Ruth down to
the Rectory tomorrow," returns Captain
Devereux shortly.

"Ah, that Is as it should be. Dear Ruth
will then have a pleasant refuge during your
short absence, and I can therefore leave town
with an easy mind. Your Aunt Ellen and the
children are literally pining to be at Margate,"
continues Mr. Eyre, turning to his niece.

'' I am very glad to think that you need not
delay on my account, Uncle Stephen," she
answers heartily. '' Not that, in any circumstances,
I should have expected you to change
your plans for me."

And you will let me know all about your
interview with your uncle, I hope," pursues
their visitor, addressing Charlie, '' Poor old
gentleman, I quite feel for him,  I do, indeed ;
it will be such an unexpected piece of news
for him. Ruth, you will not forget to let me

have a line as soon as Devereux comes back.
I shall be so anxious to hear, for I look upon
you, naturally, as almost my own child now,
having so lately acted a parent's part in the
recent  ahem  happy and important event in
your life. And now I will not detain you
longer; I see you are on the point of going
out."

This fact Captain Devereux takes no pains
to deny. Indeed, he is only longing for Mr.
Eyre to depart, and can scarcely conceal the
impatience he feels. Even Ruth cannot bring
herself to press him to stay on.

"" Good-bye, Uncle Stephen," she says ; ' I
will be sure and write to you."

And when everything is comfortably settled
for you  as I trust it may be  you must ask
me to run down and see you, wherever you
are. I must be the first visitor in your new
home, Ruth." Then he kisses her warmly.

wrings Charlie's limp hand with effusion, and
goes.

'' Thank Heaven ! " ejaculates the latter, as
the door is closed behind him. '' I know you
won't be hurt by my saying it, Ruth, but the
truth is, I don't * cotton ' to your uncle at all."

*' I know you don't, Charlie, and I don't
exactly wonder at it. I know very little of
him myself, for I have hardly seen him since
I was a baby. But I own that he is not prepossessing.
Now, can't we go out for a little
while, don't you think . These rooms are so
hot."

Captain Devereux takes his wife down to
Midmarsh the next day, and leaving her in
charge of good-natured Mrs. Saunders, who
welcomes her with mingled admiration and
awe, leaves himself by the next train en route
for C  shire, there to carry out his not very
agreeable mission.

THE 'ogre."

On the morning of the day when Ruth
reaches Midmarsh, the master of Whincote
Abbey is hobbling downstairs to breakfast,
with one foot bandaged up In token of a
recent bout with his persistent enemy, the
gout. He leans on the arm of a solemn
old butler, who guides his steps with ostentatious
vigilance. Mr. Falconer is not a very
pleasing old man to look at. He has the appearance
of being much older than his real
age  sixty-one, and his face  the most conspicuous
feature of which is a red-tipped
nose -wears an habitually cross, ill-tempered

expression, while a certain striking contraction



of the lines of his mouth suggests the idea
of his being a mean and a miserly man.
And his mouth does not belie him. Mr.
Falconer has one strong ruling, and ever-growing
passion  the saving and hoarding of
money, of which he has already more than
he knows what to do with, for what aim
and purpose it is beyond the power of anyone
to divine. A long way after his love
for saving and screwing and pinching comes
a tiny, faint, and altogether 
spark of affection for his nephew and
reputed heir, Captain Charles Devereux.
The old miser is in possession of an income
of some twenty thousand a year, so that he
has more than sufficient to leave to him,
without going to the trouble of heaping up
further savings and scrapings together. True,
there is yet another dependent on his bounty,
in the shape of a niece,  who is the Milly

mentioned by Charlie as being his cousin ;
also, like him, an orphan, and the only child
of a younger sister of Mr. Falconer, and
of Charlie's mother ; but Milly, too, could be
amply provided for without any extra effort
on his part, one might think. Mr. Falconer
is absolute master of his property, and if
the fancy takes him, can leave the whole
of it away from his own flesh and blood.
Nor is he behindhand in impressing this fact
on his nephew and niece, both of whom, he
considers, have a pernicious tendency to
under-estimate the power accruing to wealth.
Milly Byron is no great favourite with
her uncle, as has already been hinted. She
gets little else but hard words and querulous
complaints from him ; but the knowledge that
her uncle only tolerates her, if, indeed, he
does not positively dislike her, does not in
the least disturb her peace of mind. She

returns his sentiments with interest, and
makes no attempt to win his good graces.
Indeed, Mr. Falconer is a man who is decidedly
an object of aversion to all who
know him. Children fly from him after
one glance at his ungenial, cross - grained
face. His servants, one and all, hold him
in absolute detestation, and are in the
habit of thanking their stars when his
periodical fits of gout assail him, and keep
him a prisoner in his room, thus giving
them a respite from the unremitting vigilance
of his hawk-like eye, and from the
unabated shower of abuse which is levelled
by him at their heads all day long. Charlie
Devereux is the only individual in all the
world who feels something like compassion
for the unlovable old man.

Poor old chap," he says, on a previous
occasion, when Milly greets him with a hot

recital of some new and most unattractive
trait in the character of their mutual relation
; " you make him out a perfect brute ;
and I can't help thinking you exaggerate
his bad points. I don't find him such an
awful skin flint as you say he is."

I daresay you don't ! " is Milly's response.
'rand for the very reason that you don't
see so much of him as I do, Charlie. You
ought to come and stay a month or two
at the Abbey with him alone, and then I
feel confident that your admiration for him
would be unbounded at the end of that
time."

Mr. Falconer, meanwhile, is on the stairs,
chuckling to himself with erin malevolence
as he foresees how his sudden appearance
at breakfast, for the first time after three
weeks of confinement to his room, will result
in the dismay of his niece, and the

discomfiture of the unprepared household
generally. His sharp little ferrety eyes
glance hither and thither, as he makes his
slow progress downwards, eager to catch
sight of unlawfully-left-open doors, or of some
carelessly-slurred-over or altogether-forgotten
house-work ; but, as he peers, and peers in
vain, his naturally sour temper gets worse
and worse. Proceeding gingerly, and unexpectedly
failing in his eager endeavour to
detect any offender in a dereliction of duty,
he turns to the butler, whose eye, more
cognisant of the ins and outs of his fellow-servants'
doings, is quicker than his master's
to descry a glimpse of a housemaid's cap
in a spot where it has no business to be.
He tries to convey a warning sign to the
audacious trespasser to decamp quietly while
there is yet time, a feat successfully performed
by her, with a wild stare of awful

alarm when she perceives who it is that is
coming downstairs. Unfortunately for the
long-suffering butler  May by name  his
good-natured effort on her behalf has for
one second diverted his attention from
the immediate task he has in hand, and
the consequence is a stumble on the last
step.

'' You blundering idiot ! " cries Mr. Falconer,
whose eyes are blazing with wrath
and pain. "Is that the way you pretend
to help your master downstairs ? Why don't
you look where you let me put my foot ?
You're just as useless as if you had only
half a leg, instead of two ! If you don't
take more pains than that to be of use tome,
I'll find some one else who will, I can
tell you ! Confound you, man, can't you
open the door without all that wriggling at
the handle ? Here, Milly, come and open

it for us. What's the good of your standing
there in the room, without moving a
finger to be of any help ? '*

Not a muscle of May's countenance betrays
that he takes any heed of the reproaches
poured down upon his well-seasoned head.
He throws open the door with a jerk, anticipating
Milly's decidedly inert show of
coming forward in response to her uncle's
call, and, having placed Mr. Falconer in his
arm-chair at the breakfast-table, deposited the
letter bag close to his plate, and noiselessly
carried out various directions given him by
the exacting old tyrant in a harsh, authoritative
voice, he withdraws to inform his companions
below-stairs of '' the guv'nor being
in one of the very worst tantrums he ever
did see him in." Uncle and niece are left
alone. The former has no very engaging
expression on his face, as he scowls across

the table at her, trying to find something
about her on which he can hang
complaint, for he loves to live in an atmosphere
of perpetual and often self-created
grievances. He is not a man whom one
would select out of a crowd as a pleasant
companion ; not a man to inspire confidence
in the minds of his fellow-creatures ; not a
man to whom one would care to appeal in
distress, or make a confession like that
which Captain Devereux intends to make
this very day.

Milly Byron sits calmly in her place at the
head of the table, and affects no surprise, or
indeed any emotion whatever, at sight of his
unlooked-for presence. She is a dark-haired,
curly-headed young lady of about threads
twenty, with deep blue eyes, faintly-coloured
cheeks, and full red lips. She would
be undoubtedly remarkably handsome, were it

not for the half-defiant, half-apathetic, and
wholly discontented expression, which mars
the beauty of her face. Well may she look
discontented, for the life she leads with the
only relation she possesses in the world, except
her young cousin, is of the dreariest kind ;
blank, and monotonous enough to break the
spirit of any woman, while she has no power
at all in her hands to improve matters for herself.


Some people  and not very few either, fora
man who counts his income by tens of thousands
can always command a certain number
of champions and defenders  declare that there
must be a great deal of good in Mr. Falconer
beneath the surface, for has he not allowed
these two young relations of his to make the
Abbey their home, ever since they lost their
parents, and taken upon himself all the burden
of their maintenance and education ? His

VOL. I. E

critics, on the other hand, stoutly contend that

it would have been a crying shame, if he had

been content with doing less for his own

sisters' children, and that there is no cause for

praise in what is such an obvious matter of

duty on his part. To his nephew the old man

is as indulgent and liberal as it is in his nature

to be ; for the young man has somehow

managed to secure the nearest approach to a

soft corner in that fossilized heart. Perhaps

the very coolness and easy off-mindedness

with which he solicits and receives so many

substantial favours at his uncle's hands qto

further in the way of strengthening the

mingled admiration and pride which are

secretly cherished for him by the old man,

than the most eloquent form of outspoken

thanks would do.

With regard to INIilly  Milly the unfortunate
who has never yet attained the undesired

prominence of even a second favourite with
the master of the Abbey  the sum total of
the benefits which he bestows on her is easily
counted up. He gives her free board and
lodging in his house, and allows her a certain
sum  no very large one  for her dress and
other personal expenses. She has a maid to
herself, and a horse is kept for her use, which
she can either ride or drive as she pleases ;
but beyond that, his hand moves no further.
He goes into no society whatever, nor receives
any visitor at the Abbey. Occasionally
very, very rarely  he is induced to let her
go with her maid on a short visit to someone
of her friends, but for many months together
she is usually condemned to lead a
solitary, cheerless existence, with a sour old
invalid for her sole companion, her only recreation
being Charlie's not-too-frequent visits,
when he can get leave of absence from his


 

regimental duties. Poor Milly has not even
the freedom of action and uncontrolled liberty,
which might in some degree compensate for
the ineffable dulness of the life she leads.
Mr. 'Falconer is always making demands on
her services in a small way. When he is ill,
she must come and read aloud to him, and
woe betide her if her attention wanders the
while ! When he is well, she is liable at
all hours to be called upon to walk with him,
or drive in state along the dusty high-road ina
close carriage, pulled by a pair of fat, overfed
horses. Oh, the misery of those terrible
drives, with the rasping voice of that dreadful
old man buzzing in her ears with an unceasing
flow of grumble! Milly has become
skilled in the art of devising: various means
whereby to escape this odious penance. But
she is too frequently baffled by the persistency
of her not easily hoodwinked captor,

and borne off by him in triumph to this daily
ordeal. And in minor details, in matters so
trivial as to be hardly worth recording, Mr.
Falconer shows an aptitude for inventing
pin-pricks and miniature thumb-screws which
is perfectly astonishing ; so that her everyday
life with him is by no means a bed of
roses. She is gradually growing hardened
against his attacks, and, as time goes on, finds
an increasing pleasure in giving him a Roland
for his Oliver, without the least regard
for the policy of the course pursued.

On this particular July morning, when they
find themselves at breakfast together, she is
even in a less complaisant mood than usual,
for she dislikes his having taken her by surprise.
She had been looking forward to a
comfortable, solitary meal, and behold, here
he is come to interrupt her enjoyment.
Surreptitiously she thrusts the novel  in

which stolen pleasure she is in the habit of
indulging when alone  on her lap under the
table, and resigns herself sulkily to her fate.
Milly is of a romantic disposition, devoted
to novel-reading, and given to weaving perpetual
fancies about the future  a bright,
glorious future, as unlike the dreary present
as possible. In her castles in the air, her
cousin Charlie is always the prominent figure,
the hero of her dreams ; as is but natural,
seeing that her acquaintance with the other
sex is extremely limited. Milly is one of
those girls to whom it is a necessary part
of existence to cherish a beau-ideal, and to
find some one upon whom to lavish their
girlish fancy. Hers is a most impressionable
nature  impressionable, perhaps, rather than
very steadfast ; and her predilections are
very much at the mercy of Fate, who throws
objects in her way. Just at this moment she

believes herself to be deeply in love with
her cousin ; and as all the novels she reads
invariably wind up with a happy culminating
point, so she is firmly convinced that such
will be her lot, and that Charlie and she, in
the natural order of things, will become husband
and wife.

She has been thinking about him only this
very morning, and wondering when he means
to come to the Abbey again. She glances
curiously at the letter-bag lying by her
uncle's side, thinking it very likely that it
may contain tidings of Captain Devereux.

'you look uncommonly glad to see me
downstairs again, I must say," is her uncle's
genial greeting, rousing her from her reverie.

'' I am glad to see you so much better
again. Uncle John," she responds, with an
effort to say it heartily.

You give me precisely the idea of that

being the case," he sneers. " If that is the
face you wear when you are pleased, I
wonder how you manage to express regret.
Don't try to take me in with that humbug,
miss. You know you would give your eyes
to hear that I was going to stay in bed
another week. It's no good for you to try
and contradict me, for you can't look me in
the face and deny it."

Milly, apparently, has no intention of submitting
to the test. With a disdainful shrug
of the shoulders, she gives up all attempt to
speak smoothly to him, and assumes her most
careless and supercilious manner.

I wouldn't contradict you for the world.
Uncle John," she answers, looking him full in
the face, and speaking slowly and distinctly.

You impertinent, audacious minx ! " cries
the old man, in a burst of wrath. *' How
dare you speak to me in that way? You'd

better take care how you behave towards
me, or you may find yourself in the wrong
box altogether, I can tell you. And pray,
may I ask, by what right do you have three
separate dishes at breakfast, all for your own
eating ? I never heard of such extravagance
such sinful waste. Ring the bell."

Milly rises to obey him, with an imperturbable
face, and without showing the smallest
sign of alarm at his rough manner.

'' May," says his master, when the butler
appears at the door, ** listen to what I have
to say. When Miss Byron breakfasts by
herself in future, you will see that the cook
sends up only one dish. I don't care what
it contains, but there is never to be more
than one. You understand ? I will not have
such reckless waste going on in my house
as three hot dishes,  for one person, indeed ! "

If you please, sir, I think Mrs. Brown

must have sent them up, fancying you was
coming to breakfast along with Miss Byron,"
says May, apologetically.

I don't believe a word of it," storms Mr.
Falconer. '' You invent that to get her out
of the scrape. May ; but I'm not such a fool
as to be taken in by you. Tell Brown that
if she spends her time in fancying things,
she must go elsewhere to indulge in her
favourite amusement, for I won't put up with
any of that sort of nonsense. And you're
just as bad as she is. I believe you concocted
that cock-and-bull story. Now don't
stand there staring at me any longer, but be
off and say what I have told you to that
fool downstairs."

May disappears, with his usual " Yes,
sir," too glad to be able to escape so easily
this time, and he casts glances of commiseration
in the direction of Milly as he goes,

for she is looked upon as an object of kindly
pity by the united household.

She sits, meanwhile, as impassive and unconcerned
as if she had been a spectator
of a raging thunder-storm many miles distant,
which could not possibly affect her
peace of mind or her personal safety. She
listens next to  or rather endures, for she possesses
the enviable faculty of completely absenting
her thoughts from the present at willa
rambling diatribe against the shortcomings
of servants in general, and of Mrs. Brown
in particular, which lasts fully ten minutes.
During that space of time she shows no
outward impatience, but her mind wanders
considerably from the subject in hand, as is
shown by her taking advantage of the first
pause to change the conversation.

'' When are you going to open the letter-bag,
Uncle John ? "

*' Whenever I choose to do so, Miss Curiosity,"
snaps he, in return.

Another shrug of the shoulders on her
part, and then, after the lapse of a few
minutes, her uncle proceeds slowly to unlock
the bag, having, in reality, forgotten all
about his letters until her words reminded
him.

None for you," he exclaims, after turning
over the contents of the bag with deliberate
hands. There is a tone of spiteful triumph
in his voice as he makes this announcement,
and he glowers maliciously at her under his
eyebrows, while he proceeds to tear open his
own envelopes.

Milly catches sight of Charlie's handwriting
on a letter among: her uncle's budget.

.you have got a letter from Charlie, I
see," she remarks, with supreme indifference
to the chance of meeting with a severe snub.

What the deuce has that got to do with
you ? " returns Mr. Falconer, reading the 
epistle three times over, with
the most provokingly deliberate examination
of its contents, but without imparting to hera
single word about them.

Your cousin will be here to-day," he
snarls out at last.

The flush of delighted surprise which
spreads over JMilly's face at this announcement
would betray her secret to the most
casual observer, but luckily Mr. Falconer is
not looking at her.

*' Do you hear what I say '. " he cries, in
wrathful accents of his raised voice. " Your
cousin will be here to-day."

*' I heard you say so, but what the deuce
has that got to do with me ? " retorts Milly,
mimicking his manner, and marvelling at her
own temerity the while.

Mr. Falconer looks as if he could eat her
up in his fury.

Leave the room this instant, miss ! " he
cries, waving her to the door, and shaking
his fist at her in his race. '' I will not have
such an impudent, good-for-nothing, ill-conditioned
creature any longer in my sight.
Be off with you, and see that you mend
your manners before daring to show yourself
again in my presence, or you'll catch it,
young lady, in a way you won't like  mark
my words."

And, grumbling and growling, the old man
returns to the contemplation and completion
of his solitary repast.

"tell me what it is."

MiLLY goes away from the dining-room,
chuckling to herself as she recalls her uncle's
discomfiture at her audacity, and not one
whit depressed by his parting threat. She
hardly looks on banishment from his august
presence in the light of a punishment, and
she at once resolves on effacing herself effectually
for the whole morning, before it enters
his head to revoke his decree, and send for
her to bear him company in his drive, which
he is well aware that she cordially detests.
Before going out, however, she sends for the
housekeeper, and tells her to see that Captain
Devereux's room is got ready for him ; then,



playing her part in the farce of ordering
dinner, imposed on her by the head of the
house, but which is indeed a farce, because
he never fails himself to alter every single
dish in her selected meiitt she snatches up
her hat and parasol, and steals softly out of
the house.

Long experience has taught her which are
the best paths to choose in order to evade
the vigilant sweep of her uncle's ever-watchful
eye, and she has many a haunt and hiding-place
within a hundred yards of the house,
known only to herself, where she can rest
secure from any attempt on his part to unearth
her. She has brought a book in her
hand, but she does not plunge into it this
morning, as usual. On reaching the spot
which has been in her mind's eye for the
last quarter of an hour, a retreat so cleverly
screened from the observation of passers-by

that no one would ever dream of there being
room for a rabbit to burrow in it, far less fora
young lady to recline at her ease,  she
throws herself down on the ground, and gives
herself up to a train of pleasant reflections.
The world no longer seems dull and dreary
to her now, with the prospect of her cousin's
visit before her. She counts the hours
which must elapse before he can arrive at
Whincote over and over again,  wonders
how long he will be persuaded to stay when
once there, and cons over all sorts of plans
for his entertainment during his, too probably,
brief visit. Stretching herself at full length
on the mossy grass, she tilts her shady hat
over her eyes, to keep off a stray sunbeam,
which slants through a tiny opening in the
thick bushes around, and has selected the
tip of her nose as a resting-place, and remains
motionless in this attitude for a very long

VOL. I. F

time, occupied with thoughts of the treat in
store for her. In her secret heart, Milly hasa
growing hope and belief that her cousin
reciprocates the feelings she cherishes for
him. Is he not invariably glad to see her,
and impatient if she is not at hand directly he
arrives ? Does he not confide every little
trifle to her still, as in the old days of their
childhood ? His manner  so cordial and
affectionate  must be intended to express
something more than cousinly liking on his
part. She will not believe otherwise, and the
possibility of a rival in his heart never even
crosses her mind. So she reasons to herself,
poor Milly, and dreams happily on, until the
clanging of the luncheon bell summons her
to the house. Fortunately for her, Mr.
Falconer does not appear downstairs, probably
not caring to encounter his belligerent
niece again just at present. So she enjoys

unwonted liberty throughout the afternoon
also, and at about four o'clock, ventures to
emerge from her cool and secluded retreat,
and takes up a position under a tree on
the lawn in front of the house, knowing that
her cousin cannot now be more than half
an hour longer before he comes. And there
she is sitting, eagerly listening for the sound
of wheels, yet outwardly calm, as he drives
up to the door, and, in less than five minutes,
he makes straight towards her.

So here you are, Milly, with a book in
your hand, as usual," is his greeting, not observing
the subdued excitement of her manner
as she rises to welcome him. " Well, and how
is the Ogre ? " he asks, throwing himself carelessly
on the ground at her feet.

The "Ogre" is a nickname invented by
Captain Devereux for the strictly private use
of himself and Milly when talking of Mr.

Falconer, whom, however, in spite of her
representations, he will obstinately persist in
believing that she paints too blackly.

'' More Ogre-wish than ever," is her emphatic
reply. " You haven't seen him yet, Charlie ? "

'' Not I. I got a message from His Royal
Highness to say he would see me in his room
in half an hour's time. So I must do my best
to possess my soul in patience till the happy
moment arrives."

"It's one of the pleasures that will keep, I
daresay," returns Milly, composedly. '' He
was like a bear with a sore head this morning.
He abused me and May and Brown all in a
breath, collecting together the very choicest
terms out of his own special vocabulary for
our benefit ; and all about such a trifle."

"A storm in a tea-cup," comments Captain
Devereux, laughing. " I suppose he's had a
touch of gout, hasn't he ? "

"A touch of gout!" repeats Milly, with
affected alarm. " For goodness' sake don't
be so rash as to mention it in that light way
to him when you see him. He calls it 'the
most confoundedly pertinacious bout' that he
has ever experienced," she adds, with an
exact reproduction of her uncle's irritable
accents, and Charlie laughs again  this time
a little abstractedly.

He doesn't appear to be in a particularly
charming humour, by your description. But
perhaps he'll have had time to cool down a
bit before he honours me with an audience."
'' Oh, yes ; he won't be cross to you," cries
Milly, confidently. "He always shows his
best side to you  though bad is his best, I
must say ; and so you don't believe in his
being what I make him out  the veriest old
tyrant that ever walked the earth," she adds,
with mournful viciousness.

I can quite believe that a closer intimacy
with him might dispel some of my illusions
with regard to his character," responds Charlie,
easily ; " and I cannot pretend that I am so
devoted to him that I grudge every day
spent away from him ; but, for all that, you
do lay the colour on rather strong, I fancy,
Milly. However, it's rather important forme
to find him in a decent humour to-day,
for I've got something particular to say to
him."

'* Oh, dear ! " cries Milly, sympathizing,
and a little fearfully. " I hope it's nothing
very bad, Charlie. You haven't got into
very much debt, have you ? Or you haven't
been backing a bill "

This vague suggestion is a quotation from
the last novel she has been reading.

I confess," she continues frankly, '' that
I have not a very clear idea of the meaning

of backing a bill. Is it to get some
money out of him ? "

Well, I can't say that I should object to
a present of any trifle which he might feel
disposed to bestow on me," is Captain Devereux's
reply. "If he offered me a hundred-pound
note, for instance, I don't know that
I should hurt his feelings by refusing it.
But, wonderful to relate, the chief object of
my visit to him to-day is not directly connected
with money."

Now that the actual moment for confession
is come, even though the recipient of his news
is only Milly, who has always been his staunch
friend and champion. Captain Devereux feels
unaccountably shy about coming to the point.

'* Tell me what it is, won't you ? " asks unsuspecting
Milly. '' Then perhaps we can put
our heads together, and concoct some plan forgetting
round the Ogre."

How often have they hatched these little
plots together before now ! and how often
has Milly's quick wit hit upon a manoeuvre
by which the old man has been cajoled or
outwitted, and their point ultimately gained,
always for Charlie's benefit ! Milly never
fails to throw herself heart and soul into
the task of smoothing the way for him by
the little means in her power. She is ever
the one to devise plans and suggest ideas,
while he, by reason of his superior influence
over their all-powerful mutual relation, is the
one to whom the carrying out of her crafty
advice is entrusted. But the disclosure he has
to make now is evidently of greater moment
than those in previous cases, and Milly is
struck by the hesitation of her cousin's manner,
and by the unwonted flush which dyes his fair
complexion.

Would you rather not tell me what you

have to say to the Ogre ? " she asks, submissively,
yet a little aggrieved at heart, for
he has seldom kept his secrets back from
her.

' Oh, I'll tell you," he answers, bringing
out with a burst. " The fact is, Milly,
that I've been and gone and got married ''

He stops short, taken aback by the effect
his news has on his listener. Milly has grown
white as death, and stares at him with fixed
eyes, as if utterly unable to take in the sense
of his words.

"Married!" she echoes, with a gasp of
horror. It is all she has power to articulate.

Yes, married," repeats he, trying to carry
it off lightly, but not a lite irritated by her
manner. '' One would think I had just
owned to having committed a murder, to look
at your face."

"Married!" again cries poor Milly, with

increasing agitation. " Do you mean to say
that  that you have got a wifcy Chace ? "

I believe that is generally what one understands
by a man saying he is married," he
answers, with an impatient laugh. " The fact
of marriage necessitates the existence of a
wife, doesn't it ? For Heaven's sake, Milly,
don't sit there like that, looking as if you
had seen a ghost ! Have you never heard
of a man being married before ? "

** You are really married, then, without
telling any one,  without letting me know ? "
cries poor Milly, fighting hard to receive the
blow with a decent show of self-command.
Oh, how could you, Charlie ? "

*' Well, I should have been ready enough
to tell you all about it, if I had thought it
safe to do so," says the young man, with a
feeling that he has behaved rather ungratefully
towards her. *' But, you see, if the Ogre

had in any way got a hint of it, and found
out that you had known it all along, he'd
have pitched into you like fun ; so I thought
it best to keep quiet till it was all done, and
then to come and take him by storm. You
look awfully taken aback by it all, Milly,
but I suppose it is because you are afraid
for me, and you think he will be put out
about it, don't you ? It's really good of you
to be bothered by my affairs in this way,
but I haven't much fear. I think I can trust
myself to bring him round  in time."

Milly looks as if she has not heard a word
he has been saying, and, indeed, her next
question proves that her thoughts have wandered
on quite another tack than the probable
reception of the news by the arbiter of their
future destinies.

** Who is she?" she asks, in low, concentrated
tones.

'she is a Miss Eyre  Ruth Eyre or rather,
was so," returns Captain Devereux, glibly
enough. '' I have been seeing her a good
deal lately at the house of a clergyman near
Aldershot, where she has been staying  no !
I'd better tell you the truth at once  where
she was governess in his family."

This part of his story  the fact of his
chosen wife occupying a position so inferior
to his own  does not seem to strike fresh
horror into his cousin's mind. After the
crash of the first thunderbolt, her ears appear
to be deafened to the reports of any
subsequent minor shocks. Woman-like, she
clings to the particulars which most nearly
affect her.

"Is she pretty?" is her next query, made
also in the same dry, constrained voice as
before.

Pretty ! " cries Charlie, rising from his

lowly position as he speaks. *' You just see
her, and judge for yourself, Milly. I'm sure
that you and she will be friends the moment
you meet," he asserts, with the blind confidence
of unobservant mankind. " You'll
think me a fool if I begin to rhapsodize about
her to you, so I'll just hold my tongue, as I
hope It won't be many days before you see
her."

Milly cannot bring herself to respond cordially
to this wish. A cold shivering runs
through her frame as she pictures to herself
Charlie bringing his bride with him on his
next visit, and showering all his affection
upon her,  perhaps expecting his cousin todo
likewise. She clenches her teeth tightly
together, as the ghastly vision rises before
her mind's eye, and inwardly exclaims, " Never,
never, never ! "

Charlie Is a little surprised at her moody

silence, but he ascribes it to the fact of her
being still overwhelmed with astonishment
at his unexpected tidings.

'women are always so long in getting over
the surprise of a thing," he reflects, somewhat
crossly, looking at his watch, which shows
him that it is time to go and keep his appointment
with his uncle. '' Well, I must be off,"
he says cheerfully, " if I want to start well
in the coming ordeal. You see, Milly, of
course it doesn't signify a rap, but it makes
it a little more doubtful how the Ogre will
take it, Ruth being, or rather having been,
a governess, you know. Not that I have
any reason to suppose he will care about
that ; do you think he will ? Couldn't you
come with me, and make him understand
that point better than I can ? "

This cruel proposal is the last straw which
proves too much for Milly's endurance. In

her opinion, it is the most barefaced instance
of adding insult to injury that she can possibly
imagine.

"No, no! That is quite out of the
question," she answers hurriedly, and looking
steadily away from him. 'i'm no good at
all ; he never listens to anything I say. You
can manage much better without me, and "

Here she loses all self-control. She is
deadly pale ; her lips tremble ominously,
and, trying to rise from her seat, she staggers,
and falls back upon it again.

*' Perhaps you're right, after all," replies
Charlie, who is again consulting his watch,
and does not perceive the state of agitation
she is in. *' I must gather up my courage,
then, for single combat with the Ogre, and
I shall do my best to face him, unsupported.
I'll come out to you, Milly, and tell you all
about it as soon as I get away," he adds,

with a wave of his hand, as he turns to
leave her. " I've got a lot to say to you
still."

She waits till he Is out of sight, and then
she raises herself from the bench on which
she has been sitting, rushes across the lawn
with the speed of a frightened deer, hurries
upstairs to her own room, locks the door, and,
throwing herself on a sofa, finds vent for the
misery which oppresses her soul in the untold
luxury of '* a good cry."

IN THE " ogre's " DEN.

Although, up to the present moment, Captain
Devereux has been credited with possessing
more than an average amount of personal
courage, and has never been known to suffer
from nervousness or timidity, he begins to
comprehend the meaning of the expression,
'* shaking In your shoes," as he makes his
way to his uncle's study. He would give
something, just then, to have done with the
necessary task before him, and to have
accomplished the plunge. But he does not
let a trace of his weakness be apparent in
his face. Nor is there anything in the aspect
of Mr. Falconer, as he sits back in his arm-vol.

I. *' G

chair, with his leg carefully supported by a
neighbouring sofa, which is in the least calculated
to inspire fresh dread in his mind. On
the contrary, the " Ogre " is decidedly encouraging,
not to say affable, and his usually
forbidding visage relaxes into what is intended
to be a smile as he holds out a hand to
welcome the only individual in the world
for whom he entertains something akin to a
liking.

So you've come to see me  at last," are
his first words. '' You don't run the risk of
satiating us with too much of your company,
eh, Charlie?"

*' I have been very busy one way or another
lately," is the evasive answer. " It's awful
hard work to get leave of absence at this
time of the year. And how are you, Uncle
John? Milly tells me that you've had
another touch of gout."

** Milly always makes out that I've had
nothing the matter with me whatever," replies
the old man, angrily. '' I wonder what she'd
say If she were laid up as I have been for
three weeks. I wish she had a ' touch ' of It
too, and then we'd soon see who makes the
greatest outcry over it,  she or I. It has
been the sharpest attack I have had for years,
and I feel twinges of it even now," he adds,
with a vicious look at his offending foot on
the sofa.

I'm awfully sorry to hear It," exclaims
Charlie, infusing double sympathy Into his
tone, for fear the patient should detect an
inclination to smile. " I quite believe that
you've suffered immense pain, but I don't
think Mllly meant to make little of It. She
said. Indeed, that you had been very ill."

*' Don't let us talk of that provoking girl anymore,
for Heaven's sake," says Mr. Falconer,

peremptorily. " She's the most audacious
chit that I ever came across, and some day
she'll repent her impudence, unless she looks
out. Only this morning she laughed in my
very face, and mimicked me in the coolest
manner  mimicked me ! Just conceive such
impertinence. Is It possible that you are
laughing, Charlie ? " he adds, turning his head
sharply round as he hears something suspiciously
like a chuckle at his side.

"Laughing!" repeats Charlie, with commendable
gravity. '' I laughing ! I was only
just preventing myself from sneezing."

I don't know why you should trouble yourself
to do that." answers the old man, only half
convinced. 'sneeze away as much as you
want to  what does It matter ? "

' I was afraid It would prevent my hearing
what you were saying," meekly observes
Captain Devereux, with ready wit. '* And

It has quite passed off now ; I don't want to
sneeze at all."

Hum ! " snorts his uncle, still unbelieving.
However," he resumes, in a more amiable
manner, " I was going to ask you how long
you are going to stay here, now you have
come at last. Master Charlie? I suppose
you're in very flourishing circumstances, as
usual, and it would be sending coals to Newcastle
to talk of offering you any little extra
advance, eh ? "

This Is said in a would-be playful manner,
and has the effect of a Polar bear trying to be
sportive.

Charlie has, by dint of long experience,
become an adept in the art of entering into
the varied moods of this curious specimen of
humanity before him, and responds promptly
to his vein of pleasantry.

You can try the experiment if you like,"

he answers, laughing. '* I should be sorry to
baulk you If you are seized with a generous
impulse In my direction."

With an melodious cackle, Mr. Falconer
takes out his cheque-book, and hands over a
slip of paper to his nephew, who receives it
with warm expressions of gratitude.

YoT young men are all alike, " remarks he,
leaning back in his chair. 'you seem to
think that bank-notes grow upon the hedges,
by the way you chuck them away broadcast.
Where should I be, I wonder, if I had been
as reckless as you are at your age ? Certainly
not in a position to make you a present of
that sort," pointing to the cheque in Charlie's
hand.

"It appears to me, by your own showing
then, Uncle John, that the result of your
saving and screw  economizing in your youth,
is that you are able to provide means for

fostering my 'recklessness,' as you call it,"
returns Captain Devereux, astutely. " I

confess I don't see the use of "

'' Gathering for others to scatter, eh, Charlie?
No more do I, young man ; but there are
certain limits I set myself, which you would
find it difficult to induce me to overstep.
A fifty-pound note now and then I may
afford, but you mustn't expect it often, I warn
you. I have so many claims on my money
claims which you know nothing about, my
boy."

'well, if I had lots of money " begins

the young man, impulsively.

Go on, my boy. Pray finish your sentence.

If you had lots of money

"I'd better keep my ideas to myself, perhaps."


'not at all ! I should like to hear them.
Besides, there are two classes of people in

this world, who are privileged to say what
they like, you know."

"Meaning fools and children? Thanks for
the compliment," says Charlie, with a good-tempered
smile. '' Even after that crushing
snub. Uncle John, I will venture to face your
sarcasm. I was going to say, if I had lots of
money, I'd contrive to get all the fun out of it
I could. I rather think I would make it spin !"

I rather think you would ! " assents Mr.
Falconer, grimly. " Luckily, I may safely
predict that your present ideas will undergo
some slight modification before many years
have passed by. And now tell me, sir "  with
an abrupt change of subject  '' when are you
going to think of marrying ? "

Charlie turns pile. Can he possibly have
heard ? But he is reassured by seeing that
wretched parody of a smile of his again,
guiltless of any latent meaning.

I  I don't know exactly," he stammers
out, much embarrassed.

Because you'll have to marry sometime
or other you know," pursues Mr. Falconer,
with decision. ** There's your cousin, Milly,
now  she's a pert chit, to be sure, and has
the tongue of the very fiend incarnate himself,
but you might not mind that so much, as you
could keep her in order, you know. If you
have thought of her, Charlie, why, I may as
well tell you that I should have no objection
to the marriage. What do you say,
eh 1 "

Then Charlie feels that the moment Is come
for the fatal leap to be taken.

I have no doubt that Milly would make
a capital wife to any man in the world," he
replies, with as much unconcern as he can
muster. " But," he adds, with an exaggerated
attempt to be humorous, *' I am afraid I

couldn't marry her without committing bigamy,
Uncle John."

Bigamy ! What the devil do you mean ? "
asks Mr. Falconer, sharply.

Isn't it called bigamy when a man goes in
for two wives at a time ? " inquires Charlie
innocently. " And I am already married."

Married ! you married ! " roars the old
man, starting up in his chair, and facing his
audacious nephew with a blaze of anger in his
eyes. " Was it possible that you meant me to
understand that you are already married ? "

Milly's amazement and horror, as she listened
to her cousin's revelation, were as nothing in
comparison with Mr. Falconer's.

Captain Devereux is so immensely relieved
by having got over the worst part of his task,
that he feels able to pull himself together and
fight valiantly in the struggle which he knows
is imminent.

*' I certainly did intend to convey that to
your mind," answers he, growing a Httle
nettled. *' By the way you take it, Uncle
John, one would think I had told you that
I had got the plague. Why shouldn't I be
married ? You were advising me just now to
begin to think about it."

'* Do you suppose that I meant you to go
and marry Heaven knows whom in this sort of
hole-and-corner way, without letting me know
a word of your intentions ? " storms Mr. Falconer;
then, quickly calming himself down to
a portentous stillness, he inquires : " Who
may be the lady whom you have so promptly
made into Mrs. Charles Devereux ? "

'' She was a Miss Eyre, a young lady whom
I met at a clergyman's house near Aldershot,"
answers his nephew, wincing a little.

** Might one inquire what her exact status
in society was ? " asks Mr. Falconer, with increasing

blandness. " Am I to understand
that she is the daughter of the said clergyman
? "

** No, you are not," cries CharHe, waxing
hot as his uncle grows cooler. " She was the
governess in his family, if you care to know
every detail, Uncle John."

Governess, indeed ! Then I surmise that
she is not very bountifully supplied with this
world's goods," continues the old man with
biting sarcasm. " Pray don't trouble yourself
to assure me that her mental and physical
charms amply compensate for her lack of more
substantial endowments," he adds, waving his
hand imperiously as Charlie is about to speak ;
then, more suspiciously composed in manner
than ever, he asks in slow, distinct accents, 

'rand I suppose that you are come to beg
me to receive this  lady  as my  what is it 
niece in-law }''

*' I certainly hope you will do so," returns
Charlie, still undaunted. " I came down from
town to-day on purpose to tell you of my
marriage."

'' Then all I can tell you is that you are
most confoundedly mistaken," screams Mr. Falconer,
positively shaking all over In a sudden
and overpowering paroxysm of rage. " How
dare you come to me in this  this impertinent
way, and sit down before me to tell me of your
marriage with a girl whom I have never set
eyes on, and whom no one knows anything
about at all ? Then you hope I will receive
her in my house ! How dare you for one
moment think that I will stand such a thing,
sir ? "

And Mr. Falconer, looking like a baited
bull, with the normal red hue of his nose dyed
to a deep purple colour, almost shakes his fist
in his nephew's face.

I am sorry I did not tell you beforehand,
Uncle John," says Charlie, trying to control his
temper. " But I thought that "

'' What the deuce do I care to know what
you thought ? " bawls Mr. Falconer, interrupting
him with increasing anger. " I don't wish
to hear one word more from you on the subject
of your reasons for playing me this trick,
or of anything else. You've gone your own
way to work now, and you may get out of it
as best you can. But there is one thing you
must get out of at once, and that is my house.
Do you hear me ? Be off with you this
very night, and never let me see you darken
its threshold again. Ten thousand devils !
You marry a governess, and expect me to
receive her ! Your impudence surpasses all
belief."

Poor Charlie looks quite aghast at this
utterly unlooked-for termination to the interview

which he fondly hoped to pass through
so easily.

But, Uncle John " he begins, too bewildered
to know what he is going to say.

** Don't Uncle John me, if you please!" returns
Mr. Falconer, harshly. "I'm not your
uncle any longer, from this day forth, and
you're no nephew of mine. I trust I may
never hear your name mentioned again ; and
now, the sooner you leave me, and go back to
your aristocratic and wealthy bride, the better
it will be," he shouts, with spiteful emphasis.

Charlie blazes up in his turn.

'' You'll have the goodness to be careful in
the way you speak of her ! " he cries, rising
from his chair. '* But," he continues, with one
more effort to give the old man a chance of
recovering himself, '' I don't mind what you
say just now  in the first heat of your surprise.
I daresay you're vexed at my having kept my

intention secret from the first. You don't
really mean all you say, I feel sure."

'you'll soon see whether I do, or not!"
responds his uncle, furiously getting up, and
hobbling to the bell, which he pulls with a
ringing peal.

If you have unpacked Captain Devereux's
things, May," he says quietly to the butler,
who appears at his summons, *put them back
in his portmanteau immediately. Captain
Devereux will not sleep here to-night."

May looks as if he fancies he could not
have heard the order aright.

'' What the devil do you mean by standing
there ? Do what I tell you at once," calls
out his master, promptly.

And the perplexed servant has no resource
but to go, with his usual, " Yes, sir."

Charlie sees now that his cause is indeed
lost.

One day you will come to repent of your
harshness towards me, I feel sure," he says,
with dignity, and without another word of
expostulation, he adds, '' I will go "

'' Yes, go ! " interrupted Mr. Falconer, with
a malicious scowl. *' Go and starve, for all
I care ! And don't presume to show your
face in this house again."

*' You need not fear that, sir," are Charlie's
last words to his uncle ; and then he marches
out of the room, holding his head high in
the air, and, to all outward appearances,
victor in the recent contest, but Inwardly
raging with anger, mortification, perplexity,
and a sense of smarting under cruel ill-treatment.


May meets him in the passage, and, with
the privilege of an old servant, accosts him.
He is devoted to the young man, as indeed
is every member of the household.

VOL. I. H

'' Is this really true, sir ? " he asks, lowering
his voice to a whisper. " Does Mr. Falconer
mean what he says, that you are not going
to stay here ? "

Most certainly he means it, May," answers
Charlie, with reckless defiance in his
tone. ** Look sharp, and put my things together,
there's a good fellow. I'm going oft
directly,  as soon as I have seen Miss Byron.
Mr. Falconer and I have had a row," he
adds, in answer to the inquiring look on the
old butlers face. ** He doesn't like my having
taken upon myself to marry without first
asking his permission, and so we've split altogether."


'* I am very sorry to hear It, sir," says the
butler, sympathizing. " And you're really
married, sir ? Couldn't you have kept It
back a little longer from him, don't you
think, sir ? "

I'm afraid not," answers Charlie, with a
short laugh. '* But I daresay he'll come
round in time, May."

The old butler shakes his head mournfully.


*' Mr. Falconer is not a gentleman who
comes round very easily, sir, I fear," he says,
in still lower tones. " But I hope, for your
sake, that he will this time."

And then he turns dejectedly away to obey
Mr. Falconer's commands, and Charlie, with
an encouraging nod to him, rushes off in
search of Milly.

iter CHANGE MY X

Captain Devereux finds Milly in the ,
sitting by the open window. She
has recovered her self-control pretty fairly
again now, thanks to the aid of those timely
tears, which she shed upstairs, far from the
range of prying eyes. She still feels angry
and mortified,  not a little disposed to cherish
bitter thoughts against her cousin, and still
more against his innocent wife. But the first
fury of the hurricane has spent itself, and this
daughter of Eve is now consumed with a
burning wish to learn more details of the
starting event. When she sees her cousin
come in with a dark frown on his good-looking

face, and with all the signs in his demeanour
of being in overwhelming distress,
Milly is unselfish enough to cast aside all
thoughts of her own grievances, and she rises
hastily to meet him, intent only on inquiring
into the cause of his perturbation, and on
helping to chase it away, if possible.

In a few hurried words  for he is anxious
not to delay his departure  Captain Devereux
graphically describes the stormy scene which
has taken place between him and his uncle.

So here I am, literally ordered out of the
house," he adds, in conclusion. *' I never
could have believed it possible that he would
be so obstinate and so furious as he showed
himself this evening."

Horrid old creature ! " responds Milly, indignantly,
and shaking her fist vigorously in
the direction of his room. '* Perhaps you'll
begin to believe now, Charlie," she adds, with

pardonable triumph in her voice, " that he is
all and more than all that I said. But I
don't really think he can be so inexorable.
I feel sure that he will think better of it, and
retract in a short time."

Well, we'll hope for the best," is Charlie's
answer, given in a perceptibly less sanguine
tone than he had made use of to her only an
hour ago, in prophesying the outcome of his
visit. " But he doesn't look like it yet, I can
tell you. If you had only heard him abuse
me like a pickpocket ! No name was too
bad for me."

'' My imagination is capable of supplying
those little details," responds Milly, drily.
Experience has long since taught me that
his vocabulary is not by any means choice.
But joking apart, Charlie  I'm most dreadfully
sorry to hear of this. What will you
do, supposing that he is immovable 1 "

Starve ! " cries the young man, bitterly.
'* I can't conceive what there will be for me
to do, as I've nothing on earth beyond my
pay, and Ruth hasn't a penny. However,
we'll trust that it won't come to that pass."

'* Oh, no," says Milly. " I feel certain that
he said more than he meant in his heart.
Are you going now ? " she continues, seeing
that he makes a movement towards her.

'' I must go, as I don't want the old curmudgeon
to find out that I'm still hanging
about. I'm going to sleep at the Falconer
Arms to-night, and go back to Midmarsh
early tomorrow morning. Nice food this
will be for gossip in the village, won't it ? I
say, Milly, if by chance he should show any
signs of yielding in the course of the evening,
you might just send me a line down there
tomorrow morning before I leave, oughtn't
you ? In any case, if you wouldn't mind

sending to tell me how things are going on,
I should be glad."

'* I will, certainly, Charlie. I shall probably
be invited to the Ogre's presence tonight,
and, if I come out of it without his
having gobbled me up, I'll be sure to keep
you ate contract of the state of his mind."

" Thanks, awfully. I know you'll stick tome,
won't you, Milly, like a brick, and do
your best to fight my battles " I can trust
my affairs in your hands, as I would in no
one else's, and I feel almost certain that this
split won't last long. Good-bye, then, for
the present, dear. Even if the Ogre refuses
to give in, we'll manage some way of seeing
each other now and then, won't we. Mil } "

And for the first time since they have
passed the age of childhood, Charlie Devereux
stoops down and cordially embraces
his cousin, while Milly, though she cannot

help wincing a little, is too much influenced
by pity and sympathy for him to let him
guess how the action tries her.

'' Good-bye, Charlie. You shall have a
note from me in the morning. May would
do anything for you, I know, and he'll find
some means of sending it. And, Charlie,"
she adds, with a supreme effort of self-sacrifice,
'mind you give my love to Ruth, and
tell her I hope we shall meet very soon."

'' I won't forget, Milly. Oh, by the bye,
there is one thing more I want to do," he
says, coming once more back a few steps.
'* The old fellow presented me with this
cheque for fifty pounds in the early part of
our interview, and I forgot all about giving
it back to him afterwards. I wouldn't keep
it after what he said. So perhaps you'll
return it to him, Milly, with my compliments."


An imperious ring in the direction of the
study is heard at this juncture, and, shortly
after, May enters, and informs Miss Byron
that Mr. Falconer wishes to see her in his
room immediately.

"Say that I'll come directly. May," she
answers, with no pretence whatever of hurrying
herself. '* And, May, you know that
Captain Devereux's luggage is to be sent
down to the Falconer Arms."

I was just going to ask where it was to
go, miss," answers the butler. '' Everything
is ready packed, and Withers is waiting to
wheel it down now."

With another hurried farewell, Charlie now
takes a final leave of his cousin, and, passing
through the open window, strides quickly
away across the lawn,  an exile from the
only home which he has ever known and
which he loves so dearly, and has almost

unconsciously taught himself to consider in
the light of his certain heritage.

Milly relieves her heavily burdened soul
with a deep-drawn sigh, and then leisurely betakes
herself to her uncle's room, her composure
not being ruffled very much by meeting
May on her way with a second and more peremptory
summons, which he delivers almost
in a whisper, as if her temerity in keeping his
master waiting had taken his very breath away.

Mr. Falconer is seated at his writing-table,
engaged apparently in arranging packets of
old letters. He looks up as she enters, but
instantly returns to his occupation, without
uttering a word. M lily's powers of endurance
do not enable her to support this seeming
disregard of her presence for more than two
minutes.

Do you wish to speak to me. Uncle
John, as May told me ? " she asks, coldly.

Your intelligent mind might have suggested
that such a question is superfluous,"
is his sneering reply. " It is not very likely
that I should send for you with the sole view
of wasting your time and mine, or for the
mere pleasure,  a most exhilarating one, I
must admit,  of enjoying your society. Yes,
to be sure, I wish to speak to you, and you
may sit down to listen to me, rather than
stand in that ungainly attitude any longer,
like a soldier on parade. In the first place,
why were you so long in coming ? I sent
May to call you at least ten minutes ago."

I was with Charlie in the drawing-room,"
says Milly, boldly, seating herself with the
utmost coolness.

Were you, indeed ?  hearing from him
his nice little tale, and his disappointment at
my reception of the delightful news of his
romantic marriage ? " asks Mr. Falconer,

with a grim laugh. '' Well now, hear what
I have got to say to you, Milly. I imagine
you are endowed with a fair average amount
of common sense, though I can't affirm that
I have seen much evidence of it yet, and it's
precious little that women can boast of at
the best. But perhaps you will be able to
take in what I require of you, and understand
that I am in earnest. From this day
forth, I desire that you will not mention
your cousin's name in my presence again.
Any attempt that you may think of making
to restore him to favour, no matter in what
form or at what distance of time, will be
utterly thrown away, quite useless, and will
only damage your own interests. So I advise
you to bear this in mind. I know that
you side with him against me," he adds,
contemptuously ; '' and I am confident that,
in the course of time, you will be persuaded.

or your own foolish head will prompt you, to
try what you can do with me on his behalf.
But once for all, I give you warning that
it will be of no avail, and you know me
well enough to be aware that I never change
my mind. Your cousin has made his bed,
and now he must lie upon it. His future
does not concern me in one way or another.
You understand my commands, I presume ?"
Fully, insomuch that I am not quite an
idiot, and you have succeeded in making
them very clear," answers Milly, with a sneer
excelling her uncle's ; '* and, if you want to
know my opinion, Uncle John, I consider
that you have behaved very badly to Charlie !
After all, what has he done ? He has
married a girl a lite below him in station,
without consulting you about it first, because
he knew you would have knocked it on the
head. And for this you turn him out of

the house, and say you will have nothing
more to do with him ! I call that a horrid
shame ! "

Pray inveigh against me a little longer,
if it amuses you, my dear," returns Mr.
Falconer, leaning back in his chair, and fixing
his eyes on her indignant countenance
with a disagreeable smile. *' It is the last
time that I shall gratify you in this way,
for, if after to-night you bring up your
cousin's name before me, you will find mea
less patient listener, and I shall refuse to
be thus spoken to by an audacious minx
like you," he pursues, with rising anger.

** You can't prevent me from making use of
my tongue, that I am aware of," retorts his
niece, defiantly. ** And I will say "

You will say what you please, I have
no doubt, but not in this room, or in my
presence," he answers, menacingly. '' And

while we are on this subject for the last
time, I may as well tell you that my intentions
are to allow your cousin two hundred
a year, and tomorrow I shall write to my
bankers, directing them to pay that sum
quarterly to his account."

How extremely liberal of you. Uncle
John ! "

*' I have no wish to listen to your comments
on my actions, miss. Liberal or not,
it is all that he need ever look for at my
hands, and that you may tell him if you
choose, as I presume you mean to correspond
with him. It's a great deal more than he
has any right to expect from me, after his
conduct towards me,  indeed, he may consider
himself deuced lucky that I don't serve
him out as he deserves, and give him nothing
at all ; but "

Oh, I nearly forgot ! " cries Milly, interrupting

him with slight ceremony. '' I have
brought you this cheque, which he says he
wouldn't keep, as it was given to him before
he told you of his marriage. I quite
agree with him."

*' Indeed ! " is Mr. Falconer's only reply,
as he pockets the cheque. " Take care of
your manners, Milly  take care. That outspoken
frankness of yours is very charming,
no doubt, but it is not the best way of getting
on in the world, and I advise }ou not
to make such lavish use of it, as your future
prospects in life will depend very much on the
way you conduct yourself, young lady."

'* If you mean me to understand that you
might leave me the fortune which ought, by
rights, to be Charlie's," says she, with characteristic
bluntness, '' I can only assure you that
I would never accept it, Uncle John, and that
I would give it up to him."

VOL. I. I

*' Your purpose does credit to your affectionate
heart," answers her uncle, with a
mocking bow. '' Unfortunately, such self-sacrificing
intentions seldom survive the wear
and tear of time. It Is really curious to note
how a few years can change our ideas with
regard to the disposal of our property.
Haven't you remarked it yourself ? And
now you may go for the present, as I have
told you all I had to say to you. After
dinner, I shall want you to come and read
the paper to me here. By the way," he
calls out after her, checking her progress to
the door, '' I forgot to mention to you that the
butcher's book has been much too hiqh this
week. You must see to It, and brincr It down
for the future. I won't stand such waste in
my house."

I will do my best to curtail our alarmingly
high expenditure," replies Mllly, with

cool sarcasm. ** I suppose you'll be satisfied
if I contrive to reduce It by the sum of one
whole shilling a week, won't you ? Your
income might then just suffice to cover it,
don't you think ? "

And with a scornful laugh, she turns away,
not allowing time for the threatening growl,
which greets her cutting remarks, to expand
into a torrent of sharp words. She leaves
her uncle's presence, to collect her thoughts
after the disturbing occurrences of the day,
to mourn over her shattered hopes, and to
turn over in her mind various schemes by
which her cousin's interests might be forwarded.
At all events, she reflects, there is
a tiny crumb of comfort to communicate to
him in the promised pittance of two hundred
a year.

A BAD LOOK-OUT.

At an early hour the next morning, Charlie
receives the following note from his cousin : 

My dear Charlie, 

*' I had a loner interview with the Ochre
last night, but I am sorry to say that I have
no good news to give you. He is as hard
as granite, and up to this moment shows no
symptom of yielding. He gave me to understand
that any efforts I might make on your
behalf would be labour thrown away, and told
me to let you know that if you wrote to
him, your letters would be returned unopened.
Such is his genial frame of mind just now,

and it doesn't look encouraging, does it ? He
means to allow you ;200 a year, which you
will hear about through his bankers. Miserly
old wretch ! But don't despair ; I don't, by
any means. I will let you know the very
instant a thaw sets in. Keep up a good
heart, and be patient if you can. I feel as
if I should like to go and shake him for
half an hour without stopping ! I will write
very often.

*' Your affectionate cousin,

'' MiLLY."

Captain Devereux Is not a little disgusted
at the contents of this letter ; for, during the
last few hours, he has brought himself to
expect that the tidings of a complete reconciliation
will reach him with the morning's
dawn. In his heart, he never really believed
that Mr. Falconer would keep to his decision,

after having had twelve hours to think it
over. But now that he has proved so obdurate
thus far, what grounds are there for hope that
he will relent in the future ? None, so far
as Charlie can see, even In his most sanguine
moments ; and he fails to find much comfort
in Milly's note, which is meant to be encouraging,
because she wishes to cheer him up 
not from any very strong convictions in her
own mind. Captain Devereux begins to perceive
that the outlook of his future prospects
is tending to gloom and darkness unpalatable
to realize. As he settles himself down in his
corner of the railway carriage, there is a
heavy cloud on his usually sunny face, as he
thinks of the many luxuries he will have to
dispense with henceforth  luxuries which he
has been accustomed to look upon as almost
necessities of life. He will have to set about
it at once, and to retrench on all sides, and

the idea Is not a pleasant one to him. He
does not think It incumbent on him to begin
to practise economy all at once, so that he
still takes a first class ticket as a matter of
course, and the porters discover no difference
In the amount of his 'tips." The habits of
years are not to be broken through In a
moment, nor are our natures to be transformed
thus easily. Things may have changed
for him for the worst, but he Is Charlie Devereux
ruined, and open-handed still.

He has telegraphed to Ruth from the
Falconer Arms to prepare her for his early
return, and he has scarcely left the station
of Midmarsh, before he catches sight of her
slight figure coming swiftly to meet him.
After an exchange of mutual, joyous greetings,
Ruth takes possession of his arm, and
slowly they proceed towards the Rectory.

*' And now do tell me, Charlie, what it

means, your coming back so much sooner
than you intended," she asks, eagerly. "You
so carefully worded your telegram, that it was
impossible to guess if you had good or bad
news for me. Does it mean that your uncle
positively jumped at the prospect of a ready-made
niece-inlaw, or does it mean that he
sent you promptly off with "

*' Don't joke about it, Ruth, please," he
answers, with a return of the cloud to his
brow, and a seriousness of manner most unnatural
to him. " It's all up with me in that
quarter, I fear ; and I'm so bothered about
It all that I'll be hanged if I know what todo."


And then, as concisely as he can, he lets
her into the state of affairs. Poor Ruth's face
falls considerably, for she begins to feel that,
when Charlie, ordinarily so light-hearted and
so determined to make the best of things,

talks in such a despairing strain, there can
be no possible loophole for hope remaining.
She does not remind him of her counsel not
to be too certain of success before he started
forth on his diplomatic errand, for she cannot
doubt that he is seriously worried and out
of spirits, but she tries hard to encourage him
by a few timely words.

'* It does sound unfortunate, certainly," she
says, reflectively. " But still, Charlie, I don't
know that I expected much more from him at
first. By all you told me of him, I felt sure he
was the sort of man to be very angry about
it, and to dislike being taken by surprise in
that way ; but I think he won't hold out long."

"You think so because you don't know
what he is like," returns her husband, feeling
that the last twenty-four hours have considerably
improved his acquaintance with his
relative's disposition. " When any one dares

to thwart him, or contradict him, he's as obstinate
as a mule, and as malicious as  a
monkey. Mllly always said so, and by Jove
she was right ! I wouldn't give much for the
chance of making it square again."

" I can't bear to hear you talk in that desponding
way, Charlie, dear," she says, softly ;
you, of all people, to make out that the case
is hopeless ! Why, I thought your favourite
motto was, ' Never say die ! ' '*

"Well, of course I don't mean to give it
up without doing all I can," responds Captain
Devereux, roused to momentary energy.
Milly, I know, will help, though that won't
be much. It's no good my writing to him,
for he vows he won't open my letters."

*' And I wouldn't think of doing such a
thing, if I were you ! " cries Ruth, with spirit.
I think he has behaved very badly to you,
and it is he who ought to hold out the olive-branch.

All we can do is to trust to time,
and let him see how we can get on without
him."

'' Precious badly, I'm afraid," is Charlie's
dejected reply. 'what good will his paltry
;200 a year be to us ? I have managed to
get through at least four times that amount
hitherto with the greatest ease. I don't
know what we can do, Ruth, if he persists
in this."

I suppose you must leave the army,
Charlie?"

Charlie gives a groan of combined impatience
and misery.

Don't talk of it ! " he says. '* I see nothing
else for me to do, of course. But after that,
even, how can we live on that wretched,
contemptible income ? "

"You'd get something, wouldn't you,
Charlie, by the sale of your commission ?"

** Well  something  yes, certainly," returns
he, with hesitation. He can barely refrain
from smiling, even in this moment of trouble,
as he wonders how much of that amount
would remain to him after clearing off those
*' few little debts," which seem to him to
acquire an alarming degree of importance in
his present state of mind.

*' And then, you know, you could see if
you couldn't make a little money by your
writings. You told me you had rather a turn
for novel-writing," pursues the young wife,
with increasing ardour, being too much occupied
with her own little schemes to remark
on his shifty answer. " Oh, I feel certain
that we should get on somehow, Charlie."

'' Somehow ! " he echoes, with bitterness.
Yes, we might manage to scramble along
somehow, and just keep ourselves from the
workhouse, perhaps; that's about as much

as we could do, I fancy. But let's drop this
not very lively subject, Ruth. I'm too hot
and cross at present to face it."

Poor Charlie ! Do come and sit down
in this shady corner, and rest yourself," she
suggests, with ready tact and sympathy. " I
am so sorry about it all, my darling, and I
feel so guilty, too ; for. If it had not been
for me, all this bother would never have come
to you."

Now, Ruth, if you ever dare to hint at
such an idea again, I'll I'll throttle you!"
answers Charlie, with playful earnestness.
"What in the name of wonder has that got
to do with the matter at all, you little goose ?
Do I look as if I repented of the step I
have taken ? " he adds, with his sunniest
smile, which speaks of infinite happiness.
"If you take such preposterous notions into
your head, I shall be sorry that I let you

know anything about it. We'll make the old
screw grid his teeth with rage when he sees
how splendidly we can get on without his help,
won't we ? It isn't necessary to have a lot
of money to live on, is it ? only it's better fun
to be rich," he concludes, meditatively.

Well, as I have never known what It Is
to be rich, I don't know how much I lose,
I suppose," replies Ruth, with a light-hearted
laugh. '' I feel this trouble only for you,
Charlie, as you have been accustomed to such
an easy-going life."

Their conversation is here interrupted by
the approach of Mr. Saunders, who has been
vainly trying to find them, quite unable to
repress his curiosity as to the result of Captain
Devereux's visit to his uncle. He pulls a
long face when he hears what the )young man
has to tell.

I am truly sorry for you both," he says,

with an expression of sincerely mournful
sympathy. "All the more sorry for you,
because you started off with such confident
anticipations of success," he adds, addressing
Charlie, with clerically Avell-turned, if rather
prosy, language. '' But, at all events, this
circumstance will have the beneficial effect
of furnishing you with a useful lesson In
bearing an adverse turn of Fortune's wheel
with patience and resignation."

Charlie does not convey the impression of
being an embodiment of these two estimable
qualities, as he stands moodily by, kicking
viciously from time to time at the gravelled
path beneath his feet, and evidently paying
but scant attention to what Mr. Saunders is
saying ; but Ruth answers for him with prompt
readiness.

*you don't know how well he is taking
his disappointment, Mr. Saunders," she cries.

It's ten thousand times worse for him than
for me, you know, because he has always
been taught to consider himself his uncle's
heir. And now "

Well, there Is one favour which you must
promise to grant me," Interrupts the Rector,
with an Impulse of kindly hospitality  a
quality in which he is far from being deficient.
It will give us the greatest pleasure  I may
speak for my wife too  if you will consent to
stay with us for the remainder of your leave
of absence, with Mrs. Devereux. We were
regretting only this morning that her visit tous
would most likely soon come to an end.
Pray remain here till you shall have time to
think over matters a little."

"And perhaps then,  five days more,
haven't you got ?  there will be a letter
from Mr. Falconer, apologising to you," exclaims
Ruth, with her beaming smile.

'most probably'* he answers, with a
short and Incredulous laugh. '' I shall be
only too glad to accept your very kind invitation,"
he says cordially, as he turns
towards the Rector, " if you are sure it will
not bore Mrs. Saunders."

'* Bore her, my dear fellow ! " replies the
friend-indeed. *' Not the least in the world.
She is most intensely Interested in your affairs,
and delighted to Imagine that she is actually
in some way connected with the hero and
heroine of so romantic a drama."

So they stay on at Midmarsh Rectory,
welcome guests to their sympathetic host
and hostess, and their visit would have been
one of unmixed enjoyment to the whole party
were it not for the cloud of doubt and uncertainty
hanging over the heads of the young
couple. Day after day they watch eagerly
for that hoped-for letter to arrive, but day

VOL. I. K

after day are they doomed to disappointment.
Milly writes twice during that period, but
her reports are very far from being satisfactory.
She Is obliged reluctantly to confess that the
'' Ogre " is positively unmanageable for the
present, and that, as she is invariably banished
from his sight whenever she attempts to ~
bring Charlie's name forward, she sees nothing
that can be done, just now at least. She
therefore advises her cousin to wait quietly,
and to hope for better times, which may
eventually come for him. Charlie's spirits
fall lower and lower as the day of his
obligatory return to Aldershot draws near,
and on the last morning they sink to zero.
Mr. and Mrs. Saunders have entreated him
to let Ruth stay with them still another week ;
and when this period has passed by, still
without any movement in Mr. Falconer's
direction, Charlie puts away from him all

delusive ideas concerning his relenting. With
a spirit of defiant energy he sends in his
papers to the authorities, and thus finally
severs his connection with his cherished
profession.

He and Ruth settle down to battle with
their new circumstances as best they may
In a tiny house in Kensington, where he
turns his attention to light literature, and
she contrives to get together a few pupils,
as a means of adding to their slender income.


INTRODUCES TWO NEW CHARACTERS.

The only person that Mr. Falconer admits to
his acquaintance at all is a certain Mrs. Ver-school,
a widow lady who rents a small cottage
from him on the Whincote estate, and lives, so
to speak, at his very gates. Mrs. Verschoyle Is
a pretty, graceful, interesting-looking creature,
with a soft voice and inslnuatlnof manner  a
manner indicating a marvellous amiability towards
humanity in general and Mr. Falconer
In particular; but, to Mllly, always suggestive of
a cat-like claw beneath that velvety exterior.
Mrs. Verschoyle's age is difficult to guess at.
She may be anything between thirty and fifty ;
but If one Is to believe in the little hints which

ashe

dexterously lets drop from time to time, she
is far nearer the former than the latter decade.

During the nine months she has been a
tenant of ** The Wigwam,"  such being the
name of her tiny abode,  her attempts to gain
the good-will and friendship of the occupants
of the Abbey have been persevering and
worthy of all praise. Rebuffed by Mr. Falconer's
persistent avoidance of her, unruffled by
the discordant grunts and discourteous snubs
with which he received her first deprecating
advances, she has never once flagged in her
efforts, never once let slip an opportunity of
making herself agreeable to him, and to Milly
too.

And she has her reward. The process of
thawing Mr. Falconer has been a long and
weary one, but by degrees she has advanced
step by step, and may now be considered to
have won her goal. Mr. Falconer tolerates

her  almost forgets to use strong language in
her presence ; and, on the pretext of coming
''to have a little chat with dear Miss Byron,"
Mrs. Verschoyle's visits to the Abbey are by
no means infrequent. She has the proud satisfaction
of knowing that, with the exception of
the clergyman's wife, she is the only lady who
is ever encouraged to enter its inhospitable
portals. She has made a conquest of the
master of the great house, or what may be
called a conquest in connection with one so
farouche as he, and she piques herself on her
success. As to Milly  well, Milly is not to be
brought over by Mrs. Verschoyle's sweet
smiles and honeyed words as yet. Blunt and
straightforward as the day, the girl distrusts
and dislikes this soft-tongued neighbour of
theirs, and takes but little pains to conceal her
feelings. But of late Milly has appeared to
discourage her friendly overtures less persistently.

Since her cousin was so unfortunately
exiled from the home of his boyhood,
a phase of apathy and indifference to everything
around her has seemed to submerge her,
and for many weeks she has betrayed no interest
whatever in the small events of her daily
life. She has had no spirit left to contend
with Mrs. Verschoyle's minute manoeuvres,
and she has allowed Mr. Falconer's perpetual
sneers and sarcasms to fall on her ears unheeded.
Her uncle believes that the girl is
coming to her senses at last, and is beginning
to realize the futility of opposing his will any
longer. Mrs. Verschoyle, too, notices the
change, and wonders whether the prolonged
depression of her spirits is due entirely to
sympathy with her cousin's wrongs.

But latterly, during the last week or two,
Milly's demeanour has again altered. She
looks brighter, and Is once again full of spirits ;

is somewhat restless in her movements, and
apparently unable to sit still for long together.
There is a light in her eye, an elasticity in
her step which speaks of some inward cause
for happiness, and Mrs. Verschoyle's keen
glance is not slow to perceive the alteration.

*' That girl has found some one to put the
thoughts of her cousin's troubles out of her
head," she says to herself sagaciously. " I
wonder who on earth he can be ! "

Coming one afternoon to pay a visit to the
Abbey, she meets Milly dressed for going out,
on the very steps of the house. The look of
annoyance which momentarily flits across her
face as she catches sight of her visitor is not
unobserved by the latter.

She is vexed at my coming to stop her
just when she is going off to meet him," is her
comment, as she gives vent to a low, malicious
chuckle.

Outwardly, she is all smiles and cordiality.

Just going out, dear Miss Byron ? So
fortunate I am just to have caught you ! I
thought I would stroll up to try and get a
peep of you and Mr. Falconer. It is so long
since I have seen you."

You must have had a hot walk," returns
Milly, not too graciously; "and it is very
seldom that I am in at this time of the afternoon."


Yes, I know. I know your fondness for
being out of doors, and I assure you I quite
enter into your feelings. I quite revel in these
glorious summer days, and could sit out all
day in the sunshine, watching the birds and
flowers. And where where you going to just
now ? For a ride, I suppose ? "

Mrs. Verschoyle is quite aware that such is
not Milly's intention at this moment.

'* A ride ?" echoes the girl. " Not I. It is

much too hot, and surely you can see that I
have not got my habit on ! "

'' Ah, indeed ! " Mrs. Verschoyle lifts up
a gold-rimmed eye-glass, and affects sudden
blindness. *' How stupid of me! Of course I
see now. But I am so used to see you outriding,
and you seemed so devoted to it, that I
naturally supposed you had your habit on.
But latterly you have appeared to have taken
a fancy for walking about."

Very likely ; one gets tired of doing the
same thing always."

Milly's tone is careless, but the colour mounts
up in her face a little, for she feels that there
is a hidden meaning in the other's words.

I am sure you must value the liberty you
have," continues Mrs. Verschoyle blandly ;
** you always seem to me to be such an enviable
young lady,  able to do exactly as you
like from morning till night."

Except when I have to do things for my
uncle ! " puts In Milly grimly.

'' Ah ! but, my dear, I always think Mr. Falconer
so wonderfully good and considerate In
the way he lays so little claim to your time.
Many men would be always wanting to chain
you to their side, and look for all sorts of little
attentions. And, by the way, how Is your
dear uncle ? Has he at all got over the shock
of the disappointment of learning that your
cousin was married ? "

'' I don't know about the shock of It, but he
has never got over his anger against Charlie,
and never will, I suppose. One would think
that Charlie had committed some dreadful
crime."

*' My dear Miss Byron, look at the affair
from your uncle's point of view. It was such
a vexatious thing for him to find Captain
Devereux had ruined his prospects in life by

marrying an obscure governess ; and to keep
it a secret from him too  not to give a hint
of his intentions to him."

Really, Mrs. Verschoyle, I do not see any
good in going over all this ground again ! "
interrupts Millie impatiently. " We have discussed
it before, and as we are never likely to
agree about the matter, I think we had better
drop it once for all. I cannot think why my
uncle should choose to talk over these things
with outsiders."

*' Oh ! but, my dear Miss Byron, you surely
do not look upon me as an outsider  I, who
have been so interested in you and your uncle
since I first came here. And he has been so
kind in always making me feel quite at home,
and treating me, as I might say, quite like one
of the family. Just after this unfortunate
business about Captain Devereux happened,
I ventured to condole with him, for I knew it

must be a severe blow to him, and he at
once accepted my sympathy, and gave mean
Insight Into the details of the story. So It
is but natural that I should allude to it now
and then."

You may allude to It as much as you like
to him," answers Milly, with emphasis, 'but
I myself would rather not speak about It. It
is something new to me to find that Uncle
John is so unreserved about his private affairs."

I daresay you do not quite understand
your uncle's character," says the elder lady, a
little patronizingly. '' Young people are so
apt to possess superficial observation, and to
form one-sided views of human nature without
taking the trouble to study it thoroughly. I
flatter myself that I understand your uncle
fairly well, and to my mind he is "

The very reverse of amiable," interpolates
Milly, half joking.

*' On the contrary, I find him a most agreeable
companion, and "

Do you really mean that, Mrs. Ver-school
? "

** Indeed I do. To me he has always been
a most considerate friend."

** Wonders will never cease ! " exclaims
Milly, laughing. 'the Idea of his being
called an agreeable companion ! Certainly he
must have two sides to his character ! Mrs.
Verschoyle, do you understand German ? "

A lite, yes."

Then you know what I mean when I
say that the German expressions * Hauteur
' and * Strassengel ' seem to fit him well,,
according to your ideas and mine. And very
little of the ' Engel ' there is about him, I am
certain," adds the girl, sotto voce,

Mrs. Verschoyle tries her best to look
shocked.

*' You naughty girl ! " she exclaims, shaking
her finger at her. *' How can you speak of
your kind uncle in that way ? But I know
you are only joking. And now, do you think
he would like me to go in and have a little
chat with him ? I see you are all impatience
to be off, and he is good enough to say sometimes
that my visits cheer him up a little."

I am sure he will be delighted to see
you," says Mllly, with suspicious alacrity.
*' He is in the library."

*' You don't think there is anything  anything
odd in my paying him a visit ? " asks
Mrs. Verschoyle, simpering, and trying to look
conscious. '' People are so foolish, you know ;
they will talk about nothing."

For answer, Milly bursts into a peal of
laughter.

I really did not know what you meant at
first," she says, recovering herself. *' The idea

of thinking of the proprieties in connection
with Uncle John ! I should as soon have
thought of wondering whether it would have
been 'odd' to pay a visit to Noah in his
ark."

And she laughs again.

** My dear, I was only looking at it from a
conventional point of view. It doesn't do
for all of us to set the opinion of the world
wholly at defiance. Not that I am one to be
tied down by those considerations as a rule  
not at all ; on the contrary, I fear I am sadly
negligent of the opinions of other people.
Well, good-bye, Miss Byron ; I hope you will
have a pleasant walk. Don't sou find your
solitary rambles a little dull now and then ? "

Again Milly flushes a little, but she looks
Mrs. Verschoyle full in the face as she answers,


Indeed, I do not. I usually like my own

company better than that of most other
people's."

And then she turns away, delighted to beset
free. She walks across the lawn, and
through the garden gate at a moderately slow
pace ; but once out of view of the windows,
she quickens her movements, apparently unheeding
the scorching rays of the sun over
her head. Across the meadow adjoining the
Abbey garden she hastens, then into a shady
beech copse, which offers a cool and inviting
resting-place, and which is, presumably, the
goal of her journey. Turning the corner of
one of the narrow glades which run at right
angles from the principal pathway, she comes
upon a young man clad in a suit of light
grey, sitting upon the fallen trunk of a tree.
He starts to his feet as he hears her approach,
and advances to meet her.

** How late you are!" he exclaims reproach-vol.
I. . L

fully. " I had almost given you up. What
has kept you ? "

Evidently Mr. Geoffrey Dering is not a
man who appreciates being kept waiting.
But Milly does not resent his tone ; she is
too flattered by this evident impatience for
her arrival.

GEOFFREY BERING,

Milly's hero  who is destined to exercise
such a strong and baleful influence over her
life  is of about two-and-thirty years of age.
In appearance he is tall and slight  slight
almost to a fault, according to the standard
of masculine build. His face is one of those
which may be called either plain or good-looking
as criticised by his detractors or his
friends. He has fair hair, which he wears
closely cropped in the fashion of the day,
and a light moustache ; bluish-grey eyes,
which are set deeply beneath his clearly defined
brows, and a somewhat large nose.
His mouth has a curious, wry expression,



which seems to imply that its owner could
on occasion give vent to sarcasms, and even
perhaps venomous little speeches with much
effect. And his eyes have a shifty, furtive
look in them, which would impress a stranger
with the idea that his character lacked openness.


Such is Geoffrey Bering to look at  of an
ordinary type enough, most men would say,
and not of a very prepossessing type either.
Yet to Milly he is the embodiment of perfection.
She is completely fascinated by him ;
with him, she feels herself to be in Elysium ;
without him, life wears a dreary, grey-hued
aspect, and all days are blank. Once again,
the old, old story is being enacted for Mily
poor, impulsive, unreflecting Milly, who, allS
unconsciously, idealizes her hero in her own \
mind to such an extent as to render her in I
capable of judging how much her creation

m \

resembles the original mould. She is in love
with a fantasy, a deified, impossible being,
the offspring of her own imagination, between
whom and the real Geoffrey Dering there
yawns a wide gulf indeed. His voice is to
her like the voice of the gods, his words unlike
the words of ordinary mankind, though
common-place they might appear to outsiders.
To her there is a charm about his
most trivial utterances which interests her
and enthrals her as the utterances of no
other man had ever yet done.

Side by side they sit down on the felled
tree, and she tells him how she was delayed
by Mrs. Verschoyle's arrival. Milly has the
power of relating such trivialities in a manner
as to render them amusing to her audience,
and Mr. Dering laughs heartily as she
recounts the conversation with considerable
humour, and by a few vivid touches, she

paints Mrs. Verschoyle as she Is so clearly,
that she furnishes a lifelike portrait to
him.

I don't fancy her by your description, I
confess," he remarks. " I know so well that
stamp of woman  all softness outside, but
spiteful and vicious as a cat all the time."

Milly nods her head in acquiescence.

Yes, that is just what I feel she Is. I
do not like her at all, although I have no
reasonable grounds for saying so."

A sheer case of Instinct, depend upon
it," returns Geoffrey oracularly. '' And it is
generally safe enough to trust to that. If I
were you, Miss Byron," he adds, with meaning,
" I should not be [inclined to make a
great friend or confidante of her."

He has lived long enough in the world 
this shrewd, far-seeing young man  to have
acquired a good deal of celerity in readings

motives which sway the actions of others,
and he divines enough of the widow's little
game to feel sure that she cherishes no very
friendly feeling towards Milly.

The girl blushes a little under his gaze.

Oh, of course not," she says hurriedly ;
I should not think of doing so  I have not
the least wish to make a friend of her at all ;
but  Mr. Dering"  she grows hot and embarrassed
as she knows not how to put into
words what she would say  " I wanted to tell
you  to say  that I have been thinking how
I am sure I ought not to come like this, and
meet you here."

She brings out the last words boldly
enough, but she does not dare look up at
him. A great tide of shame takes possession
of her soul, for she feels she is violating every
code of propriety in consenting to meet
him here to-day, and Milly is a good, honest

girl at heart, and hates deception and mysteries
of all kinds.

Geoffrey Dering takes one swift, searching
glance at her before he answers  a glance
of which she remains utterly unconscious.

My dear Miss Byron ! " he cries, with
what appears to be astonishment, though
there lurks a curious expression of half
triumph, half contempt, in his eyes, as he
lets them droop downwards again. " What
a very tender conscience you must have !
Why, you don't really mean to say you think
there's anything wrong in your allowing me
to spend half an hour with you now and
then, and exchanging ideas, and doing our
best to wile away a few of the weary hours
of these long summer days } Do you know
what people say, what the whole country is
saying, of you ? " he continues, warming with
his subject, and watching carefully the effect

of his words on her  " that it is a most
awful shame that Mr. Falconer keeps you
shut up as he does, never letting you see a
soul, or go into society. They pity you most
awfully, and I don't believe there's one other
young lady in England who'd stand it, and
put up with the life as you do."

Milly draws herself up proudly.

'' I don't care to hear what other people
say about me, and I certainly am in no need
of their compassion."

Of course you're not," he responds
promptly, fearful of having made a false step.
'' You're quite right. Miss Byron ; the opinions
of the world outside our walls are not worth
repeating or listening to. I would not have
mentioned the subject, only of course I cannot
help hearing things discussed among my
neighbours, and I have felt so very sorry
for you, and have often wished to express

my sympathy for you," he adds, in lower
tones.

And Milly, listening with lowered head,
wonders how he can speak of being sorry for
her, and of feeling pity for her, when she
considers herself one of the most blest and
fortunate women in the kingdom, and would
not change places with the Queen on her throne.

After all," resumes Geoffrey, in his ordinary
manner, *' you and I have only seen
each other  how many times is it, Miss
Byron ? "

'* This is the third time, I think," she answers
quietly. She feels rather hurt at his
not being able to remember the exact number
of their meetings as faithfully as she does.
Every incident connected with each one, every
word which has passed between them, is imprinted
indelibly on her heart, though not for
worlds would she let him discover this.

** The first time was when I met you outriding,
and picked up your whip for you," he
goes on, never once taking his eyes off her
face. *' I shall always bless that day, as being
the one of my first introduction to you.
Fancy my never having seen you before then !
Although it is true enough that I have been
little at home of late years, and you  you
have been shut up in the Abbey walls, as if
you were an enchanted princess. What a
shame it was ! "

His words and looks so plainly intimate that
he considers his loss in the matter to have
been almost irreparable, that the girl again
reddens beneath the fixity of his gaze, and
hastens to break the silence.

** And the second time I saw you," she
says hurriedly, *' was here, just close to where
we are now."

Yes. Some good angel must have

prompted you to walk by that day. I hadn't
the faintest notion that such good luck was
in store for me. And when you told me
that this was a favourite walk of yours, was
there anything very wicked in my saying that
I liked it too, do you think, and asking you
if you were likely to stroll this way again ?
Mr. Falconer would not take me up for trespassing
if he saw me, would he ? "

'* No, no, of course not. But still, he might
not like it. Indeed, I'm sure he would be
angry."

'* Miss Byron, tell me the truth  be as open
and frank as I know it your nature to be,
and don't be afraid of hurting my feelings.
Do you wish me to come here no more ,
Are you tired of me ? If so, you will only
have to tell me, and I will never intrude on
you again."

How cleverly he knows how to manipulate

the girl, and to rivet his chains yet more
closely ! At the very thought of not seeing
him again, of giving up these stolen interviews,
which have already grown to be so
perilously sweet to her, Milly's heart gives a
great throb, and her whole soul rebels at the
prospect.

Of course I do not wish you to stay
away," she says, as calmly as she can. " Do
you imagine I am so fond of my own company
that I am content to live and die without
ever speaking to a soul beyond my uncle
and the servants 1 " with an effort to speak
jestingly. " Only I dislike anything that is
not above board, and this is not that, you
know, and I feel that Uncle John would have
a right to be angry with me if he found it
out."

Mr. Dering is silent for a moment, and
when his words come, they are spoken slowly,

as if he were weighing each one as he utters
it,

** Well, perhaps you are right and wise in
considering your uncle's' wishes so much," he
begins.

** Wise ! Why wise ? " inquired Milly
quickly, struck with the tone of his voice.
What do you mean, Mr. Bering .- "

Again he hesitates.

Very naturally you would wish to try and
stand well with him, and not offend him."

I can't make out what you mean," responds
Milly impatiently, tapping her foot
on the ground. " Why on earth should I be
so afraid of offending him ? To tell you the
truth, there's very little love lost between
him and me, and if I don't like done what
I am doing now, it is chiefly because
I know I am doing something wrong  not
from fear of displeasing him. Why, I doa

hundred things all day long for which he
blows  he scolds me as hard as he possibly
can."

Geoffrey laughs.

You evidently don't give a thought to
the policy of your proceedings," he remarks
lightly.

** The policy ? "  she furrows her brow in
perplexity. ** Oh, I see what you mean ! "
abruptly. " You think that I ought to study
him and consider him because of all the
money he has to leave. But I have not the
remotest chance of coming in for that."

No ? The world in general, nevertheless,
looks upon you in the light of the heiress of
the Abbey."

** Really ? How very odd ! But even if I
did get the Og  my uncle's money  I should
never dream of keeping it. I should hand it
over to Charlie in a moment."

*' Charlie is your cousin, Captain Devereux,
is he not ? What a fortunate individual he
is ! And I cannot say how I admire you,
Miss Byron, for your utter indifference to the
charms of  s, d

There is just a suspicion of a sneer in his
voice as he makes this remark, but it fails to
penetrate her ear.

** There is not much merit in my being indifferent
to what I feel certain I shall never
possess," she says, with a laugh. " Probably
you think it is a case of sour grapes. But
indeed, Mr. Bering, I have never for one
moment really thought that my uncle would
make me his heiress. He certainly once gave
me a very vague hint "

A vague hint ? " repeats her companion,
trying hard to veil his eagerness.

' Yes ; a hint that I must take care how I
behaved to him, or it might be the worse

for me ; which I suppose meant that it had
entered into his brain to conceive that it
might possibly be better to leave his money
to me rather than to a hospital or "

*' And you are his nearest relation, I think,
are you not ? " inquires Geoffrey carelessly,

*' Charlie and I are his only near relations,
except some cousins, four times removed,
whom he never sees. Poor Charlie ! what
a pity it is he so completely ruined his
chances by his hasty marriage ! You know
the story, of course ? " she adds, looking up
at him.

He nods his head. Of course he knows
every detail of the ill-starred marriage and
subsequent quarrel. Indeed, he would not
be here now dallying with this girl had it
not been for the facts which have been revealed
to him by means of gossiping friends
and neighbours.

VOL. I. M

He and Uncle John were such good
friends before," continues Milly, pursuing the
thread of her reflections. " There was no
doubt that Chace would have been heir to
everything money and property and everything.
And now "

And now you must see if you cannot do
your best for your cousin, and give him back
some of what he has lost, when it comes to
you," says Mr. Bering easily.

Some of It ! Of course I should give
him back all'' cries Milly warmly. "And
for that reason, and that only, I do really
try and put up with Uncle John when I
can. Only he is so trying ; you have no
idea ! And we suit each other as little as
fire and water."

'' I have no doubt - that he would try the
patience of a saint," responds he heartily.
'' And very few people would be as forbearing

as you are, I am sure ; but you will always
have the consolation of thinking it is
for your cousin's sake that you hold yourself
back."

And then he dexterously changes the conversation,
and makes himself so agreeable to
the fascinated girl that time passes by unheeded,
and she is only roused to a knowledge
of the hour by a glance at her watch.
Then she jumps up hurriedly and declares
she must be off  her uncle will expect her to
be back in time to give him his tea. Geoffrey
does not attempt to detain her. He has
gained a half promise from her that she will
walk that way " again tomorrow, and is
quite satisfied with the progress he has made
that afternoon. He has learnt many things
that he wished to know, and he feels confident
that he has advanced many steps in her
good graces. He knows that she will count

the hours till the time of their rendezvous
for the morrow arrives, and that nothing will
induce her to fail him. And for himself, 
well, he may as well pass an idle afternoon in
making himself pleasant to her as do anything
else ; and with the contingency of a possible
heiress-ship in the future, he does not consider
he is altogether wasting his time. And
then the girl herself is lively and amusing,
and is evidently beginning to like him, and
he has no objection to carry it on a little
further, at all events, till he can see how
things turn out. So he bids Milly a tender
farewell, and contrives to convey a good deal
of meaning into the depths of his eyes as he
lets them dwell on hers, when they clasp hands
at parting ; and then they go their different
ways. He walks off with a brisk, easy step,
whistling as he goes, and busy in thinking of
well, of a hundred things, in which Milly

certainly has no part or lot. She hurries
away in a guilty, noiseless manner, her face
plainly showing that she is anxious to avoid
meeting any one just at this moment. Nevertheless,
she finds time to cast one or two
surreptitious glances in a backward direction,
and an involuntary sigh escapes her as each
time she looks she fails to catch sight of
Geoffrey executing the same manoeuvre on
her behalf. At last he disappears entirely
from her view, and as she runs quickly round
the corner of the wood, she finds herself in
the very arms of the last person she wishes
to encounter  none else but Mrs. Verschoyle
herself!

QUALMS.

MiLLY recovers her self-possession at the
unexpected meeting as best she may, and
stammers out a profusion of apologies for
having so abruptly cannonaded against the
widow. The latter smiles good-humouredly,
and assures her that it was not her fault In
the very least.

*' On the contrary, it is / who ought to
apologise to you," she says suavely. '' I
very rarely come this way, but It was such
a lovely afternoon, that after I had paid my
visit to your uncle, I was tempted to make
a little detour' before going home. I had no
idea I should be an involuntary spectator of
such a pretty little scene," she adds pointedly.



Milly turns scarlet.

What scene ? What do you mean ? "

Dear Miss Byron, don't be angry with
me ! I may as well tell you at once that I
saw you taking leave of Mr. Bering just
now ; you made quite a picture, I assure you,
standing there holding each other's hands,
and both looking so happy and so handsome.
But what a naughty girl you are to run off
like that, and pass the afternoon with a young
gentleman without letting any one know
anything about it ! Dear me, I had no idea
you were such a sly puss ! "

Milly positively can find no words to utter
in reply, so completely is she unbounded.

** Don't look so dreadfully unhappy, my
dear girl, pray ! " continues Mrs. Verschoyle,
in her softest tones. ** After all, I don't
see that you have done anything so very
reprehensible. Young people will be young

people to the end of the chapter, and have
their little mysteries and their stolen pleasures ;
and it is not so very long ago that I was
young and impulsive too, and, I dare say,
did just the same. So I can quite well
understand all about it, and you may depend
upon my not betraying your secret. We will
keep it quite to ourselves, won't we, dear ? "

Milly's pride rises up in arms at her
patronizing tone, and at her assuming so
easily that henceforth their interests will in
some sort be identified.

*' I hate keeping things to myself," she
answers shortly. " I never meant it to bea
secret."

But you surely do not intend to confess
your little  escapade  to Mr. Falconer, Miss
Byron ? Sooner than that, I would strongly
advise you to give up Mr. Bering altogether,
and make up your mind to see no more of

him." (How Milly winces, and how quickly
the other perceives that she does ! ) " For,
you know, gentlemen so seldom understand
or sympathise with this kind of thing.
They are so apt to magnify its importance,
and to be so hard upon us for what is, after
all, but a little harmless love of fun and
excitement. But it is curious that you should
have selected Mr. Bering, of all people, as
your friend."

* And why so, may I ask ? "

Because he is  well, if I were to repeat
the exact words in which I have heard him
and his father described, I should say that
they are a pair of most thorough scamps."

Mrs. Verschoyle drawls out the words in
her silkiest tones, and gives vent to a light
little laugh as she concludes.

*' I don't believe a word of it!" cries Milly
impulsively.

I dare say not ; and I have no doubt
that it is an absurd exaggeration. Probably
they are no worse than the rest of the world.
But the story goes that they have been living
pretty well by their wits for the last five
years or so, having run through every penny
of their income before that by betting and
gambling, and all sorts of dreadful things.
Now they have come back to that old tumbledown
house of theirs to live, as the only
resource left to them ; and they fill it with
a number of fast friends, and play cards all
night long. How they contrive to get along
at all is a mystery to everybody. But I am
not saying that all this is true," adds Mrs.
Verschoyle rather eagerly. *' I am only
repeating to you the common report of the
neighbourhood. And as to the son  but no,
I will not tell you any more, for fear you
should think me ill-natured."

But indeed you must tell me, now you
have begun," says Milly firmly. "As to Mr.
Geoffrey Bering  what have you heard ? "

** Oh, nothing much, only that he is a
great favourite with ladies, and that he is
given to flirt desperately with them, and then
suddenly cool off and declare that he meant
nothing by it."

Mrs. Verschoyle smiles serenely as she
mentally contrasts her very mild version of
Mr. Bering's proclivities with the original as
it was told to her.

"" But this does not matter to you, dear
Miss Byron," she continues caressingly.
You are far too wise and sensible a girl to
let yourself fall in love with a man you know
nothing about, however good-looking and
attractive he may be. It is very natural
that you should like to talk to him now and
then, if only to passer le temps. And your

life is such a very quiet one that no one
could possibly blame you for taking what
little diversion comes in your way. Poor
child ! I always pity you so much shut up
there, with no companions of your own age.
I do hope, Milly,  you will let me call you
Milly for the future, will you not ?  that you
will let me try to do what little I can to amuse
you and be of use to you now ; will you ? "

And Milly, disagreeably conscious that
she has, in some degree, laid herself under
an obligation to this smooth-tongued lady,
feels constrained to answer her as graciously
as she can.

I have not the least objection to your calling
me Milly," she says, *sand I am much obliged
to you for wishing to be of use to me. But
I am afraid Uncle John will not even let me
see much of you. He hates my knowing
any one."

'' Oh, my dear, trust to me, and I will see
if I cannot manage matters somehow, so as
to make your existence a little less dreary
than it is now. Your uncle was quite cheerful
and genial this afternoon, and I almost feel
sure that I could in time persuade him to
agree to any little request I might make to
him. And now, dear, I must not keep you
talking any longer. Try and not let yourself
be too desperately smitten with the charms
of Mr. Geoffrey, and pray feel easy in the
assurance that your little secret is perfectly
safe with me. And don't waste a second
thought on that silly gossip which I was
foolish enough to repeat ; it has most likely
not a grain of truth in it."

*' Good-night," says Milly in reply, but not
with any very responsive warmth in her tone.
She feels angry and humiliated to think that this
woman  whom she likes less than ever now 

has her, so to speak, in her power, and has
instituted a claim on her friendship by her
forbearance in keeping her counsel. When
she finds herself alone in her room that night,
and has time to think over all that has
happened, she is more than ever inclined to
distrust her professions of affection, and wishes
with all her heart that fate had not been so
cruelly unkind as to mix up Mrs. Verschoyle,
of all people, in her affairs. She feels confident
in her own mind that that lady is not
genuinely fond of her at heart, and she is
dimly conscious that there is some deep hidden
motive beneath that smiling exterior, which
alone can account for her sudden interest in
her, and in her newly born readiness to serve
and shield her. She passes a sleepless night
in deliberating on what she is to do next.
Once the notion floats across her mind that
it would be almost wisest to go to Mr.

Falconer, and boldly inform him that she
has made acquaintance with Geoffrey Dering,
and so rid her conscience of the burden of
the secret which lies on it. But she laughs
out loud to herself as she pictures the scene
which would follow her voluntary confession,
and finally dismisses that alternative altogether
from her thoughts. In the end, she does
what nine girls out of ten would resolve todo
in her position,  namely, makes up her
mind to temporize. She will see Geoffrey
again first before she decides on anything,
will put the whole case before him, and
be guided by his advice how to act in
the dilemma. One fixed resolution runs
through all her meditations the while,
though she hardly admits its influence even
to herself, and that is, that come what will,
she cannot possibly give up seeing him 
cannot, under any circumstances, cut the

Gordian knot of her difficulties by this very
obviously desirable method. Anything but
that,  but to see him no more, to relinquish
all the sweets of her sub rose " friendship "
now, when she is but just beginning to learn
how unutterably precious it is becoming to
her ! No, she has not the strength for that.
Already he has gained such an ascendancy
over her mind that her usually clearly defined
principles of right and wrong are just a trifle
obscured and blunted, and she is doing her
best to twist and turn every possible argument
she can devise as an excuse and a palliation
for herself in the path of crookedness and
double dealing upon which she has entered.
Naturally true and open as the day, she is
conscious of a falling off from her moral
standard, but she has almost persuaded
herself that such deterioration is excusable,
if not commendable, under certain peculiar

circumstances  such circumstances, for instance,
which seem to surround her existence
at this moment. When one argues and
reasons and persuades one's self after this
fashion, it affords strong evidence of an
outside influence being already at work in
undermining one's better nature, and in
blinding one's eyes, so that one forgets to
note that the first downward step is taken.
After that it all goes on so easily.

Milly thinks over all that Mrs. Verschoyle
has said about Geoffrey Bering's character and
antecedents, too, of course. She is too shrewd
and sensible a girl to dismiss it from her mind
as if it were not worth a second thought, or to
disbelieve it utterly. She is of the opinion that
there is rarely so much smoke without a fire, to
quote a homely saying ; and allowing a good
deal for exaggeration and inaccuracy, she is
quite inclined to admit that there is some truth

VOL. I. N

in what she has heard, and which evidently
most people accept with unmitigated belief.
But, strange to say  or, rather, to those who
have studied human nature, and especially
woman's nature, it is not strange  the knowledge
that he is not exactly the Sir Galahad her
fancy had pictured him serves but to increase
her interest in him tenfold. It gives a sort of
piquancy to the situation, a flavour of naughtiness
and niceness combined  the notion that
the man whom fate has decreed should be
thrown across her path should be one of all
others who is most spoken ill of by the world,
and is metaphorically branded as a black sheep.
It tickles her sense of humour to think of herself
so carefully guarded and pertinaciously
kept apart from all contamination with mankind,
and then, at the first opportunity, becoming
friendly with a man whom rumour
paints as an undesirable acquaintance, to say

the least of it. Her spirits rise as the
novelty of the situation unfolds itself before
her mind's eye. The longing for the forbidden
apple finds a place in most female
hearts, just as much as it took possession
of the mind of our common mother in days
of yore, although in the case of some it may
for ever remain dormant,  and the spice of
wickedness which is attached to It renders
it none the less alluring. Nevertheless, she is
not altogether at ease as she ponders over the
future, and wonders what will be the end of
it all. Like most girls, she has a vein of
quixotism in her nature, and vague dreams
of being the instrument of reforming Geoffrey
Derlne from his evil courses, and of hearing
him acknowledge at some very far-off day that
her influence has been the saving of him, and
raised him up to a new life, tend still more to
strengthen her arguments, and to furnish yet

another plausible motive for doing that which
she wishes to do  prosecute the acquaintanceship.
How truly convenient it is when we
can so plainly demonstrate that duty walks
hand in hand with our secret desires !

The next morning's post brings Milly a
powerful aid to the solution of the difficulty
which perplexes her, in the shape of an invitation
from the only young lady friends she can
boast of  Edith and Dorothy Treherne, who
live in a large old house in one of the Midland
counties, with a grandmother, who seems to
have no object in life but to study and gratify
their whims and pleasure. The Trehernes
are the only people with whom Milly is ever
allowed to stay, so that she has but little fear
of a refusal from Mr. Falconer this time.
And she always enjoys going to see them so
much, and just now the invitation happens to
be especially welcome. Besides which, Edith

holds out another strong inducement for her
coming, which is that Charlie and his wife have
also been asked to come down to the Park,
and Milly, guiltily conscious of having of late
a little neglected her cousin's interests, is all
the more eager to rush off and welcome him
and his bride. Yes, she certainly will go, and
go as soon as she possibly can. She will
run and ask her uncle's leave before her heart
fails her at the idea of leaving Geoffrey so
soon, and then, when the letter of acceptance
is written, it will be impossible for her to drawback.


Before she goes to her uncle's study, she
tears her friend's note into a hundred little
pieces, and throws them in the grate, smiling
to herself as she pictures his fury if he had
been able to read the contents, for this is
an exact reproduction of Miss Treherne's
letter : 

Dear old Mill, 

Granny says I am to write to you, and
command you to come here immediately for as
long a time as the Ogre can reconcile himself
to the loss of your society. We have asked
Charlie and his bride too, and after keeping
us waiting for four days for their answer, he
writes to say they will come on Saturday for
three nights, as his ' business ' cannot spare
him for more than that. What is his
business,' I should like to know ? I think
the Ogre has been most inhuman In his behaviour
to him, merely because he chose to
please himself in the choice of a wife ; but
between ourselves I can't help thinking Master
Charlie has been rather a duffer to give up
Whincote Abbey and all that for the sake of
a little obscure governess, who, I hear, is
neither startling lovely nor alarmingly fascinating.
However, she may be virtue itself incarnate,

as we shall find out when we see
her, and after all It is better to be good than
pretty, Isn't It ? She must have something to
recommend her, don't you think ? Of course
you will not breathe a hint to the Ogre of their
being here ; but there Is no earthly reason that
I can see why we should cut him and Ignore
her simply because he does. Now mind you
cajole or frighten him somehow Into saying
Yes,' and come off as quickly as you can  tomorrow
or Saturday at latest. We are dying
to see you again, and to try and shake off the
rust of your convent life once more. Granny
sends her love, and says you must bring your
best frocks, for there are lots of tennis parties
going on. Dorothy says very little about It,
but you know that she is aching to catch sight
of you again.

Your loving

Edith Treherne."

The smile conjured up by her friend's
irreverent letter still hovers on Milly's lips as
she enters the *' Ogre's " domain, and after the
briefest morning greeting, she rushes headlong
to her point at once.

I have had a letter from Edith Treherne
this morning, Uncle John," she begins, after
having vouchsafed him the very mildest form
of a kiss that can be imagined upon the top of
his forehead.

*' By your condescending to inform me of
that interesting fact, I imagine that your letter
contains something more than the mere idle
tittle-tate of an empty-headed girl," he
answers pleasantly.

'' You are quite right, Uncle John. How
clever you are at guessing, to be sure ! They
ask me to go and stay with them, and "

* And you want to go, of course. Spare
yourself the trouble of saying it. Gadding

about all over the place, that is your idea of
pleasure, I know."

"Well, really, Uncle John, if you are under
the delusion that / am a gadabout, I wonder
what you would say if you knew what Edith
and Dorothy do?" says Milly, laughing
merrily. " Why, they are never at home for
two weeks together, unless they have the
house full of people."

*' Then all I can say is, that I thank Providence
that He did not give me Miss Edith
and Miss What's-her-name as nieces or grandchildren,"
says Mr. Falconer, with angry
fervour.

'' I feel certain they would join you in a
chorus on that score," answers his niece pertly.
*' But you have not said whether I may go or
not yet."

Go ? Go anywhere you like, so long as
you don't pester me with questions ! " is his

hasty reply. But Milly is too grateful for
the consent to be fastidious as to the terms
in which it is couched. " What on earth
should I want you here for ? You're of no
use to me, or to any one else, as far as I can
see."

*' Some people, you know, Uncle John, are
created more for ornament than for use, aren't
they ? " asks Milly meaningly.

And you flatter yourself that you are of
the former class ? " sneeringly.

Oh dear no ! I haven't yet quite made
up my mind as to my special mission In this
world ; but there really do seem to be some
people who are Intended neither for use nor
beauty, curiously enough. Don't you agree
with me ? "

And she darts him a swift glance, pointing
her innuendo by a sarcastic smile.
" I don't know what you're talking about,

and I certainly have no time to waste in
listening to your ridiculous nonsense."

* Harebrained utterances of an irresponsible
frivolity,' eh ? " quotes Milly saucily.
'well, I'll relieve you of my presence. Uncle
John, if you'll only tell me how long I may
stay, and whether I may go tomorrow."

You may stay a week, and no longer,

mind ; and you may go this moment for all

I>>
care.

Thanks ; that's all right. And now "

(aside) '' to tell Geoffrey."

GOING AWAY.

MiLLY Is the first to arrive at the trysting
place that afternoon. Indeed, Mr. Dering Is
so long before he puts In an appearance,
that she has experienced all the tortures of
the various stages of suspense, fear, and despair
in the Interim, and Is finally convinced
that he Intends to fall her. After quite three-quarters
of an hour waiting for him, her last
grain of patience ebbs away, and she turns
sick with misery and disappointment as she
vainly strains her eyes in the direction he
ought to come, and perceives no sign of his
approach.

He will not come now. I shall not see
him again," she repeats over and over to 



self a hundred times, and utter blankness
falls over her spirit, and chills her very blood.
** He must have been hindered in some unexpected
manner ; it is not his fault, of course,"
she argues, with the blind faith of a woman
deeply in love ; he would not voluntarily break
his appointment with her. But it is very
hard, very trying, and tomorrow she is going
away, and this is her last chance of seeing
him, and of letting him know what her plans
are. And then once again  for the last time,
she tells herself  she takes a long, careful
survey of the path by which he comes, and
with a hopeless, dreary feeling, takes a few
steps in the direction of the Abbey, giving
up all expectation of his coming.

And then  and then her quick ear catches
the sound of a hasty footstep, and she looks
round once more, and, swift as thought, she
finds herself in heaven again, and all her

wretchedness is turned to bliss unspeakable.
He is here  at last! He is coming rapidly
towards her, and she turns and awaits his
coming with the deep red colour mantling in
her cheek, and a smile of welcome, which
betrays more of her inmost feelings than she
has any idea of, irradiating her countenance.
A moment ago she had been inclined to feel
a little sore and indignant with him, but she
has no thought of reproaching him ever so
gently now he is here, and accepts his eager
excuses with easy indulgence.

"It was enough to try any man's temper ! "
he exclaims. 'just as I was starting off, an
old friend of my father's took it into his head
to call, and nothing would serve him but that
I must stay and talk to him. He declared
it was years since he had seen me. And
there was I, cursing my luck, and longing to
be here, and yet quite powerless to get away.

The thought of your waiting here for me
nearly drove me mad."

I felt sure that something had prevented
you coming," answers Milly ; '' and, indeed,
I had just given you up, and was going home
again."

Never do such a thing as to give me up.
Miss Byron, when I have told you I will
come," he says earnestly. " Always believe
that I will keep my appointments at any cost.
I may be a little late, as I was to-day, but
no power on earth will make me fail. Whatever
happens to prevent you, I will always be
there ! "

And, rightly or wrongly, his tone and his
words carry the most thorough conviction to
her heart, and henceforth her faith in him
will be troubled by no shadow or doubt.

" Next time, then, I shall know better,"
she answers, smiling; "and now, as I have

not very much time to spare, let me tell you
at once of my news."

And then she confides to him the story of
her meeting with Mrs. Verschoyle the day
before, and tells him of the invitation she
has this morning received and already accepted.
His face falls visibly.

Going away ! " he repeats, in accents of
genuine dismay. '' What do you want to
go away for ? Are you not happy here } "

Yes," she falters ; " quite  very happy 
but, you see, they are my great, my only
friends, and they have asked me specially to
meet Charlie and his wife, and it would be
so unkind to refuse."

'' Unkind ! you think far less of being unkind
to me than to your cousin and his wife ! " he
says reproachfully. (Truly their intimacy has
advanced with rapid strides since their clandestine
interviews were planned.)

Even yesterday his manner towards her was
far more deferential and less familiar. But
Milly, silly child, is much too flattered by his
obvious dislike to the prospect of her departure
to note the difference,

** What shall I do without you when you
are gone ? " he continues, assuming a gentler
and still more reproachful tone.

*' What did you do without me up till these
last two weeks ? " she retorts, with an attempt
to speak lightly, in order to avoid falling into
too serious a vein.

Ah, what did I do, indeed ? " sentimentally.
'* I cannot conceive. I cannot even
remember. To me it appears that my real
existence only dates from the day when
accident introduced us to each other. Before
that, everything seems to be a blank; and
how I could have endured my life I cannot
imagine."

VOL. I. o

And he continues to expatiate in the same
strain for several minutes, and, clap-trap and
commonplace as his utterances and reflections
are, to Milly's inexperienced ears they bear
the charm of utter novelty, and she drinks it
all in with fluttering heart, and believes that
never, surely, did any man's voice own such
melodious tones, or breathe such sweet and
pleasant words. But for all he says and
urges, she yet does not waver in her resolution.


*' I think it would be better for me to go,"
she repeats. 'rit will only be for a week, and
then  I know it is foolish of me, but I am
haunted by the idea that something disagreeable
will come of Mrs. Verschoyle seeing us,
in spite of her sugared words, and then "

** Well, perhaps you are right," concedes
Mr. Dering, graciously condescending to give
his tardy consent. ** After all, as you say,

it will only be for a week. Where do these
friends of yours live ? "

*' At Bearsted Park, in H shire," answers

Milly.

'' Bearsted Park ! why, that is close to the
place belonging to some friends of mine  the
Lesters  who are always begging me to go and
stay with them. Only last week they wrote
and implored me to go and pay them a long
visit. How would it be if I were to propose
myself there for tomorrow, on the same day
that you go ? What do you think of this plan ? "

Think! What did she think of it? If
she were to speak out exactly what is in her
mind, Milly would have told him that she considered
it a heaven-born inspiration, an idea
which suffices to lift her up to the very topmost
heights of supreme ecstasy. But being a
woman, and anxious above all things to cloke
her real sentiments with an affectation of indifference,

her answer is confined to a demure
little, " I think it is a very good notion."

Is that all you can find to say about it ? "
instantly returns he. "Just that little cold
speech,  you think it ' a good notion ' ? "

She lifts up her eyes to his, trying her best
to speak frankly and unconsciously. " Of
course I mean that 1 should be very glad if
you could manage it," she says, making a
supreme effort to appear cordial, but not unbecomingly
eager. Unfortunately, her ability
falls short of her will, and before the words
are well out of her mouth, her eyes droop
again, and a pink hue suffuses her face.

Well, I suppose I must be content with
that," he says. *' And, of course, I will manage
it. I am determined to manage it. I
will throw over all my present engagements,"
which exist only in his imagination  "and
telegraph to old Lester the moment I get

home, to say I am coming down tomorrow,
I know them so well that I need have no
scruple about proposing myself. And how
about these friends of yours ? Are they the
sort of people who will let me come and see
you at their house, or must we "

*' Oh, Mrs. Treherne is the kindest person
in the world," answers Milly hurriedly, guessing
the alternative he is about to suggest,
and curiously anxious to prevent its utterance.
She will always make you welcome."

'' Blessings on her ! Then we will make
the most of our time, and try and enjoy ourselves
to our hearts' content in that one week.
Perhaps, on the whole, it is as well that you
should go away now, as Mrs. Verschoyle has
thought fit to mix herself up with your affairs.
She is the most inveterate gossip "

I thought you did not know her."

*' No more I do, personally ; but I have

heard a good deal about her. And so she
made herself pleasant to you yesterday, and, I
suppose, gave you to understand that anything
she had seen or overheard * by pure accident '
would be sacred with her ? "

'' Something of the kind," replies Milly.
*' She was so amiable, that for that very reason
I was disposed to doubt her."

You are quite right  she is not a woman
to trust. And now tell me, Miss Byron, did
she not give you a slight sketch of my character
gratis, as well ? Did she not throw out
hints of my being a most disreputable acquaintance
for you ? Ah ! you look guilty.
You need not answer me ; I can pretty well
guess what her insinuations were like."

*' I hardly listened to what she said," answers
Milly, in low tones, intent on showing
him that Mrs. Verschoyle's innuendoes have
had no power to influence her against him.

'' I am sure you did not. You are far too
generous-minded and too just to let yourself
be swayed by the paltry gossip of a silly
woman like that. Once for all, Miss Byron,
you may accept it as a pretty safe rule never
to believe more than ojie half of what you
hear from similar unreliable sources. But
even if her story were true  and I have never
made a pretence to you of being a saint, have
I ?  if I were indeed as black as I feel sure
she painted me, would you think it necessary
to turn me the cold shoulder, and pass me by
on the other side ? Would you do this ?
Answer me."

He has drawn closer to her as he speaks,
and is bending eagerly forward, mercilessly
fixing his gaze on her averted face.

** I don't think I would," she answers at
last, in a voice scarcely above a whisper. ** I
do not generally give up my friends without
very good cause."

" And I may consider myself as one of
your friends ? It is awfully good of you to
say so. Well, Miss Byron, I will be frank
with you. I will tell you that it Is possible,
even probable, that In the course of time you
will be forced to listen to all sorts of sad tales
about me. There is always a grain of truth
in all these things ; as I said before, I have
no wish to set myself up to be better, or even
nearly as good as other men  but you will
bear in mind that there will be a great deal
that is false and exaggerated mixed up with
it all, won't you ? I have had a hard life,
perhaps. In some ways, and have, I think,
been more sinned against than sinning ; but
there, I don't attempt to find excuses for
myself; It is a mean way of trying to shift
one's burden upon other people's shoulders.
If I had an incentive, a motive,"  looking at
her meaningly,  '* It is more than likely that

it would be the saving of me. But, however
much you may come to despise me and pity
me, will you promise me now that you won't
throw me off altogether  at all events, without
a hearing ? "

He holds out his hand as he speaks, and
Milly feels she can do no less than give him
hers, and respond to his pleading eyes by
making the required promise. Nor does she
even affect to be offended when he retains
his clasp of her hand for full three minutes,
and before releasing it, raises it to his lips.
She feels as if she were walking on air as
she leaves him to turn homewards, and all
that evening she remains in a semi-trance, too
wholly engrossed with her happy dreams to
pay any attention to what is going on around
her. The gibes and sharp remarks which
Mr. Falconer gives vent to fall on deaf ears.
She is living in a world of her own creation,

and her mind is occupied entirely with recalling
every syllable that Geoffrey uttered.
Again and again she goes over every detail
of the afternoon s interview in her memory ;
and in dwelling on his most trivial speeches,
and in tracing his every feature and expression
In her imagination, she is feverishly, supremely
happy.

It is superfluous to add that Mr. Bering is
not guilty of a similar weakness. He has not
put many hundred yards between him and
Milly before he brings out his betting book,
and becomes absorbed in its contents, and,
beyond ruminating for the space of five
minutes on his chances of finding it a good
speculation to carry matters to the utmost
extent in her direction, he almost forgets the
fact of her existence.

THE TREHERNES. 

You darling duck of a girl ! How delighted
I am to see you ! No, Dolly, you shan't touch
her till I've had a good hug ! I got down
first ! "

Now, Edith, do go away ! I can't get
near her If you fasten her In your arms In
such an absurd way ! Oh, Mllly dear, how nice
it is to have you here ! "

Such is the joyous greeting bestowed on
Mllly at her arrival at Bearsted Park on the
Saturday afternoon, and, laughing and breathless,
she returns their warm embraces with
interest, and feels, as she always does when
with them, how good it Is to find herself

there !



Perhaps you will let w have a chance
of saying ' How do you do ? ' now, girls," says
a cheery voice behind them, and Milly runs
up the steps to meet a charming old apple-checked,
silver-haired lady, who stands there,
benignantly smiling at her granddaughters'
enthusiasm.

'' Dear Mrs. Treherne, it is so kind of you
to ask me to come here," says Milly, lovingly
kissing her. *' It is just as if I had escaped
from prison for a time."

And she glances round the familiar old hall
with an expression of ineffable content.

And pray, what leave of absence has your
jailer granted you ? " inquires Edith, linking
her arm in her friend's, and draoeinsf her
towards the tea-table.

"One whole week!" says Milly, with supreme
satisfaction.

*' Only one wretched little week ! How

intensely scrubby of him ! Well,"  thoughtfully,
 '' we must try and cram as much as
we possibly can into that space of time, if you
really must not stay longer ! Granny, you
must think of something jolly for us to do
every single day while Milly is here!"

I think you will have plenty of plans in
your own frivolous little head, without having
recourse to me, chatterton," returns the old
lady, smiling indulgently on the spoilt pet of
the family. " You don't find her much wiser
or less giddy-pated than she was when you
last saw her, do you, Milly ? " she adds, turning
to her guest, who answers cordially, 

*' I hope Edith will never be very different
to what she is now."

She won't let ;;"get in a word edgeways,"
grumbles the younger sister  a quieter, smaller,
fairer edition of Edith. " Never mind, my
turn will come presently "

"Milly, are you aware that Captain and
Mrs. Devereux are under this roof at this
very moment?" breaks in Edith, without
waiting to let her sister finish her sentence.

Not really ? Charlie here ? and Ruth ?
Oh, why didn't you say so before, Edie ?
Where are they } and when did they come ? "

Half an hour ago, and they are gone
upstairs to take off their ' things,' or something,
before they have tea. They'll be herein
a second. Charlie is as nice as ever, only
he looks thin and pinched ; but Mrs. Charlie !

oh, Milly, what a woful You haven't

seen her yet, have you ? "

'' No ; I've never had the chance."

'' Well, you won't mind my saying what
I think, I know ; she is one of the most
ordinary-looking people I have ever seen.
So dowdy, and so utterly uninteresting. She
may be as good as gold, of course, but I

must own to being a little curious as to
what extraordinary charms Charlie saw in
her, which are certainly not visible to the
casual observer."

My dear Edie, you have hardly spoken to
her at all," remonstrates Mrs. Treherne.

My dear granny, you know that there
never was my equal for taking a person's
measure  mental and physical  in the space
of two seconds. I saw quite enough of Mrs.
Charlie to know that she is not pretty ; in
fact, / should call her plain  not attractive,
and I should say, decidedly not clever. Then
she has no money, no family, no anything ;
so there must be something in her which my
dull eyes cannot discern  something hidden
very carefully away from sight, which will
explain Charlie's infatuation for her, and, we
will hope, amply compensate him for having
given up Whincote Abbey, etc., for her sake.

But what this extraordinary powerful charm
is, I confess I have not yet discovered."

** Well, I think she is a nice, pleasing little
thing, and I am sure she is very devoted to
her husband."

** I can't think how she could be 'off' it,
granny, to use a vulgar expression," returns
Edith, refusing to be checked in her eloquent
flow of talk. '' When she thinks of the sacrifices
he has made "

Edie, do stop talking for a moment ! "
puts in her sister impatiently. '' I hear them
coming downstairs."

And as they enter the room, Milly goes
forward impulsively to meet them, and feels
all her old affection for her cousin revive,
as she catches sight of his familiar face.

*' Oh, Charlie, I was so glad to hear you
were here!" she cries. "How are you '. You
don't look particularly flourishing."

'' Oh, Tm all right, my dear Milly; at least,
I shall be after a few days' quiet and country
air. But here's Ruth waiting to be introduced
to you. I hope you two will be great
friends," he adds, rather shyly.

I am sure we shall," answers Ruth
brightly, and Milly tries to respond cordially
to her advances. But she cannot help agreeing
with Edie that her new cousin's appearance
is not prepossessing. Ruth is one of
those delicate, fragile-looking people who show
traces of fatigue or worry very readily, and just
now she has a more than usually careworn expression
on her face. Her dress, too, of dark
brown merino, is not very becoming to her,
and looks out of place on this bright August
afternoon. Nevertheless, Milly resolves that
she will do her very utmost to make Charlie's
wife like her, and that she will try her best
to make her visit at the Park a happy one.

VOL. I. p

Then they all take their places round the
tea-table, and a good deal of talking and
laughing goes on, In which Mrs. Treherne
joins as heartily as the others.

'' And the Ogre, Mllly, how Is he ? " asks
Charlie of his cousin.

*' Very flourishing In bodily health," she
answers. " Increasing age does not accomplish
much In the way of mellowing his little
infirmities of temper that I see. I am afraid
I have not been a very successful ambassador
for your cause, Charlie, but indeed it is
hopeless at present. He will not let your
name be mentioned."

'' I am sure, Mllly, you have tried to do
all In your power, and the only thing left tous
Is to get on as best we can, and hope
that he'll think better of it one of these days."

Charlie tries hard to infuse a cheerful tone
into his words, but Milly sees his face fall

a little, as if her report had dashed some
tiny spark of expectation to the ground, and
the half smothered sigh which escapes him
almost unconsciously fills her heart with compassion
towards him.

"We won't bother ourselves by talking
about him any more just now," he continues,
more lightly. '' I have lots to say to you
when we can get an hour to ourselves, Milly ;
and then we'll put our wise heads together,
and see if we can devise any plan for melting
his heart. Meantime, I must say again
how very glad I am to see you here, dear
old Milly. It was awfully good of them to
think of asking us, and to get you to come
at the same time. I suppose the Ogre is
quite unaware that we are within a hundred
miles of Bearsted ? "

*' Oh, yes, of course. If he had known it,
I am sure he would not have let me come."

'the change will do you good, rm sure.
But you are looking very well, Milly  particularly
well, I think."

I can't say the same about you, Charlie'*
answers she, wondering why she finds herself
blushing under his close inspection of
her face. " You are looking decidedly pale
and pinched."

Well, I've enough bothers to make me
look so," he says, a little impatiently. " If
you only knew  but I will tell you all about
it later on. Ruth is the best wife in the
world, and the cleverest manager, but I never
knew till I tried it what a grind life is when
one has to think twice before spending a
fourpenny-bit."

'' Poor Charlie ! " says Milly softly.

'poor Charlie, indeed!" cries Miss Tree
thrusting herself unceremoniously into
their conversation. "My blood positively

boils when I think of the way in which he
has treated you ! He's an inhuman old
wretch, and I only trust that one day he'll
get what he deserves ! "

My dear Edith ! "

My dear granny ! But I mean what I
say ; I really do. I wish I had a chance of
giving him a bit of my mind ! " concludes
Edith viciously.

"It is very good of you to champion our
cause so zealously," says Charlie, laughing.
And now, Mrs. Treherne, I know you will
let me take Ruth out for a turn in the
garden before it gets too late. I want her
to see how pretty it all is. No, pray don't
trouble to come with me "  as Dorothy is
about to speak  '* I know my way quite welland
I shall enjoy ciceronian her."

Don't you see, my dear Dolly, that the
dear man is still in the lover-like staofe of

married life, and wants no third person with
them?" says Edith reprovingly, almost before
the husband and wife are out of earshot.

'* And is that so very absurd, my dear
Edith ? " asks her grandmother. " After all,
they have only been married little more
than a month."

Time enough for them to have got over
their first ecstasies, I should think," returns
the incorrigible girl. '' However, I don't
want to talk about them any more for the
present. Let them go and be happy in their
own way, and romance about the bliss of
marriage as much as they like  I am going
to talk to Milly. Do you know, my dear
child, that you are looking oceans better and
brighter than when I last saw you ? What
has come over you, Milly ? You are quite
a different creature. Your eyes are so bright,
and you have got so much more colour. I

tell you what I firmly believe"  jumping
suddenly up in an excited manner  ** I do
really believe that there s some man "

*' Edith, my dear, you really do let your
tongue run away with you ! How can you
talk in that way ? "

I can't help it, granny. I feel sure it
was an inspiration on my part ! I know I
was right ! Milly, can you look me in the
face and say there is no man "

You silly child, how can you ask such
absurd questions ? You know perfectly well
that Milly sees no one but her uncle and "

If the ' Ogre ' is the cause of that telltale
blush, I'll  I'll  eat my hat ! " exclaims
Edith undauntedly. 'Mt will be the first
case ever known of a girl looking conscious
when her own uncle's name is mentioned !
I'm not such a fool as to swallow that !
Milly, tell me the truth."

 '* Edie, don't be so silly ! " remonstrates
Dorothy. " Come away with me to my
room, Milly, and don't trouble yourself to
answer her nonsense."

"Ah, that's all very well to shirk the
question In that way," says Edith, with conviction.
" But see if I don't get it all out
of you before you lay your head on your
pillow to-night, my dear child ! "

And Milly knows that it will be useless
to attempt to evade her curiosity now, if she
wishes for any peace whatever during her
visit. So she makes the best of her circumstances,
and that same eveniuQf confides her
little tale to the ears of a select and sympathising
audience, consisting of the two sisters
Dorothy as well as Edith listening to her
recital with unfeigned Interest.

'well, It only proves the truth of what
I have said a hundred times," comments

Edith,  she is always the first to find her
tongue,  "and that is, that 'neither bar nor
bolt can keep my own true love from me.'
Even you, guarded closely by the Ogre, contrive
to hoodwink him."

'' Oh, Edie, that sounds so dreadful ! "

** What, hoodwink ? Oh, that doesn't mean
anything. And, after all, what can he expect,
when he treats you in such a ridiculous
manner ? Of course you will break out in
some way or other ! I should do the same
in your place ! "

'' Well, but tell us a little more about
him, Milly, if you don't mind," says Dorothy,
who is much quieter and less impulsive than
her sister. ** Is he very, very nice ? "

I think he is  very nice," answers Milly,
trying to speak dispassionately, and quite suppressing
Mrs. Verschoyle's account of her hero.

And his name is Geoffrey  Geoffrey Dering

 and he is coming to stay at Beresford
to-day ? " proceeds Dorothy. " I have never
heard the Lesters mention him among their
friends  have you, Edie ? But it will be
pleasant for you to meet him again, Milly."

** And a satisfaction to you to do it all
in a legitimate way," says Edith; "for of
course granny will ask him to come here 
she'll do anything we want. And you'll
get to know him well, and he'll propose to
you before you leave here, and Mr. Falconer
will have to say * Yes,' and, after all, you'll
be married before we are ! How sly of you,
Milly, to steal a march on us like that!"

** How you rattle an, Edie ! And how can
you talk of his proposing to me, when I am
sure he hasn't an idea of such a thing ! In the
first place, he hasn't a penny. I believe "

That doesn't signify. You'll most likely
have Whincote "

Very unlikely, I think. I don't see that
I have a chance of it."

Why, of course the Ogre will make you
his heiress, if you can only bring yourself
to be decently civil to him. Who else should
he leave it all to, I should like to know ? '*

I don't know, but "

*' But of course it will come to you.
Naturally it will  I feel convinced of it ;
and I do sometimes wonder a little, my dear,
that you don't try and recollect that Whincote
Abbey is trembling in the balance, and make
a superhuman effort to study his whims and
fancies now and then."

If he did leave it to me, I should hand it
all over to Charlie," says Milly decidedly.

*' Should you, really ? How refreshing it
is to find a person with such liberal ideas
in these degenerate days ! Well, if only for
Charlie's sake, I am surprised that you do

not behave a little more diplomatically. Now
if it were vte in question, I'm afraid I should
positively grovel In the dust before Mr. Falconer
"

'' I am sure you wouldn't, Edie."

I declare to you I would. As a matter of
fact, I possess a most mercenary nature, and
my one wish In life Is to be rolling in riches.
I almost think, under the circumstances, I
could bring myself to  yes, I am sure I could
to offer to rub Mr. Falconer's foot when he
has the gout in it. And If that wouldn't be a
test of friendship, I don't know what would."

Edie, you really do talk more nonsense In
ten minutes than other people do in a week.
Luckily I know you well enough to feel sure
you don't mean half of what you say."

You are quite mistaken, my child ; I am
most thoroughly In earnest, and if you'll take
my advice, you'll reform your ways, give your

mind to the task of fascinating the ' Ogre,' and
then, when he dies  don't look so shocked,
Dolly, for in the course of nature he must die
before very long, mustn't he ?  you will be able
to crow over us all, with Whincote as the
reward of your devotion, and then you'll be
able to have a jolly good fling."

'' Do you know, Edie, that you have taken
to slang much more than you used to ? "

'' I am quite aware of it. One must be in
the fashion, and my last chum, Teddy Brooks,
said it was absurd for girls not to use a little
of it. And so many of the expressions a7x so
fetching. But to return to the subject of your

Geoffrey "

/'I do wish you wouldn't call him my
Geoffrey," says Milly, turning scarlet. " Do
you remember I have only seen him four times
in my life ? "

'* That doesn't matter one little bit. In this

sort of thing people's likings are not measured
by the number of times they have seen each
other ; and whether it's four or fourteen times,
I can see you're dreadfully ' gone ' on him
already. But now, mind you make hay while
the sun shines, my dear; for remember your
leave only extends to a miserable week.  I
wonder when you'll see him first ? Do you
expect he will be at church tomorrow ? "

"He never went to church at Whincote that
I know of," Milly is obliged to confess.

" That doesn't follow that he won't go here.
Probably he had no very powerful inducement
to take him there. I've no doubt that the
Ogre kept you well hidden from the gaze of
the vulgar crowd ; but tomorrow I bet you
anything you like he'll be there. Oh, I know
what sort of creatures men are much better
than you, you poor little nun."

*' Edie, I wish you'd take yourself off now,

and leave Milly to me for a little. I am sure
you must be quite hoarse with talking, and I
have hardly spoken to her yet."

** Fm going, my child. I'm beginning to feel
a decided tendency to yawn, and when once
that begins, you never know when it will stop.
Good-night, my dear Milly. Pleasant dreams
to you of the delectable Geoffrey. I'm quite
curious to see him myself. I'm not certain I
shan't go in for him as well, if he is very, very
too-too. Will you let me have an innings, or
will you scratch my eyes out if I dare to lift a
glance in his direction. Mill ? "

And without waiting for an answer, she
dances out of the room, humming a tune as
she goes, and continuing to fire off her little
mischievous speeches until she gets outside
the door.

*' What a rattletrap she is ! " remarks Dorothy,
unable to repress a smile.

*' Yes, she is just the same as ever. I never
met anybody with such high spirits as she has.
She never appears to be the least out of sorts
or depressed. And how pretty she is looking,
Dorothy ! "

'* Yes ; she is very much admired. I am
sorry to say she is the greatest flirt I know.
She always has at least ten men dangling after
her, and she never seems to care for one more
than the other."

Her day will come, sooner or later, depend
upon it," answers Milly, with the gravity of a
sage. '' And you yourself, Dolly,"  looking at
her affectionately,  " how have you been all
this time ? You do not look strikingly
flourishing."

Oh, I am much as usual, thanks. I confess
I get rather tired of the perpetual round of
gaiety which Edie so delights in, and which
never leaves me time to think of anything else.

I should be much happier if I were allowed to
keep quiet now and then, and to devote myself
to my painting and music. But granny is so
miserable when I want to get out of going anywhere,
that I never have the heart to hold out.
What a curious thing life is, isn't it, Milly ?
And doesn't it seem rather hard that we should
be forced to do things we don't really like, and
which really can't be good for us, merely
because, by refusing, we should make other
people unhappy ? I think every one ought to
be allowed to go his or her own way as much
as possible in this world. After all, it can't
really be such an immense gratification to
granny to take me out to parties when she
has Edie with her, who enjoys it all as much
as she does herself; and I would so far rather
be left in peace."

I suppose Mrs. Treherne thinks It would
be bad for you to give up society altogether."

VOL. I. Q

** I don't believe it would be half so bad forme
as is the being taken here and there against
my will, and feeling irritated and bored everyday.
But there, it is of no good to worry
one's self over things which one cannot mend,
is it ? And after all, what will such trifles
matter fifty years hence ? "

'' Nothing at all, to be sure ; but that reflection
never reconciles me to the bothers of
the present moment. One has to live through
the fifty years all the same, and one doesn't
care to be miserable all that time. But do you
know, Dorothy, I sometimes think it is rather
odd that you, at your age, should so dislike
society, and enjoy everything so little '. Sometimes
I fancy "  she looks curiously up in her
friend's face  " there must be some special
reason for it."

Dorothy, the self-contained, flushes a little.

I don't know why you should have thought

that," she answers, after a slight pause ; '' but
you are partly right, Milly, and some day or
other perhaps I will tell you my story  such
story as there is to tell. Not to-night, for I
am not in the mood for it, and it is already
very late. What would granny say if she
knew we were still sitting up talking . And
you, after your journey, too ! Hush ! Walk
gently along the passage, for fear she should
swoop down upon you."

Half an hour later both girls are wrapped in
the deep, dreamless slumber which seems to bethe
peculiar property of a vigorous youth, and
is the result of an unimpaired digestion and
an untroubled conscience.

A CONTRETEMPS.

Edith is quite right in her conjecture 
Geoffrey Dering does make his appearance in
church the following morning. Milly catches
sight of him in the Lesters' pew the very
moment she enters the building, and is
further informed of the fact by an energetic
kick from Edith, and a loud whisper of
'' Didn't I tell you so ? " She tries hard not
to let her thoughts be distracted by the knowledge
of his presence in her neighbourhood,
and, beyond that first fleeting glance, never
once lets her eyes travel in his direction. But
for all that, she cannot help being very glad
when the service is over, and the feeling of
restraint which hung over her is withdrawn.

Geoffrey joins them in the churchyard, and is
by her shyly introduced to Mrs. Treherne and
her granddaughters. The old lady makes
herself very pleasant to the young man, having
been duly primed beforehand to that effect by
Edith, and, in response to an expressive gesture
from that young lady, invites him to come upto
the Park and see them all that afternoon.

** If you have nothing better to do," she says
smilingly. ' I know that Sunday afternoon
is generally rather an idle time for young
men."

And Geoffrey, with a quick glance towards
Milly, declares that he shall like nothing better.
Then they all separate, and during the short
walk home to the Park, Milly has to submit to
the fire of comments and cross-questionings of
the whole party as best she may. But she is
far too happy to care in the very least for their
remarks.

After luncheon is over, Charlie asks his
cousin if she will come out for a walk with
him.

I have not had five minutes' conversation
with you yet," he says, "and there are such
heaps of things I want to hear about, and to
tell you. Don't be frightened "  promptly divining
her thoughts  " I will not fail to bring
you back in good time to welcome your
friend."

Do go with him, Milly, won't you ? "
urges Ruth. " I know he Is longing to talk
to you."

Ruth is one of those amiable women whose
chief object in life seems to be the furtherance
of her husband's wishes in every possible
way.

Of course I will go," says Milly blithely.
There is nothing I should like better thana
walk with you, Charlie."

Except, perhaps, one with Mr. Geoffrey
Dering," Interpolates Edie maliciously.

Let's start at once, shan't we, Charlie ? "
continues Mllly, Ignoring the Interruption entirely.
*' I'll be ready In half a second."

Certainly I advise you to lose no time
In going off," said Edith teaslngly. " These
young men are so erratic, you never know
what time they may take It Into their heads
to turn up."

It seems quite odd to me, Mllly, your
having got to know this fellow," begins
Charlie, as they saunter off together.
"When I was last at Whincote, you had
never even heard his name, that I know
of."

"And It was only by pure accident that
I made his acquaintance," returns she, having
no wish to make a mystery of it with him.
I told you how It was I first met him. I

have a dim recollection of having heard the
name Dering mentioned as one of our near
neighbours, but as I was never likely to see
anything of them, I took very little interest
in them."

And the Ogre remains in blissful ignorance
! And now, Milly, do tell me a little
more about him, and about the dear old
place. How often I wish I could transport
myself there ! "

And the next half-hour is spent in discussing
trifles connected with her home-life,
which Charlie listens to with the avidity of
an exile gathering up every crumb of information
concerning a past which appears to
be for ever shut off from him now, and
which he yet clings to with an affection that
will outlive all time. In return, she questions
him closely as to his affairs, and hears
with dismay of the struggle which he has

daily to go through to make both ends meet.
He tells her of the many discouraging failures
which he has had to encounter in his
literary career  how publisher after publisher
has sent back his novel rejected on his hands,
and how if it were not for Ruth's strenuous
exertions, and the fair amount of success
which has attended her efforts to obtain
pupils, they would have found it difficult to
get on at all. He does not in so many
words own that he regrets his hasty marriage,
which has brought him to this pitch, 
it would indeed be early days for him to do
that,  but she can see quite well that the
burden of poverty is a very galling one to
him, and the vein of discontent and grumbling
which pervades his whole conversation
strikes her as being something new, and excites
her pity.

'' Poor Charlie ! If I could only do something

for you ! " she exclaims, with a despairing
sense of her own impotency to help.
*' But you understand it all  how utterly
powerless I am. I have such very little
pocket-money too, that I never have even
a spare five-pound note."

'' As if I would take it from you if you
had ! " he cries indignantly. " My dear
Milly, I am not dreaming that you can do
anything for me. I know you will always
be the best friend I have to turn to, and
will look after my interests as if they were
your own. I am only letting you know
exactly how matters stand with us, as you
are the only person to whom I care to talk
about it. But it is a miserable life at the
best, and unless I can get a start by my
writings soon, I don't know what we are todo."


Never say die, Charlie, you know," she

answers hopefully. ** Some publisher will
be sure to take your novel one of these
days."

I wish I thought so," gloomily. " But it
seems to me to be almost impossible to get
a work taken unless one is well known or
has a name. Now if I was only Lord Charles
Devereux, I feel convinced that they would
discover a thousand good points in my book
at once."

'-But let a lord once own the happy lines,

How the wit brightens, how the style refines ! ' "

quotes Milly, laughing. " Where have I
heard that, I wonder ? But, seriously, Charlie,
I am dreadfully unhappy about you. It is
horrible to me to think of my living on at
the Abbey with everything I can want, in a
certain sense, and you tied down to that tiny
little house in an obscure street in London,

with hardly enough to eat. What can we
do about It ? "

'' Nothing, as far as I can see. I must
pull myself together when I get back, and
hunt up all the remaining publishers I can
think of, and I suppose, if I persevere, fortune
must shine upon me some day. The
hard part of it is, that, without wishing to
brag, I how in my own mind that my novel
is quite up to the average, and really more
amusing than nine out of ten that come out.
I read it all out to Ruth, and she went into
fits of laughter over it."

'* Then, depend upon it, Charlie, it will
make its way, and one of those stupid men
will find out there is really good stuff in it,"
says she soothingly, stifling the reflection
which involuntarily flits across her mind, 
that Ruth's appreciation of her husband's
efforts is hardly a criterion of the book's

merits. '' I've heard everybody say that if
a book is really good it cannot fail to be
found out."

** Yes, but while the idiots are slowly taking
the fact into their dull heads we may be
starving, for all they care ! "

'' Oh, it won't come to that pitch, Charlie,
I feel certain. I do hope you are not losing
all your natural hopefulness."

I hope not, but it is precious difficult to
feel sanguine when everything seems to go
against you. And poor Ruth has to slave
herself to death day after day with those detestable
children, to earn the paltry pittance
which, however, we couldn't do without. It's
awfully hard on a fellow, it really is ! "

Of course it is  awfully hard," sympathises
Milly, forbearing to remind him that it is entirely
by reason of his own imprudent act that
he is brought to such a pass.

And another thing," pursues Charlie, with
masculine egotism  " what I find such hard
Ones is the being obliged to give up all the
things I cared for. I can't afford to belong
to any decent club, and I have to cut all my
former friends, for fear they should ask me
to do this and that, for which I cannot possibly
find the money, and because I would
not for worlds let them see me in my present
straits. So I positively live the life of a hermit,
my dear Milly, and very soon I shall forget
that I ever aspired to the position of a
gentleman."

Oh, don't say that, Charlie. Keep up
your heart, whatever happens, and don't let
your troubles pull you down. Brighter days
will come, I feel assured of it. And Ruth
will do her best to cheer you up."

'* Ruth ? yes. She is the pluckiest little
thing that ever lived. I wish, Milly, you

would try to draw her out, and make her confide
In you. She's very shy and meek, and
half Inclined to be scared at you ; but she'll
soon get over that if you take her In hand."

'' I will, Indeed, Charlie." Milly's conscience
smites her as she is conscious that
the prospect of Geoffrey's arrival had been
her uppermost thought up till now, affording
her but scant leisure to cultivate her cousin's
wife. " You will be here all tomorrow, you
know, and I will take care to get Ruth to
myself. Oh, Charlie ! " with a note of dismay,
looking at her watch ; " do you know It
is just a quarter to five ? "

" And you want to get back to see that
fellow ? " he says good-naturedly. " All right,
Milly; let's make the best of our way back.
I had no idea It was so late. Which path
was It we came in here by ? "

A question easier asked than answered, asa

number of exactly similar paths branch off
from where they had been sitting, and the
dense foliage of the wood prevents their even
catching a glimpse of a decided opening.
First they select one path, and find that it
is the wrong one, then they try another, with
an equally unsuccessful result. Finally, after
the loss of at least half an hour in ineffectual
attempts, they succeed in getting out, and
hurry across the meadows to the park. But,
alas ! the clocks are then striking the half-hour
after five, and one glance into the ,
where the rest of the party are assembled,
tells her that her delay has resulted
in her losing the pleasure to which she has
all day long been looking forward.

Come in, my dear," says Mrs. Treherne
genially. I am sorry to say "

'' Too late, too late,  ye cannot enter now,"
chants Edie, with a provoking emphasis.

*' My dear Milly, what have you and CharHe
been doing with yourselves ? Mrs. Devereux
was quite resigned to the notion that you had
eloped. To my certain knowledge your walk
has lasted two hours and a half. And oh, my
dear, what have you not lost 1 "

'' Charlie and I lost our way in the wood, or
we should have been here long ago," answers
Milly, too eager to know her fate to be reticent
of asking the question which hovers on her lips.
Has Mr. Bering been, Edie ? "

Indeed he has. He came before four, with
an apology for being so early ; but he had an
appointment at five, which he said he must
keep. He didn't say what appointment it was,
but I must say it looked rather suspicious, and
I advise you to be" on the look-out for a rival,
my dear."

Don't talk such nonsense. And he really
has been ? How long did he stay ? "

VOL. I. R

** Something under an hour, I think. He
left just before five. He was disgusted to find
you were out, and kept craning his neck out
of the window all the time he was here, looking
for you. Poor Milly ! it is too hard on
you.

'* I daresay I shall manage to survive it,"
says Milly, with an insane wish to burst into
tears. *' I wish I had come in before, but we
had no notion it was so late, and "

*' Charlie made himself very agreeable,
evidently," puts in Mrs. Treherne soothingly.
But console yourself, Milly ; you will see him
tomorrow, for he is going to meet us at the
Chapmanss' tennis party."

And Milly's spirits instantly recover their
wonted equilibrium.

Yes, after all, it is only deferring your bliss
for twenty-four hours," says Edith. " And to
console you still more, Milly, I must tell }'ou

that he talked about you the whole time, and
asked me no end of questions, and I sung your
praises till I was quite hoarse, and I offered
him the gratuitous information about you Inheriting
Whincote."

Oh, Edie ! how could you ? And you
know it is not true."

*' Fiddlestickss, my dear ; you are safe to have
it. And you should have seen how he
brightened up, and how excited he got when
I rattled on, and dilated on your charms to
him. I believe he was quite ready to kiss me
for being so contented to discourse on the
subject nearest his heart. I assure you I
proved myself the most disinterested friend.
And we have all fallen in love with him,
haven't we, granny .- Now I have seen him,
I can quite enter into your feelings, my
child."

He Is an agreeable young man, with plenty

to say for himself," says old Mrs. Treherne
cordially ; '' and he took pains to make himself
pleasant to the old woman too, which is not
always the case with young men of the present
day."

Ah, he is wise in his generation, and is
quite aware of which side his bread must be
buttered," sarcastically comments Edith, in a
sot to voce, aside. 'ras if there could be any
possible credit to him in making himself agreeable
to an attractive young girl like you," she
says aloud, running up to her grandmother's
side to give her an Impetuous hug. '' But,
seriously, Milly, we are all quite ready to
approve of your taste, and to offer you our
united blessing when the moment comes for
it to be asked for. As to Dolly "

M lily's eyes wander towards the younger
girl, and mutely ask for her opinion.

Oh, It's no good asking Dolly what she

thinks of him," continues Edith decidedly.
She reserves her criticisms till she is alone
with you, I know. Besides, I have a suspicion
that he isn't exactly her ' sort' To tell you
the honest truth, Mill,  you won't mind my
saying it in strict confidence, will you ?  I'm a
lite bit inclined to think that your Geoffrey,
fascinating as he is, has a decided touch of
the devil in him."

*' My dear Edith !" '' How can you say so,
Edie ? " " My dear child, what strong language
you make use of ! "

I knew I should raise a fearful storm by
that speech," says Edith, pretending to stop
her ears to the sound of disapproving voices.
"But I don't care. I will say what I think;
and mark my words, one of these days he'll
show you the cloven foot, and then you'll have
to own that I was right. And now, Milly,
come away with me, there's a good child. I've

got lots more interesting details to repeat to
you, intended for your ears alone, and you
shall have a turn with Dolly afterwards."

MEETINGS.

'* How unkind of you, Miss Byron, to have
kept out of my way yesterday when I called."

This is Mr. Bering's greeting to her as they
meet on the Chapmanss' tennis lawn the following
afternoon.

'' Indeed it was not my fault  you know it
was not," she answers eagerly. " Charlie and
I went out walking, and we hadn't the faintest
idea how late it was till  "

'' What a fascinating person your cousin
must be to have made you so oblivious of the
flight of time ! Well, you may console yourself
with the reflection that you spoilt the
whole afternoon for me. Of course I came
solely and simply to see you. But look here,

do not let us waste any more time In this unprofitable
discussion of what is past. We'll
make the most of the present, I vote. You
are not going to play tennis, are you ? "

They asked me if I would, but "

But of course you will do no such thing,"
he says automatically. "Can't you come fora
stroll towards the river ? "

I don't know what Mrs. Treherne would
say. "

Instantly Geoffrey steps up to the old lady's
side, and in his most fascinating manner informs
her that he Is going to take Miss Byron
down to the water to have a look at the
swans.

** Oh, very well ; I daresay she will like
to go," answers this most complaisant of
chaperones, " Don't overture yourself, Milly
dear."

And then Mrs. Treherne turns away to

speak to some other friends, thinking it only-natural
that her young charge should wish to
have a little private conversation with the only
person among the guests with whom she has
some previous acquaintance.

*' This is splendid ! " says Geoffrey enthusiastically,
as he succeeds In persuading Mllly tolet
him tempt her to enter one of the many
boats moored to the river bank, and they find
themselves rapidly journeying down stream,
with, apparently, no one to observe them.

** And now, of course, we must meet everyday
while you are here," he proceeds, leaning
on his oars, and letting the boat drift downwards
at will. *' Mrs. Treherne has asked me
to come to the Park and have some tennis
tomorrow. What a delightful hospitable old
lady she Is ! "

Yes, isn't she ? " assents Milly warmly.
I don't believe she ever refuses anything that

either of the girls chooses to ask her. I think
they are the luckiest people I know. They
have such heaps of fun, and as much going
out as they can possibly want."

That is just what you ought to be having
too," he answers. '' At your age you ought to
have no end of balls and parties, and all that
kind of thing  instead of which, there you are,
mewed up, as if you were an enchanted
princess. It really is a shame. But, however,
you never know what may come  in all the
story-books we read as children there was
always a charming prince who came sooner or
later to break the spell, wasn't there ? and
rescue the hapless prisoner. I have no doubt
that day will come for you too."

Milly laughs a little constrainedly, for she
finds it difficult to control all outward sien of
the strange thrill which takes possession of her
soul as he discourses thus.

I am afraid that sort of thing belongs to
story-books alone," she answers quietly. " I
have given up expecting the Improbable to
happen to me."

So soon ? Oh, no, surely not. When I
was your age, I remember I never woke up in
the morning without feeling a conviction that
something totally unlooked-for  and delightful,
of course  would occur in the course of the
day. I had rather a dull childhood and youth,
but I always felt confident that it would not
last  that the future held grand capabilities forme."


*' Which never were realized, however ? "
asks Milly, laughing.

"I am afraid not. But the hope of their
coming buoyed me up for, I may say, years
together. Now I fear I have come to that
time of life when I believe that changes, if they
do come, will probably be for the worse, and

not for the better ; and I do not even wish for
them. But you, Miss Byron, are too young to
part with those illusions yet."

' I don't think I feel so very young," says
Milly thoughtfully. *' I suppose it comes of
living so much by myself. I am not half so
light-hearted as my friend Edith Treherne,
for instance, who is older than I am."

She is a lively young lady, isn't she ? But
we are getting quite into a dolorous mood, I
think, and I protest against It on this lovely
afternoon. I suppose we ought to turn round
now, oughtn't we, and show ourselves to the
rest of the party ? To-morrow we will have
a splendid time at the Park, and on Wednesday
 on Wednesday your friends and mine
are all going to meet at a tennis party,
somewhere or other, which is to end In a
dance. I am looking forward to Wednesday
more than I can say."

'' And why to Wednesday in particular ? "

Oh, I don't know," he repHes carelessly,
after a moment's pause, during which he flashes
her a glance pregnant with meaning. " I've
no special reason for saying so, but I know I
shall enjoy Wednesday, and I mean to do so.
You will give me a dance or two. Miss Byron?"

She nods assent.

My partners will not be very numerous,
I fancy, as I know no one about here."

That will soon be remedied. But I am
thankful to have so much in my favour. And
now tell me "  as the boat rounds the corner
and brings them once again in full view of
the crowded lawn  'ris that tall fair-haired
fellow your cousin  the ' Charlie ' you speak
of, the man who considers that the world is
well lost ' for love ? "

'' Yes, that is Charlie," says Milly, looking
in the direction he indicates.

I cannot say that he strikes one as being
a very powerful argument in favour of his
theory. He does not look as if poverty
particularly agreed with him."

*' Poor Charlie ! Of course it is hard on
him to have to lead such a different life to
what he has been accustomed. He has to
give up all his luxuries one by one."

'' And finds that mere love in a cottage
hardly compensates him for their loss," puts
in Geoffrey cynically. *' Not likely he would.
Forgive my saying it, Miss Byron, but it
is so peculiarly like a woman to pity a man
for what are the only natural consequences
of his own imprudence and folly. He must
have been certain that Mr. Falconer would
resent his hasty marriage,  ergo, he should
have looked a little more before he leapt."

** But if everybody hesitated and waited,
and thought of the consequences so much

before they made up their minds to such a
step, there would be an end to all romance,"
suggests Milly, rather indignantly.

*'Ah, if you come to romance, there you
will get beyond my depth altogether. I am
not at all romantic  no one was ever less so.
I am hopelessly, uncompromisingly prosaic,
and a firm believer in the substantial charms
of ; s. dy

There is no time for more conversation
between them, for by this time they have
reached the rest of the party, and Milly is
taken possession of by CharHe and Ruth,
the latter of whom has taken a decided liking
for her. But Mr. Bering contrives to get her
alone for one moment before she leaves, and
makes the most of the occasion by impressing
on her mind the promise she has given to
dance with him on Wednesday evening.

*' You alone have it in your power to make

it a delightful or a detestable party to me,"
he says in low tones, and with a world of
expression in his eyes. '' You will be kind
to me, won't you, and not throw me over
when the time comes ? "

"Why should I do so?" she answers,
every now and then futilely struggling to
shake off the spell which the influence of
this man throws over her, and to regain her
natural vivacity of manner. " Have I not
said I will dance with you already ? "

You promise, then, to give me as many
dances as I shall ask for ? "

"I will not go quite as far as that," she
says, laughing, but well pleased at his eagerness
; *' but anything in reason."

** I place myself in your hands. If ever
the reality equals the anticipation, Wednesday
will be the most distractingly blissful day of
my life. Till tomorrow, then."

*'WelI, my dears, I hope you have all
enjoyed your party," says Mrs. Treherne
genially, as she takes her place in the
wagonette. " Dorothy dear, you look very
grave."

I am rather tired, granny. I had enough
of it long ago."

My dear grandmother, haven't you yet
found out that Dolly has got a mind which
soars far above the pomps and vanities of
this wicked world 1 She is one of those
people who decidedly like to take their
pleasures sadly. All the time she was there
she was thinking what a frivolous waste of
time it was, and was longing to get back to
her painting or her beloved "

"Don't tease her so, Edie, if she is tired,"
interrupts Milly good-naturedly, always ready
to champion the younger sister.

No, Edie, leave her in peace. I need

VOL. I. s

not ask ji'/, Miss Giddypate, \{ you enjoyed
yourself. I saw what you were about, though
you did not think I was observing you.
Parting right and left, you naughty girl ! "

I always try and make the most of my
opportunities," says Edie composedly. " \nA
you are the best of old ladies to go about
with, for you never bother your dear old head
about us, or worry us with everlasting reminiscences
of the superior manners which
girls had in your day, as most grandfathers
and grandmothers do ! You are what I
should call delightfully lax in your notions
of a chap er one s duties. Well, Milly, and
how did you get on in the gay scene ? Was
your young man up to the mark ? "

** Edie, how can you ask such questions ? "
"That blush speaks for itself! It tells
me more eloquently than any words could
do that Mr. Geoffrey Bering has made what

Captain Austin calls ' a tremendous lot of
running,' and Is making the most of his little
day. Bering Is getting very daring, Isn't
he, Mill ? "

In vain Mllly tries to put on a severe
aspect and look as if she Is displeased with
her friend's mischievous banter. Edith is a
privileged person, and no one ever dreams
of resenting what she says, even though
they wince at her thrusts at the time. She
is no respecter of persons, and old and young
come in alike for a share of her Insatiable
love of teasing. The only way to disarm
her is to take it In good part and retaliate
to the best of one's ability. Mllly is quite
aware of this, and is rarely Imprudent enough
to let her see that her shafts go home.
Besides which, she is far too excitedly happy
to mind such trifles. She is engrossed with
wondering whether Geoffrey "meant anything"

by his pointed and repeated allusions to
Wednesday's meeting. Whether  whether
it is possible that he has any intention of
asking her the question which will make
her the happiest woman in Christendom 
the very thought of which is sufficient to
cause her heart to throb with such painful
rapidity even now. Surely  surely his tones
and his looks are intended to convey something
more than mere ordinary liking to her
mind, or a passing admiration. Surely he
cannot be so cruel, so heartless as to single
her out in the manner he has done, with no
motive but to amuse himself, and to inveigle
her into a vcXXioxi pour passer le temps !

Ah, poor Milly, what would she have said
had any one, gifted with the sense of second
sight, penetrated into the workings of Geoffrey
During mind, and set her doubts at rest
as to his intentions, which, promptly formed,

owe more than she would approve of to
Edith Treherne's gratuitous and decidedly
unauthorized information concerning her

prospects.

A SPOKE IN THE WHEEL.

'' And so you think that is the best plan 
for me to wrl:e tomorrow and learn our fate
before we leave ? "

I certainly think so. My uncle cannot
possibly be quite so disagreeable on paper
as he would be in a personal interview. Oh,
how shall I ever live through the suspense
till the answer comes . "

And what if he utterly refuses to listen tome
? "

Oh, he won t do that, surely. Why
should he ? What reason have you for
supposing that he will . I think that he
will be only too glad to be rid of me at
any price."



Geoffrey Dering is by no means so sure
of the fact. He does not say so to Milly,
but in his own mind he is well aware that
any inquiries which Mr. Falconer may think
it advisable to prosecute as to his character
and mode of life will not be met with any
very satisfactory replies. He has made a
bold stroke in asking Milly to be his wife
so soon, being still so very uncertain as to
her future expectations, and for once in his
life has paid no heed to the dictates of his
ordinarily calculating judgment in so doing.
But Edith's hints and assurances as to her
reputed position as the heiress of Whincote
have taken deep root in his mind, and, not
knowing when he may again have such a
favourable opportunity of prosecuting his
acquaintance, he has elected to bring his
wooing to a speedy end, and this very
afternoon  only half an hour ago  has poured

out the old, old story in her ears. It is a
pity that in this case such well-simulated
passion should be only simulated. But
fortunately Milly does not detect the false
ring in the well-chosen words with which
he pleads his cause. Her answer is, of
course, a foregone conclusion. Geoffrey
suffers none of the pangs of suspense and
doubt which most lovers have to undergo
before she pours forth her timid confession of
love. And up till the moment when he
suggests the possibility of Mr. Falconer's
putting difficulties in the way of their union
her perfect happiness knows no alloy. It
has never occurred to her that she is a person
of sufficient importance in her uncle's eyes
for him to raise objections as to her disposal
of herself. She has been so systematically
snubbed by him, and made to feel herself
of no account in his eyes, that she firmly

believes that her marriage will be a matter
of indifference to him that, as she tells
Geoffrey a little bitterly, he will " only be
too glad " to get rid of her.

But Geoffrey During  worldly-wise Geoffrey
knows better. While he continues to regard
Milly in the light of a possible heiress
to his much-prized wealth, it is highly unlikely
that Mr. Falconer will approve of her
marriage with a penniless good-for-nothing
as such he knows he will be represented
to the owner of the Abbey  and will be
satisfied with the prospect of his revenues
passing ultimately into such unworthy hands.
Highly unlikely, indeed ; but yet Geoffrey
argues the game is worth the candle. It
will not hurt him to make the attempt, and
even if he fails, he will be no worse off
than he was before. Besides which, he has
grown, to a certain extent, fond of Milly,

and IS flattered by her deep affection for
him. Who knows what may result in the
end if she remains stedfast to him, and if
he is content to bide his time in patience ?
And then, he is not wholly worthless,  no
man is,  and he cannot help feeling a little
bit touched by her loyal faith in him, and
by her loving determination to believe no
ill of him, but, through evil report and good
report, to cherish in her mind that lofty
ideal which he knows to be so absurdly unlike
the original in the flesh, but which he
is yet grateful to her for preserving. And
so he does his best to soothe her, and allay
the fears which he himself has raised in her
breast, by tender words and assurances that
he does not himself think that there will
really be any hitch.

I will come up to the Park the first
thing on Saturday morning with the answer,

darling," he says earnestly. " But of course
I shall see you heaps of times before that.
Shall you write a line to your uncle as
well.J"

*' Oh, no ; I cannot," she answers, visibly
shrinking. " Do you know, I have never
written to him once In my life yet ? He
always tells me he doesn't want to be bothered
with my nonsense. So I just write a line
to May to say what train I am coming back
by. Oh, no ; I really could not write to him.
I should not know what to say."

*' Very well. After all, I daresay he would
not expect it, and he could only give you
the same answer as he does to me."

"And you won't mind if his letter to you
Is not  well, not particularly polite '. " asks
she, clinging to his arm. ** You know, Mr.
Dering "

*' Mr. Dering, Mllly ? Are you still going

to call me that for the next three days, when,
for all I know, it may be my only chance of
hearing my name spoken by your lips ? Let
me have that scant satisfaction, at all events."

Geoffrey, then," puts in Milly, blushing.
** Of course I will call you Geoffrey ; but
somehow  until Uncle John's letter comes
I cannot realize that we are really engaged."

And so I am not to mind a few hard
names from him . I promise you, dearest,
I will not take umbrage at the most vituperative
language he can conceive, so long
as he says * Yes ' to what I am going to
ask him. I don't care two straws about the
manner of it, so as the matter is what I wish
it to be."

Which assertion, coupled with the vehement
emphasis he lays on the words, goes farther
to convince Milly  as he intended it should
of the depth of his devotion to her than

any mere protestations of affection could have
done, and disabuses her mind of the last
lingering doubt  if, indeed, she ever held
any  of her love for him exceeding that on
his side. And so another half-hour glides
by all too quickly for Milly, who would ask
nothing more of Fate than to stay where
she is for the rest of the evening, so long
as he is with her. Possibly the time passes
less swiftly to him ; but if such is the case,
he is clever at concealing all symptoms of
boredom or weariness. He has a real talent
for love-making, and a special faculty for
being able to insinuate pretty little flatteries,
even more than for uttering them point-blank
the result, probably, of many years* orig
practice. His wooing has been very short
unusually so  but, at all events, Milly cannot
complain, and he is determined she shall
have no cause to complain, of any lack of

warmth in his manner of prosecuting it.
Nevertheless, it is he, not she, who makes
the move, and suggests that they should return
to the dancing-room  the scene just
narrated having taken place in the little
conservatory, which is fitted up in a way
admirably suggestive of romantic tete-ct-tetes.

You will tell them "  indicating the Tree
party with a glance  " all about it, I
suppose?" inquires he, as he leads her back
to the ball-room, radiant and triumphant, on
his arm.

Yes, indeed I shall. And it would be
useless to try and keep it a secret from
Edie  she would be sure to oruess it at
once."

What is the other Miss Treherne like ?
She is very quiet and silent, and I don't
quite make her out."

Dorothy ? Oh, she is quite charming.

and I am very devoted to her ; perhaps, on
the whole, I Hke her even better than Edith.
But she does not care for society, and is
wishing herself home the whole time. I
fancy"  and Milly lowers her voice  "that
she had a great disappointment not long
ago ; some one threw her over, I think, from
what Edie hints. Too bad of .him, wasn't
it ? "

At last ! " is Edith's greeting, as her
friend draws near. " I thought you were
never going to reappear on the scene, and
granny had serious thoughts of sending out
a score of men with lanterns to look for you.
But pray don't take the trouble to make
excuses, my dear. I was not alarmed about
you  oh no, not at all ; and I did my best
to reassure granny, and convince her that
she must look for you nearer home."

** Miss Treherne, will you give me this

valse ? " asks Geoffrey, addressing Dorothy.
He had been rather attracted by the patient,
indifferent expression of her face, and Is
curious to find out whether she Is very unlike
other girls In her conversation, as she
is In her tastes.

Being thus left completely to Edith's mercy,
July Is exposed to a running fire of cross-questioning,
teasing, and pitiless ridicule,
varied with warm congratulations and outspoken
comments on the object of her choice.

" I still maintain that there Is a decided
touch of the horned and hoofed wicked creature
in him, my dear," she says obstinately ;
** but I am not sure that I object to the
least little soupon of that in a man, and I
quite see that there is something very taking
about him. He has rather a knack  as
some one said of somebody once  of making
even commonplaces sound interesting. I

think it is the look he gives you with those
odd eyes of his which does it."

You seem to have studied his ways very
closely, my dear," mildly remarks Mrs. Tree


They are all on their homeward drive,
when Edith thinks fit to give them the
benefit of her theories about Mr. Bering's
character.

Of course I have, granny. Knowing
that in every probability he would be Milly's
husband some day  if you want to blush,
Mil, you can safely do so under cover of this
dim light  I thought it my duty to turn all
my wits to the task of making him out. I
don't think he is viciously disposed "

'really, Edie ! " cries Milly half-indignantly.


''I am sure Milly must feel grateful for
your opinion," puts in Dorothy quietly.

VOL. I. T

No, I don't think he is vicious," continues
Edith, totally ignoring the interruption. " As
far as my observation goes, he is not inclined
to gamble, to bet, or to swear  7nuch "

'* He hates swearing ! " exclaims Milly
quickly. '' He says he cannot see the fun
of it, and it prejudices him against a man
directly he hears him make use of strong
language."

'' I am delighted to hear it. Probably Mr.
Dering, like many other men, agrees to compound
for the sins he is inclined to by 
ahem  running down swearing, which is no
temptation to him. Of course, he may bethe
greatest gambler going, for all I know,
but "

'' I really think, Edie, you might have
something pleasant to talk to Milly about
than Mr. Bering's possible taste for gambling,"
interrupts her grandmother, half-laughing,

half in earnest. " You needn't mind
her nonsense, my dear. It is only that she
thinks herself cleverer than the rest of us,
and a kind of magician in discovering people's
weak points. And now, here we are at the
lodge gate, and before we get in let me
give you a warm kiss, dear child ; and let
me say how glad I am that you are so
happy. And I hope and trust that nothing
will occur to disturb your prospects."

"Or to prevent the course of true love
running smooth," adds Edith promptly. '' I
say ditto to all that, Milly, and I think you
are a very clever girl to have chosen such
a nice, good-looking man. Dorothy doesn't
think he is good-looking, but I do. And I
do hope that provoking old Ogre won't put
a spoke in your wheel. If he does, he
ought to be chopped up into mince-meat ! "

And then Dorothy gives her a loving

embrace, and whispers a few words of affectionate
congratulation in her ear, and after
that Milly is allowed to escape to her own
room, in solitude to reflect on the marvellous
brightness which has crept into her formerly
grey and cheerless life, the presence of which
already causes the world in general to wear
a totally different aspect in her eyes. Alas !
that her golden visions should be so rudely
and so quickly shattered ! that her rose-coloured
pictures of an unattainable glorious
future should so soon have to be displaced
by the stern realities of prosaic, every-day
existence. The blow falls the more heavily
because it is almost entirely unexpected. In
her ignorance, in her youthful hopefulness,
she had barely dwelt on the possibility of
any obstacle being put in the way of her
wishes, and is proportionately unbounded
by the contents of Mr. Falconers letter,

which duly arrives on the Saturday morning,
in response to Geoffrey's appeal.

'' Dear Sir,"  it runs 

I was not aware that you had even
made the acquaintance of my niece, Miss
Byron, until your letter informed me of the
fact ; therefore you will not be surprised at
my feeling a little bewildered when I mastered
your object in addressing me. I am
obliged to you for the honour you do mein
asking her hand in marriage, which
honour, for various reasons, I regret I must
decline, once and for always. My niece's
husband, unless she chooses to marry without
any regard for my opinion, must be in
possession of a certain assured income, and
his antecedents must be able to bear the
strictest investigation. I feel sure I need
add no more, except to remind you that

Miss Byron's prospects are entirely dependent
on my will and pleasure, and that unless
she marries to please me she will goto
her husband literally penniless. I am
writing to her by this post to inform her
of tidings which will in some degree affect
her future life. I allude to my newly formed
engagement with Mrs. Verschoyle.
I am, sir,

Yours truly,

*john Falconer."

Having launched which dual thunderbolt
on his niece's head, Mr. Falconer chuckles
complacently to himself as he drops the
letter in the box with his own hands, and
amuses himself with contemplating the dismay
with which it will be received.

r-utlcr & Tanner, The Sehvood Printing UorUs, rome, and LoaJca.

PECCAVI."

a obrl.

BY

EMILY F. D. OSBORN.

VOL. II.

SWAN SONNENSCHEIN, LOWREY & CO.,

PATERNOSTER SQUARE.

1888.

The Selwood Printing Works,

Frome, and London.

PAGE

CHAPTER I.
Home Again i

CHAPTER II.
The Bride-elect . 24

CHAPTER III.
Mrs. Falconer 40

CHAPTER IV.
A "Thoroughly Good Fellow" 63

CHAPTER V.
Charlie in Trouble 82

CHAPTER VI.
News from Nice 97

CHAPTER VII.
The Shoe Pinches 112

chapter' VIII.
"On with the New" 131

CHAPTER IX.
Monte Carlo 155

CHAPTER X.
A Last Throw 175

CHAPTER XI.
The Day is Fixed ,94

CHAPTER XH.

"FeMME qui Ecole" 2J5

PECCAVI

CHAPTER I.

HOME AGAIN.

And so your young gentleman was not
particularly pleased with the reception I gave
to his beautifully turned phrases ? I thought
he would not be."

It is Mr. Falconer who makes this speech.
Milly is back at Whincote once again, burning
with impotent wrath and indignation
against her uncle and his stern decree, and
in no humour to spare him by refraining to
speak out what is in her mind. But her
anger is of no avail against the hard, impenetrable
surface of his stinging sarcasms.
It delights him to behold her rapidly rising

VOL. II. ' B

temper, and in proportion as she grows hot
and desperate, so does he become cooler and
yet more irritating.

** Pray marry him, if you wish it," he repeats
sneeringly. ** I shall not say a word
to deter you from such an advisable course
of action, only do not expect me to play the
benevolent parent in the farce. If you decide
to marry Mr. Geoffrey Bering, do so by all
means, but make up your mind to live on air
henceforward."

*' You know perfectly well. Uncle John, that
it is impossible for us to marry on nothing at
all ! " returns Milly indignantly. ** I think
you have behaved very unkindly to us all
through. I don't want your wretched money,
I'm sure, but I think many people in your
place would allow us just enough to makeup
a comfortable home. We do not want
much '!

Indeed ! How very modest of you. And
is Mr. Dering of your opinion ? Would he,
too, be contented with such a moderate competency
? There is one thing which I confess
I do regret, and that is not to have been
within earshot to have heard all he said when
he got my letter. The arguments he made use
of to convince you that all this folly would have
to be given up must have been most edifying,"

"He said  which was the only thing left
for him to say  that he could not think of
dragging me down to share his poverty, and
that he wouldn't be so selfish as to ask me
to give up so much for his sake."

'ein short, he went through those old stale,
worn-out platitudes, of which every man in
his place has rung the changes since the
world was created," answers Mr. Falconer
contemptuously. " Of course it never occurred
to him to ask you whether you where

willing to run the risk. He knew that women
are always idiotic, and think it a fine thing
to sacrifice everything they have for the sake
of what they call ' love.' They wouldn't think
twice of throwing away half a million of
money if they get the man they have a fancy
for, the fools ! And they never ask themselves
what they are to live upon, or what
is to happen to them three months later,
when they are dead sick of one another, and
the tradesmen are clamouring for their unpaid
bills. But Bering has more nous than
to be deluded by such confounded rot, unless
he's a very different man to what I believe
him to be. He knew that if he left the decision
to you you'd swear that anything on
earth was better than beinor obliged to drive
him up. And so he determined not to run
the risk, but to stop your mouth with all that
high-sounding palaver, and make out that he

was doing it all out of consideration for
you."

You are very unjust towards Mr. Dering,

and there is not a word of truth in what you

say," is Milly's angry reply. '* What should

you know of being in love, and such things,

I should like to ask ? "

Nothing, my dear I am glad to say, from
personal experience, but a great deal from
the fact of having kept my eyes open all my
life," is his cool reply. " He's a sharp one,
depend upon it, this young man of yours, who
scratched up an acquaintance with you on the
sly, and proposed to you before you had had
hardly time to tell what colour his eyes were.
And of course it was all disinterested,  his
sudden, passionate attachment for you. Naturally,
quite disinterested! And so he did
not like my letter ? Well, I never meant he
should do so ! "

You might, at least, have been ordinarily
civil to him in your answer ! " exclaims poor,
worried Milly, who is much too sore and indignant
to be careful of her words.

'why should I be civil to him? I consider
it a mean, shabby trick for him to make
love to you behind my back as he did. And
as I have never set eyes on him in my life,
and all I have taken the trouble to inquire
about him has been anything but to his
credit."

Of course I knew you would try and find
out things to his disadvantage," says Milly,
with quiet contempt.

I hadn't far to go before I heard quite as
much as I wanted. Of all the reckless, good-for-nothing
young blackguards for you to
take up with, I don't know of any one who
could hold up a candle to this Bering. He
and his father together got through every

penny they had in the most scandalously
dissipated manner. They consort with the

very scum "

'' You may spare yourself the details of
any more of the marvellous iniquities ascribed
to them," answers Milly, with dignity ; *' for
I may as well tell you that I do not believe
a word of them, and never shall. I will say
once again, that I think your conduct towards
me has been both harsh and unfair, but I
don't know why I should have expected
otherwise from you. I might have known
that it would be an immense pleasure to you
to thwart my wishes, if you possibly could.
I do not see the use of discussing the subject
any more. I must, I suppose, give in to
you, as it seems that you have everything in
your power ; but if it will be any consolation
to you to know that you have spoilt my
life "

Pooh ! " Mr Falconer cannot restrain a
prolonged chuckle of disdain. *' My dear, do
you suppose I pay the faintest attention to
that sort of speech ? As if every love-sick
girl hadn't said the same thing a thousand
times within the memory of man, and then
consoled herself by marrying some one else
at the end of three months, and some one,
moreover, who is totally unlike the first fellow
that she made such a fuss about, and cried
her eyes over. And now, perhaps you'll
kindly listen to me for a moment, after that
little ebullition of nonsense on your part."
Mr. Falconer's tone takes a harsher shade ashe
speaks. *' I've tolerated all your  well,
uncomplimentary remarks, to say the least of
them, with a good deal of patience for the
last half-hour, because they were not worth
noticing, and because I was prepared for a
certain amount of effervescent anger on your

part. But I am in no mood to jest any
longer." (The notion of Mr. Falconer jesting
is almost too much for Milly's gravity.) '' I
want you to understand, once for all, that
sooner than let that disreputable puppy have
the power to dispose of one single farthing
of my money, I would will it all away to the
county hospital, or leave every stick to those
Scotch cousins of mine, whom I care no more
for than the man in the moon. If you and
he choose, in spite of this, to marry on the
hopes of my some day changing my mind
and dowering you with all I have, that is
your affair. I only tell you that that hope
will be a sorry reed to depend upon. I suppose
this disappointed lover of yours is still
hanging about the place ? "

He is going abroad next month," said
Milly curtly.

** Ah, yes ! When he hears how useless it

is for him to wait for the chance of my giving
in, he'll soon see what a fool he is to waste
any more time dangling after you ! " comments
Mr. Falconer pleasantly. " And let me tell
you, young lady, it entirely depends upon
yourself and your behaviour as to what I may
do for you some day."

I wouldn't touch your miserable money
with a pair of tongs!" cries Milly, with flashing
eyes. '' I have told you before, Uncle
John, and I will repeat it a hundred times if
you like, that if such an improbable thing
happened as your leaving your money to me,
I would give it all to Charlie the next
second ! "

And as she mentions her cousin's name
Milly has the slight satisfaction of seeing her
uncle visibly wince.

** Surely you would reserve a trifling portion
of it for yourself and ]mr. Bering ? " he

asks, with a sneering laugh. " And now you
can go ; I have no wish to detain you longer.
Oh, wait ; by the bye, I told you in my letter
of my engagement to Mrs. Verschoyle."

Yes, you did ; but if you think I am going
to congratulate you and wish you joy, you
will be disappointed," abruptly interrupts the
girl, in her most defiant manner.

Pray don't trouble yourself to do that. I
can quite well dispense with those ordinary
forms of politeness from my own niece ! I
merely wished to remind you of the fact, and
to convey to you my wish that you should  
if it is possible to you  be at least outwardly
civil to the future Mrs. Falconer."

And he bends his keen, searching eyes
upon her, hoping for some look or sign which
would betray her repugnance to the prospect
which he knows cannot be welcome to her.
But Milly is more than a match for him : her

face expresses calm indifference,  nothing else,
and her tone is indicative of simple boredom
and weariness as she answers, 

*' You need not shout at me so loud, Uncle
John. I am not deaf. I hear every word
you say."

' And will make note of it, I request," he
returns sharply.

And then Milly asks him if he has anything
else to say to her before she leaves him.

** No; pray go. I've stood as much of your
impertinent remarks as I can put up with in
one afternoon ! When I see you again, I hope
I shall find you in a better temper. Deuce
take it ! there's another twinge of that confounded
gout ! And there's the door-bell.
Who on earth can that be ? "

Mrs. Verschoyle, if you please, sir, and
she is asking for Miss Byron," announces May,
at the door.

one AuratJi.

Well, I can't see her this afternoon, at any
rate," says Mr. Falconer irritably. " She's
come to see you, of course, Milly. You'd better
go to her at once. Hang the woman! she's up
here at all hours of the day ! " he adds, almost
to himself, but not so low as to prevent Milly
catching the words.

I really will go, and lose no time in congratulating
Mrs. Verschoyle on her conquest ! "
she cries maliciously. *' I'll ask her, if you
can say ' Hang the woman ! ' now, at this early
stage of your engagement, what she'll imagine
the anathemas heaped on her will be like at
the end of three months ! " and without giving
him the chance of detaining her, she hurries
off, conscious of having had the last word in
their not-too-peaceful interview.

Mrs. Verschoyle is in the drawing-room, and
advances to meet her future niece with the
utmost effusion.

*' My dearest child ! my dear Milly ! " kissing
her on both cheeks. " I am so delighted to
see you again, and to meet, as it were, under
such fresh and charming auspices ; for you
and I must be great friends, dear. I am sure
we shall. I somehow had a sort of instinct
that we were destined to be something more
to each other than mere ordinary friends.
Curious my having that feeling, wasn't it ?
And what do you say about it all, dear ?
Weren't you a little taken by surprise ? Now,
confess you were ! "

I certainly was," admits Milly frankly. " I
had no idea, when I went away, that you were
on terms of any but the slightest acquaintance
with my uncle."

Ah, my dear child, these things are not
the outgrowth of days and weeks of intimacy,"
says the widow sentimentally; " but spring into
life and ripen in an hour, a moment, a beat of

time. It takes so little to make two hearts
which throb in unison understand each other."

Milly has hard work to keep her countenance
at the notion of any one's heart beating
in unison with Mr. Falconer's !

*' And then you left your poor uncle to himself,
you know," continues Mrs. Verschoyle
plaintively. " Naughty little puss ! you ran off
to enjoy yourself, and have your fun, and
break an endless number of hearts. You
needn't blush so  your uncle has confided all
your doings to me ; and in his loneliness of
course he naturally turned to me, and I was
only too glad to be able to comfort him. I
always had such a very sympathising heart ! "
she concludes feelingly.

** And so Uncle John has told you all about
about Mr. Bering, has he?" inquires Milly,
ruthlessly cutting short her companion's self-laudatory
remarks.

Indeed he has. He came and told me all
about it directly. He has been two or three
times down to the ' Wigwam ' lately, and we
have had some long, confidential conversations ;
and I felt so sorry for you in your disappointment,
dear Milly."

And Mrs. Verschoyle gives a soft pressure to
the hand, which, sorely against the girl's will,
she retains in hers as she talks.

'' I would rather not be pitied, a great deal,"
returns Milly, rather ungraciously. '' I can't
bear to talk of it yet."

I quite understand, dear. It all feels so
new and painful to you at present. We will
talk no more of it until the time comes when
you feel you would like to unburden your
lite troubles to me. You will always find
me ready and willing to listen ; and oh ! so
anxious to do what I can to soothe your grief!"

And Mrs. Verschoyle stoops forward with

her sweetest smile, and imprints a feathery
kiss on Milly's forehead. But her sugary
words and silvery tones fail in finding their
way to the girls heart, or in convincing her
of their owner's sincerity. Milly has an instinctive
prejudice against this plausible lady,
and cannot bring herself to utter any very
cordial response to her professions of affection.
Quick to perceive that she is not making much
progress in that direction, Mrs. Verschoyle
dexterously turns the subject.

And your poor dear uncle  I was so
grieved to hear from May that he is suffering
this afternoon, and hardly feels up to seeing
me. That cruel gout ! You and I, dear
Milly, must do our best by our united efforts
to cheer him and brighten him up, when
these attacks come on  later on  I mean,
when "

She stops short, apparently overcome with

VOL. II. c

a sense of embarrassment at her involuntary
reference to that memorable future epoch of
her marrlacre, as if she were too bashful to
continue the subject. Milly has no intention
of trying to extricate her from her palpably
affected confusion.

'' I assure you, Mrs. Verschoyle, that you
will find that Uncle John is best left to himself
when he has these fits of gout," she
answers shortly.

** Ah, my dear, I don't think you quite
understand the inestimable value of a little
timely sympathy given at the right moment,"
says Mrs. Verschoyle, with a sigh. 'rit should
never be obtruded or thrust upon a person
at the wrong time, but just allowed to be more
felt than expressed. It very often irritates an
invalid to be openly commiserated ; but with
a little tact one can contrive to accomplish so
much without any ostentation of compassion."

To which eloquent dissertation Milly makes
no reply whatever.

*' And a little cheerful, lively society would,
I feel confident, be of the greatest benefit to
your dear uncle when he Is just recovering
from these sad seizures," pursues Mrs. Ver-school,
in her purring tones. " He has lived
too much the life of a recluse. Shutting himself
up from the outside world to the extent
he has done cannot be a good thing for anyone.
No ! we must try by degrees to alter
all that  you and I and my little girl "

'' Your little girl ! " repeats Milly, genuinely
astonished ; " have you got a little girl ? "

Indeed I have  one precious child left in
my sole charge, and an awful responsibility to
poor, weak me. Many an anxious hour have
I passed in the contemplation of her future,
and in debating how best I can fulfil the
sacred charge bequeathed to one by Providence

! Ah ! dear Milly, you can little guess
at the cares and doubts which assail the
mind of a forlorn, helpless woman, who is left
in a position like mine, and has to battle with
the trials of life unaided ! And so you had
never heard of my little Lucilla ? Well, it
is not to be wondered at, for she has spent
her last two holidays with friends ; and,
after all, I have only been here nine
months "

'* She is at school then ? " inquires Milly.
And about how old is she ? "

'' Oh, my dear, quite a little innocent child 
only fit to be a plaything to you. Dear
Lucilla is a perfect baby. Your uncle has
been good enough already to suggest that she
should be taken away from school, and put
under a good governess in her future home ;
but of course I have had no time really to
think of these things yet. Inly whole thoughts

have been occupied with the wonderful change
which will soon take place in my life, as you
may imagine. Naturally it is a very important
crisis to me, and the hope that I may perhaps
be the means of adding somewhat to the happiness
of a fellow-creature's existence causes
all minor interests to sink into insignificance."

And here Mrs. Verschoyle pauses, and looks
so sentimental and so full of emotion that,
were it not that Milly is too miserable to take
notice of it, she must have laughed outright
at the idea of so much fine feeling being
wasted on such an unresponsive object asher
uncle.

'* The wedding is to be as quiet as possible,"
continues Mrs. Verschoyle, whose monotonous
flow of small talk seldom ceases for more thana
moment together. '' Your uncle inquired
of me what were my wishes on that subject,
and I answered him at once, ' Oh, if you

consult me, I say, let us do without any
grandeur, any outward show, only just you
and I go quietly to church, accompanied only
by our near and dear ones ! ' Fuss and
parade of all kind is quite opposed to my
taste, and doubly, trebly so on that day
which will be of such sacred import to me,
and usher in the dawn of a new life. And
now, my dear child, there is one other little
trifle I wish to mention while I recollect it,
and that is, about the name you are henceforth
to call me by. What shall it be ? Mrs.
Verschoyle is so ridiculously formal ; besides,
it will soon have to give place to another,"
with a simper. *' I think it must be Arabella.
What do you say ? "

"Just as you like," answers Milly indifferently.
*'' What's in a name .' ' as they say."

Then that's settled, dear one ! It will be
such a pleasure to me to hear the name from

your lips ! It shows that you no longer
consider me as a stranger, and I am one of
those people who never can remain on stiff
terms with any one  mine Is such a clinging
nature ; yours, dear Milly, I always think

Is more like the oak's, strong and sturdy "

And Milly has to listen to this and similar
meanderings with such patience as she can
muster, too weary and heart-sick to attempt
to stem the current of the ceaseless ripple
of the vapid small talk.

THE Bride-elect.

** I AM SO artfully sorry, dearest .Mil, to hear
of the finale to your  love's young dream,' "
writes Edith Treherne to her friend. 'ein my
opinion, you have never painted the Ogre
in sufficiently black colours before. I never
imagined he could be guilty of such cold-blooded
tyranny. I should punch his old
head if I were you, and ask him what right
he has to interfere with the happiness of
two spoony, romantic young people ! Unfortunately,
that wretched complication of
pounds, shillings, and. pence always steps
in, and ties our hands ! I don't know
what to say to console you. You might
consider it an insult if I were to remind you

that there are as good fish in the sea as ever
came out ! Personally, I am afraid I am too
cold-hearted ever to believe that the whole
of my life's happiness is wrecked because
something prevented my marrying the first
man I cared for.

' When love is kind,
Lightsome and free,
Love will find

A welcome from me.

When love brings

Heartache and pang,

Tears and such things,

Love may go hang ! '

Those lines pretty well express my
feelings ; but I know you are different, and
take things much more au grand sirietix.
But try and not be too despondent, my dear,
and don't sit at home brooding over your
troubles ; nothing is so bad for one as that."

Spite of which wholesome advice, Mllly

does the very thing against which Miss
Treherne warns her. She thinks of Geoffrey
Bering morning, noon, and night, and laments
over the abrupt downfall of her brightest
hopes with never-ceasing regret. She is as
thoroughly and passionately in love as it is
possible for any girl to be, and hers is no
superficial nature, to take a fancy one moment
and the next seek for consolation elsewhere.
Hers is a steadfast, unwavering disposition,
and with her to love once Is to love always.
Everything in her life seems to wear an
altered aspect to her now ; every ray of sunlight
seems suddenly to be quenched, and
all is flat, weary, and monotonous. Her disappointment
has the effect of hardening her
and rendering her bitter and supercilious.
Mr. Falconer's fits of temper have power
to irritate her spirit more than they did
formerly, and at times she feels that it is all

she can do to respond with bare courtesy to
Mrs. Verschoyle's honied words and wearisome
prattle. She is so tired of it all, so
intensely depressed by the trifles which up
till now she had had the ability to thrust
aside from her notice, as unworthy of a second
thought. And yet she is quite helpless in
the matter ; she can do nothing of her own
self. If Geoffrey had but said one word to
encourage her, had showed the slightest inclination
to cast prudence to the winds, and
suggested that they should risk the consequences,
and, as her uncle had not in so
many words forbidden it, asked her to marry
him then and there, in an impulse of romantic
passion, she would have gone to him instantly.
But he says no such word. On the contrary,
in the only interview they are able to snatch
before he departs from England, he reiterates
with yet greater decision that the only course

left open to them is to submit. He draws
a vivid picture of the miseries of unknown
poverty to which they must descend if they
were so fooHsh as to take the law into their
own hands. He impresses upon her that
his scruples arise solely on her account, and
from a determination never to be the means
of inducing her to sacrifice her present and
her future out of her love for him. He is
firm in adhering to this text, but he takes
pains to intersperse it all with loving words
and tender caresses, and inveighs bitterly the
while against the tyranny of fate which decrees
to separate them. At the same time he gives
Milly to understand that her best policy for
the future weill be that of conciliation, and
gently hints at the possible harvest they may
reap, if she does her utmost to gain a good
place in her uncle's good graces. Who knows
what bright days may yet be in store for them ?

he asks, building golden visions of Mr.
Falconer translated to another sphere, and
Milly sole heiress of all he possesses, in his own
mind, as he speaks. One never knows what
may happen in this world, and so Mr. Dering
thinks it just as well to make his position
with Milly yet more secure by assurances that
he will never, never care for any other woman,
and by passionate entreaties to her not to
forget him altogether! And when he parts
from, her, he is satisfied that any other man
would find it well-nigh impossible to usurp
the place which he has won in her affections.
He may rest in the knowledge that her heart
is altogether given to him, and will never
swerve from its allegiance.

And so they take leave of one another. He
goes to fresh scenes, fresh pleasures, and erelong
comes to look back upon the whole
affair as a mere troublesome episode, disappointing

and vexatious, it is true, but by
no means overwhelming, He had, indeed,
failed in his object and met with a repulse,
but after all he had held very small hopes of
success, and it was only one out of many
ventures with which he had sought to propitiate
the goddess of good luck. Some day
or other, perhaps, he would make a still more
bold stroke for fortune, and win it.

But for poor Milly there are no such
consolations to be looked for. She has to
endure the hardest of all fates  " to suffer
and be strong "  to sit at home and wait, with
nothing new to distract her mind from the
contemplation of her misery, with all the
former peace and contentment gone out of
her life for ever, and in their place an utter
sense of forlornness and desolation.

Added to all this burden of care and sorrow,
she has to face the distasteful prospect of

the coming marriage, and to brace herself for
the ungenial task of being at least outwardly
pleasant to the bride-elect, whose daily increasing
assumption of airs and graces frets
her soul beyond measure. How intensely
irksome it all is ! And how she secretly
rebels against it all, and Is almost disposed
to feel captious because the weather
Is bright and lovely, and the September sunbeams
forth with unclouded brilliancy day by
day, as if to mock at the gloom which overshadows
her heart. She feels very sore
towards her uncle, and betrays that she Is
so In every word and look. And all Mrs.
Verschoyle's attempts to propitiate her, and
consult her as to the arrangements for the
wedding, result in signal failure. She wraps
herself up In a thick cloak of reserve and
rebellious silence, from which nothing can
succeed In rousing her. How can she Interest

herself in the respective merits of silk or
satin, when her whole mind is absorbed with
wondering what Geoffrey is doing at that
moment ? how is it possible that she can
respond graciously to Mrs. Verschoyle's suggestion
that she should change the room she
has hitherto been occupying for one with a
south aspect, when, so long as Geoffrey is
away, it is perfectly immaterial to her where
she finds herself?

Mrs. Verschoyle is by no means unsympathetic
about the girl's unhappiness. On the
contrary, she is always pitying her, and giving
her to understand that she can so exactly
enter into the state of her feelings. She has
even gone so far as to mention the subject
to Mr. Falconer, and made a faint attempt to
put in a plea on behalf of the lovers. But
her future husband very promptly and decidedly
lets her know that any interference

on her part will be so much time wasted, and
she is too wise a woman to jeopardize the
position she has gained by prosecuting an
unwelcome subject. But she openly tells
Milly that she considers she has been hardly
treated, and even, unless her words bear quite
another interpretation to that which they appear
to have, goes so far as to hint that at
her age, and under similar provocation, she,
Mrs. Verschoyle, would have been strongly
tempted to act "just a little on impulse, dear,"
thereby implying that impulse would have probably
carried her with a rush through the very
doors of the church, almost without her being
conscious of it. She is always dropping
little hints in this direction, so that Milly understands
thoroughly that were she to commit
the folly of a clandestine marriage, she would
never have a stone thrown at her by her
uncle's wife. What Mrs. Verschoyle's motives

VOL. II. D

are in disseminating such lax principles into
the mind of a girl, Milly does not even ask
herself, but possibly she would not be averse
to her taking a step which would necessarily
destroy her last chance of retaining her uncle's
favour, and thereby pave the way for other
claimants.

Her own child, for instance  Lucilla  what
more natural than that she should step into
Milly's place, if anything happened to disqualify
the latter for the heiress-ship ? She
must be schooled at first, and taught to behave
to Mr. Falconer with more than ordinary deference
and consideration, and perhaps intime
her innocent ways would commend themselves
to this child-hating old bachelor. One
never can tell what may happen, or what
curious changes may be brought about by a
turn of fortune's wheel. At all events, there
is no harm in Mrs. Verschoyle amusing herself

with these and similar castles in the air,
only, to any one who knew Mr. Falconer
fairly well, there would be something just a
little ludicrous in the notion of his ever
choosing Lucilla Verschoyle to be the recipient
of his carefully guarded thousands.

A long, lank, red-haired, short-petticoated
girl of twelve or thirteen, with bony arms
and spindle legs, with a preternaturally shrewd
expression on her plain little face, and a fatal
tendency to blurt out the most inconvenient
remarks, and ask the most searching questions
 in short, the most outrageous specimen
of the 'enfant terrible!' This is a true picture
of Miss Lucilla Verschoyle as she presents
herself to the astonished gaze of Milly
and Mr. Falconer. Not a very likely individual
to attract the fancy of a crusty, sour-tempered
old gentleman, one would think ; but
Mrs. Verschoyle is of a sanguine dispositions

and has unlimited confidence in her own
powers of management and in the co-operation
of time.

Lucilla is duly brought up to the Abbey
by her mother, to be introduced to her new
relations, and provokes the most genuine burst
of laughter which Milly has given vent to for
weeks by her greeting of Mr. Falconer.
The child walks up to him without an atom
of shyness, gives him a hasty kiss on his
forehead before he has time to check her,
and accosts him with, " How do you do ,
Am I to call you papa after you have married
mamma ? "

The notion of his standing in that relationship
with this curious specimen of humanity
has certainly never crossed Mr. Falconer's
mind before, and for the first time in his life
he looks utterly confounded. Milly is far too
much amused with watching the scene to be

able to interfere, but Mrs. Verschoyle comes
to the rescue with gentle suavity.

*' My dear child's heart is so overflowing
with affection for her new relatives-to-be,
that she cannot control the impulses of her
loving nature," she says. '' So ingenuous of
her, is it not ? Ah, it is easy to see that she
inherits my clinging, impressionable nature.
She is longing for everything to be put on
a pleasantly familiar footing at once. Cilia
love, come and speak to Milly now  your
Cousin Milly, whom I have mentioned so often
to you. We must settle that little matter for
her satisfaction later on," adds the widow in
an aside to her fiaicS, who looks as if he
did not know whether to feel insulted or
flattered.

Lucilla next marches straight up to Milly's
side, and kisses her in precisely the same
fashion, saying in a shrill treble voice.

** Mamma said I was to make myself quite at
home here. But I expect you don't care forme
to do that, do you ? "

My dearest child, you must not suppose
that dear Milly is not very glad to welcome
you here," interposes Mrs. Verschoyle. " I
look to you, dear Milly, a great deal, I assure
you, to help me in forming her character
and in rounding off the sharp angles. Dear
Cilia ! She is so wholly ignorant of the
ways of the world, and so naively outspoken
! "

"In which characteristics she is certainly
unlike her mother," is Milly's mental reflection.
" I am so surprised to see such a big
girl," she says out loud, addressing the mother.
'' From the way you spoke of her, I quite
imagined she would be about eight or nine
years old at the utmost."

That's mamma's way," says the precocious

child. '* She always talks of me as if I had
just left off long clothes. And I can't think

why she does it, unless "

*' Cilia dear, you mustn't be so ready to
run into conversation when your elders are
present," interrupts Mrs. Verschoyle hastily.
I quite thought, my dear Milly, that I had
mentioned to you the age of my little girl.
I had no intention of making a mystery of it.
But really my poor head was so full of other
and more important matters "  with a sentimental
france in Mr. Falconer's direction 

o

'* that you can hardly wonder at my not being
able to give my mind to such trifling details ! "

MRS. FALCONER.

Dear John, here is such a nice kind letter
from young Mr. Tomkinson, asking us all to
dine at Moor House next week."

Where the deuce is the kindness, I should
like to know, of asking us to drive nine
miles out to dinner in the middle of November
? You won't catch me, for one, making
such an ass of myself, and so you may tell
the young fool as soon as you like ! "

The speakers are Mr. and Mrs. Falconer.
The wedding is a thing of the past now,
and they have been man and wife for nearly
six weeks, and have apparently settled comfortably
down to the new order of things.
That is to say, Mr. Falconer no longer



considers it desirable to lay any check on
himself in the presence of his wife, but
allows himself as much latitude in the selection
of expressive, if not particularly elegant,
language as he has enjoyed from childhood
upwards. It is presumable that he, at any
rate, has found all that he expected to find
in matrimony, for he certainly does not fly
into a rage with his wife quite as often ashe
did and does with Milly ; he even lets
himself be insensibly influenced by her now
and then, thanks to her diplomatic ability.
Whether Mrs. Falconer has gained all that
she hoped for in her union with the master
of the Abbey is more difficult to say. At
all events, no one can accuse her of neglecting
him, for she is unremitting in her care
of him, and takes the greatest pains to
make Lucilla show him every possible attention.
His surly humours and unpleasant

little sarcasms seem to slide harmlessly off
the polished surface of her smiHng amiability.
She rarely thwarts him or contradicts him,
and she never resents any cross word or
uncomplimentary remark which falls from his
lips. By slow degrees  very, very slow she
would tell you  she has somehow gained a
certain slight ascendancy over his mind,  a
feat of which she has real cause to feel
triumphant,  and probably she is well satisfied
with her progress. Towards Milly her
manner is still as caressing and affectionate
as ever, if a little patronising, and the girl
has nothing to complain of in her new aunt's
treatment of her. She has brought herself
to call her by her Christian name, and tries
her best to put up with her affectations and
her little gushing speeches; in short, she can
just tolerate her, so long as she does not
interfere with her own pursuits and habits.

As to Lucilla, she is by turns the enHven-
ment and the torment o the whole house 
her innate truthfulness and outspokenness
forming a strange contrast to her mother's
soft-tongued plausibility, and almost counterbalancing
her unpleasing and unconquerable
love of making mal a propos and uncalled-for
remarks. And so this strangely assorted
family party manages, somehow, to shakedown
in some sort of fashion, and outwardly,
at least, to amalgamate.

The immediate subject under discussion
by the heads of the household is an invitation
to dine by the rich young owner of
Moor House, Mr. Hugh Tomkinson. Of
course all the neighbours far and near have
hastened to call at the Abbey and welcome
the bride, curiosity being the predominant
motive in most minds, urging them to lose
no time in performing this social duty. But

C shire is by no means a very sociable

county, and the inhabitants of Whincote
Abbey have been so long shut out from all
intercourse with the outside world that
every one is just a little doubtful as to
whether it is advisable to proffer hospitality
or no to the new mistress. So it happens
that Mr. Tomkinson's note contains the first
hint as to any prospective gaiety, and is
valued by Mrs. Falconer accordingly. She
knows the young man well by repute. His
father has been dead about two years ago
a self-made man, who rose literally from
the gutter to be the possessor of an enormous
fortune, amassed in commerce, which
fortune is left entirely to the disposition of
his only child, this same Hugh Tomkinson.
The father was a shrewd, hard-hearted, unpolished
man, but the son has had the advantage
of a public school and university education.

and report speaks highly of him in every
way. Every man who knows him dubs him
'' a thoroughly good fellow " ; every lady
speaks of him as " charming." A wealthy
bachelor, not yet forty years of age, with a
large house possessing every facility for entertaining,
and a reputation for being generally
agreeable, is an acquisition by no means
to be despised in a quiet, sleepy neighbourhood.
Mrs. Falconer is secretly much
gratified by receiving this proof of Mr.
Tomkinson's wish to be friendly, and her
mind is quite made up as to the necessity
of accepting the invitation. She is determined
to go, and equally anxious not to let
her husband see that such is her intention.
So when he reiterates a second time, with
still greater emphasis, that he would see Mr.
Tomkinson farther first, before he would beat
the trouble of driving so many miles to

sit at his dinner-table, she makes a feint of
gracefully yielding to his wishes.

Of course, my dear John, you shall do
exactly as you wish. I feel sure that Mr.
Tomkinson would never expect you to make
such an unusual exertion in his favour if it
is at all too much for you. He would not
think it likely you should go."

Then what the devil does he ask me for,
pray :

** I have no doubt the young man did it
out of a wish to show an attention to me,"
answers Mrs. Falconer blandly. '* It is only
natural that he should be anxious to offer
some extra civility to me  In my position.
And then Milly is asked as well  and for
her sake "

"If you are thinking of accepting Mr.
Tomkinson's Invitation on my account, Arabella,"
puts In Milly uncompromisingly, "pray

don't hesitate a moment. I have not the
slightest wish to go."

Mamma knows you would rather stay at
home, really I' chimes in Miss Lucilla, with
relentless frankness, '' because you told her
the other day you hated going anywhere.
But she wants to go herself, and so she
makes you a  what do you call it ?  a stalking
horse."

*' My dear Cilia, it is quite ridiculous of
you to interfere in the matter at all, when
you know nothing whatever about it," is her
mother's dignified reply. '* As regards you,
Milly, I really consider it my duty to try
and overcome your mistaken and unnatural
aversion to society. At your age, it is quite
wrong to shut yourself up and give out that
you wish to see no one, and I know well
that I shall be the person to be blamed if
I don't try my utmost to rouse you out

of your bad habits. As you may Imagine,
society has no attractions for me  none at all.
I would far rather stay quietly at home,
by the shelter of my own fireside. The
company of my little home circle is more
than sufficient for my wants."

Your spirit of devotion to Milly's interests
is beyond all praise," remarks her husband,
in his most disagreeably sarcastic tone.

But in your interest, and because I wish
you to enjoy every possible advantage that
it is in my power to let you have," continues
Mrs. Falconer, calmly disregarding this
interruption, " I have decided to put aside
my own wishes, and take you with me to
Moor House. I am sure, John, you agree
with me in the necessity for letting Milly
see a little of her neighbours. And Mr.
Tomkinson is such a nice young man 
every one says so."

Mrs. Falconer's one aim and object in life
is to see Milly safely married, so as to
have the field open for her own machinations.
She would willingly lend her aid
well, sub rosa, of course  in the matter of
bringing her and Geoffrey Bering together,
in spite of knowing that such a step would
infallibly cut the girl out of any chance of
her uncle's favour. But as there seems to
be no prospect of anything resulting in that
quarter  men are so stupidly impulsive
now-a-days, she tells herself  why, she must
look out for some other opening. And Mr.
Tomkinson seems to be the very person she
is actually in search of, and in her mind's
eye she sees him already settled down as
Milly's husband. Once removed from the
precincts of the Abbey, Mrs. Falconer thinks
that Cilia's prospects will wear a more promising
aspect, the more so if Milly is provided

vol II. E

for with a rich husband, and has, so to speak,
no further claims. And decidedly the first
step of all for the prosecution of her schemes
Is to Induce Mllly to go with her to this
dinner. So she sets to work to persuade her
husband to back her up in her preliminary
attempt.

'* He Is quite a young man to be cultivated,"
she proceeds impressively.

*' Then by all means cultivate him," returns
Mr. Falconer, his manner expressive of
intense boredom. '' Do as you like, Arabella,
or as Milly ought to like, according to your
way of thinking, but for goodness' sake don't
bother me any more about the matter. You've
got plenty of fal-lals to go in, I know, for I
consider you were recklessly extravagant In
the way of such nonsense at the time of your
marriage. "

Yes, dear, I can manage very well about

my clothes," she answers, with unruffled
serenity. *' I am so glad you see the matter
in my light. Now Milly will see how wise it
is to accept the invitation, and I feel convinced
she will be grateful to us both one of these
days for urging her to make the effort. Cilia
love, give your papa another cushion for his
chair."

I don't want another cushion in the
least "

'' My dear love, do let the child wait on
you. She longs so always to be of any use
to you that it is quite a pleasure to her when
you want anything she can do. Isn't it. Cilia
dear ? "

'\ I don't believe a word of it ! " answers
Mr. Falconer politely. '' Come here, child,
and tell me  now speak the truth, mind, 
what do you think about me ? Do you think
I'm a nice old gentleman, and are you very

fond of me, or do you think I'm a crusty old
bear, ready to eat you up ? "

Lucilla gives him a long, deliberate survey
before she answers him.

** I like you pretty well  sometimes, " she
says, with an air of weighing well each word
as she speaks.

Mr. Falconer gives vent to a sardonic
laugh.

I congratulate you on your very apt pupil,"
he says, addressing his wife in the blandest
possible accents. '' You have successfully
moulded her on your own lines."

Mrs. Falconer affects to misunderstand his

meaning.

You know, dear John, how I always Impress
on Cilia the necessity for being strictly
accurate and truthful," she says suavely.
But for all that, I think it is a mistake to
force a child to speak out on matters in which

it becomes an impertinence on her part to
give an opinion. And you know that Cilia
feels everything that is proper towards you,
only it is difficult for her to give words to her
exact sentiments. Now, Milly love, what do
you say to our putting our heads together  
my stupid one and your sensible one  and
seeing what we can do to make your ddhtt
at Moor House a success in the matter of
costume ? "

She gains the day, of course, and leads Milly
off in triumph in her wake, although the latter
cannot even bring herself to feign an interest
In the subject, and wishes with all her heart
that she could be left in peace to the solitude
which becomes daily more necessary to her.

Certainly she does not give one the idea
of being 'eon pleasure bent " when she makes
her appearance at Moor House on the evening
in question. As far as her dress is concerned,

she is above all criticism, for her step-aunt has
devoted a good deal of attention to the subject,
and the result proves that she is thorough mistress
of the art of developing the good points,
and of concealing any defects, of her subject.
Milly looks her very best that night, but her
listless, indifferent air makes her seem almost
out of place at what is intended for a festive
gathering, and attracts the attention of her
host himself. She is startled out of a reverie
by the sound of a man's voice at her elbow,
addressing her. A pleasant, genial voice it is,
and a kindly, honest face is that which meets
her glance as she turns round to survey the
new-comer.

Mr. Tomkinson cannot precisely be called
good looking; he has none of Geoffrey Bering's
variety of expression, for instance, nor is his
countenance suggestive of hidden capabilities,
the possibility of which often attracts others

more than mere surface charms. But one can
tell by the first sight of him that he is a good-hearted,
straightforward, steadfast man, of
whom one could make a friend without a fear
that he would prove unworthy of the confidence
reposed in him. Not a man likely to
take a girl's heart by storm, or to be called
in any sense fascinating ; one of those characters,
in short, whose virtues and indisputable
merits seem somehow never to meet with
their due share of appreciation here below 
doomed to stand by impotently, and see
others win, with no apparent effort of their
own, the popularity of the many, and,
maybe, the love of all others that they covet
so ardently, conscious of a want in their own
nature which causes them to fail where they
would so fain succeed.

Such a one is Hugh Tomkinson. Singularly
modest as to his own merits, and almost

morbidly distrustful of his powers of pleasing,
even though he has been reared in an atmosphere
redolent with the fulsome adulation of
wealth, and its paramount influence over the
minds of men, his disposition is so genial
and so overflowing with the milk of human
kindness, that he cannot endure the sight of a
fellow creature in trouble or in grief, and the
dreamy look in Milly's eyes excites his compassion.


** This is almost your first introduction into
the society of the neighbourhood, I think,
Miss Byron ? " he begins.

* Not even almost. Before to-night, I
hardly knew any one of my neighbours by
sight," she answers, with her usual abrupt
directness. And then, recollecting the one
exception she could make to this confession,
she reddens consciously, and pulls herself up
in some confusion.

But he does not appear to notice her embarrassment.


I hope you will find a few spirits congenial
to you amongst us," proceeds he good-naturedly.
'' From what I hear, you have
been living a very secluded life hitherto, have
you not ? And, though this is said to be nota

very lively county  I heard C shire

described as the depths of dreariness the
other day by some outsider  yet one may
just as well make the best of the society one
has, don't you think so ? "

I don't care in the very least for society,"
returns Milly uncompromisingly. " I have
done very well without it up till now, and I
think I could easily dispense with it for the
term of my natural life."

He glances at her with a slightly curious
expression in his face, and his voice takes a
more serious intonation as he answers her.

Perhaps you could, Miss Byron. But the
question to my mind is, whether there is nota
certain duty Involved in our making ourselves
pleasant to our neighbours, and In cultivating
their acquaintance. I daresay we often feel
inclined to shut ourselves up In our own
interests and fancies, and to huQr the belief
that the trouble of being forced to be
sociable and friendly certainly far exceeds the
pleasure to be derived from the effort. But
we have not only ourselves to consider "

Oh, if you make it a matter of right and
wrong, I have no doubt you would have the
best of the argument on your side, " breaks In
Milly, somewhat impatiently. *' But If ever
you are so unfortunate as to know me well,
Mr. Tomlinson, you will see that the ruling
motive of my dally life is the pleasing myself
in every possible way. I am afraid I have no
principles whatever."

** That is a fact which I should find hard to
believe," he answers, smiling at her, though inwardly
a little bit disappointed  why, he knows
not  in this assumption of recklessness on
her part. "You do yourself a great injustice
in trying to make others accept you at your
own valuation."

*' It is the true one, I assure you," reiterates
Milly obstinately. She somehow feels that
it is almost a duty she owes to the memory
of Geoffrey to encourage herself in the
distaste she feels for general society, and she
has a strange, unaccountable longing to let
this man know the worst of her.

I am the most despicably selfish person
I know," she repeats, with decision, seeing
that he does not seem to be so thoroughly
impressed with her self-detraction as she
could wish. '' And I don't suppose I am ever
likely to grow less so."

And then he answers jestingly, '' Ah,
you don't know what miracles time can work,
even in such a seemingly hopeless direction
as your hardened egotism, Miss Byron," and,
with a pleasant smile, turns away to distribute
his attentions amongst his other guests.

o o

Dearest Milly, may I not congratulate
you upon your little conquest ? " begins
Mrs. Falconer, in her silkiest tones, on the
first occasion when she can say a few words
to her niece unobserved. " I think he is a
most charming young man, and I have every
reason to believe that you have inspired an
interest in him."

"Are you speaking of Mr. Tomkinson,
Arabella"

'' To be sure I am, love."

'* Then you really are talking great nonsense,"
is Milly's sharp response. 'what
conquest on earth do you mean ? What did

he do beyond coming to sit by me, and
exchanging half a dozen words with me, ashe
did with every other girl in the room ?
And you instantly jump to the conclusion
that I have made an impression on him.
It is too utterly absurd! I suppose you
mean it really as a joke, but if so, I
must say I completely fail to perceive the
point of it."

'well, my dear Milly, we will say no more
on the matter," returns Mrs. Falconer, with
undisturbed good humour. She has never
yet been drawn into showing the least
resentment at the girl's frequent discourteous
reception of her advances, although one would
imagine that her rough and ready manner
must inevitably grate against the polished
surface of her own more pliable nature.
"But I have seen so much more of the world
than you have "

That you might very easily have done,"
puts in Milly, with stinging sarcasm.

*' That I feel I have acquired a certain
insight into human nature," proceeds Mrs.
Falconer, taking no heed of the interruption.
And from what I noticed in Mr. Tomkinson's
manner "

"Arabella, if you say another word about
Mr. Tomkinson's manner, or even mention
his name once more, I vow that I will never
go out with you again ! " cries Milly wrathfully.


And even Mrs. Falconer sees that it would
be prudent to hold her peace.

roughly GOOD F;

A NEW and very wholesome element is
introduced into Milly's life from the date of
her first acquaintance with Hugh Tomkinson.
The young man is evidently sociably inclined,
and anxious to secure a certain footing with
the inhabitants of the Abbey. Before many
days have passed by, he has ridden over
there, and left his card, which attention is
shortly followed up by a note begging Mrs.
Falconer to bring Miss Byron to luncheon
to Moor House on a certain day, to meet a
few friends. Secretly intensely gratified by
this proof of Mr. Tomkinson's wish to
cultivate their society, Mrs. Falconer instantly

accepts the invitation, and endures the



subsequent stormy discussion with her wilful
niece with smiling serenity, confident of victory
in the end. And even Milly, when once she
is there, is fain to admit that she has enjoyed
her afternoon. Mr. Tomkinson has filled
his house with a large batch of visitors, for
the occasion of the annual '' shoot," which
takes place at this season of the year in the
well-stocked preserves belonging to the estates
as they are all pleasant, lively people,
utterly devoid of stiffness or frigidity, Milly
very soon finds herself at her ease amongst
them all, and by degrees loses her last remnant
of shyness, and feels more like the Milly of
former days than she has for a long time.
Once or twice, when she gives vent to a
spontaneous burst of laughter, or when she
is led into making a repartee with some of
her old readiness and vivacity, she looks upto
find Mr. Tomkinson's attention drawn

towards her, with an amused and partly
wondering smile on his face. Perhaps he
is marvelling at the transformation which
has come over her since that first evening
they met, when she maintained such an austere
demeanour, and pertinaciously aired her
sentiments with regard to the hollowness
of society for his benefit. Something in the
expression of his gaze has a curious power
of irritating her, and of rousing the innate
spirit of defiance in her disposition ; and, as
if inspired with a wish to mystify him yet
more, by displaying more markedly a hitherto
unrevealed phase of her character,  she instantly
redoubles her efforts to make herself
agreeable, and the merriment on her side of
the table attracts every one's attention. Mrs.
Falconer is delighted, and privately sets
Milly down in her mind as a most accomplished
flirt, and, above all, as a successful actress.

VOL. II. F

Probably, after all, her liking for Mr. Bering
was not so deep as she had genuinely believed
it to be ; and if this is the case, why, then, how
much more likelihood is there of her pet
scheme beings carried out. As she meditates
thus, Mrs. Falconer casts a rapid glance in
Mr. Tomkinson's direction. He is standing
by Milly's side just now, saying a few words
to her, the gist of which Mrs. Falconer, withall
her wish to do so, cannot possibly encompass.
But she would not have been able
to glean much from their short conversation 
for this is all that passes between them, 

"Well, Miss Byron, for a young lady who
professes to hold society in disdain, you
certainly set us all a wonderful example of
forbearance," he begins, in half jesting
tones.

' I never profess anything, Mr. Tomkinson,"
returns Milly coldly ; " and as to the example

I set, It would not be particularly polite of
me to come out to luncheon and determine
to be a complete dummy, would it ? "

** Certainly not ; if one accepts invitations,
one ought to make an effort to be pleasant,
otherwise "

'' Otherwise one ought to stay at home,
you would say," she puts in. '' I see what
you mean,  if I were consistent to my views,
I should refuse to come out at all."

But I trust you will not think it necessary
to be consistent," he answers quickly. " We
should all be great losers thereby. Miss Byron.
You will not think it incumbent on you to
carry your views so rigidly into practice, will
you ? " he adds persuasively, looking smilingly
up into her face. Even Milly's defiant spirit
is not wholly proof against the influence of
that kindly smile.

Never ask me what I mean to do' she

responds lightly. " 1 can never answer for
myself for two hours together. When you
know me well  if ever you should do so 
you will discover that I am the veriest butterfly
on earth  ' to one things constant never.' "

That I never shall believe," he answers,
with much significance of tone. " You are
fond of underrating yourself, I know, but I
am not easily induced to alter my first impressions,
Miss Byron."

'' First impressions are nearly always wrong,
I assure you' she answers lightly ; and ashe
turns away without another word, she sees
that he is hurt by her flippant manner, and,
strange to say, the moment afterwards she
repents her of her thoughtless words. But
she has no opportunity of making the amende
to him that evening, unless it is conveyed to
him in the friendly shake of the hand, which
she feels bound to procter him as she takes

leave. Perhaps some subtle instinct enables
him to divine the unspoken meaning in her
unusually cordial adieu, as also in the half-appealing,
half-defiant glance with which
she favours him at parting. Certainly his
face clears as his eyes meet hers, and there
is genuine sincerity in his tone as he expresses
a hope that they may meet again
before lone.

Mrs. Falconer is quick to respond to the
young man's neighbourly speech, which she
happens to overhear.

'' Ah, that is so kind of you to say that,
Mr. Tomkinson," she says gushingly. '* You
will always be a most welcome visitor at the
Abbey, for Milly and I lead a very quiet, retired
life by ourselves ; do we not, dear one ?
You see, Mr. Falconer is so often suffering
that I do not like to urge him to entertain ;
but he will be equally glad to see you, I am

sure. A little friendly society will do him all
the good in the world."

Thus encouraged, Huo-h Tomkinson is not
slow to profit by the opportunities given him,
and by degrees it becomes a rare event that
more than two or three days pass by without
his putting in an appearance. Mrs. Falconer
sees with growing satisfaction that he is
undoubtedly attracted by Milly, marvelling
to herself the while that her niece's briisqtierie
and outspokenness should have any charm fora
man of his stamp. But as one of the chief
aims of her life is to see Milly married, she
wisely keeps her opinion to herself, and is all
sweetness and softness towards the girl, rallying
her on her '' conquest," and now and then
venturing on little suggestions in the way of
dress or demeanour wherewith to rivet yet
more firmly Mr. Tomkinson's chains.

So overflowing with satisfaction is she at

the desirable turn that matters are taking that
she cannot resist saying a word to her husband
on the subject.

Dear John, I believe we have reason to
congratulate ourselves that our dear Milly's
future may be said to be secured," she says to
him one day, in her purring tones. '' Mr.
Tomkinson's attentions are getting more
marked "

Confound it, Arabella, don't talk to me of
that provoking girl at a moment when I am
suffering such intense agony," replies Mr. Falconer
Irritably, writhing under the twinges of
his old enemy, the gout. '' Let her marry Tomklnson,
and welcome, if she can get him ; but
don't let me hear any palaver about It before
the thing is come off How do you know he
won't slip off without coming to the point ?
He can't know what a handful he'll have if
he asks Milly to be his wife, I'm sure ! "

'' I don't think Mr. Tomkinson has any
intention of not coming to the point, dear,"
continues Mrs. Falconer, with unruffled serenity.
*' He is a young man I feel I can thoroughly
trust and esteem, and I am confident he will
prove a true friend to our wayward Milly."

" And that other chap  that young scamp
who wrote to me and proposed for her as if
he had known me all my life, and then sheered
off when he found out that Milly was not the
heiress he fancied  how about him ? " asks
her husband gruffly.

** Oh, my dear John, I am certain Milly has
quite given up all thoughts of him. He is
gone out of her way altogether, and she is
recovering her spirits fast."

** Of course. Give a woman a new bonnet,
or take her out to a party, and trust her for
forgetting the man she howled over and vowed
she couldn't live without! And now, Arabella,

/6

I've had enough of that subject. I want
some one to come and read the Times to me.
If Milly had any sense of duty, she would
have come and suggested doing it for me."

'' My dear John, Cilia will be only too glad
to read it to you. The poor child is so anxious
to make herself useful, and really she reads
very nicely."

'eyes, like a parrot learning to talk," answers
Mr. Falconer contemptuously. 'just as if
she were wound up by machinery."

You never do my child justice," said his
wife, with a decided inclination to whimper 
an inclination suppressed instantly, however,
on meeting the angry glance he darts at her.
Poor little soul ! she is longing to be a real
daughter to you, and you do your utmost to
repress the yearnings of her tender heart.
When Milly marries, you will be obliged to
depend on Cilia for all these little services."

When that day comes, you may be sure I
shall make arrangements for my own comfort,"
answers Mr. Falconer grimly. ** And now,
Arabella, if you have nothing better to do,
soit had better read the leading articles tome.
Your voice is terribly weak, and you
jumble your words together in the most tiresome
manner ; but you are better than nobody."


Which flattering remark Mrs. Falconer does
not dare resent, for fear of incensing him still
more. She sits down to her uncongenial task
with the best grace she can assume, busying
her mind as to what that vague remark about
the future " arrangements " can mean. Surely
he cannot intend to enoraore some one to read
to him and to look after him generally ? Such
a proceeding would not suit her plans at all,
in ousting Cilia from the position which her
mother intends her to occupy as soon as Milly

is well disposed of. On second thoughts,
Mrs. Falconer finds consolation in the remembrance
of her husband's penurious habits, and
feels assured that he would not readily incur
the extra expense of another individual added
to the establishment. Nevertheless, her cogitations
have the effect of making her mind
wander from the work she has in hand, and
draw down upon her head the merciless abuse
of her lord and master for the half-hearted way
she is performing her duties. She is thankful
when the ordeal is over, and mentally resolves
that Milly shall not shift this burden on to her
shoulders so long as she remains an inmate of
the Abbey.

About this period of her acquaintance with
Hugh Tomkinson Milly has her first approach
to a quarrel with him. Had Mrs. Falconer
known of it, she would have augured still more
hopefully for the future, for that lady's theory

Is that these Httle ups and downs in the course
of love-making tend ready to a better understanding
in the end. The cause of the quarrel,
curiously enough, is Geoffrey Bering. Mr.
Tomkinson had ridden over to the Abbey that
afternoon, and Mrs. Falconer had at once despatched
Milly with him to the gardener, with
some trifling message to deliver from her.
As they stroll along the walks together, the
conversation somehow turns on their mutual
neighbours. The name of DerinQ is mentioned,
naturally enough, amongst others, and
the moment Mr. Tomkinson replies to her remark
Milly feels confident from his manner
that that episode of her past life is known to
him. Possibly Mrs. Falconer has seen fit to
acquaint him with an outline of the story.
Milly is very conscious that her face flushes
a lite at the sound of that well-known name,
and, party to hide her confusion, party from

a girl's curiosity to learn his opinion of her
lover, she turns to him eagerly, and asks, 

What do you think of him  Mr. Geoffrey
Derinp- ? "

For one instant Mr. Tomkinson hesitates.
Were he inclined to be strictly truthful, he
would have answered, " I think he is an unmitigated
scamp." But knowing, as he does,

the interest the girl by his side cherishes for


the individual in question, he casts about in his

mind the best means of reconciling policy and

sincerity. That moment's delay is fatal to

him.

With flashing eyes, Milly stops short in
front of him, and faces him with defiance.

You do not like him ! " she cries. " You
believe all the things which the wretched
old gossips about here say against him. You
need not deny it, Mr. Tomkinson ; I see it
in your face ! "

I am not going to deny anything," he
answers quietly. " I don't know that I
ever heard much gossip about Dering, but
having known him in a sort of way for
years, I have certainly formed my own
opinion of him."

And that opinion is unfavourable ? "

Again Mr. Tomkinson pauses.

"If you press me as to what I think ot
Geoffrey Dering," he answers deliberately, *' I
own that he is not a man I should make a
friend of. Not a man I should care to see
very intimate with a sister of my own," he
continues, more hotly, and forgetting any
cause for speaking with reserve. 'ein short,
he is not a man I thoroughly trust or believe
in."

Milly makes him a mocking curtsey, her
heart hot with indignation.

"Thank you, Mr. Tomkinson. No one

can accuse you of want of frankness when
you are asked for your opinion. You might
have known that Mr. Dering was a friend
of mine," pursues the girl, growing hot in
her turn. *' You do know it, I know,  I
don't care if all the world knows it ! " with
a gesture of disdain,  " and therefore you
might have been a little more sparing in
your remarks. It cannot be very pleasant
to me to hear a man I  I  knew well described
as unworthy of being trusted or believed
in."

She turns away in high dudgeon, and
makes towards the house. Hugh strides
after her as soon as he is aware of her
purpose, and tries to detain her.

Miss Byron, you are right and I was
wrong," he says penitently. *'* Please say
you forgive me. Don't be angry with me
for such a trifle. Just listen "

But she tears herself away from his Hght
touch with determination not to be overborne.


*' I hardly consider it a ' trifle ' to abuse my
friends so freely," she says, in her haughtiest,
chest manner ; and with these words she
leaves him standing there ; and he feels that
it is useless in her present mood to attempt
to mollify her. Reproaching himself for his
own stupidity, Hugh Tomkinson leaves the
Abbey that afternoon at an earlier hour than
he had contemplated, hoping to find Milly
in a more complaisant frame of mind when
he pays his next visit the following day.

Meantime, Milly herself, sore and angry,
retires to the privacy of her own room,
stamps her foot on the ground as she recalls
the past scene, and in her own mind sets
Hugh down as "horrid" and "spiteful" for
speaking of her hero as he did. Nevertheless,

she peeps out from behind her window
curtain to watch his further movements, and
when she sees him ride away down the
avenue, without even a backward glance towards
the house, she feels even more indignant
still with him, and thinks, were she a
man, she would not be so easily frightened
away by a few sharp words and angry
glances.

VOL. II.

CHARLIE IN TROUBLE.

MiLLY is graciously pleased to accept Mr.
Tomkinson's humble apology on the morrow,
when he presents himself at the Abbey at
the earliest hour he can decently do so. She
has by this time fully repented of her outbreak
of childish temper, and is rather anxious
to know whether she has sunk in his estimation
by her somewhat unreasonable pettishness.
She hardly knows why, but it is an
undeniable fact that Mr. Tomkinson's good
opinion is valued by her. The knowledge
that it is so has lately begun to dawn on
her mind ; and although inclined to be angry
with herself for being influenced by it, she
cannot force herself to feign an indifference

which she does not feel at heart. Milly is
in all things sincere to the backbone, and
transparent as a child ; and Hugh has no
difficulty in comprehending the meaning of
the half shame-faced look upon her face, accompanied
by an unwonted lowering of the
eyelids, as she puts her hand in his. Almost
before he has had time to entreat her pardon
for his uncharitable remarks of yesterday,
he feels that he is forgiven. From that
moment  when the girl beams her frank
smile on him, and begs him, more by look
than by words, to refer no more to the matter
Hugh Tomkinson's fate is sealed : he becomes
a willing, devoted, and unconscious
slave to Milly's charms. Her very waywardness
and variety of moods have the power
to attract him, and from this day dates his
fixed determination to try and win this girl
for his wife.

Meanwhile, Milly, all unaware of the
thoughts in his mind, is absorbed by a new
worry of her own, the cause of which she
can confide to no one. She has received
this morning a letter from her Cousin Charlie,
written from London, asking her whether
she could possibly find means to let him
have a few pounds by the end of the week.

'' I hate asking you this, dear Mil," he
writes, " for I know your purse is not often
too full, and you may be certain that nothing
short of dire necessity would drive me
to appeal to you. But, upon my word, I
am awfully hard up just now, and have no
money coming in at present. Ruth is very
good, and slaves away as best she can, but
she has not got many pupils, somehow, and,
after all, it is a mere pittance that she can
earn. Then fellows in my old regiment villas
me to dine here and there with them.

and I do not like to refuse, and so I have
to give them a dinner in return at my club.
You will understand all this, dear Milly, and
how hard it is for me to bring my expenses
down to the miserable income which the
old codger allows me. At present, my literary
ventures have not succeeded, though I
live in hopes that they will, and that I shall
awake some morning to find myself famous.
If I were a gay bachelor again, of course I
could rub on somehow, but with a wife and
a household  such as it is  to maintain, ita
hard pull on a man. Can you possibly
help me, Milly dear ? Of course I will pay
you, capital and interest, the very moment
that my * Fetters of Gold ' receives the appreciation
it deserves."

Milly puts this missive down with a sigh.
There is something in the tone of it which
jars upon her. Is it possible that poverty

and misfortune are making Charlie selfish ?
Else why that allusion to the sacrifices
which concern himself only, and which are
the inevitable sequence of his rash act.
And then that rather contemptuous mention
of Ruth's efforts to add to their slender 
Ruth, who, Milly knew, is straining
every nerve to obtain fresh pupils, and
who, at this moment, is actually the only one
who is earning anything by her own exertions.
Did that reference to his marriage
imply that he regretted having taken the
step ? Is he already wishing himself free
again ?

Milly is devoted as ever to her cousin, and
quite as loyal to his interests as heretofore ;
but the first sentiment evoked by his letter
to her is pity for his good little wife. The
next thing that occurs to her is the question
of procuring the money for him. That it

must be obtained by some means or another
is plain, and is a conclusion very soon arrived
at by her. But how to get it ? She feels
sure that nothing less than twenty pounds
will be of any real service to him ; and to her
it would be just as easy to produce ten times
that sum. In fact, she has not as much as
twenty shillings in her possession. Mr. Falconer
allows her the princely sum of two
pounds ten a month for pocket money and
little etceteras, himself doling out with niggardly
hands the money to buy the modest
stock of dresses, bonnets, etc., which are kept
well within the bounds of strict necessity.
Milly is literally a penniless orphan, her father
and mother having died deeply in debt, bequeathing
to their only child nothing more
tangible than a parental blessing. So the
problem how to get twenty pounds is a very
real one to her. In vain she racks her brain

for an answer to the question, and turns over
a thousand visionary plans in her bewildered
head, each of which she is forced to reject
with an impatient sigh in turn, rebelling
against her own impotency. What is therefor
her to do ? What possible means is therefor
a girl in her position to obtain such a
sum ?

Ah, how many times has such a question
been asked before under similar circumstances,
and no answer to it been forthcoming. Milly
is not fated to be the fortunate Individual to
solve the perplexing riddle. Try as she will,
she can originate no feasible mode of earning
twenty pounds  a feat as Impossible to her
as scaling Mont Blanc would be to a plethoric
old gentleman, or as holding her tongue to a
woman. Finally, she, in her despair, makes
up her mind to the bold step of acqualfltlng
Mr. Falconer with the circumstances, in the

faint hope that he may be induced to come
to his nephew's aid. " Taking the bull by
the horns," she mentally phrases this audacious
scheme of hers, and she cannot forbear a
smile at her own temerity as she figures to
herself her probable reception. She has very
little expectation of succeeding, but none the
less does she stick to her resolution, and, with
commendable courage, determines to make the
plunge in the first heat of her newly born
impulse.

Instinctively feeling that Mrs. Falconer
would do her best to dissuade her, were she
aware of her errand, she chooses her time
when that lady is out of the way, and marches
straight into her uncle's sanctum.

It Is one of Mr. Falconer's comparatively
good days to-day, and he looks a few shades
less grim than usual as he leans back in his
favourite armchair, stretching his feet out towards

the blazing fire, his occupation being
supplied by a pile of household books at his
side.

'' Not so bad ! not so bad ! " he is saying
to himself, as Milly enters. " She is beginning
at last to understand my ways ; still, the
consumption of coal is greater than it ought
to be. I must see to that "

'' Good-morning, Uncle John," begins Milly,
abruptly cutting short his faint appreciation
of his wife's managing capabilities.

He looks round sharply at her entrance,
and grunts out,  " Good-morning. Surely this
visit is an unusual attention on your part."

Yes, It is. I have got something to say
to you," returns she frankly, knowing by experience
that the only chance of gaining her
end is by going straight to her point.

Something to ask me for, I have no
doubt," he corrects, with emphasis. " The

way of the world all over ! No trouble is
too great for any one who has his own interests
to serve."

'' If it is the way of the world, it is not
surprising that I should share the universal
weakness, is it ? However, so far you are
wrong, Uncle John. I have not come to you
to ask a favour for myself, but on behalf of
some one else  for Charlie."

Even her brave spirit quails a little as she
brings out that forbidden name and sees the
brow of the old man grow black with fury.

How dare you come to me and, in flat
disobedience to my orders, mention a name
which I have told you is not to be spoken
in my house ? " cries he angrily, half rising
from his chair in his amazement at her venturing
to defy him thus. *' Of all the impertinent
proceedings I ever knew "

*' Just listen to my story first, and then you

can abuse me as much as you like," puts in
Milly quietly. '' I have had a letter from
Charlie this morning, Uncle John, and he
writes to me in great distress. They are so
poor that they hardly know how to get on,
and hitherto he has failed in his attempts to
get his novel accepted."

I never expected otherwise," interpolates
Mr. Falconer shortly.

He is at this moment actually In need of
a few pounds, and has been obliged to apply
to me," proceeds Milly, growing more eloquent
as she warms up to her subject. '* Of
course I have no means of supplying him
with any money; but you  surely, Uncle John,
you do not like to hear of his being in want
when it would be so easy for you to spare
him a fifty-pound note ? You used to be so
fond of Charlie in old days. Surely you cannot
"

'' Now look here, Milly."

The old man interrupts her with a set determination
of manner which bodes ill for the
success of her mission. Once, as she spoke,
Milly had fancied that a gleam of remorse
flitted across his rugged countenance, and had
hoped fondly that it might prove a forerunner
of absolute relenting. Perhaps it was not
altogether fancy on her part ; perhaps he had
yielded to a momentary yearning towards the
only human being who had had the power
of entwining himself round that stubborn old
heart. Maybe, for the space of one second,
he was seized with a pang of self-reproach
on learning to what straits his nephew was
driven. But if so, the better impulses of his
nature are instantly checked, and pride and
obstinacy once again regain their way. Hard
and cold is the voice with which he addresses
his niece ere she has completed her pleading ;

pitiless and immovable is the expression of
his small grey eyes as he turns them full on
her.

You have had your say ; now it is my
turn to have mine. I don't care what stories
you cook up about your cousin, or how much
he plays upon your silly credulity by representing
himself on the brink of starvation.
I will not listen any more to anything you
have to say on the subject. Once for all, understand
me, I will not have his name spoken
in my hearing. He has made his bed  he
may lie upon it as best he can. He may
starve in the streets for all I care," continues
Mr. Falconer, with increasing wrath ; " he may
beg his bread from door to door, but I won't
stretch out a finger to help him."

Then I only hope that you may live to
repent of your cruelty," answers Milly, rising
from her chair and speaking with a ring of

indignation in her voice. She is horrified and
amazed at the bitter animosity displayed by
her uncle, and realizes the futility of any
further contest. '' I cannot think how you
can bring yourself to say such hard things,
Uncle John. After all, what has poor Charlie
done ? Married a girl not in his own rank
of life "

We will not discuss the matter any more,
if you please," puts in Mr. Falconer, with sarcastic
politeness. '' For once in a way I
will pass over your exceeding impertinence in
flying in the face of my express commands,
but you will not find me so lenient another
time. Take care, young lady, what you are
about, or you may go too far, and try my
forbearance beyond bounds."

It is quite a piece of news to me that
you owned such a quality as forbearance. Uncle
John," responds Milly, with a reckless laugh.

too irritated and sore with her failure to be
very careful of her words. And, without
giving him time to answer, she sweeps him
a mocking curtsey, and beats a hasty retreat,
leaving him to vent his fury on the unfortunate
next comer.

And the next morning, when she has just
made up her mind that the only resource left
to her is to dispose of some of her slender
stock of jewellery for Charlie's benefit, a letter
arrives by the post to announce to her the
death of a god-mother, whom she has never
even seen, and to inform her that by her
will she is to receive a legacy of five thousand
pounds. For once* in a way, Fortune
takes it into her head to be kind, and to
bestow her favours in the very nick of time,
instead of, as is too often the case, evoking
by her caprices that most bitter of all cries 
"Too late ! "

NEWS FROM NICE.

When she has at last succeeded In making
herself believe that the astounding news is
really true, Mllly's thoughts instantaneously
fly towards her whilom lover, to the temporary
exclusion of Charlie's stern necessities. The
first idea that thrills through her frame on
finding herself mistress of such totally unexpected
riches, as they seem to her, is, that
possibly the barrier between her and Mr.
Bering may by this means be removed.
Presently cooler reflections take the place of
these visionary impulses, and sadly she calculates
the interest which will accrue to her
from those five thousand pounds. Few girls
are more ignorant on such subjects than is

VOL. II. 97 j

Milly ; but even she knows enough to be aware
that, turn and twist it as she will, and bring
all the hopefulness of her nature to put her
prospects in the most rose-coloured light, she
can still only reckon on an income of two
hundred a year at the most. Her heart sinks
rapidly at the sound of that two hundred a
year ; for would not that be but a drop in the
ocean, according to the ideas of any man
brought up as Geoffrey has been ? Is not
that the very sum allowed to Charlie by
Mr. Falconer ? and yet he finds it impossible
to struggle along, even with the addition of
his wife's earnings. It would be but genteel
poverty, and in her heart of hearts Milly
has an instinctive feellno- that Mr. Merino is
not one of those men who can " rough it " with
ready grace, and make himself happy with a
few hundreds a year. Had she only herself
to consider, Milly would not hesitate a moment.

Like other romantic girls, she has a rooted
belief that she would be more than content
to live on a crust and glass of water so honos
as she possessed that one supreme gift  the
love of the man who is all the world to her.
She dreams of a perpetual atmosphere of love-making
and rapturous bliss, with all the unwelcome
adjuncts of poverty well in the background.
Discomfort and worries of all kinds
are things unknown in this visionary picture
of hers, and if certain luxuries have to be
curtailed, what cares she for such trifles, when
Geoffrey is at her side, turning each day into
a perfect Elysium of everlasting happiness ?

But when she comes to think of Geoffrey
himself under such circumstances  Geoffrey
living in a very humble way, Geoffrey possibly
feeling himself fettered and cramped by the
narrow horizon of their daily life  Mllly's mind
misgives her. It is all so easy for a woman

to bear, but men are different. Their requirements
are far greater, and the perpetual round
of small events and trifling duties by no means
content them. And, oh ! if the day should
come when Geoffrey, like Charlie, should write
of his marriage with her in a strain similar to
that which had so struck her in perusing her
cousin's letter ! That the day should ever
come when he should accuse her of having
doomed him to a life of petty bothers and
irritating economies and makeshifts !

Poor Milly ! she begins almost to wish that
she had never heard of her legacy, since it is
o{ no use to her for the object which is so near
her heart !

However, at least it weill be enough to render
her independent of Mr. Falconer, and will enable
her to give Charlie substantial help.
With a pang of reproach at her own forgetfulness,
Milly instantly sits down and answers

her cousin's appeal, telling him of the good
news, and asking him if he can wait until the
money is handed over to her ; if not, she empowers
him to make any arrangement which
he likes with '' some money-lender," writes she,
with delightful vagueness, " to advance you
the money you want. Surely that will not be
difficult to manage, if you tell them they shall
be repaid the moment I get my legacy."

Milly's great wish, but one she hardly hopes
to carry out, is to keep the Intelligence a secret
from her uncle. She knows well that he will
make it an excuse for forcing her to defray
various expenses which at present fall on his
shoulders. It Is more than probable that,
guessing that her impulse will be to bestow
every penny of it on Charlie and his wife,
he will checkmate her schemes by putting It
out of her power to do so.

Unfortunately, however, in the first flush of

her surprise, she had communicated the contents
of the letter to Mrs. Falconer, and that
lady, having her own ends in view, sees no
reason why the master of the Abbey is to
be left in ignorance of what has happened.
Just as Milly remembers her indiscretion, and
wonders if she is still in time to repair it,
Miss Cilia rushes uninvited into her room,
and announces in shrill tones that she has
been to "papa,"  as her mother has taught
her to call Mr. Falconer  and told him *' all
about it."

"How tiresome of you, Cilia!" answers
Milly, provoked. "Why need you run allover
the house, telling people things which
don't concern you ? "

I haven't told 'people.' I only told papa,"
says the imp promptly. " No one told me it

was a secret."

* At all events, you might have let me look

after my affairs, without mixing yourself up in
them. And what did he say, pray ? "

Instantly Cilia throws herself in a chair,
leaning back in the attitude peculiar to Mr.
Falconer, and contrives to twist her face into
some faint resemblance of that of her " papa."

'' He looked just like this," she says, with
conviction. '' Look at me, Milly."

And even in her vexation against the child
Milly cannot restrain a smile at the strange
contortions she is making.

'' And he said oh, let me see, what were
his first words ?  * That fool of a girl ! She
is no more fit to have possession of five thousand
pounds than a paralytic duck ! ' "

Again Milly laughs, for the voice is Mr.
Falconer's to the life. The next moment she
remembers that she ought not to encourage
Cilia in her mimicry of her elders, and essays
a faint remonstrance.

** Cilia, you know you ought not to take off
Mr. Falconer like that "

.*' You never do it yourself, do you ? " returns
the unabashed Cilia. '' I think he was rather
cross at your having got the money, do you
know, Milly. He was grumbling away at
mamma when I left the room. I don't care
to stay with him very long," continues she, with
perfect candour. '* He doesn't like to have me
there, I'm sure, though mamma does her best
to represent me to him as an angel dropped
down from heaven. But he's not so easily
taken in, is he ? "

Really, Cilia, you should not talk in that
way. What would your mamma say if she
heard you ? "

She would say, ' My darling treasure, try
and control the natural impulsiveness of your
ardent nature, ' " is Cilia's reply, with a mischievous
laucrh. '' And here she is herself,

I declare. Well, mamma, did you hear my
last speech ? "

My dearest one, no. What was it, love ?
Something a little foolish, was it ? You must
not let your spirits run away with you, sweet
lamb. And now, my child, will you leave me
to have a little quiet talk with dear Milly.
*' Why can't I stay, too, mamma ? "
*' Because it is a matter which refers to
Milly alone, dear one, and would have no
interest for you. Well, Milly dear," continues
Mrs. Falconer, as the door closes behind the
unwilling Cilia, '' your uncle has been told
of your good fortune, as I daresay you know,
and is very much taken up about it. He
wishes me to say that he would like to see
you in his study at twelve o'clock, to talk
it over with you. But that is not what I
came to speak to you about," continues Mrs.
Falconer, drawing a letter from her pocket.

'' I, too, dear Milly, received a letter this
morning, which has some interest for you.
I hope and trust, dear child, that though the
news I have to impart may be somewhat
painful to you, yet you will believe that it is
only from a sense of duty that I inflict it upon
you. Duty, my dear Milly, makes sad martyrs
of us all in turns, and forces us to many
an unpleasant task."

*' I daresay," answers Milly, trying to control
her irritation. '' But can t you tell me
what this obnoxious duty of yours is, Arabella
? "

My letter is from a great  I may say, a
bosom  friend of mine who is staying at Nice,"
says Mrs. Falconer, coming to the point without
further circumlocution.

*'Ah!" as Milly utters an involuntary exclamation.
" I see you guess the purport
now. She has heard a good deal about Mr.

Dering at Nice, Milly, and that which she
hears is unfortunately not to his credit. He
spends all his time at Monte Carlo, and is
never seen away from the tables. In fact,
he has a passion for gambling "

"Well, and is that the worst your friend
can say against him ? " interrupts Milly
sharply  " that he goes a great deal to
Monte Carlo ? So do thousands of other
men ! So should I," adds the girl defiantly,
*' if I had the chance."

"Naughty Milly!" sighs Mrs. Falconer, with
the tone of indulging the caprice of a child. " I
fancy, love, that any little play you might be
induced to share in would be a very different
affair to Mr. Bering's systematic devotion to it.
I fear that he is leading a very dissipated life,
Milly. My friend says that he is seen about
with all sorts of  well, undesirable people, and
she has heard a report of his "

Mrs. Falconer hesitates a moment, and
glances at Milly's face before she proceeds.

Go on," says the latter impatiently.
'* What is the good of telling me half a
story " "

*' There is a report that he is engaged
to a lady belonging to the theatre at Nice."

'' I don't believe a word of It," answers
Mllly stoutly; 'not a single word. Your friend
has heard some silly report In the place, and
takes it for gospel, of course. I suppose," she
asks, looking the elder lady straight In the
face, "that you wrote to ask your ' bosom
friend' to give you any news she could of
Mr. Bering?"

Mrs. Falconer's face flushes a lltde.

"Well, naturally  feeling interested In him
for your sake  I mentioned his name to her,
and asked her if she had met him at Nice.
And this is her answer this morning You

would not have wished me to keep it back
from you ? "

'' Oh dear, no. It was natural, of course,
that you should tell me. In a general way,
gossip does not interest me, you know "

*' But, my dear Milly, you do not look upon
all my friend tells me as pure gossip ? "

Certainly I do, unless it were confirmed
by other people. That it may be true that he
goes to Monte Carlo, I don't doubt, nor do
I see the great wickedness of that. A man
must do something to amuse himself. But
of his engagement to that actress, I don't
believe one word, nor will I, till I hear of it
from more reliable authority."

'' I don't know why you should imagine that
my friend's authority is not a reliable one,"
answers Mrs. Falconer, bridling a little. '' But
I know that you do not easily give up your
own opinions, Milly, and it is, I fear, hopeless

to convince you. If you take my advice, you
will give up all thoughts of that graceless
young man, and take the goods which the
gods send you in his place."

Which, being interpreted, means Mr. Hugh
Tomkinson and Moor House," says Milly to
herself, with a contemptuous smile, as Mrs.
Falconer takes her departure, well satisfied with
herself at the adroitness with which she conveyed
that parting innuendo. And her efforts
are so far rewarded that Milly's thoughts,
when left alone, naturally flow in Mr. Tomkinson's
direction, and she wishes she could
make a confidant of him in her troubles.
Mrs. Falconers communication has ruffled
her spirit more than she chose that lady
to discover, and she feels that it is necessary
to her peace of mind to have the reports
confirmed or contradicted. Not that she
really believes in his engagement, but that he

should have been talked about in that way 
that any girl's name should have been linked
with his In such a short space of time, arguing
that some sort of flirtation must have existed,
is a heavy blow to her. So constant as she
has been to him in her thoughts, so utterly
impossible has been to her the remotest idea
of a flirtation with any one else !

And then once aoain she thinks of Mr.
Tomkinson, and with a gleam of hope remembers
that he once mentioned having some
friends at Nice that winter. She instantly
resolves to appeal to his kindness, and ask
him to obtain for her the desired information.
And, thus resolving, she feels
thankful that she has such a staunch friend at
hand, one whom she feels confident will throw
himself heartily into her service, nor ever
grudge time or trouble so long as he can
be of use to her.

THE SHOE Pitches.

Charlie Devereux is not a man who has
the capacity for accepting the reverses of
fortune with resignation. When he and his
wife first took up their abode in the tiny
house in an obscure street in Kensington,
the question of his rapid descent on the
social ladder had not troubled his mind very
deeply. His is an easy-going, sanguine
nature, and, with the unreasoning confidence
which often forms part of such a character,
he had believed profoundly in his own talent
for novel writing. Money, he thought to
himself, would surely come to them sooner
or later, in this or that form. Mr. Falconer
would never hold out against him for any

length of time, Ruth would soon earn enough
to raise them above the level of want, and
his " Fetters of Gold " would certainly make
a great coitp and bring him in a nice
round sum. But in the meantime, while the
novel which is to bring him fame and fortune
is going on its weary round of benighted
publishers, who lack discrimination
sadly in not at once descrying its merits.
Captain Devereux finds life under his altered
circumstances decidedly slow. Ruth is out the
greater part of the day, busy with her pupils.
Charlie had at first been very loth to give his
consent to her undertaking such drudgery.

'* My dear Ruth, it really is not necessary
for you to take pupils," remarks he, when
the plan is first mooted. "After all, we are
not quite paupers. You seem to forget that
the old skin flint is going to allow me two
hundred a year."

VOL. II. I

But when, as time goes on, two hundred a
year begins to assume less elastic proportions
in his eyes, he realizes what it is to feel
the want of ready money, his objections to
Ruth's repeated pleadings become less strenuous,
and he finally yields the point altogether,
and, with the help of one or two
friends, his young wife manages to collect a
scanty allowance of pupils.

As is natural enough, Charlie feels uncommonly
dull during her enforced absences
from home. The only break in the monotony
of his days is the periodical return of his
beloved MSS., containing a politely worded
printed rejection from one publisher after
another. At first, Captain Devereux takes
these disappointments lightly enough. *' No
one can expect to succeed all at once," he
says to Ruth, who takes the refusals to heart
far more than he does. And he loses no

time in despatching his treasure to another,
and yet another firm, feeling confident that it
is merely a question of time ere he sees his
book in print. But one must possess a very
hopeful spirit indeed to be able to bear up
for a lengthened period against the depressing
atmosphere of those repeated '' Declined
with thanks." The weeks, nay months, of
waiting which elapse before any answer is
returned at all are sufficient to try the
patience of a very Job, and the perpetual
sight of the unwelcome MSS. time aftertime,
a little more crumpled and dog-eared
on each occasion, becomes a weariness to the
flesh, and almost leads the author to wish he
had never been tempted to put pen to paper.
Almost, not quite, for surely among no other
fraternity of mankind does there exist such
tenacity of belief in their own powers as
among would-be authors. Discouraged and

disheartened for a time they may be, but
only to rise again in a short period, once
more hopeful, once more undaunted, with
the marvellous faith in their capabilities still
strong within them.

All these experiences fall to the lot of
Charlie.

He refuses to believe in ultimate failure,
and Ruth dutifully and sincerely encourages
him with similar assurances on her part.
But for all that he grows impatient and
irritable during those long intervals of waiting
for news, and rejects his wife's advice to
employ his leisure in writing shorter serial
stories, so as to have other chances to fall
back on.

'' You don't understand the unsettled feeling
it gives one to expect the post day by day
to bring you a letter to decide it one way
or the other," he says fretfully. '' I couldn't

possibly sit down and give my mind to
other stories while I am still in suspense
about my novel. No ! I must wait till I

hear what F and M say about it,

at all events. By the bye, Ruth, that reminds
me  I really think I shall have to
join a club again. I gave up the Naval
and Military directly after we married, but
upon my word I'm sorry I did. You see,
I have nothing on earth to do with my
time when you are out, and it would bean
object to me every day "

'' But isn't the subscription very expensive,
Charlie ? "

Nothing to speak of." Charlie feels emboldened
to speak in this careless sort of
manner, as if pounds, shillings and pence
are beneath his consideration, for his quarterly
allowance of fifty pounds has just been paid
into his hands that morning. " It's all very

well for you, Ruth," he continues, a little
aggrieved at her faint remonstrance. " You
have no time on your hands, and are occupied
all day long ; but what's a fellow to do
with himself, hanging about the house from
morning to night, or walking aimlessly along
the streets ? "

My dear Charlie, I didn't mean for one
moment to make any objection," returns Ruth
submissively. '' I often think it must be
terribly dull for you, and I certainly think
you ought to belong to some club again, and
be able to meet your friends."

And in this way Captain Devereux begins
to lead a life a little apart from that of his
wife. He was always popular in his regiment,
and his old brother officers greet him
with open arms when he comes among
them again. They are a little curious as
to where he has been hiding himself so

carefully for the last few months, but he
manages to evade all direct questionings, and
only one or two of them contrive to learn
the whereabouts of his abode. Then follow
invitations to dinner, to bachelor entertainments,
to shooting parties. Once or twice
his friends go through the form of asking
if Mrs. Devereux will not come too." But
as most of them are ignorant of Ruth's
social status the invitation is tendered in a
somewhat hesitating manner, and Charlie's
hasty reply that his wife does not care to
go out at all very soon suffices to prevent
their repetition.

I felt sure you would not care to dine
with the Foetuses or the Carruthers," he
says to her now and then. " You don't
know them, and I don't fancy they would
interest you. Besides, you see, your going
would entail our driving to all these places,

which we cannot really afford, while it is, of
course, no trouble to me to walk."

[To walk, yes ; but on how many wet
evenings did you contrive to produce the
money for cab fare for yourself, Master
Charlie ?]

Ruth answers cheerfully, 

Of course, Charlie dear, I could not
possibly go. It is very kind of your friends
to ask me ; but, you see, I have never been
accustomed to go out at all, and then I
should have to dress better, and we cannot
possibly spare any money for that. It is
much better that you should go by yourself."

Well, it seems so to me. A woman's
get-up is such a different thing to a man's.
And, as you say, you wouldn't care for it. But
you won't mind my going now and then, will
you, dear ? " He has gained his point, and
can afford to make a show of being considerate

towards her. " You see, really in the
way of business I ought to go and mix with
other people. Otherwise, how can I get
any ideas for my novels, cooped up in these
four walls ? "

'' Exactly."

Ruth represses a sigh at the impatient note
in his voice.

By all means go whenever you can,
Charlie. I shall miss you, but I would not
have you stay home on my account for anything.
I have always plenty to do in the
evenings."

And unremittingly Ruth betakes herself to
the uncongenial task of mending stockings,
sewing on buttons, and keeping their stock of
clothes in order generally, while her husband
goes out to enjoy himself after his fashion,
perfectly convinced that in doing so he is
but fulfilling his duty as an embryo author.

He is always In good spirits when he comes
back from his various entertainments, and
amuses Ruth with a Hvely account of the people
he has met, and the good things which he
has shared. And she lets no trace of sadness
cloud her brow, but even lends an animated
attention to his recitals, and listens with unwavering
interest to details of pleasures in
which she takes no part, and to plans for the
future which concern her, personally, not at
all.

This renewal of old ties and social intercourse
is very pleasant as long as it lasts, but,
unfortunately, the day comes when Captain
Devereux discovers that the expenses connected
with his mode of life are hardly to be
covered by two hundred a year. The thousand
and one absolutely necessary Items, such
as new dress clothes, gloves, cab fares, and,
above all, the occasional duty of returning

his friends' hospitality by a dinner at his club,
make a formidable hole in his slender income.
Ruth does her very best to prevent his feeling
the want of ready money, and pinches and
screws in every possible way to supply his
increasing demands. He never guesses how
many comforts  even necessaries  she denies
herself in order to furnish him with the means
of enjoying himself with his friends. It never
occurs to him to ask her how she manages
to save those extra pounds which she always
proffers him with so much cheerfulness. In his
frequent absences from home she is able to
practise many little economies unnoticed by
him ; her meals are of the scantiest description
when by herself, her clothes of the humblest
cut and material, and many a cold autumn
evening is spent by her plodding away at her
endless tasks without a fire to warm her
stiffened fingers. He certainly does remark

now and then that her dresses are growing
very shabby,  possibly the contrast with his
smart lady friends' attire calls his attention
to the fact,  and once or twice he asks her if
she ought not to buy herself a new gown or
bonnet. But her quiet answer,  " My dear
Charlie, what does it matter how I dress,
so long as I am fairly tidy ? I never see
any one but my pupils, and my old gown will
last well for this winter,"  Is quite sufficient
to make him dismiss the subject from his
mind, and he salves his conscience by buying
her a bright coloured ribbon, or a pair of
gloves, the next time he has any shillings to
spare.

But even Ruth's resources are not Inexhaustible.
She finds it become more and more
difficult as time goes on to keep pace with her
husband's requirements. It seems to her that
hardly two days pass now without his coming

to her to ask for 'just a few odd shillings,"
and at last she holds up an empty purse in
despair, and for the first time declares her
inability to help him. Thus brought face to
face with the stern reality of poverty, Charlie
gives vent to an impatient railing against the
hardships of his lot, and, leaving Ruth alone
with her regrets, makes haste to leave the
house, which, at that moment, as the scene
of such a vexatious experience, has become
odious to him.

An obliging friend, to whom he confides
his temporary difficulties, helps him to tide
over his trouble for the time being. When
Ruth hears of this, she looks grave.

" Oh, Charlie dear, how will you ever
manage to pay him ? "

*'0h, I'll pay him some day or other, my
dear," he replies lightly, jingling the welcome
sound of the borrowed coin in his pocket.

having quite recovered his good temper again.
*' Besides, what does a loan of  a few pounds
signify to a fellow like Lascelles, who is
literally rolling in money, and does not know
how to get rid of it? He never misses it."

** Still, you surely must pay him back,
Charlie."

** Of course I must. Miss Particular, and of
course I mean to one of these days. But
don't bother your head about it, there's a good
child. It'll be all right. And really, I need
not begin to think about repaying the money
the very moment I have got it."

Having found Major Lascelles to be of such
an obliging disposition, Charlie has less compunction
in applying to him again in his next
temporary pressure " ; and after that he easily
discovers other friends who are equally willing
to put their hands in their pockets when they
hear of *' poor Devereux's " necessities. Of

course Charlie does not think himself obliged
to confide all these particulars to his wife ;
and though she wonders a little now and then
how It is that his demands on her are far less
frequent than formerly, she is too simpleminded
to guess at the reason.

Finally, after this state of affairs has been
going on for some weeks, Captain Devereux
begins to feel that he has taxed his friends'
forbearance to the utmost limit,  at all events,
for the time being,  and yet, once again, he is
in absolute want of funds. Then it is that he
bethinks himself of Milly  of Milly, his staunch
and steadfast friend, who, he feels certain, wall
somehow or other contrive to give him what
he asks. He would have thrown himself on
Mr. Falconer's compassion if he could have
deluded himself with the faintest hope of
succeeding in that quarter, for there is nothing
which kills all pride so quickly as the pressure

of an empty purse, and, spite of previous
rebuffs, Charlie feels no modesty in making
the attempt. But then he reflects, that if the
thing could be done, it were better done
through Milly, who could best judge of her
uncle's state of mind, being on the spot ; and
Captain Devereux feels certain that she will
not shrink from the experiment if necessary.
And, as we have seen, he judges her correctly.

On receiving the news of her lucky stroke
of good fortune. Captain Devereux's delight is
extreme. He almost feels it to be the same
thing as if the legacy had fallen to his share,
for he knows Milly will be the most complaisant
of bankers, and his lively imagination,
scorning details, foresees a satisfactory
ending to the harassing pinching to which he
has been exposed for so long.

He is in such high spirits at the news that
he bestows a voluntary embrace on his wife

before going out, not to, according to Milly's
suggestion, '' some money-lender," but to a
long-suffering friend, and see what immediate
sum he can raise on her prospects. Poor
Ruth ! such tokens of affection on his part
are becoming somewhat rare events in her
experience now, but she never lets him
divine that she perceives his growing carelessness
of manner, and is genuinely glad to see
him so blithe and gay once more.

And so things flow on more harmoniously
than before In that little house In Kensington,
and the sunshine of Milly's prosperity makes
itself felt with cheering effect. And then, one
morning, about six weeks later on, another
surprise for them is dealt out by Milly's own
hand again. In a letter announcing her intended
marriage with Mr. Hugh Tomkinson.
And in his supreme content at the notion of
possessing such a well-to-do relation. Captain

VOL. II. K

Devereux pays but little heed to the language
in which the intelligence is couched. Nor
does he express any surprise at Milly's somewhat
rapid transfer of affections, though, when
he last saw her, she had appeared to him
desperately in love with penniless Geoffrey
Bering. But Ruth, who knows the whole
story, listens to the news in silent wonder,
and feels a pang of disappointment on hearing
of Milly's fickleness.

'' ON WITH THE NEW."

Her engagement to Mr. Tomkinson is a
matter of almost as great surprise to Milly
herself as to Ruth. She feels entirely unable
to realize how the affair came about. It all
seems to her so bewildering, so unreal, that
she fancies herself walking and speaking ina
dream. She  the promised wife of Hugh
Tomkinson ! she, Milly Byron, who, but a
short time ago, had no thought save for
Geoffrey Dering, and who would have thrust
the bare suggestion of marrying any one else
from her with indignant scorn !

The real truth of the matter is, that Mr.
Tomkinson's success in his suit has depended
a good deal on his own pertinacity and quiet



determination to gain his point. Also, circumstances
have aided him considerably.
When he wrote, at Milly's request, to his
friends at Nice, to beg them to forward any
news they might hear concerning Mr. Bering's
doings, the answer he received was distinctly
unfavourable to his rival. It was quite true
that the individual in question spent all his
time at the tables, and was said to ,be losing
every penny he possessed there. That was
only what he expected to hear, and Mr.
Tomkinson knew Milly too well to dare to
hope that this part of the business would
affect her deeply. But the succeeding paragraph
would be more likely to put her loving
faith to the test.

"As to what you ask me about the truth
of Mr. Bering's engagement, I cannot positively
say. But it is a well-known fact that
he is very dAmcd to Mdlle. Therese Manin,

the pretty little actress at the theatre here,
and they are always to be seen about together.
They say she Is a good little thing,
and is quite a lady In her ways. Mr. Dering
is evidently attracted by her blue eyes and
mignonne style of beauty. He is certainly
not a young man I should care to have about
my house, and, indeed, many people fight shy
of his acquaintance, for he has the reputation
of being very fast and dissipated."

This is the account which Mr. Tomklnson,
according to his promise, faithfully retails to
Milly. He is only human, after all, and though
a kind-hearted, generous man, who shall say
that he Is totally free from a feeling of gratification
that the report he has to deliver can
hardly be called satisfactory ? He would not
keep back an Iota of the truth from her were
It good news he had to tell ; but as It is not 
as Geoffrey has chosen to walk in such crooked

ways  Mr. Tomkinson may deplore the sin,
but cannot honestly bring himself to wish that
the sinner shared his abhorrence of it. Fickleness
and unsteadiness of disposition are faults
much to be deplored, of course, but it is wonderful
how lenient one can afford to be sometimes
towards frailties which do not come in
one's especial line of temptation.

Mr. Tomkinson reads out the letter to
Milly, doing his very best to prevent any
outward sign of his inward elation being visible
the while, and watches her face very narrowly
as he does so. But, though the words
sink deeply into her soul, she contrives to put
on a mask, and hide her real feelings from
him. She says very little beyond asking one
or two questions as to the reliability of his
information, thanks him for the trouble he
has taken on her behalf, and then shows him
very clearly that she wishes to drop the subject.

And a very long period elapses before
she mentions Geoffrey's name to him again.

And as insensibly from that time forth her
manner to Mr. Tomkinson becomes decidedly
softer and more encouraging, it is not surprising
that his hopes should take firmer root.
Backed up by Mrs. Falconer's representations,
who assures him that she feels certain that
'dear M illy will eventually see that it is for
her true welfare to reward such steadfast affection
as his," Mr. Tomkinson is not long before
he lets Milly know of the state of his
feelings towards her. Nor is he disheartened
by a prompt rejection. Once, twice, three
times he returns to the charge, combating her
objections, refusing to take her " No " as a
final answer, a mode of dealing which, in
nine cases out of ten, obliges the fair combatant
to lay down her arms and finally give
in. Mr. Tomkinson is not a lover of the

fierce, overmastering type, such as Geoffrey
Bering was ; he is not, perhaps, the kind of
wooer who takes a girl's fancy by storm, and
lords It over her In arbitrary fashion, such as
women love. But he Is very much in earnest,
and he does his best to convince her how all
his future happiness is bound up in her decision.


And, at last, she begins to say to herself,
as many a girl in like circumstances has said
before, "If I can make life happier for him,
why should I hold out against his wishes ? I
myself have lost the one supreme good which
could make existence a thing worth having
to me, and look forward to nothing beyond a
future of comparative contentment, if, indeed,
I ever achieve that much of negative happiness.
But if it really is in my power to be a
comfort and a benefit to a fellow-creature, is
it not better that I should consent to make

the attempt, and brighten the path of another,
although a perpetual shadow clouds my own
lot in life ?

And Mr. Tomkinson is not slow to perceive
the state of her mind, and to take
advantage of it. When she tells him that
she is not in love with him  that, however
much he may have forgotten her, Geoffrey
Bering's is the one image which will be
present to her mind, shutting out all others, so
long as this life lasts  he makes no attempt to
contradict her, nor does he affect to disbelieve
her vows of eternal constancy. He only
answers her that, even under these circumstances,
he is more than willing to make her
his wife.

*' But surely not when I tell you that I have
no love to give you," she urges ; '' when I tell
you that I still care for Geoffrey as much as
ever, and always shall."

'' Even then," he answers, smiling  " even
then I will risk it, Milly, if you will but have
me. I will make you love me one day, I
know very well. Until that moment arrives,
I will not ask you to care for me ; I will give
you all I have to give, and will not demand
anything in return until you offer it as a
voluntary gift. Only say ' Yes,' and make me
happy, and I think I can promise that you
shall never repent it."

With the sound of these and similar pleadings
daily in her ears, with the very ground
cut from under her feet by his acceptance of
her objections, what can Milly do ? Day by
day her resistance waxes fainter, and she
knows not what further plea to bring forward.
Besides which, the notion of marnnlne Mr.
Tomklnson Is by no means repugowq: to her.
She cordially likes him and trustiipw-c, and he
has acquired an influence over hen which she

/

finds it hard to withstand. And she certainly
would regret the withdrawal of his friendship
were he to carry out his threat of never seeing
her again should she finally reject him. Such
being her sentiments towards him, the result
is easy to divine. Milly wavers, hesitates,
demurs and objects for a long time  for so
long, indeed, that many a man less patient,
less persevering, would have given her up in
disgust, and taken her at her word. But in
the end she lets herself drift into her '' fate,"
as she calls it, and their engagement is an
accomplished fact.

A proud and happy man is Mr. Tomkinson
that day  so exhilarated with his triumph
that he refuses to listen to any more scruples
from his betrothed, and loses no time in
spreading the good news right and left. Mrs.
Falconer congratulates him with effusive
warmth, and even her husband is roused to

unwonted excitement on being informed of the
event.

'* That's the only sensible thing I ever
heard of that troublesome minx having done
yet," he remarks, with would-be affability.
'' But what a deluded fellow that Tomkinson
is to undertake the management of her !
What's become of that other chap she was so
sweet on two months ago ? " he adds, with
a sharp glance at his wife, who is the bearer
of the tidings to him.

'' My dear John ! " with a persuasive smile,
don't you think that that expression to be
sweet on ' is just a  a little unrefined, dear ?
And it is a great deal more than two months
ago since she fancied herself in love with him,
and since then I have heard sad reports of him
at Monte Carlo, and I feel sure that dear Milly
no longer gives him a place in her mind."

*' Gone to the dogs, is he ? Well, that

doesn't surprise me much ! All women are
weathercocks, I know, but I wouldn't give
much for Tomkinson's chances if some other
fellow turns up and makes love to that fool of
a girl before the wedding comes off."

But his wife knows better than to risk such
a contingency. She herself is very well content
with affairs as they stand, but she does
not feel so very assured of Milly's stability of
purpose, and is resolved not to run any risks
until the fatal knot is securely tied. She is
thankful that the girl's future is settled, and
that she will henceforth prove no obstacle to her
own particular private schemes. With Milly
married and out of the house, Cilia will naturally
come to the fore, and by a little skilful management,
the interests of her child no doubt can be
secured.

Pluming herself on the tact she has displayed
throughout the whole affair, Mrs. Falconer

does her best to impart a tone of motherly
sympathy when she discusses the important
event with her niece.

Dear, dear Milly." She contrives to
conjure up to her aid genuine tears of
emotion as she presses her Hps to the girl's
reluctant cheek. *' You know how deeply
I am feeling for you, love, in this trying
but most happy crisis in a woman's life. I
myself have gone through all the different
phases "

*' When you married my uncle, do you
mean ? " asks Milly, unable to resist the
temptation to be satirical.

** My sweet child ! you forget I have been
married before ! So young when I first
entered upon matrimonial cares, dear Milly,"
with a well-timed display of pockethandker-
chief,  *rand so early left a widow to mourn
the loss of one who was indeed the guiding

star of my existence. And now it is your

turn "

*' To lose my guiding star, too ? Why
should you think he is likely to find an early
grave  that is, if you are speaking of Mr.
Tomkinson, though / should say he gives one
more the idea of a moon than a star  his face
is decidedly verging on the round."

Milly says this in her most flippant manner.
Her aunt's remarks appear to exasperate her
more than usually this morning. Mrs. Falconer
restrains an impulse to box the girl's
ears, but continues with unruffled suavity, 

'' You are in one of your funny moods today,
dear one. I am so delighted to find you
so happy and in such spirits. I feel sure
that a bright future is dawning for you, my 
dear Milly. It carries me back to my young
days, when I was equally merry and full of
delightful anticipations, before I knew what

trouble was. And my sympathy and advice
will be always at hand at your service, whenever
you may stand in need of them, dear.
And when are we going to hear the dear
name of Hugh on your lips, I wonder ? It
has not become familiar to you yet. I remember,
when I was engaged, how bashful
I felt when I first made my attempt to comply
with my beloved Augustus' wish, and shyly
pronounced his name. One feels a curious
reluctance to begin "

** I am sure I have no objection to calling
Mr. Tomkinson ' Hugh,' if he wishes it," says
Milly indifferently.

'' Ah, you have a bolder, less shrinking
nature than I have," says Mrs. Falconer,
with a sentimental sigh, patting her on the
shoulder. " And now I will leave you for the
present, dear one. No doubt you have many
pleasant thoughts to fill your mind, and Mr.

Tomklnson will soon be here to claim your
attention. I must go and look after my Cilia.
She is so excited with the news of your
engagement, poor child, that I have some
difficulty in keeping her exuberant spirits
within bounds."

Meeting Mr. Tomkinson on the stairs, Mrs.
Falconer holds out both her hands to him in
the excess of her amiability, and smiles her
congratulations, informing him of her conviction
that he will prove '* a sure anchor "
to " our dear wayward Milly."

I almost think I hate that woman ! " cries
Milly impulsively, when Mr. Tomkinson
repeats that remark of hers.

He looks rather grave.

** Why should you hate her, poor thing ?
She seems to me to be well meaning, and to
be really interested in your affairs."

*' She is as deep as a draw-well ! " flashes

VOL. II. L

out Milly hotly. 'you don't know her as 1 do,
and don't understand her half as well. Why,
even at this moment she is inwardly chuckling
at the notion of getting rid of me, so
that Cilia may have a chance of becoming
first favourite with Uncle John."

*' I don't like to impute unworthy motives to
people without any real grounds," returns Mr.
Tomkinson soberly.

*' You speak just like a book ! Never mind,
you'll come round to my opinion some day,
and see her in her true colours."

*' At all events, she is a very harmless
person."

*' Is she ? So is a worm, and yet I dislike
the very sight of one. Why didn't you
ask her to marry you when she was Mrs.
Verschoyle, instead of me } "

'' She is, I should think, fifteen years my
senior, to begin with," he responds, smiling.

And then, I had the bad taste to prefer
you of the two."

I hope you may never repent of your
bargain."

'' I feel sure I never shall."

Don't make rash assertions. You know
as little of me as you do of the Queen of
Sheba."

Rather more, I think. And I shall soon
get to know you well"

** And you know what the result of familiarity
is said to be."

'' Milly, you are in a perverse mood today.
Mrs. Falconer has contrived to ruffle
your serenity."

Oh no, she hasn't. It was ruffled before ;
or rather, I never had any serenity to boast
of."

Such-like dialogues between them, with
sharp and sarcastic speeches on Milly's part

are by no means an uncommon affair during
those days of Hugh Tomkinson's wooing of
her. The truth is, that she feels irritated
with herself for having let herself be placed
in her present position ; and, seeing that her
lover does not resent anything she says, she
finds vent for the unsettled state of her
feelings in taking advantage of his forbearance.
She rather dislikes the gene of feeling
herself engaged to him, and in her hours of
solitude her thoughts dwell regretfully and
longingly on Geoffrey Bering, and she finds
herself contrasting the present with what it
might have been were he to stand in Mr.
Tomkinson's place. She does not care for
him ; she does not find herself becoming more
attracted by him as time goes on ; and yet
she is somehow under the spell of his influence,
and recognises in him a will superior
to her own. She respects him at heart, and

defers to him more than she herself is aware
of. She even holds him in a certain amount
of awe, and involuntarily restrains herself
from giving utterance to speeches which she
knows would offend his taste and judgment.
But, at the best, she is a trying person, with
her fitful moods and varying tempers, and,
but that Hugh Tomkinson possesses one of
those sunny tempers which are slow to take
offence, and against which the shafts of
petulance seem to glance off unnoticed, he
might have been many a time roused to indignant
remonstrance. He has an intuitive
inkling of all that is passing in her mind ;
he guesses at her impatience at feeling her
self-imposed shackles, and her half formed
wish to find herself free again, but he
decides that it is wiser to take no notice of
her mute rebellion. He laughs at her
vagaries ; he pays no heed to her sarcasms ;

he is always bright, overflowing with spirits,
and apparently perfectly content with his
prospects; and now and then Milly is compelled
to feel a little ashamed of her own
disagreeable humours, and makes an effort
to recover herself

I know I am not what you call an
amiable person," she says, one day, deprecatingly,
when she is undergoing one of
these repentant phases.

I don't think you are," he answers slowly,
as if he were revolving the question in his
mind. '* In fact, it would never occur tome
to describe you as amiable."

'' I fancy I must have got what somebody
once called *a crook' in my mind," continues
she gravely. '' I think, on the whole, I rather
dislike my fellow-creatures than otherwise. I
never have that extraordinarily overflowing
affection for every man, woman, and child

that I meet, like some people seem to have.
You, for instance. I believe it is your
natural instinct to like every one you come
across. Now I am not the least disposed
that way  on the contrary, I certainly start
with a predisposition to be antagonistic to
my species. I have no doubt I inherit it
from Uncle John, who is  well, not exactly
flowing over with the milk of human kindness.
He thinks you a veritable idiot to be
willing to be plagued with me."

'* Poor Mr. Falconer ! You and he have
not been a harmonious couple."

I should think not ! After the manner he
treated Charlie, I only wonder that I ever
behave with common decency to him. It
was shameful to cut him off in that way ! "

*' We must see if you and I together can't
plan something for Charlie's benefit," suggests
Mr. Tomkinson. *' He cannot go on as he

is now. I wonder if I could get any opening
for him in some line suited to his
capabilities ? "

*' Oh, you will try, won't you ? " asks
Milly impulsively. ** Poor Charlie ! It is so
bad for him to lead an idle life. Charlie is
one of those people who are born for prosperity,
and deteriorate when circumstances
go against them. Do find something for
him to do, and you will earn my everlasting
gratitude ! "

*swell, it is something to be assured of
that from your lips," returns he quietly.
Of course I will do my very best. You
are very fond of your cousin, aren't you,
Milly ? I wonder why you never fell in
love with each other."

Probably for the very reason that it
appeared such a natural consummation,"
answers Milly, laughing. Her short-lived

attachment to her cousin has by this time
almost faded from her recollection, and she
feels no embarrassment in discussing the subject.
*' All things go by contraries in this world,
don't they ? Charlie and I knew each other
too well, I suppose." Then, with a sudden
earnestness of tone very rare on her part,
she adds : *' Oh, Hugh, I do hope that when
you get to know me better, you won't
wish you had never asked me to marry
you .''

She asks it in all good faith and sincerity,
and Mr. Tomkinson can scarcely restrain a
smile as he answers her.

Don't trouble yourself to imagine that,
you little goose. I fancy I know and understand
you already a great deal better than
you think, Milly. And at present I decidedly
do not find anything to regret.
Only try and like me a little in return  that

Is all I ask of you. That will make me
more than content."

Ah, we cannot regulate our likings as
we wish, can we ? " she says wistfully,
wishing for the moment that she could indeed
give him that for which he craves. And
on her face comes that far-away look, as of
one whose thoughts are at a long distance
off, showing that, with all her longing to
reciprocate his affection, she is still hankering
after the forbidden fruit.

MONTE CARLO.

Meanwhile, what Is Geoffrey Dering doing
with himself while our heroine Is entering
upon a new path of life ? He is, he would
tell you, enjoying life to the utmost. He Is
a most persevering visitor to the tables at
Monte Carlo, a familiar figure to the croupiers,
and. In fact, earning a reputation as one of
the most reckless of gamblers. Luck has
never been very much In his favour from
the beginning, but the more he loses, the
more he continues to persevere, as If determined
to court Fortune, and compel her to
respond to his solicitations. It is, of course,
by no means his first visit to the place  Indeed,
It Is the exception when he lets a

winter pass without taking up his quarters
at the Hotel de Paris, and giving himself
up for some weeks to this enthralling pastime.
The monotonous cries of " Faites voice jeu
messieurs,' '' Le jeu est fait, rien ne va plus,'
are music to his ears ; the marvellous glamour
created by the uncertainty and the charm of
speculation has taken firm hold of him this
year more than ever, and he has no wish,
and hardly the power, to drag himself away
from the alluring scene. Sometimes he goes
there accompanied by a companion, but most
often alone. His whole attention is given
to the business before him. He never loses
his head, and his stakes are laid on with a
good deal of careful calculation and foresight.
His outward demeanour is at all times calm
and impassive, except when, very rarely, a
dark frown passes over his brow at a more
than usually continuous run of ill-fortune. For

the matter of that, one is struck by the general
air of indifference and lack of excitement which
pervades the faces of the greater number of
frequenters of the tables. One can discern
the novices at a glance by the eager flush,
the smile of satisfaction with which they
pocket their most trifling winnings, the ill-repressed
look of disappointment when their
stake is ruthlessly swept away by the croupier s
rake. But, with these exceptions, the crowd
gathered round that tempting green cloth are
remarkably quiet and self-possessed, and one
looks in vain for any traces of those violent
emotions depicted by the brush of one of our
great painters in a picture descriptive of this
curious scene.

And Geoffrey is apparently the most philosophical
of them all. One would fancy, after
watching him, that the loss of a thousand
francs or so is an affair of entire indifference,

and that he is playing more for the sake of
amusement than with any ulterior object. And
yet gain or loss are to him very serious matters
indeed. He has had some difficulty in
procuring the ready money necessary for his
journey and hotel expenses, and not having
recouped himself yet, as he fondly hoped todo,
he is almost at the end of his resources.
He has left himself enough to take him back
to England in a few days' time, but he has
positively only a paltry hundred francs in
hand which he can afford to risk ; and if that
goes the way of all the rest, he will have to
abandon his amusement for this season. He
anathematizes his evil fortune as he recalls
the proceedings of the day when left to himself
in private, and almost makes a vow to
tempt his fate no more. Nevertheless, he
is there again at the same hour next day,
going through the same experiences once more,

and again for the hundredth time, and haunted
by the remembrance of a sarcastic jibe he
has heard somewhere long ago : ' Jouez sur
Rouge, jouez sir Noir ; mais best toicjotirs
Plan c qui gagne.

He has a certain number of acquaintances
at Nice, who now and then succeed in luring
him away from Monte Carlo, and make much
of him at their partiesthat is to say, the
young ladies do, attracted by his good looks,
and still more by his * not very creditable
reputation. Their mothers are more inclined
to fight shy of him, looking on him as a
dangerous black sheep, who must be well
watched if allowed to enter in the family fold.

He goes to the theatre, too, whenever there
is anything special going on, and he suns
himself with a good deal of appreciation in
the smiles of Mdlle. Therese Manin. She
is lively, and manages to amuse him with

her outspoken remarks on things in general,
and Geoffrey belongs to that numerous class
of men who enjoy being amused. And the
next best thing to having an entertaining companion
is to find some one who lets you see
that yoti are amusing, and Mdlle. Manin,
who thoroughly understands men and their
little vanities, very quickly flatters him with
this assurance. And there is no doubt that
Geoffrey can be amusing when he chooses.
He has plenty to say for himself, and shows
some originality in the way he treats even
a most commonplace subject. He can be
very sarcastic, too, and puts little restraint
on his mode of expressing himself when ina
discursive mood. And the sotipon of recklessness
and dare-devilry underlying his freely
expressed opinions has a touch of fascination
for most women. He enjoys his flirtation
with Mdlle. Manin, but of course he has no

thoughts of letting it drift into marriage.
With all his impulsiveness and apparent disregard
of consequences, Mr. Bering is a man
who reflects well before he acts, and rarely
takes any important step without weighing
the consequences beforehand. He knows well
that marriage with the pretty young actress
would mean social ruin to him ; and, under
his present circumstances, would be about the
most foolish action he could commit.

No ; it does very well to pass an idle hour,
but Mr. Bering has no intention of letting
his admiration for Mdlle. Therese assume the
proportions of a serious affaire de coeur.
When he leaves the Riviera, he will bid her
farewell with a careless word of regret, but
with no bitter pang, no lasting sorrow. And
probably she understands that it will be so,
and knows as well as he that it is but a
pastime they are indulging in, a playing at

VOL. II. M

being in love ; and very possibly, amongst
her numerous stock of admirers, she can very
well afford to let this particular one go.

It Is during the time he Is In the " Sunny
South " that Geoffrey learns of M lily's engagement
through the medium of the Morning
Post. The Intelligence does not come upon
him In the light of a shock, nor even as a
surprise. He has not been sufficiently In love
with her for It to be a bitter thing to him that
she should be so soon thinking of letting another
man take his place. But he knows very well
that she was seriously In love with him, and
a sneering smile crosses his face as he reads
the announcement once ao-aln.

o

*' They are all alike, these women," he says
to himself. '' They pretend for a time to care
for a poor devil out at elbows, and with nota
penny to bless himself; but as soon as he
has received his covg, they manage to put

him out of their heads with laudable promptitude,
and hold themselves in readiness for the
highest bidder. And she has secured a prize
worth having in Tomkinson, in the way of
money, and the fact that he is a fool, and has
no brains to speak of, is not worth considering.
Well ! I hope she may be satisfied
with her bargain ! '*

And in such a careless fashion does this
young man accept the knowledge that he has
lost for ever the girl to whom, only a few
months back, he vowed such passionate devotion,
such undying love. Talk of the
fickleness of women, and their capricious ways,
it never equals the changeableness of man,
and his capacity for putting aside unwelcome
memories. '' To one thing constant never,"
he rarely likes to feed on the disappointment, as
poor foolish woman does, but does his best to
consign it to oblivion, and seeks distraction in

one of the many resources ready to his hand ;
while she, poor thing, indulges in the luxury
of nursing wild longings for the unattainable,
and hugs the dreary pleasure of what " might
have been" to her faithful heart.

Geoffrey goes as usual to the tables that
day, and perhaps a very keen observer might
have detected that he plays a little more recklessly
than in an ordinary way, and bears his
losses with something less than his everyday
philosophy. But beyond that he gives no
sign of taking any notice of that paragraph
in the paper. ~ -

And so time speeds on, carrying the golden
hours away, never more to return ; and, as wee
have said, the day comes when a hundred francs
is all that is left to him in his purse with which
to make ducks and drakes. He has positively
no means of replenishing his exhausted coffers,
for he has applied to his most intimate friend

once too often, and his father, a broken-down,
impoverished specimen of humanity, is in the
same miry straits as his son. And so he
carries his hundred francs with him, fully comprehending
that unless his luck changes for
the better, he is entering those alluring precincts
for the last time for many a long day.
His face is as calm as ever, and his step
firm and decided, as he walks up to the group
around the fatal roulette table, and takes his
stand behind the croupier s chair. He has resolved
to halve his miserable little stake, and
to risk it all in two attempts  two final chances.
And he patiently bides his time, and when
the moment arrives, he places his little heap
of gold on the number he has selected according
to some inexplicable '' system " of
his own. Not a muscle of his face moves
as he sees his first hope mercilessly destroyed
by that omnivorous rake. One

would almost have fancied that he smiled
as he looked on at the withdrawal of his
stake, but if so, surely a very bitter smile
indeed. Once aQain, after an interval of ten
minutes, he launches his last venture ; and
once again he is doomed to a repetition of
the same sorry farce played out. He has lost
it all !

With a smothered imprecation which embraces
Dame Fortune, croupiers Monte Carlo,
and the world in general, he pushes his way
out from that pressing throng, and strides away
through the various rooms leading to the entrance
hall, closing the door behind him with a vicious
fling. He takes his way to the terrace in front
of the Casino, and seats himself on the stone
balustrade which stretches from one end of the
terrace to the other. It is nearly nine o'clock,
and the evening is chill and raw, as February
evenings, even in that genial climate, are apt to

be. But Geoffrey takes no heed of the damp
fog permeating his bones. There is a bright
silvery moon shining clear amidst the swiftly
passing clouds overhead, and a gradually rising
wind makes a faint rustle amongst the rich
foliage of the many shrubs around him. The
scene displayed to his view is very lovely, very
peaceful and soothing, and, on the whole, one
not to be excelled by any other part of the
known world. The tideless blue ocean 
azure blue even in that chastened light  lies
before him  a glorious expanse of slightly
ruffled waves, with the luminous rays of the
moon dancing joyfully upon their frothy
crests ; the greyish-green olive-trees  dark
and sombre when not illumined by the beneficent
influence of the all-powerful sunshine ;
the lighter tints of the orange groves ; here and
there a group of tall, graceful palms, and of
sturdy aloes ; the outline of the irregular coast,



line fading away into hazy distance towards
Mentioned, and to the right the dark
walls of the Prince's palace at Monaco,
with the surrounding tangle of roofs of the
town itself and the village of Contained,
and beyond, a faint suggestion of the
promontories of Villafranca and Nice ; 
a scene which has been described a hundred
times by skilled and able pens, but a
scene which never loses its charm, or grows
stale by repetition. And yet, as far as
Geoffrey Bering is concerned, it might have
been a sheet of waste paper. He 'cares
for none of these things " ; indeed, in his
present mood, he almost hates the sight of
that familiar landscape. He is wondering
idly, as he sits there, his head bent forward,
his arms folded, and his gaze fixed upon
vacancy, what will happen to him next, and
what is to be the end of all this unsatisfactory

dallying with existence. Has life nothing
better in store for him than that which
has hitherto fallen to his lot ? Has he, at
two-and-thirty, run through the whole gamut
of pleasures and enjoyments, and is there
nothing more satisfying to come ? Is he to
go on for ever leading this kind of hand-monmouth
existence, seeking vainly for fresh
distractions by which he can kill that archenemy.
Time ? He has lived two-and-thirty
years In the great world, and during that
whole period he can lay his finger on no
useful deed that he has done for the benefit
of his fellow-creatures  can recall no action
on which he can look back with even-tempered
satisfaction. Self and self-enjoyment
have been the ruling principles of his aimless
life, and he has spared no pains or
trouble to attain those ends. He has lived
for himself alone, and the happiness or the

well-being of others has never been allowed
to enter Into his calculations. Why do these
reflections take possession of his mind just
at this moment ? Why does that visionary
picture of himself twenty or thirty years hence
flit across his imagination, and present Itself
to his mind In the form of an unloved, miserable
old man, with all the sweetness eliminated
from his joyless life, and with but the
memory of a profitless past, and the prospect
of a sunless future, to cheer the remainder
of his lonely days ? Why do such thoughts
trouble him now. In this black hour of trouble,
when Hope seems to be bidding him a final
farewell, and no light appears to cast a gleam
across the monotonous blank of the dreary
years to come, and to be lived through somehow
?

And then his glance falls on the ocean
lying beneath his feet, and he gives way to

a vague wonder why he and others situated
as he Is do not take refuge in that easy
method of solving the knot of their cares
and their perplexities. It is all done in a
moment : one instant's courage is all that Is
needed, and then the cold waters close over
your head, and your worthless, purposeless
life is done with, and oblivion Is mercifully
granted to you. What is there in life which
makes it worth having ? and why does everyone
cling to it with such pertinacity, as If
It were a treasure beyond all price, while
one Is at heart weary and sick of It, and
knows not what more to make out of It ?

Geoffrey Bering sits on there, and ponders
on these and like questions with a curious
dreaminess of thought most opposed to his
usual state of mind, which gives a wide berth
to such philosophical matters In general. He
Is in a condition of quiet despair, and feels

perfectly callous as to what is to become of
him next,  just in one of those moods ripe
for any mischief which the evil one may
prompt, bitter, reckless, and defiant, hoping
nothing, caring for nothing, a ready tool for
the powers of darkness.

Yes," he thinks, " Shakspeare certainly
goes to the very pith of the question when
he talks of ' rather bearing the ills we have
than flying to others that we know not of.'
That is the very thing, the only thing, which
in nine cases out of ten prevents mankind
from putting himself out of this cross-grained
world by his own hand. The uncertainty of
what may be our hereafter, the shrinking back
from the vast unknown  that is the real reason
why so many of us dread to carry out our
frequent impulses to have done with it all,
and to take that tempting leap in the dark.
At all events, the troubles we have to put

up with here are tangible and real ; we know
what they are ; and if we cannot overcome
them, we can fight against them and struggle
on somehow. And then we always  at least,
most of us do  at the bottom of our hearts
have a faint hope that the worst is over,
and that something  a very vague ' something
'  may turn up unexpectedly to set
us on our feet again. * Physically brave
and morally cowardly!' I heard some one
describe suicide once, and I am inclined to
think that isn't badly put. It does need a
moment's pluck to throw yourself in the sea,
or drink down the poison you hold to your
lips, knowing that that will be the last dose
of anything which you will swallow in this
world. I've always had a certain amount
of respect and admiration for the fellows
who could do it. But, upon my word, I
think you want courage of another kind, and

a greater amount of courage, too, to go on
dragging out a weary existence, from which
you derive no sort of enjoyment, nor can
expect to have any. Such as mine, for
instance. Here I am, penniless and beggared,
with not the remotest chance of ever
rising beyond my present depths of misfortune,
with no one on earth to care particularly
for me, my only near relation a father,
who doesn't care two brass farthings whether
I am dead or alive, so long as I leave him
in peace, and don't bother him for tin. I
do believe that little fool Milly cared forme
once, but even she threw me aside like
an old shoe. Hang it all ! I certainly have
got a fit of the blues to-night ; it's because
I'm so clean cleared out, I suppose. Well,
I must see about getting away from this
place tomorrow ; if I don't, the probabilities
are "

"Hallo, Derlng ! what in Heaven's name
are you sitting mooning here for, like an owl
on a perch ? "

The interruption comes from some one behind
a group of aloes near at hand, and, turning
round, with a mingled feeling of relief and irritation,
Geoffrey Bering recognises the voice and
form of Major Mainwaring, a Nice acquaintance
of his, also an habitual visitor to the Casino,
and a man in whose presence melancholy
and morbid reflections would seem strangely
out of place.

A LAST THROW.

Major Mainwaring is a big, jovial-looking
man of five-and-forty or thereabouts, with a
loud voice, a ruddy, weather-beaten complexion,
and a good-humoured expression in
his eyes. He glances keenly at Geoffrey's
sullen face as he repeats his inquiry, 

What's up with you, old fellow ? Have
you got incipient mumps, or has your ladylove
thrown you over, or has the wheel of
Fortune refused" to turn your way ? You look
doleful enough for all three things to have
happened to you. And you, of all people,
whose cool cynicism I have often envied and
admired. What is it, Geoff, my boy ? "

Nothing particular," answers ]mr. Dering


coldly. '' What a fellow you are for chaff,
Mainwaring ! Did you never see any one
temporarily down on his luck before ? "

Countless times," is the prompt reply.
*' But I never thought to see you so completely
bowled over as you are. Why, my dear
Bering, it's the way with all of us  down today,
up again tomorrow. There's no use
in looking so awfully glum about it. Things
generally right themselves when they come
to the worst ; at least, that's my experience.
Why, I left the tables just now because I
was losing to the tune of some hundred francs,
and thought that I had done enough for one
night. But, bless your soul, I know I shan't
sleep a whit the worse for that, and tomorrow
I shall be here again, as merry asa
lark ! "

'' That's all very well for you, who have
something to fall back on," answers Geoffrey

VOL. II. N

moodily ; " but it's a different thing with me.
I've staked and lost my very last centime."

Major Mainwaring elevates his eyebrows.

Your very last ? No more supplies
forthcoming ? Well, I'm glad to see you
have not taken refuse in a last resource,"
and he glances significantly at the watch and
chain hanging in his waistcoat pocket. *' Well,
after all, you've had a good bout of it this
year, Bering, and you'll come again next
autumn, just as the swallows will return in
the summer. And I suppose a man must
pull himself up some time or other before
he gets completely to the end of his tether."

'' Yes ; but it's rather a different thing
pulling one's self up to getting pulled up
without your will by the stern force of circumstances."


I agree with you, my boy. It is not
exactly pleasant ; but still, I often think

that Fate is very hard on poor devils like
you and me. If we only had the chances some
have, we should know how to make the
best of them, I fancy, shouldn't we ? " And
after a short pause, 'rand what are your
plans for the present ? Shall you go back to
England, or stay on here ? "

I shall take the first possible train
to England, and then  Heaven knows what
I shall do there, for I don't ! " responds
Geoffrey, casting a vacant glance over the
shimmering moonlit sea.

*' Probably enjoy yourself thoroughly, and in
two weeks forget all about your unsatisfactory
experiences here, " answers Major Mainwaring
equably. " Who was the chap who said it
was * better to have loved and lost than never
to have loved at all ' ? Shelley or Byron,
wasn't It ? Well, I say it is better to have
played and lost than never to have played

at all. I don't envy those people who have
never known what the thrilling excitement
of gambling is ; and though my losses  taking
the last ten years through  have on the whole
decidedly outstripped my gains, I don't for
one moment regret the fact, for I have got a
jolly lot of excitement and pleasure out of it
all."

To this assertion Mr. Derinor makes no sort
of reply. Perhaps the retrospect of his experiences
does not present the same charm
to his mind ; perhaps in his heart he wishes
that he never had " loved at all " that luring,
fascinating, treacherous syren, the Goddess of
Fortune.

Major Mainwaring continues to puff away
at the cigar on which he has been employed
for the last ten minutes, and then takes up the
parable again. He is a man who rarely keeps
silence for five minutes together, and at this

present moment he considers it his bounden
duty to do his best to try and enliven his
woebegone fellow-creature.

'you belong to C shire, I think you

told me once ? " he asked. ' I had a letter today
from a friend of mine  or rather, a distant
relation. Did I ever tell you that some of my
kith and kin live in those parts ? This fellow
tells me of a marriage coming off there in about
ten days' time. A Mr. Tomkinson, of some
place or other,  a very rich chap, who has
made heaps of money in trade or something, 
and a Miss  Miss  I forget the name just now
a neighbour "

Miss Byron, isn't it ? " puts in Geoffrey,
the faintest interest stirrings in his face ashe
pronounces the name.

'* That's it  Byron ! Of course it is ! Do
you know her  or him '. "

*' I know him slightly  that is, he lives a

few miles from us ; but I have never met
him much. I know Miss Byron  well."

Another keen glance from Major Main-waring
follows the slight hesitation with
which Geoffrey utters this last word.

"Oh, really! I hear she's just come into
some money, too. Sure to be the way !
Money always sticks together in the most
unaccountable way, as if on purpose to spite
outsiders like you and me, who don't get a
chance of "

You are mistaken in the present instance,"
interrupts Geoffrey, cutting him short.
Miss Byron has no money whatever of
her own."

I think you must be wrong. My friend
tells me for a fact that she has lately come
into an unexpected slice of luck  some old
aunt, or grandmother of somebody, has left
her -"

Have you got the letter in your pocket ? "
" I think I have. Yes," after fumbling a
moment or two. " Wait a bit ; I can't
read it by this light, but I'll strike a fusee,
and read you out the paragraph. Here it
is. ' The bride-elect is Miss Byron, niece
of that old curmudgeon. Falconer, of Whin-cote
Abbey. Some people say she is safe
to come in for the old miser's hoardings,
but anyhow she is not empty-handed, for
some distant relation of hers has just kindly
removed herself from this sphere, and left
Miss Byron a pot of money.' There ! that's
clear enough, isn't it ? " adds Major Main-waring,
returning the missive to the depths
of his pocket.

To which Geoffrey makes no sort of answer.
Are you still unbelieving, Bering '. "
Upon which Mr. Bering descends deliberately
from his perch, puts his hands in his

pockets, and after a prolonged stare at the
moon, responds absently, " No."

Why, you haven't been in England this
last I don't know how long," proceeds Major
Malnwaring, still keeping his eye fixed on
him with steady intentness. 'why shouldn't
this Miss Byron have come into two or
three fortunes since you had the pleasure of
seeing her ? Such things do happen. What,
are you off ? " as Geoffrey turns sharply on
his heels, and makes a movement to take
his departure.

Yes, I'm off I must go and get ready
for my start tomorrow."

Do you mean for England ? I had no
idea you were going off at a moment's notice
like that."

I must go. I have got  business there,"
returns Geoffrey, still with the same absent
air, as if hardly conscious of what he is saying.

Then, observing his friend's look of
surprise, he pulls himself together with an
evident effort, and adds, with a constrained
laugh, '' The fact Is, Malnwaring, I'm utterly
shelved out, as I told sou a little while ago.
Under those circumstances, the landlord of
the Hotel de Paris would be more glad of
my room than my company. Good-night,
old fellow."

Well, good-bye, Bering, since you really
are going. Good luck to you wherever you
are. I suppose you'll turn up here again
some day. As for me, I'm a fixture, as you
know. Ta-ta."

'' I wonder whether there's anything ' up '
between Bering and that Miss Byron," ponders
Major Malnwaring, gazing after the
other's retreating form. *' It looks uncommonly
like it, his being so Interested in my
news, and then rushing off in that insane

fashion, like an arrow from a bow. Very
odd thing if it is so. I always thought that
he was one of those fellows who liked to
philander about every girl and that kind of
thing, but if I'd been asked who, among my
acquaintance, would be the last man to think
of marrying, I should have backed him fora
thousand pounds ! Well, I suppose there
isn't one among us who hasn't got a soft
spot somewhere about him, and who has got
off quite deathless."

And Major Mainwaring's bronzed face
softens, and a half-sad, half-thoughtful expression
takes the place of his ordinary
good-natured, careless bonhomie, as his mind
travels back to bygone days, and he recalls
wistfully the gleam of a laughing blue eye,
and the sheen of fair golden curls. Ah !
how pleasant it was while it lasted, that foolish,
tender, enthralling dream of love ! Is

there anything like it in the world ? And
what a different sort of man he might have
been, he thinks, if that far-off dream had
been realized, if he could have called the
owner of those blue eyes and those fair curls
his own ! He pictures himself as he would
have been under her guiding influence, and
he pictures something very different from
the blast, devil-may-care, thoughtless and
hardened individual who stands now on that
terrace, looking down with glowing eyes into
the waters beneath. Ah well ! of what earthly
avail to stand there and mourn over the unattainable
; and, after all, he is not sure that
he wants it back again  that forever vanished
past, with its follies and its ignorance,
its sweet illusions and its ridiculous visions
and ambitions. Now he has learnt to enjoy
life after another fashion, and knows how to
get out of it all he wants, and  and, with a

sigh and a short laugh at his own sentimental
mood, Major Mainwaring turns away,
and betakes himself slowly down the steps
to the station.

Meanwhile Geoffrey is engaged in thrusting
his worldly goods into his portmanteaus
with no very careful hand. His friend's
intelligence has had the effect of deciding
his movements. He is going to England
tomorrow, and he is going to see Milly, and
make a desperate effort to snatch her from the
grasp of Hugh Tomkinson. Yes, even now,
at the eleventh hour, within a week or so of
her wedding, he intends to make the attempt ;
nor, truth to say, does he feel much doubt as
to the success of his enterprise. *' A pot of
money ! "  those words ring in his ears all
the time he is making his hasty preparations,
urging him on to renewed exertions, and
holding out a promise which makes his heart
warm as he thinks of them.

A pot of money! " What fearful exaggeration
of the moderate Httle legacy which those
words really represent ! But of course Geoffrey
Dering knows nothing of that  how should he ?
An hour ago he was in a state of desperation,
ready to cling to any straw which might be
thrown out to him, and lo ! by the merest
chance, a glorious opening is cast at his very
feet, and a golden mine is likely to be his for
the asking. He would be a fool indeed to let
such an opportunity, such a providential chance,
slide. And to do him justice, he has no
intention of not taking advantage of it. He
means to travel to England as fast as steam
can carry him, make his way straight to Milly,
and, by all the power of her former love for
him, work upon her feelings, and persuade
her  if there be any force in persuasion at
all  to throw over her intended husband, and
accept him in his place. But of course it must
be done carefully and well. JNIilly must never

suspect the real reason of his sudden appearance.
She must be led to believe that he has
just heard of her marriage, and that the knowledge
has been too much for him ; that he
has rushed off at a moment's notice to wrest
her from his rival, and that, rather than let
her pass into the keeping of another, he is
willing to run the risk of poverty and the
wrath of her relations, which contingency he
contemplates with easy disdain. He makes
a mental sketch of the line he means to
adopt, and smiles grimly to himself as he
foretells an easy victory. And having completed
his packing, he rings the bell, Issues
his orders for the next day, and gives himself
up to the attempt of snatching a few
hours' sleep before the morning dawn. The
next day finds him as determined as ever to
carry out his purpose. He steps Into the
train with a nonchalant air, envelops himself

in the numerous wraps he has with him,
and resigns himself to the weary hours of
traveling with a readiness which argues
that the object of his journey Is such as to
neutralize the discomforts entailed by those
prolonged hours of monotony and Irritating
motion. And all the time, throughout the
night, In his moments of resting sleep,
the magic words, " A pot of money ! " are
ringing in his brain. Waking or sleeping,
they are for ever present with him, In
harmony with the continuous roll of the
carriage wheels, the click of a half-drawn
blind, the general whirr and buzz of a train
in rapid motion. He crosses by the shortest
route to England  via Calais and Dover ;
he reaches London In fairly good time,
spends that night at an hotel, and leaves

for C shire by the first available train. He

has concocted the whole plan beforehand,

and worked out every detail in his mind, and
there is no hesitation, no diffidence visible in
his demeanour or in his actions.

It is on a mild, fine February morning when
he sets foots in the little station of Fenwick,
the nearest point for reaching Whincote
Abbey, still two miles distant. He undertakes
that last bit of his journey on foot. The
air, balmy and soft, as is seldom the case at
that time of year in ungenial England, fans
his cheek as he walks along ; there is a repressed
twittering of song-birds to be heard,
rejoicing in the signs of release from the
thraldom of winter. There is even a faint,
a very faint, perfume of early primroses and
violets distinguishable in the breath of the
west wind as it faces him in his onward
progress. *' Spring, gentle spring," is dawning
on the face of the earth, and all Nature Is
waking up from Its long sleep.

But of none of these things does Geoffrey
Bering take any heed. He strides on, casting
now and then a furtive glance from side to
side, and is presently lost to sight in the
depths of the Whincote plantations.

VOL. II.

THE DAY IS FIXED.

Certainly the period of his engagement to
Milly does not pass very smoothly for Hugh
Tomkinson. She is amiable only by fits and
starts, uncertain in her moods, captious and
fretful for no apparent reason. It is with
great difficulty that he induces her to give
her attention to fixing the date of their marriage.
On one pretence or another, she contrives
to evade the question from day today.
Why is he in such a hurry ? Why
need they think of settling the day yet ?
She has hardly had time even to grasp
the fact that she is going to be married
at all, and now he comes and urges her
to say when the wedding-day is to be !



Certainly not for a very long time  not for
six months, at least !

This is all he gets at first in response to
his pleadings. But one day, when she is in
rather a more pliant humour, he contrives towring
a promise out of her that it shall take
place in the first week in March. Once having
won her consent to this, Mr. Tomkinson
is serenely happy, and sets himself to carry
out the preparations for the important event
with unremitting energy. He consults Milly's
taste about every trifling alteration which he
intends making at Moor House in honour
of his bride, and in all things tries his best
to gratify her likings to the very utmost. It
is unnecessary to say that Milly shows no
gratitude for this consideration of her wishes.
Sometimes she refuses to give any opinion
at all  at others she criticises and finds fault
with all he suggests, and even frequently contradicts

flatly her own views of the day before.
Mrs. Falconer has to stifle many a
longing to box the provoking girl's ears,
when she stands by and listens to the sharp
replies with which Milly favours her betrothed,
and is secretly boiling with rage as she notes
the airs and graces which her step-niece assumes.
There is no doubt but that Milly
is an 'worked one" to deal with, nor is there
any disguising the fact that she is more than
ever capricious and snappy whenever Mrs.
Falconer happens to be within hearing. It
seems as if she took some special delight in
showing off her whims and fancies in her
presence, and of testing Mr. Tomkinson's forbearance
to the widest limit. But he never
takes any notice of Milly's disagreeable manner.
He is always the same to her, always
genial and good-humoured, not taking any
particular pains to smooth her down, or soothe

her ruffled feelings, but coolly putting the
whole thing aside, as if indulging the foolish
whims of a pettish child. He knows well
that Milly is in no wise in love with him yet.
But he trusts simplicity to Time to bring
about a warmer feeling towards him, and he
is but carrying out a plan of his own conceiving
in the way he treats her now. He
is very desperately in love with her, this
steady-going, not very impressionable, young
squire, nor is he a man to fall in love deeply
twice in a lifetime. He has given his whole
heart to Milly,  by what subtle law of attraction
she has enchained him so firmly, it is
difficult to say,  and should she fail him, he
will not easily recover from the blow. His
is one of those trusting, simple natures which
are apt to lose all faith in womankind generally
if one of the sex prove false. Cynical,
blast Geoffrey Dering would only give vent

to a mocking sneer, and, though his vanity
might suffer, his real nature would undergo
no distinct shock, perhaps hardly experience a
sensation of surprise. But with Hugh the effect
would be lasting. His whole moral being
would undoubtedly contract and deteriorate,
never again to regain its former equilibrium.
But no thought of such faithlessness on
Milly's part crosses his mind in these days
of his engagement. Of course he knows the
whole story of her love for Geoffrey Dering
once or twice she has alluded to it voluntarily,
for Milly is truthfulness itself, and it
is part of her creed of honour to have no
secrets in the past from the man with whom
she is destined to pass the rest of her life.
So he knows all about it, and, just at first,
he may have felt slightly unquiet as to what
Mr. Bering's next move may be when he
learns of Milly's contemplated marriage. But

as time goes on, and Geoffrey remains silent
and quiescent, Mr. Tomkinson puts the
thought of him out of his head, and almost
manages to forget his existence. His one
wish is for the wedding-day to arrive, when
he may take Milly into his own keeping,
and by his loving care and influence induce
her to throw aside all memories of a foolish
past, and make herself happy and contented
in the bright future which he is determined
shall dawn for her. Nor is he doubtful of
his power of accomplishing this.

Meanwhile, Mr. Falconer sends for his
niece one day, about a fortnight before the
date of the important day, and places in her
hand a cheque for ;ioo.

'* That sum is for your trousseau or whatever
you women call those gimcracks you
think it necessary to fill your trunks with
when you marry. My advice to you is to

take good care of every penny of it, and
not waste It in useless rubbish, and things
which it will take you half a century to wear
out," he says. '' If you are so foolish as to
buy more than that will pay for, well, you
must draw upon your own resources."

Her own resources ! Very meagre they
are indeed at this moment, for the supplies
to Charlie out of her very moderate legacy
have been extensive of late, in answer to
his not very modest appeals. She wishes
she dared tell her uncle that she just possesses
the sum of 2s. 6d. in her purse at the
moment, and that bills to the amount of
more than double the sum he grudgingly
tenders her have arrived by that morning's
post. But, having her own reasons for wishing
to conciliate him, she controls herself,
and accepts the gift with a good attempt at
hearty gratitude.

** Oh, thank you, Uncle John, so much!"
She really looks as If it is quite a surprise to her
to receive a present at all. 'rit is very good
of you to give me such a handsome present.
I will take the greatest care of it "  meekly 
'* and of course I should not think of buying
any things I did not really want."

I'm glad to hear it. If there's any over,
you can put It in the savings bank. And
I am glad to hear, through your aunt, that
Tomkinson does not expect the whole county
to be bidden to the wedding, to eat and drink
at my expense. It's a thing I could not possibly
think of doing. It's a cause for thankfulness
that he has no near relations "

' Sisters and brothers have I none,' " quotes
Milly, sotto voce.

What's that you're saying ? I wish you
wouldn't interrupt me with your flippant remarks.
I suppose he must have a best man, "

with a look half expecting dissent from her,
"and he talks of two cousins, and an old
aunt, whom he must ask to come  goodness
alone knows why. But, beyond this, I'll have
no more people sitting here the whole afternoon
and boozing away till they don't know
whether they're standing on their head or
their heels. You can have the parson's
daughter to be bridesmaid, besides Cilia and

What are you mumbling behind my

back ? "

*' I  I wanted to ask sou, Uncle John,
if  if you would not ask Charlie and his wife
to come ! "

You might just as well ask me to invite
a mad dog ! " roars the fiery old man. " How
many more times am I to tell you, miss, that
that name is not to be spoken in my hearing .
Really, for impudence and audacity you beat
the whole of the girls in the United Kingdom

put together ! No, I certainly will not ask
that individual and his confounded wife,
or dream of such a thing  so now you
know ! "

** Yes, I know," returns Milly, too disheartened
by her ill-success to answer pertly.
"I am sorry you said *No,' Uncle John. I did
hope, on this occasion, you would have given
way. It's so horrid being married without
Charlie here. And you needn't see him if
you didn't like, you know. He might keep
out of your sight."

'will you get out of my sight, you ungrateful,
vexatious girl ? " thunders out her uncle,
with a movement almost as if he contemplated
striking her. '' Have the goodness to go at
once, and think yourself lucky that I don't
take that cheque back, as a punishment for
your disobedience and pertinacity ! "

'' You might have it back, and welcome, if

you would only promise to let me have Charlie
here in return," responds Milly, determined to
have the last word, but turning towards the
door in compliance with his mandate.

'' I had no idea he could be so hard and hold
out so long," she says, when narrating the scene
to Mr. Tomkinson afterwards. " I don't believe
any power that exists could get him to relent
towards poor Charlie."

Well, how much has he given you ? "
asks Cilia, dancing towards Milly as she issues
forth from her uncle's room, sad and depressed.
'' Only a hundred pounds ! Why, that won't
go very far, I know ! " says the precocious child,
looking scornfully at the paper Milly holds out.
I know mamma spent a great, great deal
more on that last year when she married papa.
I hate calling him papa, " adds the imp, with
a shake expressing disgust. "He isn't a bit
like a papa to me, and I know he hates to hear

me, too. He always makes a face when I say
it. Mamma, what do you think ? Milly has
only got a hundred pounds for her trousseau !
Why, you spent "

Hush, Cilia love ! Don't talk of things
of which you know nothing, my child. My
expenditure was regulated by the position I
was about to fill. Dear Milly will, of course,
hardly need the outfit which was necessary
for the mistress of Whincote Abbey. She
will, I trust, make the most of her uncle's
handsome gift "

Do you call it handsome ? " asks Milly
coolly. " Well, dogs ought to be thankful for
broken bones, I dare say ; and according to
his ideas, it may be princely, but "

Dearest Milly, you forget how many claims
your uncle has on his purse."

'* I should have thought I might have come
under the head of one of the 'claims'" returns

Milly quietly. " However, I really never expected
more, which is a blessing, and so I am
not disappointed. "

'' I'm sure, Milly, you could not have
managed him well," puts in Cilia, the irrepressible.
'* If it had been me, now, I should
have made myself so sweet and nice to him
for a long time beforehand, so as to have got
something jolly out of him. No, I feel
certain you have missed your opportunities.
Oh ! what a goose you are ! * Silly' rhymes
with 'Milly,' doesn't it?"

*' And by a little stretch of imagination, we
might rhyme 'sillier' with 'Cilia'" retorts Milly
sharply. " Don't be pert. Cilia."

Oh, my goodness ! Milly thinks she can
lecture me, now she's going to be married
and to be a fine lady," says Cilia, not the least
repressed by this rebuff.

*' Dear Milly, the child means no harm,"

puts in Mrs. Falconer soothingly. *' You
hardly understand the playful promptings of
her infantile heart,  so full of spirit, and yet
so very careful not to wound the feelings of
any one. Cilia love, what shall you and I
do when Milly abandons us } We shall feel
so lonely, you and I, dear one. You will
have to be mammas right hand and comfort,
won't you, my precious treasure ? And you
must try and take her place with your poor,
dear, suffering papa, and make yourself useful
to him."

'' That won't be a hard task, I imagine,"
answers Milly shortly. '' But I cannot
honestly say that I regret handing over that
part of my duties to you, Cilia. Perhaps
you'll carry them out with more completeness
than I did. And be sure"  waxing facetious
*' be sure you always remember to be very
sympathetic when his fits of gout come on,

and never get into disgrace, as I did once,
by calling one of his worst attacks * a touch
of gout!"

And Milly laughs grimly as she recalls
that bygone scene.

'' I'm sure your poor dear uncle is severely
tried by his wearying attacks of gout," says
Mrs. Falconer, with dignity. *' You should
not laugh at the distressing infirmities of age,
Milly."

"No? What a bad example for Cilia, isn't
it ? Well, for fear of my saying something
still worse, I will decamp. Some day, Cilia,
I will initiate you into the signs and mysteries
which precede an attack of gout, so
that you may be prepared."

And with a light, mocking laugh, Milly
passes on to her own room, leaving Mrs.
Falconer to sigh over her '' sad, brusque
manner," as she takes advantage of the

moment to point out to her daughter the
depravity of an undisciplined spirit.

Milly goes to her room, and, sitting down
at the window, gives herself up to a train
of not very cheerful thought. Now that the
time is drawing near for her to leave it, she
begins to discover that she really has some
natural love for the old Abbey, which has
been her home for so many years, and for
all its well-known haunts. It seems curious
to her how loth she is to bid it all farewell.
She cares nothing for Moor House, in comparison,
inwardly stigmatizing it as a " horrid
new place," whereas the Abbey walls have
stood the wear and tear of centuries. She
looks out upon that gently undulating expanse
of meadow and wood stretching faraway
into space, gleaming with the chastened
rays of the February sun, and lying still and
calm in the quiet peacefulness pervading the

VOL. II. p

landscape. She looks on it, and a heavy
sigh escapes her. Even so far as her eye
can reach there are memories of the one
love of her life brought back to her. She
has walked with him across yon sloping
field ; she has wandered by his side in that
high, shelving lane which twists and winds
round that plantation on the left-hand side.
She can even, by straining her neck, catch
a glimpse of that little plantation where she
first met him, and which was afterwards the
scene of their rendezvous. And so musing,
she suddenly remembers, with a start, that
henceforth Geoffrey is to be shut out from
her life altogether, and with a shudder the
thought of the future which lies before her
presents itself to her mind with newly acquired
force and vividness. What dreariness
and monotony will be her fate ! Shall she
ever be able to endure it ? Shall she ever

be able to become a good wife to Hugh
Tomklnson, putting aside the dreams of her
fond fancies, and making herself contented
in his society ? Contrasting him now with
Geoffrey in her mind, she is fain to own that
she finds him a little dull and heavy at times.
Thoroughly estimable, of course, and a man
calculated to make most girls quite happy,
yet to her just a little wearisome and prosaic.
Will this feeling on her part grow
stronger day by day, she wonders ? Will
it at last take the form of repulsion ? Will
she ever come to feel a positive dislike to
him, a distaste for his presence, and all the
same be obliged to make the best of it, and
strive vainly to prevent his finding it out ?
Has she made a mistake in accepting him
as her husband ? and will she suffer for it
hereafter, and, through her own regrets, entail
suffering on him  on him who, whatever

else his shortcomings, is genuinely and unselfishly
devoted to her at this moment, and,
in blind confidence, looks to her as the instrument
of future happiness for himself?

Oh ! if only life were not such a hard thing
to understand ! if it were not so perplexing
to know which course is best to take ! If
only Time would stand still when we are
content and happy, and not hurry us onwards,
against our will, to situations unwished for
and difficult to deal with ! Alas, poor Milly !

Our life is a state of progression,

Though weary and rough be the way :
And ere we get good in possession,

Hard labour's the price we must pay.
Then pause not, though dark and alarming

The sky in the distance may lower;
Press on,  there be regions more charming, 

The sunshine comes after the shower.'

And, perhaps feeling that it is useless to
dwell upon the vanished past, or to strive

to change the course of circumstances, Milly
determinedly rouses herself from her reverie
as she sees Mr. Tomkinson's figure approaching
the house, and resumes her ordinary indifferent
manner. But from that day forward
she is less aggressive in her manner towards
him, and altogether more amenable. The
days pass quickly by, and now it only wants
one week of her wedding-day. She is quite
resigned to the prospect of her marriage now,
and is now and then touched by the unwearying
display of affection which Mr. Tomlinson
lavishes upon her, in spite of all her
vagaries. She even condescends to take a
real interest in one or two of his last alterations
at Moor House, for her behoof and
interest ; and once she positively sides with
high in a question of taste, as opposed to that
of Mrs. Falconer. And Huoh, overflowing
with delight at her softened demeanour, is

as proud as Punch, and as happy as a
king. He begins to fancy that Milly is really
learning to care for him at last, and his hopes
rise high of one day, at no very distant
period, gaining her whole heart, and of effacing
from her mind all recollections inimical
to his complete success.

And then  it is on a Thursday mornings
the marriage is to take place on the following
Wednesday  Milly is accosted by a
lite ragged boy as she is walking down
towards the village, who, without a word of
explanation, thrusts a three-cornered note into
her hand, and vanishes instantly, having fulfilled
his commission. With a presentiment
of something important about to happen,
Milly opens the note with trembling fingers,
and this is what she reads, 

Come to the wych-elm in the plantation
at 4 p.m. this afternoon.  G. D."

FEMME QUI scouted'*

A GREAT rush of colour floods Milly's cheek
as she reads those words, and sees those
familiar initials once again. In one moment
everything else in the world  her approaching
marriage, Hugh Tomkinson's self, her engagement
to drive with him that afternoon  recedes
into the background, and the one fact  the one
overwhelming, all-absorbing fact  of Geoffrey's
presence takes complete possession of her
mind. Geoffrey here ! close at hand ! and
wanting to see her ! Possibly he is not far
off even now, perhaps somewhere in sight
this very moment ; and as the thought strikes
her, she glances furtively round, as if expecting
to see him by her side. But no sign of Mr.



Bering's form is visible in the landscape.
She turns again to the perusal of those few
words, scrutinizing every letter with hungry
eyes, trying vainly to discover another scrap
of writing which she had overlooked at first.

She is in a wild tumult of repressed excitement.
She, who was walking along so quietly
and soberly a few minutes before, is now transformed
into a passionate, impulsive creature,
whose flushed cheek, throbbing pulse, and
eager glance betoken the unsettled state of
her mind. She can scarcely contain herself
from rushing wildly, then and there, somewhere
 anywhere  in search of him. Oh,
why had she not detained his messenger, and
made close inquiries of him, and so learnt
Geoffrey's whereabouts ? Is it of any use
to go to the wych-elm now, in the chance of
his being there ? But no ! Is it likely that
he would have appointed a particular hour

for the meeting had he been able to come
earlier ? No ; there is nothing for her to do
but to endure as best she can those long hours
of waiting before four o'clock arrives. Four
o'clock ! and it is now not much past twelve !
The awful ordeal of luncheon must be got
through somehow first, and she must control
herself sufficiently to prevent Mrs. Falconer
and Cilia from guessing that anything has
happened. As to refusing his request, and
not going to meet him, such a notion never
once crosses her mind. Of course she must
go ! Geoffrey's word is law to her, and no
arguments, no persuasions would have induced
her to disappoint him.

Very slowly she turns round again after a
few moments' waiting, and walks back to the
Abbey. Half an hour afterwards she presents
herself at the luncheon table, much in her usual
demeanour, though her manner is a trifle absent

and preoccupied. But that is a thing not
much to be wondered at just now, and no one
takes any notice of it. She eats the food
placed before her mechanically ; she takes
her part in the conversation with a set smile,
while all the time the words, *' Four o'clock,
four o'clock," are repeating themselves over
and over again in her whirling brain, with
a persistency which well-nigh distracts her.
She is thankful when the meal is over, and
she can get away to the solitude of her own
room.

She is much too restless and too overwrought
with excited feeling to be able to
form any definite plan for the afternoon. She
has no excuse ready wherewith to proffer
Mr. Tomkinson for failing in her engagement
with him. All she thinks of is that
she must leave the house at an early hour 
before three o'clock, when he is to come for

her  so as to be out of the way of inconvenient
questions. She knows that her Hps woulcl
be powerless to frame a connected excuse
were she to find herself face to face with him,
so she must trust to being able to make her
peace with him at some future time, and leave
him to wonder at her disappearance, and
explain it to himself with what ability he can.
What matters if he is angry with her ? She is
going to see Geoffrey, and after that the anger
or the reproaches of any one else in the world
will be as so many empty words to her.

A little before three she steals guiltily
out by a side door of the Abbey, takes her
way through a secluded part of the garden,
and reaches the plantation in safety. There
she remains in its most hidden depths for the
space of an hour, too impatient and uneasy
to stay in any one part for more than ten
minutes together. Almost before it strikes

four she is at the trysting place  and finds
Geoffrey already there !

He steps forward with an eager movement
to meet her.

My darling ! "

The next instant his arms are round her,
and she forgets all in the perfect bliss of that
silent meeting.

Oh, Geoffrey, I thought I should never
see you again ! " she murmurs, as soon as he
releases her from his embrace.

'' Did you, you foolish little Milly ? As if
it was likely I should let you pass out of my
life like that ! As soon as ever I got the
news of your engagement "  (Oh, Geoffrey,
stick to facts!)  " I rushed off at a moment's
notice  and here I am ! And now I want to
ask you  do you suppose I am going to let
you marry that stupid clodhopper Tomlinson
? "

Oh, Geoffrey, he is very good  and  and
very fond of me."

But as she makes this faint attempt to take
her fiance's part, Milly involuntarily draws
a step nearer to him, and looks up in his
face with depths of passionate love, not intended
for the absent Hugh, gleaming in her
eyes.

** Well, that's not to be wondered at, hardly,"
responds Geoffrey, with a smile which is to
her as the radiance of an angel beaming down
on her. '' And as for his being good  well,
he may be so, but he's such a fool that he
hasn't wit enough to be anything else. You
know it's true, Milly. You don't care a rap
for him, do you, darling ? "

"Not very much, I am afraid, Geoffrey."

'' And you do care for me,  still ? "

*' You know I do  as much as ever."

She makes this confession without any

wavering, any hesitation, and Mr. Bering-rewards
her for the speech with another tender
caress.

*' Then there is but one thing for you todo,"
he proceeds, with decision. *' You must
throw him over altogether, and come to me,
and be my wife. Yes, Indeed you must," as
Mllly opens her eyes In startled alarm. " Do
you think I can bear to see you the wife of
another fellow ? Do you Imagine I would ever
have allowed the marriage to take place, though
I had only been able to stop it at the church
door ? "

Geoffrey's language is apt to become a
little high-flown and exaggerated when he is
roused to eloquence, and he Is anxious to
produce an effect on his hearer In the shortest
possible time.

*' But, Geoffrey,"  she objects timidly, 
"how can I do it ? What could I say to

them all ? How explain it possibly to Hugh
  rvlr. Tomkinson ? "

It shall not be explained at all," returns
he promptly. And then he hastens to unfold
his plans for an elopement and secret
marriage. She will have to ofo back to the
Abbey, to make some adequate excuse for
her absence that afternoon, and for the next
two days to go on behaving to them all just
the same as usual.

This Is Thursday  I will have everything
in readiness for Saturday," he says.
It would not do to put it off longer, as I
might be seen about here, and people might
begin to suspect something. At present, no
one knows that I am at home except our
ancient factotum, and he Is safe enough. I
wish with all my heart," adds Mr. Dering, Ina
burst of well-simulated sincerity, '' that I
could come forward boldly and ask for you

before the face of the whole world. But you
know how I should be received. You know
how Mr. Falconer welcomed me before.
And he would object to me as much as ever
now, for I am afraid I am no richer than

was.

He concludes with a sigh, and pauses a
moment to give Milly an opportunity of referring
to the " pot of money " which has
fallen to her lot. But her thoughts are
elsewhere, and she makes no mention of it.

*' So there is no other chance of doing it,
that I see, than the way I have just proposed.
Once you are out of his reach, you
can send Tomkinson a few lines if you like,
or leave a note behind for him to break
the news to him. Milly dearest, look up,
look up and tell me that you will agree todo
what I ask of you ? "

He gendy puts his hand beneath her chin,

and turns her face upwards, and in the
glance which meets his he knows that the
victory is nearly won.

'' Oh, Geoffrey, I never thought of this 
I never dreamt you would ask me to do
this ! " she cries breathlessly. *' Oh, what
shall I do ? What will they think ? And
the presents are all there, and my wedding
dress come home,  and the marriage fixed
for next Wednesday. What a commotion it
will make ! "

What does that matter, when you won't
be there to hear anything of it ? " replies
Geoffrey, with energy. " Milly darling, if
ever you loved or do love me  and I feel
certain you did once  you will not refuse me
this. It would be wicked of you to marry
Tomkinson, not caring for him, and owning
that you still love fne ! I fear I have
little but poverty to offer you,"  another

VOL. II. Q

pause, * and again with no result,  "but, in
spite of that, I cannot let you go, my sweet.
I must and will have you for my own ! "

There are visible signs of capitulation in
her now. '' Femme qui dcoitte, et chdteait qui
parle sont perdus' and standing there, listening
to his specious arguments, to his impassioned
words, what chance has poor, weak
Milly?

He pleads well, with all the assumed
force and fire of a genuine lover, and never
for one  moment does a doubt of his sincerity
arise to trouble her breast. She
believes in him implicitly, in his love for
her. Why else, she would argue, would he
have taken that long journey for her sake,
and be pouring forth such fervent entreaties
in her ear ? And so curious is the power
of self-delusion that Geoffrey himself almost
forgets that he is acting a part in a great

measure, and is ready to swear at the
moment that the dearest wish of his heart
is to win her consent to marry him, whether
she come to him a penniless, or as a wells
bride.

It need not be said that Milly is talked
over by him. It is a strong point in his
favour that there is no one to whom she
feels bound to render obedience and duty.
She does not in the least mind doing a thing
which may cost her the displeasure of her
uncle  still less of her uncle's wife. She
cannot plead the fear of disapprobation of
parents, of a loving mother or a tender
father ; nor has she to consider the force of
a bad example on the morals of a herd of
younger brothers and sisters. She is, to all
intents and purposes, alone in the world,
and accountable to no one for her actions
and follies. But it cannot be denied that

her conscience smites her deeply as the
thought of Mr. Tomkinson crosses her mind.
The treachery to him, the wrong she is
meditating against him in his utter unconsciousness
and trusting faith In her loyalty,
she does not easily get over. She knows It
will be sinning terribly against him ; she
feels that she is about to deal a blow from
the effects of which he will probably never
recover, and In her heart she has a lurking
esteem and admiration for his honest nature,
and is touched with remorse as she pictures
to herself the suffering he will undoubtedly
endure. For a long time not all the persuasions
which Geoffrey pours forth are
sufficiently powerful to Induce her to consent
to do this thing. She has a keen sense of
honour, and not even the representations of
the man she so passionately loves can prove
to her that it is not a dishonourable deed

which she is contemplating towards the man
she does not love, but who loves her with
a true and unselfish affection.

He is so good, he has been so patient
with me, and I have provoked him a thousand
times," she says. " I should never be
able to forgive myself"

Thereupon Mr. Dering changes his tone
from entreaty to stern decision. He tells her
that she must choose between them then
and there. If she is soft-hearted enough
to be so wonderfully considerate for Hugh
Tomkinson's feelings, why, then she had
certainly better go back to him, and fulfil
her engagement with him.

** Only, I should have thought," he adds,
"if it is your opinion that you are wronging
him in throwing him over, it is better that
the wrong should be perpetrated against a
man you say you do not care for, rather

than that two lives should be involved, two
people's happiness sacrificed. But choose for
yourself; I shall say no more to influence
you one way or the other. Go back to
him by all means, if you shrink so much
from the fear of his anger, only  don't be
surprised if, after that, I must decline to
believe in your professions of love for me.
Such milk-and-water affection as yours, to
my mind, hardly comes under the head of
love, such as I feel for you."

His coldness naturally has the desired
effect on her. In one instant she is clinging
to him with all her force, beseeching him,
begging him to believe anything rather than
believe that her love for him is waning.
All considerations for her other lover are
thrown to the winds in the agony of fear
which possesses her  lest Geoffrey should
deem her wanting in love for him. She gives

** Femme qui Scouted

him her promise to accede to all he asks of
her, and is rewarded by seeing him smile upon
her again, and hearing him call her '' his sweet
little Milly," his 'precious darling."

And after that they arrange between them
all the details of the scheme they have on
hand, and in everything she yields to him
uncompromisingly and without reserve, having
given herself voluntarily over to his sole
guidance, and not daring to risk any further
thwarting of his wishes. Then they part,
not to meet again till that early hour on
Saturday next which they have fixed upon
as the moment of their flight. He decides
that it is wiser for them not to see each other
again in the interval, for fear of detection,
although she begs humbly for one more
meeting, urorinor that she will stand in need
of all possible encouragement to enable her
to go through with the difficult part she has

to play throughout the morrow. But he overrules
her in this once again, and she makes
no very powerful effort to induce him to reconsider
his fiat.

So they part  he triumphant, and, to all
appearance, in the highest of spirits, but in
reality wondering whether he has not made
a fool of himself, and inwardly anathematizing
the unpractical natures of women, who have
a faculty for leaving out the very information
one is most anxious to secure, just as if it
were a matter of no moment at all.

And Milly  what of her ? She has pledged
her word to him, and she has no thought or
wish of taking it back. The glamour of his
presence and his passionate words are with
her still as she hurries back through the
deepening twilight, and the knowledge that
two days hence she will be Geoffrey's wife
is so bewildering, so indescribably sweet, that

it almost wholly shuts out from her mind
any minor considerations. And yet  and yet
for all that  for all that she is experiencing
bliss beyond what she ever imagined  bliss
which she has never dared to hope would
fall to her lot  she cannot quite stifle the
pangs of conscience. She cannot but be
aware that she is doing wrong. She tries
her best to put the unwelcome belief aside,
but she cannot altogether succeed. Her
standard of right and wrong may not be
very high, her principles not of the most
steadfast, the most enduring kind, but her
moral perceptions are tolerably, inconveniently
clear, and she knows that she is about to be
false, and faithless, and to sin against one
who has been all goodness and kindness to
her. But r nest que le premier pas qui
cotlte  once having given her promise she
finds it easier to go on with it all, and all

her remorse and contrition do not suffice to
make her turn back in the path she has
chosen to walk in. So it comes to pass that
early on that memorable Saturday morning
Milly's room is found to be vacant, and the
only word of' explanation for her absence to
be seen is contained in this note for Huorh
Tomkinson,

You will never forgive me, I fear, when
you hear what I have done. Try and be a
little merciful towards me, for I could not
help it  indeed I could not. I am going to
be Geoffrey's wife. I have always loved
him, as you know, and I should have been
doing you a wrong had I married you,
caring only for him. You will be happier
without me. If you can, believe me when
I say that I am very, very sorry to give you
pain.  MiLLY."

Butler & Tanner, The Selwood Printing Works, Frome, and London.

PECCAVI."

a ofaeL

EMILY F. D. OSBORN,

VOL. III.

SWAN SONNENSCHEIN, LOWREY & CO.
PATERNOSTER SQUARE.

The Selwood Printing Works,

Frome, and London.

PAGE

CHAPTER I.
What They All Say i

CHAPTER II.
The First Scotch Cousin 24

CHAPTER III.
The Second Scotch Cousin 41

CHAPTER IV.
"The Only Plan Left" 61

CHAPTER V.
An Unsatisfactory Journey 'j-j

CHAPTER VI.
And a Satisfactory One 90

CHAPTER VII.

MiLLY 105

CHAPTER VIII.
A Faint Shadow 126

CHAPTER IX.
Thickening Clouds 146

CHAPTER X.
A Visit to Bordighera i68

CHAPTER XI.
Friends in Need i88

CHAPTER Xn.
A Cry for Pardon 207

CHAPTER XHI.
Too Late . .  223

PECCAVI

CHAPTER I.

WHAT THEY ALL SAY.

To say that Hugh Tomkinson is astounded
at the information contained in Milly's note
is inadequately to describe his feelings. He
is utterly overwhelmed and stunned; moreover,
his pride and vanity are deeply hurt. He
was so unsuspecting, so little recking of what
was In store for him, for Milly kept her secret
well, and no one  he, least of all  had the
faintest inkling of the scheme she was hatching
throughout that Thursday evening and the
day following. Utterly unprepared for the
blow as he was, It falls upon him with the
greater force, and for a while he seems unable

VOL. III. " B

to shake off its effects. With all his kindness
of heart and generosity, Hugh Tomkinson is
a man to whom forgiveness of the sins of
others does not come very readily. On the
contrary, he Is inclined to resent injuries
keenly, and Milly, by her rash deed, has
injured him very greatly. He is bitterly angry
against her, bitterly, fiercely sore against her
for her falseness and treachery, and in the
first hours of his wrath and indignation he
lets fall some scathing epithets against her and
her sex in general, which, coming from the lips
of one known to be so genial and so full of the
milk of human kindness, would have been apt
to startle those of his acquaintance who fancy
they know him well.

He cannot at all get over Milly's defection.
The greater his love for her the more sharply
is he stung by her conduct. He is not able
to talk over the matter with Mrs. Falconer

with any degree of calmness, so, upon receiving
that farewell note, he avoids the Inhabitants
of the Abbey altogether, and, shutting himself
up in his own house, denies himself to the
outside world, and gives himself up to all the
pangs of a disappointed love. He has no
pity for her, no softer feelings of mercy and
kind judgment ; he cannot even bring himself
to hope that she may be happy in the lot
that she has chosen for herself. His whole
soul is absorbed in a wild tumult of anger, and
with the galling sense of having been the
victim of a deception. At this moment he
literally hates his former love, and it is no
exaggeration to say that he would not have
relented towards her had he seen her lying
at his feet dead. Better men than Hugh
Tomkinson have found It impossible to
forgive those who have wrought them a
similar grievous wrong.

With regard to the inhabitants of the Abbey
themselves, the dismay created in their midst
is scarcely less intense in the first flush of
their surprise, although the effect is far more
evanescent. Mr. Falconer's comment is characteristic.


* How you can be such a goose as to be
surprised as to anything that ill-conditioned
girl could do, Arabella, is beyond belief," he
says irately, quite oblivious of the fact that
he almost started up out of his chair when the
news was first broken to him. " I am never
surprised at anything in this world, far less
inclined to cry over the folly of an irrational
idiot." [Mrs. Falconer thinks it the correct
thing to do to appear in his presence with her
handkerchief ostentatiously held to her eyes.]
*' Let her go her own way, and welcome, and
let me not be plagued by any further mention
of her. I hope she will find Mr. Bering to bea

husband In every respect desirable. And
to think "  with a thump of his fist on the
table  " that the minx should have gone off
with my cheque to pay the expenses of their
confounded nonsense ! And she had the
impudence to pretend that she was going to
take the greatest care of the very liberal
sum I gave her. I'm not sure she didn't
suggest putting some of it in the savings
bank. I expect the greater part of it will
find its way into her charming husband's
pocket  hang him ! Of all the ungrateful

baggage ! But, however, it's a comfort to

think that she has seen the last of my money
pass into her hands. She won't catch me
supplying the means for her husband's gambling
tastes in a hurry ! "

Indeed, no, dear John," put In his wife
sympathisingly. ' That is not to be expected
of you. I must confess I think she has shown

herself unworthy of the great and uniform kindness
you have always shown her, and behaved
in a manner which, if it were a daughter of
mine in question, would cut me to the heart."

You can't say what pleasant surprises
Lucilla may have in store for you by the time
she arrives at a reasonable age," suggests Mr.
Falconer, with grim pleasantry. " I wouldn't
advise you to make too sure of anything In
this world, except that you may reckon on
things turning out a precious deal less sweet
than you hoped they would. And your
girl "

'' Dear John, will you not say ' our ' girl ? "
interrupts his wife sentimentally, bending towards
him with a bewitching smile.

How the deuce can I call her mine,
Arabella, when she is no such thing ' " retorts
he irately, in a tone well calculated to nip
her sentimentality in the bud. '' Don't make

a fool of yourself! I was going to say that
I see no reason why you should expect your
girl to turn out so very superior to the common
run of her sex."

Dear Cilia has been most carefully
nurtured under my own watchful eye," answers
Mrs. Falconer, with dignity, not at all appreciating
the snub she has just received. " Therefore
I have the utmost confidence in her
principles, and know she will never run counter
to the excellent training I have endeavoured
to give her  poor, fatherless child ! "

*' I don't exactly know what you mean by
having had her under your eye, when she has
been at school for the last four years," says
Mr. Falconer crushingly. " However, pray
don't let us discuss the subject any more  I
don't wish to spend the whole morning speculation
on the future of a child of thirteen. Have
the goodness to drop the matter "  imperiously

waving his hand, as she is about to interpose 
*' I have affairs of much deeper import on my
mind just now. Have you dismissed that
maid of Milly's?"

'' Dear John, I went at once, the moment
you mentioned it," meekly. *' Do you think
I would hesitate for an instant in carrying out
your expressed wishes, and in doing the little
I can , to further your interests in every
possible way ? "

You do make use of such a lot of palaver,
Arabella," remarks her husband fretfully.
** I ask you a simple question, whether you
have or have not given my message, and you
cannot answer me 'Yes' or *No' without
bringing in a lot of extraneous matter, which
has nothing to do with the subject." Then
he adds abruptly, *' When is that child going
to have the governess you talked of ? "

How good of you to think of that again,

dear John ! She will have one immediately
now, I think, as you are so kind as to refer
to it again, unless you find that, now Milly
is gone, you will be in need of the dear
child's services. In that case, of course I
would put off having the governess, and
devote myself to carrying on her education
myself to the best of my poor ability."

** Her services ! Why, what on earth use
do you suppose an imp of that age will be
to me . " returns he. " For goodness' sake
look out for a governess at once,  the sooner
the better, or she'll grow up as ignorant asa
peasant,  and mind you remember you are
not to engage one who will require more
salary than \o a year. And now, one
more thing I have to say. As two of my
nearest relations have chosen to fly in my
face, and so to act as to sever all connection
between themselves and me, I have decided "

with an emphasis on the word, and a
defiant glance at her, as if to challenge any
opposition on her part  " I have decided to
send for the youngest of my Scotch cousins
the Aberdeenshire Falconers  and see what
the boy is like."

At this announcement Mrs. Falconer's jaw
drops considerably. She is taken completely
by surprise, and for once in her life she
lacks the presence of mind to conceal the
fact.

Your Scotch cousins ! " she ejaculates
faintly. '' I never heard you speak of them
before. I did not even know that they
existed."

*' No ! Well, it is an agreeable surprise
for you then. I am sure it will be a
pleasure to you to make acquaintance with
some new relations. I am certain you find
the Abbey very quiet and dull at times,

and this will be an enlivenment for you.
So I have written to invite this boy  Harry,
I think they call him  to come and stay here
for a week. He will be a companion for
Lucilla too."

'* How old Is he,  this boy ? "

'' I can't tell you in the least, but I imagine
he may be seventeen or eighteen. The
father is as poor as a church mouse, and will
no doubt be olad enough to let his sono

o

come, on the chance of his coming in for
some scrapings from me. You don't look
quite so delighted at the prospect as I fancied
you would be, Arabella ! "

Dear John, it is not that at all. Of
course I am charmed at the Idea of welcoming
one of your family In this house, but 
just at this moment I am suffering from an
excruciating pain in my head  a twinge of my
old enemy, neuralgia,  I fear  and for the

moment I scarcely knew what I was saying.
Let me go and try one of the remedies I
have at hand, and I will come back to you
as soon as possible."

Curiously sudden twinge that ! " comments
Mr. Falconer sarcastically, as she hastens to
leave the room, and essays to recover, in
solitude, the self-restraint which she feels has
failed her in a moment of need.

What a terrible downfall to her hopes !
just in the moment, too, when she fancies
that she is about to achieve success ! How
she hates the very thought of those Scotch
cousins who are comines to rob her child of
her inheritance, and how she ardent hopes
that they may turn out the veriest scamps
which the world ever produced ! Tears of
vexation and disappointment flow down her
cheeks, and speak of the depths of her woe !
It certainly does not mend matters for Cilia

to run in and inform her that a visitor has
called, and is waiting to see her in the
drawing-room, adding in the same breath,
But, mamma, how dreadfully red your eyes
are ! You have been crying, I know ! What
will Mrs. Lancaster think of you ? "

*' She may think what she pleases. Mrs.
Lancaster's opinion is a matter which does
not concern me much," returns her mother,
with dignity. Then a moment afterwards
this daughter of Eve adds, with genuine
alarm, '* Are my eyes really very red,
Cilia ? I don't want that tiresome, gossiping
woman to think that I am taking Milly's
escapade so terribly to heart."

Dab them with cold water again, and
they'll be all right," says uncompromising Cilia.
I dare say she won't look at you much. Are
you ready now ? You've kept her waiting a
long time. I'm coming too, you know."

'' My precious ! You know your mother
is too glad to have her treasure with her
every hour of the day ! Oh, Cilia ! " with
a burst of maternal enthusiasm, '' when I
think of your future, my lamb, and remember
what your prospects depend on, I cannot forgive
those who are likely to stand in your
way ! " Which speech is so much Greek to
Cilia, who, however, mentally makes a note
of demanding an explanation of it at the
first convenient opportunity.

Mrs. Lancaster, a smartly dressed, vivacious
lady  the wife of a Dean, and a social power
in the neighbourhood  is awaiting the entrance
of her hostess with some impatience.
She has, indeed, waited for her some time,
and would be disposed to resent the fact,
but having come with the sole purpose of
learning the truth concerning Milly's elopement,
which is just now the topic of the

day, she makes an effort to smother her Indignation.
Mrs. Lancaster is an Inveterate
gossip, as Mrs. Falconer truly says, and Is
burning to be first in the field with authentic
details derived from head-quarters. Like the
Athenians In days of old, she spends her
time in telling or hearing new things, and
this new piece of exciting gossip Is a perfect
godsend to her.

'' So very glad to find you at home, dear
Mrs. Falconer," she says, advancing to meet
the latter and displaying her white teeth ina
brilliant smile. '* It is so seldom I have
the pleasure of seeing you. You sacrifice
yourself so completely to the care of Mr.
Falconer that the neighbourhood suffers inconsequence.
The Dean and I frequently
discuss your noble devotion, and I assure
you he cannot say enough in your praise.
And how Is Mr. Falconer to-day ? "

My husband is fairly well just now,'
answers Mrs. Falconer. *' For the last week
or two he has had a reprieve from the gout,
I am glad to say."

I am so thankful to hear it ! And he
is not terribly overcome by this sad event
this affair of his niece, which must have
been a disappointment to him ! So unlooked-for
 just before the wedding-day, too. The
Dean and I are full of sympathy for you
all."

Papa doesn't care a rap what Milly does ;
he says so," puts in Cilia, from her corner.

'' Cilia love, don't interrupt Mrs. Lancaster
! You are very kind, Mrs. Lancaster,
and of course our poor Milly's rash act is
a great blow to us all. With the prospect
of such a bright future with Mr. Tomkinson,
who would have made her the kindest
husband, the foolish girl chose to think she

could secure greater happiness by marrying
Mr. Bering, whom I, for one, have no very
high opinion of. I only trust, poor child,
she will not live to repent it."

And here Mrs. Falconer applies her
pocket-handkerchief to her eyes with considerable
effect.

Dear Mrs. Falconer, I think it is so
truly Christian-like of you to entertain such
anxiety about the fate of poor Miss Byron, as
if she were a relation of your own. I agree
with you  Mr. Bering is not a man I have
great confidence in. But how quietly she
must have kept her secret, for they tell me
that no one knew she was acquainted with
him."

'' That is a mistake," says Mrs. Falconer
quickly. " My husband and I both knew
that they had met last summer, and "

Indeed ? I fancied that Miss Byron had

VOL. in. c

lived in such seclusion  had naturally been
in such close attendance on her uncle  that
she hardly knew any of the neighbours. Poor
Mr. Tomkinson ! I hear he is sadly cut up !
The Dean and I were saying only this morning
that it might be kind to invite him to the
Deanery, and so distract his thoughts a little."

Mrs. Lancaster is the mother of three
plain, unmarried daughters, and it is just
possible that, remembering how many hearts
are said to be caught in the rebound, she
deems this an opportune moment to introduce
Mr. Tomkinson into her fold. Mrs.
Falconer is sharp enough to guess the motive
of her contemplated act of charity, and loses
no time in dissipating her new-born hopes
with crushing completeness.

'' I am afraid you would find it labour
thrown away to try and induce ]mr. Tomlinson
to emerge from his seclusion," she says

blandly. ''He denies himself to every one,
and we are the only people he can make up
his mind to see just now. It is some consolation
to him, poor young man, to unburden
his mind to me, so assured he is of my heartfelt
sympathy."

'rand where are the runaway couple gone
to ? " next inquires Mrs. Lancaster, hoping
by this means to arrive at a way of settling
the knotty point which has been freely ventilated
at the Deanery and elsewhere, as to
whether Mr. Falconer has forbidden all communication
with his recalcitrant niece. Nor
is she disappointed in her expectations. Forgetting
her role of pitying, rather than condemning,
Milly's conduct, Mrs. Falconer draws
herself up with stateliness, and replies, 

That is a matter we know nothing of,
Mrs. Lancaster. Milly has chosen to take
her own line, and has not thought it necessary

to inform us of her future plans. And, naturally,
Mr. Falconer does not care to take
any trouble to ascertain their whereabouts."

'which means that he is going to have nothing
more to do with her," sagely reflects the
other lady. Then aloud, " Oh, of course not,
dear Mrs. Falconer. I am sure Mr. Falconer
has been liberality itself to his niece  letting
her have a horse to ride, and never putting
any restrictions on her liberty. The Dean
and I always said she was a most fortunate
young lady. And to think of her requiting
his kindness in such an unexpected way ! I
saw the announcement of the marriage in the
paper this morning, and my first comment
was. How will the poor things manage to
live ? For Mr. Bering, and his father before
him, have pretty well gambled away every
farthing they ever had, as no doubt you
knows ! "

But Mrs. Lancaster's unveiled curiosity is
getting too much for her companion's forbearance.


I know nothing of Mr. Bering's private
affairs," she says loftily. '* But I imagine they
will have enough to live upon, for men of
Mr. Bering's stamp do not usually rush into
matrimony without some sort of calculation
of ways and means."

'' Very true." Mrs. Lancaster sees that
she has ventured far enough in her researches.
What a visitation I am paying you ! But
I wished so to see you, and to convey to
you the Dean's and my condolences on the
trouble which "

Mamma doesn't really think that Milly's
going off like that is a trouble," says the
enfant terrible in clear, incisive tones. "She
hopes now that I shall have a chance of
getting the Abbey for myself."

Mrs. Lancaster puts up her gold-rimmed
pince-nez, and surveys the child with steady
astonishment, inwardly blessing her for the
revelation contained in her speech.

** My little Cilia is fond of talking nonsense,"
hastily exclaims Mrs. Falconer, putting
her hand on the child's shoulder. " I am
afraid my husband encourages her foolish
prattle ; he is so kindly indulgent, and she
is apt to let her tongue run on too fast."

She is a fine child, and uncommonly like
her mother," comments her visitor, with frank
cordiality. '' I hope she will grow up to bea
comfort to you, Mrs. Falconer, and that
she will not follow the footsteps of poor, misguided
Miss Byron."

Poor Milly, poor motherless Milly, who has
never had a soul to care for her, or to set
her a good example since her childhood's
days  such are the epithets which are lavished

on her now by those who set themselves upto
judge her conduct ! There is not a great
deal of charity in the world at large, and
there are few people found to express compassion
for the lonely girl, who has elected
to set conventionalities at defiance, and outrage
the sensibilities of Mrs. Grundy. Possibly,
had some good Samaritan come forward
and given her what, all her Hfe long, she
needed  the advice, the sympathy, and, above
all, the love of a true, disinterested friend 
she might never have taken that ill-advised
step  a step which has drawn upon her head
the unsparing and unfavourable criticisms of
the C shire world in general.

THE FIRST SCOTCH COUSIN.

Harry Falconer has been under the Abbey
roof two days now, and during that space
of time he has managed to accomplish even
more than the average amount of mischief
common to boys of his age. He has lamed
one of Mr. Falconer's horses In jumping a
brook bare-backed, heedless that the ground
was hard as iron with successive white
frosts ; he has broken a valuable Sevres
plate In Initiating Cilia Into the mysteries of
the game of '' Spin the trencher " ; he has
twice tumbled out of the boat, and lost one
of the oars belonging to It ; he has measured
his length on the oak parquet In the hall,
bringing down in his fall a hat-stand laden

with sticks and hats. Last, but not least,
he has caused old May to drop a salver with
a supply of brandy and water, which he was
carrying to his masters room, by jumping
out from behind a door as he passed, and
thus upsetting his equilibrium. Unfortunately,
this catastrophe happened within hearing of
Mr. Falconer, and drew down upon the
heads of both victim and victimizer a not
very choice shower of abuse. But all these
escapades on the boy's part  for he is only
sixteen  are entirely the outcome of overflowing
animal spirits, and by no means
perpetrated from sheer wanton love of mischief.
He is a blunt, straightforward, loutish,
warm-hearted lad, who is not ashamed to
speak openly of the poverty of his family
a fact which betrays itself in the unfashionable,
not to say shabby, garments which he
wears. Nor does he dilate upon their small

means with any ostentation, or with the intention
of making himself out an object of
pity. It is very evident that whatever expectations
his parents may have formed with
regard to the result of this unlooked-for invitation
to the Abbey they have not been communicated
to him, for he tells Mrs. Falconer
frankly, soon after his arrival, that he cannot
Imagine what induced his cousin suddenly to
remember his existence. He follows up this
remark by an ingenuous inquiry as to who
the Abbey and the property will pass to at
Its owner's death, adding, '' I know I oughtn't
to say it to you, but I can't help thinking ita
beastly shame for it not to go to that
nephew whom old May was talking to me
about yesterday. May tells me he married

a "

May should know better than to waste
his time by repeating such gossip to you,"

says Mrs. Falconer severely. " And you are
too young to give an opinion on what Mr.
Falconer chooses to do."

Privately she wishes heartily that the boy
would repeat his outspoken comments in the
presence of the master of the house, knowing
well with what favour they will be
received.

I'm awfully sorry," returns Harry, with a
very red face. " I know I've got a stupid
way of saying out exactly what I think, but I
felt rather sorry for that poor chap when I
heard the story, and I didn't see the harm
of listening to May. I know if / had a
chance of getting this beautiful old place, and
threw it away, I should never get over it."

Possibly not."

Mrs. Falconer indulges in a low and not
very pleasant laugh.

The boy's plain, ruddy face flushes again.

You are laughing at the idea of my
owning such a place as this," he says, turning
his honest blue eyes on hers. '' And
of course it does sound ridiculous. Fancy me
being the master of this house! What an
absurd idea!" and he glances disparagingly
at his rough red hands, which are seen to
great advantage protruding far from his outgrown
coat-sleeves, and at his patched and
well-worn attire in general.

There is something curiously taking about
the boy with all his hobble-de-hoy-ism and lack
of polish, and many a mother's heart would
have been stirred to pity by the evident tokens
of a bringing up bereft of the advantages which
most boys receive as a matter of course. But
Mrs. Falconer is not easily moved to compassion.
She dislikes Harry, and takes no pains
to conceal her sentiments. Moreover, she takes
very good care that Mr. Falconer shall be kept

ate courant of all his shortcomings. Of course
she Is clever enough not to let her information
take the form of a complaint, but makes a
great profession of pitying the boy, and of
finding excuses for him. Only she " thinks It
right " that Mr. Falconer should be told of all
that passes, that he may be able to understand
her unwillingness to let her "dear impressionable
Cilia " be much In the company of that
'* sadly thoughtless " boy.

Harry himself returns her dislike with
interest, but, having been cautioned by his
mother to be on his best behaviour during
his visit, he does his very utmost to conceal the
fact from her. He stands in no sort of awe
of Mr. Falconer, and without being in the
least disposed to curry favour with him  for,
indeed, he knows no reason why he should 
he shows his best side when with him, and
considers that, as his relation, he Is one of the

party to whom most of his attention is
due. Mr. Falconer, on his side, regards the
boy as a sort of natural curiosity, and is apparently
almost entertained now and then by
his study of this new genus of mankind.

Upon receiving Mrs. Falconer's snub, Harry
bethinks himself that he has not yet seen his
cousin that morning, and announces his intention
of paying him a visit, in spite of some
demur on the part of his hostess.

'' Why shouldn't I go and see him ? " he
inquires simply. '' I'm sure he'll think me
rude if I don't pfo near him all the morning.
Mother told me I must be very civil to him, ashe
was so kind to ask me here."

*' No doubt she did," returns Mrs. Falconer
significantly. 'rand it Is very good of you
to remember your mother's wishes so clearly."

Harry looks puzzled by her tone.

It's not likely I'd forget anything that

mother told me," he says warmly. '' We are
all devoted to her, you know. I do believe,"
he adds reflectively, "there isn't one of us who
wouldn't die for mother."

Very touching, I am sure," is Mrs. Falconer's
unsympathetic reply. She quite believes
that the boy is speaking for effect,
although one glance at his frank, earnest
countenance would be sufficient to dispel that
idea as utterly absurd.

Some day perhaps you'll know her," continues
Harry encouragingly, too much absorbed
in his subject to notice her satirical tone.
And then you'll not be surprised at our
being so fond of her. And now I'm off to see
Mr. Falconer  I wonder he doesn't ask me
to call him Cousin John, don't you ? Mother
thought he would."

With a preliminary knock at the door, this
young man marches straight into the redoubtable

'' Ogre's " presence. Mr. Falconer looks
up from the newspaper he is engaged in, fixes
his twinkling little eyes on the intruder, and
inquires blandly to what he may owe the
pleasure of his visit.

'* Oh, I thought I'd come and say good-morning
to you, as I'd seen nothing of you today."


'* Much obliged, young gentleman, I'm
sure."

'* I don't think you are really," says Harry,
laughing. " I dare say you'd rather be without
me, wouldn't you ? But don't you find it
awfully dull to be in this room so much by
yourself ? "

'rand if I do, do you happen to think your
presence can enliven me ? "

** I'm not such a fool as that, of course. I
don't suppose I ever enlivened anybody much.
Mother says, when we're all together at

home, we make a dreadful noise, and no one
can say our spirits are bad ; but when I'm
alone, without Fred and Tom, I seem to lose
all sense of fun, somehow."

'' If your ' sense of fun ' consists In making
a dreadful noise, I can hardly say I regret the
loss of it," says Mr. Falconer grimly.

Well," says the boy confidentially, " this
house does seem fearfully quiet compared
to ours, you know. But then, of course, Cilia
is the only young person here, and she's got
no one to make a row with ; besides, it's such
a big house, one might make any sort of 
at one end of it without your knowing
anything about it. I think it's awfully hard
on you, sir, to have such a jolly place and
everything you can possibly want, and not
be able to enjoy it a bit."

'' It's your opinion, then, that it wouldn't bea
bad thing to have a 'jolly place' like this ?"

VOL. HI. D

''A bad thing! no, indeed! I think it
would be first-rate to be rich, and "

Who told you I was rich, I should like to
know ? "

Why, I thought, of course, everybody who
had got a large place was rich ! " naively.
'' And you 7nus be rich, I'm sure  anyhow,
compared to what father's income is. You've
no idea how poor we are "

'' And I'm sure I don't want to hear about
sour domestic affairs," replies Mr. Falconer
irritably, his suspicions that the boy is
speaking with a motive instantly aroused.
'' I wish to goodness you'd leave off fidgeting
round the room like that ; you'll be breaking
something here next."

"I'm very sorry. I know it was very
stupid of me to break that plate of yours
yesterday. Mother always says I'm all arms
and legs, and she doesn't really think I can

help knocking things down. And you've got
such a lot of funny things here,  some things
I've never seen before,  and I can't help
looking at them. Fred says I'm as curious

as a girl "

** Who may Fred be, if one may ask ?"
Fred ? Why, he's my eldest brother 
didn't you know that .' How odd you should
know so little about us, sir, when we're your
cousins ! Fred is a good deal older than I
am : he's four-and-twenty, and he's a clergyman
 was ordained last year. He's an awfully
good fellow, and not a bit like me ! And
Tom's the little chap  he's only ten. Then

there's Di and Flo and "

'' Bless the boy ! your tongue runs on
like a water-mill ! " says Mr. Falconer impatiently.
'' That's enough for the present, at
any rate. You must be off now, for I'm
busy."

*' All right. I hope I haven't tired you,
sir. I'll look in again this afternoon."

Exit Harry, whistling, and giving a bang
to the door, which makes Mr. Falconer
writhe in his chair.

Alas, that there should be such a calamitous
ending to this visit ! That very evening,
inspired by some fatal impulse, Harry takes
it into his head to say 'eyes" when the butler
hands him the wine at dinner, instead of
refusing it, as heretofore. Naturally enough,
he, being totally unaccustomed to drink anything
stronger than water, feels the effects
very considerably. It renders him hilarious
in the extreme, and he is called to order by
Mrs. Falconer several times for his noisy
behaviour. After dinner is over, his spirits
rise entirely above his control. He inveigles
Cilia into a series of boisterous games, which
considerably endanger the safety of the

furniture, and finally concludes with treating
her to a well-executed mimicry of Mr.
Falconer's voice and manner. Naturally, the
boy is quite irresponsible for his conductor
he would never forgot himself in this
manner. When the noise and applause is
at its height, enter Mr. and Mrs. Falconer,
the latter having presumably gone to warn
her husband that his cousin was getting beyond
her control. The master of the Abbey
walks in just in time to catch sight of an
elaborately dressed figure, got up in exaggerated
representation of himself, leaning
back in an armchair, one foot propped upon
cushions and a stool, and to hear a
gruff voice saying, " I've got the most confounded
attack of gout I've ever had in my
life ! "

Tableau ! What need to describe the
sequel to this scene '. Master Harry is

packed off instanter to bed, and the next
morning summarily returned to the care of
his parents, bearing a note explaining the
cause, and a grudgingly bestowed five-pound
note, to defray the expenses of his journey.

The mornings dawn has brought the
offender to his senses, and he is bitterly
contrite and ashamed of himself, conscious
that he has disgraced himself for ever in the
eyes of the household, and dreading, above
all, that look of gentle sadness with which his
mother will greet him on learning the reason
of his unexpected return. Much against
Mrs. Falconer's wishes, he insists on taking
leave of his cousin, and apologises to him
for his behaviour with a mixture of manliness
and simplicity which almost touches
the heart of that impervious specimen of
humanity.

Good-bye, sir. I'm awfully sorry I behaved

so badly last night, but I am quite
unaccustomed to drinking wine, and I was
fool enough to have some at dinner. I'm
afraid you'll think I was very rude."

'well, it's hardly considered a polite thing
to do to mimic your host and hold him upto
ridicule," answers Mr. Falconer grimly.

''I know it isn't, sir. But I'm sure Cilia
will forget all about it as soon as I am
gone. Mother said, when I came, that she
didn't think I was fit to pay a visit by myself,
and she was quite right. She'll be so
sorry about it. I only wish you'd asked
Fred instead of me ; he'd have known
exactly what to do."

'' Or what not to do, perhaps," corrects
the other. 'well, we'll have this Fred of
yours here next week, and see what he's
like."

Oh, will you really, sir ? I'm so glad,

for then I shan't think you're so disgusted
with me that you won't have anything more
to say to the rest of the family. May I
tell mother that, sir ? "

'' Tell her what you like. I will write to
your brother to-day and invite him. And
now be off with you, youngster ; and another
time, let me advise you to give the wine a
wide berth."

"Good-bye, sir; and thank you for asking
me. I'm sure you'll all like Fred.
He's so clever, and can talk on any subject."

With which speech Harry Falconer brings
his brief visit to the Abbey to a close.

THE SECOND SCOTCH COUSIN.

It is always an ungrateful task to have the
onus of removing unfavourable impressions,
and to feel that it devolves upon yourself to
dissipate prejudices formed against yourself
or your family. And so probably the
Reverend Frederick Falconer thinks, as he
treads in his brother's footsteps, and makes
his appearance at the Abbey, vice Harry
Falconer, removed. The boy's summary dismissal
has been a vexation of spirit to the
poor parents, cherishing a secret but well-defined
hope as to the possible results of
his visit, although half fearing that it was
not intended for their blundering Harry to
bring about any favourable turn of Fortunes

wheel. Harry being set down as a failure,
the family authorities make no objection to
Fred's having his turn, and speed him off
on his journey with more assured belief in
the capabilities of their eldest olive-branch.
Fred, being of a reasonable-age, and sedate
and prudent beyond his years, is taken
thoroughly into his parents' confidence, and
is well acquainted with the eager expectations
raised in their minds by Mr. Falconer's
advances. Poor people ! they are so very
pinched for means, and have such difficulty
in making two ends meet at all, that it is
not surprising they should build wonderful
castles in the air concerning the almost unknown
rich cousin and his possible intentions.
Nor need they be called mercenary because
they venture to give the pliable Freda
few hints as to his future demeanour, and
a caution to study the old man's idiosyncrasies
with a certain amount of attention.

Mr. Frederick Falconer needs no such
tuition. Well assured of his own powers,
this young man of four-and-twenty is inwardly
convinced that he has only to go, to
be seen, and then to conquer. Harry has
behaved in a foolish schoolboy fashion, but
he will very soon show his relations that he
and Harry are cast in a very different
mould. In imagination he sees himself installed
at the Abbey as its acknowledged
heir, and the thought lends an added dignity
to his slight, drooping form, and increases
the air of self-importance which is the prevailing
expression of his somewhat unprepossessing
countenance. He has none of
the younger brother's bonhomie and straightforward
good humour, but in his own
estimation this hopeful scion of the house of
Falconer is a very great man indeed, and
so, he thinks, will be the opinion of his

newly found kith and kin. Like the dove
from the ark, he is sent forth to reconnoitre
the country, and he entertains not the
faintest doubt that he will return again,
bearing the olive branch with him.

He arrives at Whincote Abbey soon after
five o'clock, and is immediately ushered into
the presence of its redoubtable master. But
Fred's perfect composure never fails him when
called upon.

Advancing slowly towards the old man,
who turns sharply round in his chair to take
stock of the new-comer, he holds out a slender
white hand, and, assuming his most clerical
of manners, boldly takes the initiative.

It gives me much pleasure, Cousin John,
to make your acquaintance, after having been
strangers to each other for such a number of
years. I hope I see you well, and "

"Humph!" gruffly interrupts the other.

uncertain whether or not to resent this familiar
address. " So you're come, are you ? As to
your having pleasure in knowing me, how can
you tell that, I should like to know, before
you have said ten words to me ? However
Well,"  surveying him closely, 

'' you're a different cut to your brother, at
all events ! "

I trust you will endeavour to forget
my young brother's indiscreet conduct while
he was under your roof," pursues Fred, in
his soft, measured tones. *' I fear the impression
he made was not satisfactory "

*' For goodness' sake, man, take a chair, if
you are going to stay, and don't stand over me
like that, whispering in my ear ! Can't you
speak out a bit more ? "

I am accustomed to modulate my voice
when I visit my parishioners in sorrow or sickness,"
says the younger man meekly, obeying

the command to seat himself. ** Possibly I
may have acquired the habit more than I
am aware of. But, to return to Harry,

Cousin John "

*' You needn't return to him any more, "
returns Mr. Falconer sharply. Something
in the young curate's manner and mode of
speech tries his temper almost beyond bearing,
and at the moment he would willingly
exchange this smooth-tongued kinsman for
that rough and boisterous, but frank and outspoken,
boy. '' What Harry did, or didn't dois
past and done with. There's no occasion
to go back to old scores."

'* It is very good of you, sir, to judge him
with so much charity, and to make allowances
for his youthful outbreak. We will then, as
you propose, not refer to the subject any more.
I do hope, Cousin John, that you will make me
of use to you in any way you like during my

visit here. Is there any book you would Hke
me to read aloud to you, or can I accompany
you in your drives, or be your companion
in your walks ? "

My walks ! They consist in hobbling
from this room to my bedroom and back,"
says Mr. Falconer grimly. *' And that
much I can manage without your help.
Much obliged. As to the rest, will see
about that later on. What sort of voice
have you got for reading ? "

' Well, "  modestly,  " my congregation are
good enough to say that they much approve
of my voice and delivery."

You'd have to exert your lungs a little
more than you do in talking to me to get
them to hear you, I fancy," is the sarcastic
response. 'rand now you'd better find your
room, and dress for dinner. Stay, I'll ring for
May to take you there."

Thanks. And one thing more before I
leave you, Cousin John. Would you like mein
my clerical capacity, to undertake the
family worship in the mornings while I am
here?"

Family worship ! Why, we don't have
morning prayers here. I'm never up very
early, and Mrs. Falconer does not think it
necessary. But if it's any pleasure to you
to read them, I've no objection, only don't
expect me to be present, that's all."

*' I shall consider it my duty, then, to assemble
the household and represent you in
that department," says Fred primly, as he
follows May's lead and retires to his room,
leaving Mr. Falconer in a mingled state of
amazement and irritation at the self-assertion
displayed by this new and curious addition to
his household.

Mr. Falconer does not make his appearance

at dinner, and Fred has ample opportunity
to improve the acquaintance of his cousin's
wife and her daughter. Mrs. Falconer patronizes
the young man with lofty condescension,
and Cilia answers him saucily, irritated by his
officious attempts to keep her in order. Her
new governess has arrived that day, and the
child is loud in her exclamations of disgust
at the prospect of daily lessons which lies
before her.

*' I know I shall hate her ! " she exclaims
vehemently. " Who ever liked a governess,
I should like to know ? Nasty, horrid lessons !
Why need I learn at all .' "

'* Surely you have no wish to grow up an
ignoramus, and quite incapable of taking your
part in ordinary conversation, and in society ? "
inquires the young curate reprovingly.

*' I don't mind the least," answers the child
defiantly. '* I can take part in ordinary  and

VOL. III. E

very ordinary it generally is  conversation
now, can't I, mamma ? You often tell me I
talk too much. And I understand everything
everybody says," nodding her head sagaciously,
'rand sometimes more than they mean me
to."

Cilia is only joking," puts in Mrs. Falconer
calmly. '' But you can hardly expect a child
of her age to appreciate the advantages of
a thorough educational process, Mr. Falconer."

*' Then the advantages ought to be pointed
out to her, I consider," says Fred dictatorial.
'' If you will allow me, I will talk seriously
to "

Indeed, I must beg you to do nothing of
the kind," Interrupts Mrs. Falconer quickly.
"No one understands the working of my child's
mind as I do myself, and I find myself competent
to Implant in her the sentiments she
should entertain."

I dare say mamma hated her governess
too, when she was my age," adds Cilia complacently,
feeling herself encouraged in her
rebellion. '' Everybody does, of course. And
Miss Goring looks so prim and cross. If
she was only Goiiig, instead of Goring T'

Mrs. Falconer smiles encouragingly at this
sally, but Fred's face takes an additional shade
of gravity, which Cilia is not slow to observe.
Privately she meditates all sorts of revenge
on him, for having, as she phrases it, " taken
part against her."

I wonder if Milly ever had a governess
here ? " resumes the child, after a pause, reflectively.


Fred looks up quickly.

"Milly? that is Mrs. Bering, is it not . "
he asks. " Cousin John's niece, who made
the marriage which displeased him so ? "

It displeased and surprised us all," answers

Mrs. Falconer severely. 'rand it is
a topic which I should prefer not to discuss,
Mr. Falconer."

'' Well, / think it was great fun, Milly's
running off like that, and putting everybody
in such commotion," says Cilia approvingly.
- I think "

When I was a child, I was never allowed
to give my opinion unasked for," comments
Fred, unable to resist giving the snub.

Speak when you're spoken to,
Do as you're bid,
Shut the doors after you,
And you'll never be chid " 

quotes Cilia, quite unrepressed. " Well, all I
can say is, that I'm glad I wasn't a child
with you."

*' My dear Cilia is not accustomed to the
idea of being treated as a nonentity, are you,
love?" says her mother indulgently. 'you

see, she is my only ewe lamb, Mr. Falconer,
  the sole relic of my happy wedded days, 
and my object has been to train her up as a
companion to myself, and a recipient of my
thoughts and confidences."

'' Mr. Falconer doesn't like me, I know,"
continues Cilia, with the candour peculiar to
her age. "He thinks you spoil me, mamma."

Mrs. Falconer rises to go upstairs, and
Fred expresses his intention of going to see
his cousin, a project instantly nipped in the
bud by his hostess, who informs him that
Mr. Falconer has already retired to his
room.

*' Then I shall defer seeing him till tomorrow
morning, when I shall esteem it my
duty to reason with him a little on the subject
of Mrs. Bering, and let him know that
it is my opinion she has been harshly
treated."

Mrs. Falconer turned round upon him indignant.


Let me advise you, Mr. Falconer, to
change your mind," she says quickly, all her
natural languor of manner disappearing for
the time being. " Mr. Falconer is not a man
who will stand his actions being criticised,
and I cannot see how it is your place to "

'* One often has to submit to belno misrepresented,
and to being considered officious,
in the cause of duty," returns the Rev. Fred,
with sanctimonious humility. '' But that will
not deter me from doing what I believe to
be right."

You had better speak about Charlie too,
hadn't you } " suggests Cilia pertly. " He
also made a marriage which did not please
papa, and his claims come before Milly's."

Fired with the heroism of a martyr, Fred
rushes hotly on the attack the following morning.

Breakfast has not been a particularly
pleasant meal, for Mrs. Falconer Is evidently
too Indignant with him to exert herself In
entertalnlnof him, and Cilia shoots withering
glances at Miss Goring across the table. But
Fred Is not easily discouraged ; the more he
Is prompted by self-interest not to broach
what will probably be an undesirable subject,
the more he is determined to disregard such
egotistical instincts, and sacrifice himself on
the shrine of duty.

Having meekly offered to read the morning
Psalms to his cousin, and being greeted
with a sharp refusal, he hastens to disburden
himself of the task he has set himself to accomplish.


He takes to himself credit for the diplomatic
manner In which he Incidentally Introduces
M lily's name, and so paves the way
for his lecture.

'' I cannot help thinking, Cousin John," he
then begins, assuming his most professional
air  '* you will, I hope, forgive my saying it,
but, in my clerical capacity, I consider it behoves
me to point out things which go against
my conscience "

For Heaven's sake, have done with all
that palaver, and come to the point at once,
if there is a point," interpolates Mr. Falconer
sharply.

'' I was going to say that surely your niece,
Mrs. Bering, has been a little hardly treated
by you. I understand she"

Has it ever occurred to you, young man,
that there is such a thing as minding your
own business?" asks Mr. Falconer, with difficulty
restraining his anger at this unexpected
remonstrance.

That is a consideration which I find It
my duty to disregard when my line of conduct

is clearly marked out for me," returns
Fred, drawing himself up with dignity. "But
pray listen to me for a moment. I hear that
Mrs. Dering has made a marriage which displeases
you, and for that reason you have,
metaphorically speaking, washed your hands

of her. Now, it seems to me "

*' It seems to me, sir, that you are the most
confoundedly officious, interfering prig of a
puppy it has ever been my lot to know ! "
roars the old man, his eyes literally blazing
with wrath. *' Who on earth cares to hear
your opinion on the matter, sir, or, indeed, on
any matter whatsoever You come to my
house as a visitor, and presume on the fact
by daring to lecture me on my actions, for
which I am responsible to no man. Consider
that you have discharged your duty, then,
and have the kindness to leave me for the
present ! "

'* But, Cousin John, just listen to "

** I refuse to listen to a word more, sir ;
your audacity is unparalleled ! Commend me
to a parson, and especially to a young parson,
for thrusting his nose in what does not concern
him ! Ah, Arabella, here you are ! I
was just recommending Mr. Frederick Falconer
to go and explore the grounds."

Mrs. Falconer takes in the meaning of the
scene at a glance, and is inwardly triumphant
at the evident rout of the enemy. She glides
up to her husband's side, and gently places
her hand on his shoulder, thereby implying
that he can count on her support and cooperation,
and suavely, but with a ring of
determination in her voice, urges the young
man to take the advice given him.

'* My husband is easily fatigued, and when
that is the case, he feels up to seeing no one
but me," she says softly. " You will, I am

sure, find enough to interest you during the
morning in wandering over the garden, ashe
suggests."

Fred has nothing left but to obey their
wishes, and leaves the room, conscious that his
well-meant remonstrance has somewhat failed
in its mark. None the less does he intend
to renew the attack at the next opportunity.

As the door closes behind him, Mr. Falconer
turns to his wife with a wrathful countenance.


So long as that impudent fellow remains
here, Arabella, you will be kind enough to
contrive that he shall not come into this
room again," he says imperiously ; and, nothing
loth, she promises to fulfil his wishes,
and during the rest of Fred's stay he is not
allowed to go near his cousin, except on the
last morning, to bid him farewell.

Mrs. Falconer is triumphant, but her

triumph receives a decided check when, two
or three days later, she hears her husband
murmur CharHe's almost forgotten name
during his afternoon doze.

Was it possible that his thoughts were
taking that turn ? that, disgusted with his
abortive attempt to fill his place with one
of his distant kinsmen, his old affection for
his graceless nephew was gradually reviving ?
With a perseverance worthy of a better object,
she manoeuvres in every possible way
to try and discover the bent of his thoughts,
but without success. Mr. Falconer maintains
a rigid silence concerning any projects
he may have found, and Charlie's name
never passes his lips again, waking or sleeping.
Yet that cry of " Charlie, my boy ! "
haunts her ears unpleasantly, and she devotes
herself to the care of her husband with increasing
and unwavering assiduity.

Meantime, Charlie and his wife are still
carrying on their life in London lodgings,
but under even greater difficulties than formerly.
Milly's marriage has been a blow to
them, for they are well aware that henceforth
any supplies from that quarter will be looked
for in vain. Two or three times a week
Charlie bemoans the folly and imprudence
of his cousin in so recklessly throwing over
a rich prize like Mr. Tomkinson, and accepting,
in exchange, penniless Geoffrey Bering.

'' She will rue the day when she made
such an idiotic bargain, I feel certain," he
repeats with conviction, his anxiety for Milly's

6i

well-being having proportionately increased according
as his own interests are involved.

And Ruth answers warmly, " Oh, Charlie
dear, indeed I hope not," and looks out
eagerly for a letter from the bride, which
never comes.

Charlie s temper is decidedly more fitful and
less equable than of yore, and his fair young
face no longer wears the sunny smile which
used to be one of his greatest charms.
Things are not going well with him. He
has at last been compelled in a great
measure to give up those social pleasures
which he found so enthralling, simply because
he absolutely lacks the means to pursue them.
Wanting the moral courage to let his friends
know the real state of the case, he makes
the excuse of a pressure of hard work, and
on that plea refuses all invitations, so that
by degrees his friends leave off asking him.

Thrown back on his own resources, and
once again relegated to his own company
far more than he at all relishes, condemned
to the indifferent food which their slatternly
cook provides, poor Charlie's fate is indeed
deserving of pity. Ruth has by this time
succeeded in obtaining: a fair number of
pupils, but it is uphill work for her, and
naturally entails her being from home the
greater portion of the day.

Fetters of Gold " is still being bandied
about like a shuttlecock from one publisher
to another, and its author still continues
to excuse himself from undertaking any other
work while his mind remains in that unsettled
state concerning its ultimate fate.
Towards the middle of April, Mr. Tomlinson,
still smarting under Milly's defection,
yet eager to prove himself as good as his
word, pays a visit to Captain Devereux, introduces

himself, and questions Charlie closely
as to his prospects of advancement in the
literary line. The result of this visit is an
offer from the editor of a weekly magazine
to place Captain Devereux on his staff asa
reporter of social gossip. Once again
Charlie's buoyant spirits rise to the surface.
Gratefully he accepts the post, and has small
difficulty in persuading his wife that, in
order to fulfil the requirements of his new
office, it becomes obligatory on him to mix
to a certain extent in society, so as to supply
himself with details from the fountain-head.
Very meekly Ruth acquiesces in his views,
and slaves away harder than ever to earn
for him the necessary wherewithal. But a
long bout of idleness and dilatoriness has
had the effect of demoralizing Charlie's
mental powers, and he finds himself incapable
of producing any real good work, which

must be sent in carefully to time. Once
again the fascination of society lays hold
of him, and he receives a sharp reprimand
from the editor for having sent up his
weekly budget a day too late, and more than
once he Is Informed that his work is careless
and slovenly. In vain Ruth beseeches
him to take more pains, and tries to Impress
upon him the importance of punctuality and
attention ; but beyond listening to her for a
moment, he takes no notice of her entreaties.
It Is hardly a matter of surprise to any one
that a week or two later he receives a
letter from the editor, containing a cheque
for his past services, and a polite regret that
he is unable to avail himself of them anymore
for the future.

With a smothered exclamation of disgust,
Charlie tosses the letter to the other end of
the table, and imparts the contents to his wife.

VOL. III. F

'' So that is all the help Tomkinson can
give me ! " he says contemptuously. *' That
fool of an editor ! I suppose he thought
himself obliged to give me something as he
was under some obligation to Tomkinson ; but
he was determined to shake me off as soon
as he decently could. And I am sure I
gave him the full worth of his money."

'' I think once or twice lately you sent him
in rather short supplies," says Ruth timidly.
[Charlie has been so uncertain in his temper
of late that she does not feel quite sure of
her ground in even applying a censure.]

And that account you gave of Lady D 's

ball was very sketchy, Charlie. You would
not take the trouble to go, and I am sure
he must have found out you weren't there."

" Well, what difference is there in the
account of one ball or another ', " returns her
husband, half laughing, half cross. 'just describe

half a dozen dresses, and give a few-big
names, and the thing is done."

Yes, but Lady D 's was such a grand

affair ; and as it turned out, she had a particularly
smart cotillon, and the decorations
of her rooms were quite unique. And of
course you knew nothing about that."

What does it matter whether such trifling
details as those are reported, or not ? I
don't believe for an instant the fellow turned
me off because of that. Much more likely
he has got some pet protege of his own
whom he wants to put in my vacant place.
Well, I don't care much, except that now I
shall have nothing on earth to do. I wish
Tomkinson would get me something more
worth having  something to last."

*' Perhaps he will when he hears of you
being unemployed again. By what you told
me, he seems a very kind man, and I must

say it was most generous of him to remember
his promise to Milly of helping you
after the way she has behaved to him."

'' Milly is a fool," curtly replies Charlie,
with more emphasis than politeness. "If
she were married to Tomkinson now, there'd
have been some hope of getting him to put
out a helping hand, but as matters stand I
can hardly apply to him again."

'' Certainly not  you know him so very
slightly. It would be impossible."

'' It's all very well your saying it is impossible,"
answers Charlie gloomily, '* but I
should like to know what we are to do
next. We can hardly get on at all as it
is, even with all your exertions, and how on
earth you expect me to sit down calmly,
with the prospect of doing nothing but count
my fingers over and over again, I can't
imagine**

'' I don't expect you to do that, Charlie
dear, and I think it would be very bad for
you to be thoroughly idle. I am always
begging you to try and write some short
stories -feuilletons they call them  such as
appear in the World, etc. I am sure you
could do it if you tried."

*' And I am equally sure I couldn't," is
the cross answer. '' My talent doesn't lie in
scribbling off those silly little publishing
anecdotes, which are much too short for you
to be able to work up any plot or sensation
in them. I can write a good long novel like
Fetters of Gold," which gives you scope
for a little imagination and for concocting a
continuous story ; but these short novelettes
are not worth the trouble of writing. Soit's
no use your proposing me to try. The
question is,  what is to be done? how are
we to get along as things are now . "

And Charlie walks moodily to the window,
and gazes out absently at the dingy little
street.

Ruth makes no answer to his last questions,
for the simple reason that, rack her brain as
she will, she can think of nothing to suggest.

I wish with all my heart I could think
of some opening for you," she says at length,
despairingly. ** But what is there for a man
to take up at your age and In your
position ? "

What, Indeed ? " he echoes bitterly. *' I
cut my own throat when I left the army,
and now there Is nothing left for me to fall

back on. What a fool I was " He

checks himself abruptly as he catches sight
of the pained expression on his wife's face.
Well, It's no good on earth crying over
spilt milk, Is It, little one ? But, to tell you
the truth, I don't think that this miserable.

poverty-stricken existence suits either you orme
particularly well. Excuse my saying so,
but you're not half as bright or cheery as you
were when I married you, my dear Ruth."

The tears spring to his wife's eyes, although
she manages to conceal them from
his notice, and she even assumes a forced
tone of pleasantry as she answers him.

Pray don't apologise, Charlie. I am quite
aware of the fact myself. I have grown very
dull and stupid, though I don't think I ever
had very high spirits naturally, and certainly
no one ever called me amusing. But
my whole time is so taken up with the
treadmill of lessons that my brain very often
feels quite bewildered when I get home, and
my few ideas are put to flight,"

** Well, desperate needs require desperate
remedies," says Charlie, a little bit softened
by her humble self-disparagement. " And I

VI.

have got one to propose. I wouldn't suggest
it if it wasn't about the only alternative
left to us, you may be certain. What do
you think of "

Please go on, Charlie. You have made
me quite curious to know what it is."

The only plan left is for you or me 
you, I think, on the whole  to go down to
Whincote, face the Ogre in person, and
make a tremendous attempt to melt his flinty
heart. There ! the murder's out ! How does
the idea strike you ? "

"You quite take my breath away! Go to
Mr. Falconer, and throw ourselves on his
mercy ! Oh, Charlie, do you think it would
be of the slightest use ? "

*' I can't tell. It might, and there's no
harm in trying. ' Nothing venture, nothing
have,' you know. You might get round the
old man, surely."

*' Oh, Charlie, that is irxieed a forlorn hope !
If he can hold out so long against you, do
you think it the least likely that the sight of
me would have any effect on him ? If I were

only the least pretty, or fascinating, or

But "  with supreme self-abasement  '* an ugly
little creature like me ! It is absurd ! "

'' My dear Ruth, you are too ridiculously
modest. As to your being ugly, it is not
true; and if you will only get yourself up a
little smartly, and put on the most insinuating
manner you can devise, I'm sure you'll
fetch ' the old fellow in a jiffy."

'swells" dejectedly. ** Of course I'll do
my very best, Charlie, if you think it's worth
the trial. I haven't the faintest hope of
success myself, but "

Now that's just the wrong frame of mind
to start off in," replies her husband impatiently.
'' The great secret of life is never

to anticipate failure. Have confidence in
yourself, and you're pretty well sure to carry
your point."

A comfortable theory, at all events," says
Ruth, smiling. " I will try very hard, then,
to feel certain that I shall be able to thaw
Mr. Falconer. You are sure it wouldn't be
better for you to go, Charlie ? "

'' I am quite sure. He'll be much more
likely to be impressed with the novelty of an
unknown niece. The sight of me would probably
only renew his old grievances. Well,
it's a chance, Ruth, of course ; but a drowning
man clings to the least straw, you know."

'rand if it is In my power this straw
shall bring him safe to shore," responds
Ruth cheerfully, resolved not to vex him
any more with doubts as to her own competency
for the mission thrust upon her.
Distasteful as It is to her, she has not the

slightest inclination to dispute her husband's
wishes, but has every appearance of acquiescing
heartily in his plans.

"When shall I go, Charlie? I must contrive
to arrange with my pupils to take a
holiday that day."

'* Strike while the iron is hot, and go tomorrow,"
returns he. "No good ever came
of putting off a thing which has got to be
done." (Oh, Charlie, how curiously far removed
from each other are our theories
and our practice ! ) " You can send a line
by this post to your bothering pupils, can't
you ? and Saturday's not a bad day, as ita
sort of half-holiday with you. You must
get off by the early train, and you'll be
back easily by the 3.40. I won't draw out
a line of action for you, Ruth, as I think
that sort of thing is always best when left
to the impulse of the moment."

Perhaps so, Charlie." How utterly her
feelings belle her words ! '' And you won't
be angry with me if I fail ? "

' Of course not ; but you mustn't fail.
The thing's easy enough, I'm sure, if you've
only the pluck to carry it out. 'Ce hest que
le pre77iier pas qui route! "

AN UNSATISFACTORY JOURNEY.

The same day that Ruth Devereux sets apart
for her journey to Whincote is marked by
a rare event in the Abbey household. At
a late hour the previous evening Mr. Falconer
has made the startling announcement to his
wife that he intends to go to town for the
day on the morrow. A journey to London,
being an experience almost unprecedented in
the annals of Mr. Falconer's existence, naturally
forms a subject of surprise to those who
are informed of his intention. Mrs. Falconer
is more than surprised  she is suspicious and
thunderstruck. Concealing her anxiety under
the mask of wifely solicitude, with her usual
cleverness, she tries gently to dissuade her



husband from carrying out his plan, on the
plea that it may Injure his health.

"" In your delicate state, such an unusual
exertion might do you incalculable harm,"
she urges earnestly. *' At least, let me be
your companion ; let me be at your side, as
it is my right to be, so that I may watch
over you, and guard you from any possible
undesirable results."

But Mr. Falconer is obdurate.

*' It will not hurt me one atom to go to
London for a few hours, and, with thanks for
your offer, I prefer greatly to go alone. I
am not yet in my dotage, and can look after
myself at present tolerably well," he says
decidedly.

Nor will he take any notice of her hints
to give her a clue as to what this unexpected
business in town consists of. But her woman's
instinct is not to be overcome. She scents

danger in the air ; she feels certain that her
interests and those of Cilia are about to be
jeopardized by this sudden unaccountable
whim, and she spends most of the morning
after her husband's departure in tears and
in repeated bewailing of the hardships of
her fate.

My precious child ! my only treasure ! "
she cries, clasping the irresponsive Cilia in
her arms. *' I feel confident that no goodwill
result to either of us from your papas
extraordinary whim. My heart tells me he
is gone to make it up with that ungrateful
nephew of his, and then good-bye to all my
cherished hopes for you, my sweet one. So
carefully as I have worked for you, so unremitting
as I have been in your cause ! It
is hard, very hard ! The day will come  I
know it will  when I shall once again be a
lone widow on the face of the earth, with

but a pittance to keep myself and my child
from starving ! "

Nonsense, mamma ! " returns Cilia unsym-
pathisingly. " He's sure to leave you something,
even if it is not as much as you hoped
for ; and with that, and what you had before,
you surely need not talk of starving. I'm
sure I don't want the old miser's money ! "

" Ah, my innocent child, you have yet to
learn how mercenary motives sway the minds
of mankind, and how much your own advancement
and success in life is proportioned
to the amount of means you have ! This is
a hard, practical world, my Cilia, as I fear
you will find it one of these days ! Heaven
knows how free from self-seeking and egotism
my feelings are removed. It was all for
you, my child, that I sacrificed myself, and
put up with the many trials I have had to
endure, only to find that it has all been of

no avail, and I might have spared myself the
trouble."

'' Well, if I were you, mamma, I wouldn't
worry myself so much about a thing which
may not really happen," responds matter-of-fact
Cilia. " You don't know what papa is
gone to London for, and it's no good guessing,
and making yourself ill about it. How
do you know he hasn't gone to buy you a
diamond necklace ? "

** Foolish child ! What it is to be young,
and to revel in such pleasing imaginations !
Well, I will not sadden you with my melancholy
forebodings, dear one. Run away to
your lessons, and forget that you have got
a foolish mother, who sees everything en
noir ! "

Just as Cilia retreats, a ring at the front
door is heard, and a few minutes after, May
comes to his mistress, and informs her that

VOL. III. G

a lady has called, and is asking for Mr. Falconer.


A lady ? What sort of looking lady,
May ? "

Well, ma'am, she's such a thick veil on
that I couldn't see her face. But it's no one
as I've ever seen before, to my knowledge.
Would you please to see her, ma'am, as Mr.
Falconer is not at home '. "

Mrs. Falconer reflects a moment, and then
replies in the affirmative, and Ruth, very shy
and alarmed, is ushered into her presence. Mrs.
Falconer greets her with a ceremonious bow.

Oh, the servant told me Mr. Falconer
was gone out," stammers poor Ruth, too embarrassed
to know what she is saying. " I
am Captain Devereux's wife, you know "

Indeed, until you informed me, I " was
quite unaware of the fact," replies the other
lady, in her most freezing tones.

*soh, of course you couldn't know,  you
have never seen me. How stupid I am ! I
came from London this morning on purpose
to try and see Mr. Falconer "

Mr. Falconer is gone to London himself,
and will not be back till late."

'' So your butler told me. Oh, Mrs. Falconer"
 with a sudden determination to try
and win this uncompromising-looking personas
an ally to her side  *' do you think it
likely he will help us  my husband and me '
He is Charlie's uncle, you know, and he used
to be fond of him at one time, and we are
so poor, so very poor, you have no idea "

** Am I to understand, Mrs. Devereux, that
you came here to-day with the intention of
asking my husband to lend you some pecuniary
assistance ? "

'' Yes, indeed. Charlie would not have had
me do it on any account except as a last

resource ; but really It is very hard on him to
lead the dreary life he has to put up with
now."

*' Captain Devereux has only himself to
thank for his present altered circumstances."

'' I know it well," answers Ruth pathetically.
'* And you see, Mrs. Falconer, it is chiefly
because it all happened on my account that
I am so anxious to do something for him.
For me, of course, it does not signify. I
have been accustomed to work all my life 
I was a governess, you know "

Really, Mrs. Devereux, I cannot see the
necessity for going Into these details. I am
quite aware that "

But I wanted to tell you all about It,
that you may realize how good it was of
Charlie to marry me, when he might have
done so much better, and chosen a wife who
would quite have satisfied Mr. Falconer. Do

you think there is any chance of his relenting
towards CharHe ? He has kept it up so long
now."

'' I am quite unable to answer for my
husband's future line of action," says Mrs.
Falconer loftily. '' Judging by what I have
heard, I should say that Mr. Falconer is not
prepared very readily to overlook any deliberate
opposition to his repeatedly expressed
wishes. If you will take my advice, you will
spare yourself the trouble of a second journey
down here, for I am convinced it would betaken
in vain."

*' Then you yourself will not help us, Mrs.
Falconer ? Oh, could you not intercede for
us, and tell him how badly off we are, and
how Charlie has nothing at all to do, and we
hardly know how to get on ? All his friends
are dropping him, and he has not a soul to
speak to."

I must decline to interfere," returns Mrs.
Falconer stiffly. *' Mr. Falconer has, I am
sure, good reasons for what he does, and I
never try to influence him in matters which
are wholly affairs of his own. I regret that
you should have come down here to no purpose
; but had I been consulted beforehand,
I should certainly have recommended your
renouncing the project."

To this speech Ruth makes no answer.
She is ver) much dejected with her failure,
and sees that there is no other course open
to her but to return at once, and report her
ill success. Unconsciously her glance travels
round the room, which, though furnished in a
somewhat old-fashioned, heavy style, gives one
the idea of solidity and substantial means.

'' And all this was to have come to Charlie
some day ! " she exclaims, more to herself
than to her companion.

*' And will still be his, I have reason to
fear," inwardly comments Mrs. Falconer. But
aloud she says, ** Really, you are taking
things a little too much for granted, are you
not ? Perhaps you are not aware that it is
in Mr. Falconer's power to bequeath his property
to any one whom he may choose ? "

'' And I feel sure he would have chosen
Charlie, if he had not been so ill-advised as
to marry me," answers the young wife, with
a faint smile. '' I am the stumbling-block
that Mr. Falconer can't get over, I know."

And then she offers her hand to her ,
who condescends to give her a
limp pressure in return, and retraces her
weary steps to the station. During the whole
of her journey to London, the thoughts of
the downfall of her hopes (or, rather, her
husband's hopes, for she had none) occupy
her mind, and she dreads the idea of having

to face him with the bad news she has
brought. Will he want her to make a
second attempt, she wonders ? or will he
say that she ought to have waited at Whin-cote
until Mr. Falconer returned, and secured
an interview with him ?

As she mounts the narrow staircase leading
up to their shabby little apartment, she
is surprised to hear the sound of Charlie's
voice, more cheerful than she has known it
for a long time, in conversation with a companion,
whose tones are unfamiliar to her.
After a moment's hesitation, she opens the
door and walks in.

Her husband rises to greet her with an
exclamation of, " Here you are, Ruth, just in
the nick of time ! This is my wife. Uncle
John."

Completely bewildered, Ruth passively
places her hand in the outstretched palm of

the stranger. She sees before her an old
gentleman, with grey hair and small twinkling
eyes, and a would-be benign smile on
his face.

She doesn't know who I am," he says,
enjoying her perplexity. " You have heard
of your husband's Uncle John, my dear?"

Commonly called the ' Ogre,' " whispers
Charlie in her ear. And then she understands,
and knows that she is in the presence
of the very individual who was the object
of the bootless journey she has just undertaken.


AND A SATISFACTORY ONE,

Retracing our steps a little, we must go
back to the arrival of Mr. Falconer In the
little house at Kensington on that memorable
day. Ruth has been gone about two hours,
when a sharp ring at the bell, and the
sound of wheels stopping at the door, attracts
Captain Devereux's attention.

As he Is, however, engaged at the moment
In skimming his Daily News, he takes no
notice of the sound, beyond a wonder as to
who It can be, finally deciding In his own
mind that It Is sure to be some one who has
made a mistake In the number of the house.
Visitors are things quite unknown to the inmates
of this establishment,  It almost seems

at times as if the few friends they possess
have altogether forgotten the fact of their
existence,  and therefore it never occurs to
CharHe that this early arrival should in anyway
concern him. The next moment the
little maid-of-all-work puts her head in at
the door, and before giving her time to say
a word, Captain Devereux orders her, rather
peremptorily, to clear away the breakfast,
the remains of which are still on the table.

Please, sir, yes, sir. But here's a gentleman
called to see you, sir."

Rather vexed by this unlooked-for intrusion
at so early an hour, Charlie hastily drops
his newspaper, and stands up to receive his
unknown visitor, imagining it to be one of
his ci-devant brother officers, and conscious
of hardly being in suitable trim to receive
him. His amazement may be better imagined
than described when the familiar features of

his redoubtable uncle are visible over Sally's
shoulder.

'uncle John! What a surprise " he

begins, starting forward to meet him.

Mr. Falconer looks a trifle shamefaced and
embarrassed, as indeed he has cause. His
opening remark is characteristic.

Confoundedly steep stairs those of yours !
It takes all my breath away to come up
them ! And so you are surprised to seeme
? "

Naturally. I expected the king of the
Cannibal Islands to walk into this room rather
than you. I hope it means that "

'' That I am treating you better than you
deserve," puts in his uncle, with a reassuring
attempt at pleasantry. " Well, Charlie, I
suppose that even old curmudgeons like meas
I heard you call me once  have got a
soft spot somewhere or other, and you know,

you dog, you always contrived to get round
me somehow. I've held out a long time,
but the truth is, Charlie, my boy, I am beginning
to feel that I should like to have
some one of my own kith and kin about
me. That woman is as wily as a serpent."
*' Do you mean Mrs. Falconer, sir?"
Of course I do. She thinks she is very
sharp and clever, and that I don't see through
her manoeuvres ; but I'm not quite an idiot
yet, whatever I may become, and It doesn't
want half an eye to see that she hopes that
uncouth brat of hers will step into your
shoes. She worries my life out, Charlie 
she does indeed! So after that fool Milly
cut her throat by bolting with that scamp,
Bering, I took it in my head to send for one
of Robert Falconer's boys, just to circumvent
madam, and to give him a chance. He
wasn't a bad young fellow on the whole, but

full of tricks and mischief; and when he
wound up by taking me off before the child,
and mimicking me,  confound him !  I thought
it high time to pack him off. After him
came his elder brother  an intolerable prig,
who fancied It was his mission to set everything
straight, and lecture us all round. I
soon had enough of him. Some people, I
saw, were not brokenhearted at these two
failures. However, to cut my story short,
somehow, Charlie, you came back Into my
thoughts, and I began to have a hankering
to see you again. I kept my own counsel
this time, and no one at home knows why I
came,  but here I am, and  and perhaps
you'll agree with me that it's best to let bygones
be bygones, and to be friends again."

He holds out his hand to his nephew, who,
after an instant's pause of astonishment, ashe
takes in the meaning of the foregoing

speech, grasps it warmly. Men do not often
waste many words on a crisis like this,
and all Captain Devereux says in return
is,

*' All right, Uncle John. I'm awfully glad
to see you again. And you and I won't
quarrel again in a hurry, if I can help it."

*' And where's your wife ? " next inquires
Mr. Falconer, seating himself in the one
horse-hair arm-chair with a sigh of relief,
as of a man having disburdened himself of
a disagreeable task. " I want to see her,
Charlie."

'' She's just missed you. She's gone down
to Whincote."

Then Charlie in his turn gives his uncle a
graphic little sketch of their circumstances,
and of the shifts they have been put to, on
hearing which Mr. Falconer produces his
pocket-handkerchief, and wipes his eyes, excusing

the act by saying that the dust from
the railway has got into them.

"So you have found out that you can't
live on air, and altogether dispense with the
solid sense of pounds, shillings, and pence ?
And your book-writing, young man, what of
that?"

I have been gradually coming round to
the conviction that I was not intended by
nature for an author," returns Charlie, with
his old, bright smile. '' My * Fetters of Gold '
the only novel I ever wrote  has hung
heavily on hand, and won't go off. What
on earth made me choose such a title, I
can't imagine, particularly inapplicable, as they
were fetters I had never experienced the
weight of."

** Well, all that shall be altered now," says
Mr. Falconer cheerfully. "It's a pity you've
done with the army for good and all ; but

never mind, you and your wife will have to
come and live at Whincote, and you must
look after things there for me. You'll have
plenty to do, for I'm sure that rascally agent
of mine has been robbing me right and left.
I shall send him away, and you shall take
his place, if you will."

** I'll do anything you like, if it is in my
power," answers Charlie fervently. '' But how
will Mrs. Falconer like this invasion of the
Abbey ? "

'* Mrs. Falconer must learn to like it, or
failing it, she will have to lump it," says
her husband uncompromisingly. " When can
you come, Charlie ? To-morrow ? "

I think we had better wait till Monday,
as Ruth will have to give notice to her
pupils, and we shall have several little things
to do before we leave."

** All right, then, we'll say Monday. You

VOL. III. H

don't appear to have had a very luxurious
breakfast this morning," remarks Mr. Falconer,
with a scrutinizing glance at the bare
appearance of the table before him.

Charlie laughs, as a man can afford to do
when he surveys his misfortunes as past and
gone.

'' No. I have been having bacon as a
treat once a week, and London bread-and-butter
alone are not very appetizing, I find."

' Good gracious ! Bacon once a week !
No wonder you look pulled down. It'll do
you good to come to Whincote, and get
some wholesome food, only you must not
expect very luxurious fare, you know. With
my increased household, I have to regulate
my expenses very carefully and with strict
economy."

The ruling passion is still strong within,"
mentally comments Charlie.

*' Naturally you must," he remarks aloud.
'' But it is wonderful how one finds that one's
wants gradually adapt themselves to the supply
which is all one has to look to. A year ago,
I should have kicked uncommonly at the
notion of settling down in a poky little place
like this, and having an appetite for stale
bloaters for breakfast. Uncle John"  with
an abrupt transition of subject  " do you ever
hear from Milly ?"

Bless my soul, no ! What should I hear
from her about ? I should hardly think that
even she would have the audacity to address
me after her shameful behaviour ! Engaged
to one man, and running off with another
within a week of the wedding ; I never heard
of such a thing ! "

'rit was a very foolish act on her part,"
agrees Charlie. "If it only had been the
other way about now  if she had thrown

over Bering and bolted with Tomkinson 
then "

Why, then there might have been a
shadow of excuse for the fool ! " puts in Mr.
Falconer, with asperity. " As it is, I expect
she'll find she's made a deuce of a mistake.
Bering is an out-and-out good-for-nothing,
if half they tell me is true. What puzzles me,
is his motive for wanting to marry a girl who
he must have known was quite dependent on
my will for her future prospects. There's
something in the background I can't make out,
for Master Geoffrey is not the man to marry
a penniless girl because he is spoony on her."

No. He drew in his horns directly you
made Milly's position clear to him on that
other occasion when he proposed to you for
her," answers Charlie reflectively. '' It's a
rum business altogether. Poor Milly ! I hope
he'll treat her well."

'' It's as much as she deserves if he does,"
says Mr. Falconer sharply. " Of all the self-willed,
obstinate, pig-headed creatures, Milly
was "

It is at this juncture that Ruth makes her
appearance, and is introduced to her uncle-inlaw.
Possibly Mr. Falconer had expected
to find in her the good looks which might
furnish an excuse for Charlie's foolish act in
marrying her, but if so, he is doomed to disappointment.
Ruth, as we have before said,
had no claim to beauty whatever, and is
by no means looking her best now, when
weary with her journey, dusty and travel-stained.
In his own way, Mr. Falconer is a
great admirer of beauty in a woman, and as,
like Lord Byron, he has a special dislike to
a " dumpy woman," Ruth's want of height and
air of general insignificance strikes him unfavourably.
Having, however, made up his

mind to go through with his role of ** heavy
father " to the very end, he makes a great
effort to conceal his disappointment, and successfully
hides it from the person in question.
Ruth, indeed, is of so modest a nature that
it never occurs to her that her personal appearance
is a matter sufficiently important to
occupy the minds of others.

She sees, by Charlie's smiling countenance,
and by the marvellously benign expression
which reigns on the '' Ogre's " visage, that
matters between them have somehow been
amicably arranged, although it almost takes
away her breath to be told that she is to go
and take up her abode at the Abbey the following
week. She gives a short account of
her journey to Whincote, and of her reception
by its mistress, and Mr. Falconer chuckles
loudly as he reflects how he has outmanoeuvred
his wife, and pictures maliciously

her dismay when his intentions are broken
to her.

'' And now I'm off to send a telegram to
say I shall not be back till the late train,"
he says, rising. '' You and your husband
look as if you were half starved, my dear,
so I am going to take you both out to dine
at five o'clock. That'll allow me good time
before I have to go to the station. I daresay
you haven't tasted a really good mutton
chop for many a day, eh, Charlie ? "

Captain Devereux's ideas have swiftly
travelled towards turtle soup, lamb and forced
peas, and champagne, and come down from
their heights with a run as his uncle makes

o

mention of mutton chops. He knows what
to expect by this hint, but he smothers all
sign of the decay of his hopes.

'' Not for years. Uncle John," he answers
jauntily. 'rit makes my mouth water to

think of it now. Even Ruth, who does not
care for a good dinner, and would as soon
eat raw mutton as the best venison that was
ever cooked, looks quite perky at the prospect
before her. I quite agree with those
lines I saw the other day somewhere : 

'man may live without books  what is knowledge but
grieving ?
He may live without hope  what is hope but deceiving
?
He may live without love  what is passion but pining?
But where is the man who can live without dinner ? ' "

Silly.

Meanwhile, whilst Captain Devereux s affairs
are being satisfactorily arranged, and his
future prospects appear fair and bright once
again, how is it faring with our heroine
Milly in the lot which she has selected for
herself ? Alas ! that we should have to record
it. She is by this time beginning to chew
the bitter cud of regret and remorse, and
her golden dreams of perfect happiness are
gradually being dispelled. Her eyes are
being opened to the fact that her idol has
feet of clay, and, one by one, many of her
cherished illusions perish never to revive
again, buried in the grave which holds the
shattered remains of her faith and love.

Within a few days of their marriage,
Geoffrey Bering learns from his wife the
real truth as to the amount of fortune which
she has inherited, and when he hears that
the " pot of money " is represented by a
paltry five thousand pounds invested in the
Three Per Cents., he is unable to restrain
his rage and disappointment in their bounds,
and, oblivious of his wife's presence, gives
vent to stronger language than it is to be
hoped gentlemen often make use of before
ladies. Milly looks a little shocked and
startled, and unconsciously irritates him still
further by the look of astonishment with
which she greets this outburst.

What is the matter, Geoffrey ? does it signify
very much ? did you think I had more ? "

Upon which he turns upon her in hot
wrath, and, losing all self-control, responds
brutally, 

*' Matter much ? It matters this much,
that you don't suppose I should have been
such a confounded fool as to marry you if
I had known the truth ? "

After which affectionate speech, he throws
himself sulkily in the corner of the railway
carriage  they are speeding on their way to
Paris when this disclosure takes place  and
subsides into sullen silence. Milly grows
crimson with surprise and wounded feeling.

Oh, Geoff, how can you say such things ?"
she cries, with a world of pathetic reproach
in her voice. But as he says no word to
her in return, she has no choice but to follow
his example, and take refuge in a train of
painful reflections.

True, before another hour has passed by,
Geoffrey, having had time for consideration,
and seeing that nothing is to be gained by
quarrelling with his wife, condescends to apologise

to her for his rough behaviour, and begs
her forgiveness. FooHsh, infatuated Milly,
ready, in her great love, to forgive him the
commission of all the sins in the Decalogue,
entreats him to think no more of the circumstance
 of course she quite understands his
momentary disappointment  it was her fault
for not telling him all about it before. But
although she so generously and thoroughly
condoned his offence, she cannot so easily
shake off the impression which his words
leave behind, and, under cover of the newspaper
which he hands over to her, she
sheds quiet but plentiful tears, which she
carefully conceals from his notice. It is
very unlike off-hand Milly to cry so readily
for such an apparently trifling cause, but
there was a something undefined in Geoffrey's
tone, even more in the words themselves,
which cut her to the heart, and which

fills her with vague uneasiness with regard
to the future.

Did he, indeed, only marry her under the
belief that she was the possessor of a large
fortune ? Will the discovery of her lack of
means tend to lessen his affection for her ?
or, is It possible that his love for her was,
to a great extent, assumed, and was fanned
into a flame by the misconception under
which he has, apparently, laboured all through ?
Naturally, this last crushing doubt does not
really dwell on Mllly's mind. It will require
a succession of similar and heavier shocks to
carry through the process of disenchantment,
and to sow the seeds of doubt and distrust
in her mind.

But the first blow has been dealt. It is
the" Mltde rift within the lute," the first
discordant note sounding in the harmony
of their union, and the memory of it haunts

her mind like a disagreeable dream for many
days to come. With Geoffrey it is, of course,
different. Men are not by any means as
sensitive as women, and it is not in their
natures to brood over a few harsh words,
and perhaps magnify their significance.
Having once made the amende honorable
to his wife, Geoffrey considers he has amply
atoned for what seems to him the natural
irritation caused by her unwelcome disclosure,
and is, indeed, inclined to think that he has,
on the whole, behaved with magnanimity and
moderation. He does not, by any means,
forget the cause which led to his temporarily
losing his temper. The humiliating sense of
having been '' sold "  the feelings that for
almost the first time in his life he has taken
an important step without first taking the
trouble to discover what its probabilities of
success are  the knowledge that he has no

one but himself to thank for the unexpected
deportment  these considerations are ever
present with him, and do not serve to raise
his spirits. It is by no means a consolation
when things go wrong to be aware that we
ourselves are the primary authors of our
own troubles and misfortunes. In Geoffrey's
almost penniless condition, it is, of course,
an overwhelming blow to learn that the
heiress to the " pot of money "  an expression
containing such delightful elastic possibilities
 has sunk down to the level of a
legatee, owning the insignificant sum of two
hundred a year. Two hundred a year !
Geoffrey repeats the sum over and over
again to himself with almost a feeling of
amusement. How far will such an income
go ' with him, how, above all, can two people
manage to exist on such paltry means ?

With a shrug of his shoulders, Mr. Dering

leaves the question unanswered. '' Let the
future take care of itself," he says to himself,
with easy philosophy, his being one of those
dispositions which literally take no thought
for the morrow, and by a long course of
training, have become proficient in the art
of putting aside unpalatable reflections.

By the time that they reach Paris, Geoffrey
is himself again, and makes a little effort to
be agreeable to his wife, and even expresses
a hope that the journey has not tired her
much. They are to stop in Paris that night,
and leave for Nice by the evening express
the following day. All remaining traces of
the cloud are cleared from Geoffrey's brow
the next morning, as he escorts his wife to
as many of the '' sights " of Paris as can
well be crammed into the space of ten hours
or so, and listens, with cynical amusement,
to her exclamations of delighted surprise.

Never having crossed the " silvery streak " in
the whole course of her life, everything she
sees in Paris has the charm of complete
novelty for Milly. Geoffrey accuses her at
last of having stood still for nearly \
minutes gazing at ai dog in the street, as if
she expected to see something abnormal even
in a member of the canine tribe contrasted
with those belonging to the other side of the
Channel.

But her brief glimpse of the French
capital comes rapidly to an end, and, much
to her regret, she finds herself setting forth
from the Gare de Lyon that same evening
en route for the south. She is entranced
with the lovely scenery which displays itself
before her eyes on the following day. Her
enthusiasm is naturally not shared by Geoffrey,
for whom it has lost its charm of novelty ;
but though he does not sympathise in her

VOL. HI. I

raptures, he bears with them indulgently ;
and she is presently encouraged to take advantage
of his genial humour by once more
recurring to the unwelcome subject, which
probably is uppermost in both their minds.

Rather diffidently she ventures on the remark,


'' Wasn't it rather fortunate, Geoffrey, that
Uncle John gave me that cheque for loo
just before I left?"

** Well, yes, it was," admits her husband.
I don't know exactly how we should have
got on without it. But you don't imagine
that there will be a large balance left, do
you, after paying all the marriage fees, our
journeys, and our bill in Paris out of it ? "

Then  Geoffrey "  hesitating  " how do
you think we shall be able to get on at
all?"

'' Leave that consideration to me, my dear,

and don't worry yourself about ways and
means," returns he airily, assuming a confidence
which he is far from feeling.
" Haven't we got your princely income of
two hundred a year,  which, on a pinch,
could keep us in board and lodging. Then
there's my governor, who's bound, of course,
to contribute some sort of allowance  although
I own it's rather an intermittent
one  towards the maintenance of his hopeful
son. And then  oh! there's one or two
ways open to a J ack-of- all trades like myself
of adding a trifle to the family exchequer."

He laughs at the puzzled expression on
his wife's face, and adds rallying, *' Have
you never heard of that expression * living
by one's wits ' in the course of your life } "

'eyes, I have," admits Milly frankly;
'but I never knew exactly what it meant."

I dare say not. Your experience of life

and its buried resources has been limited
hitherto to a radius of twenty miles or so
round Whincote Abbey, hasn't it ? Never
mind, Mil, it wasn't your fault, and you'll
pick up things fast enough, I'll bet. And
never fear that we'll get on swimmingly
enough. You can trust to me implicitly."

And how long do you think of staying
at Nice, Geoffrey's And where shall we
settle after that?"

*' Good gracious, child, how do I know ?
Settle ' ? I haven't ' settled ' anywhere for
the last fifteen years, and I fancy I've quite
lost the wish to do so. So you've cast in
your lot with a wandering vagabond, Milly,
a regular Bohemian, who's never known
what it is to have a home of his own, and
whose actions are moulded entirely by the
bent of his own sweet, unfettered will."

I shall be quite content to live the life

that suits you, Geoffrey, so long as I have
you with me," says Milly earnestly, in return
for this decidedly egotistical speech.
But she cannot refrain from one little sigh
as she relinquishes her cherished hopes of
possessing the modest little home where, in
imagination, she and Geoffrey were to live
so happily and so peacefully. Her husband,
however, takes no notice of the sigh, even
if he perceives it. His spirits rise higher
and higher the nearer he approaches his
familiar haunts, and as the train bears them
in sight of Monte Carlo, his excitement
reaches boiling point, and he details to her
its manifold attractions with a fervour and
a light in his eyes which no amount of
nature's charms alone had had the power
of" inspiring him with. Arrived at Nice,
they take up their quarters in the hotel
which Mr. Bering has selected for their

future residence. It is not one of the very
largest there, but neither by any means one
of inferior stamp, for Geoffrey is too old a
traveller not to know that a second or third-class
hotel implies moderate accommodation
and fare, but rarely proportionate moderate
charges. Their rooms are pleasantly situated,
facing the south, and as the sun is shining
brightly, and the sea sparkles and dances
merrily beneath its genial influence, Milly,
too, begins to take a more cheerful view of
the prospect before her, and is inclined to
think it will be her own fault if she is not
happy in this sunny clime. Geoffrey is at
his very best all that evening, and during
the two or three succeeding days. He loses
no time in scrawling a hasty missive to his
father, and gives one the impression of having
rid himself of a burden unpalatable to him
when that duty is accomplished. He speaks

hopefully of their future, and prophesies a
favourable answer to his appeal. He escorts
his wife about the town, without showing
the least symptom of weariness or boredom,
and introduces her to the various acquaintances
he meets, with even a touch of pride
in his tone as he makes the announcement
of '' My wife."

Amongst others, they come across Major
Mainwaring, who expresses much gratification
at seeing him back again, and makes himself
extremely pleasant to Milly, who is the
object of unconscious but hardly restrained
curiosity to him. Indeed, ''my wife" is the
target for a great many glances of astonishment
and inquiry from Geoffrey's circle of
friends, for one and all are eager to inspect
the woman who has succeeded in fixing the
errant fancy of ** good-for-nothing " Bering,
and to many the apparition of a wife on

the scene at all takes the form of a complete
surprise. It has all taken place so suddenly,
and Geoffrey certainly never took the trouble
to acquaint any of his friends with his premeditated
step, that his Nice acquaintances,
with the exception of Major Mainwaring, are
totally unprepared. The women criticise
Milly's appearance, dress, and manners, with
a marvellous power of grasping the most
trifling details of each. The men are, on
the whole, inclined to bestow a favourable
verdict on her, and, indeed, Milly is looking
her very best just now, with the flush of
happiness on her cheek, and an added touch
of animation, imparted by the novelty of her
surroundings, and the freshening influence of
the sea-breeze.

Geoffrey is pleased to see that she has, ina
measure, " made a hit," as he phrases it
to himself, and his urbanity increases yet

more, so that Milly basks once again serenely
in the sunshine of his favour, and wonders
how she ever, even for a moment, could let
herself doubt his affection for her.

On the fourth day after their arrival, Geoffrey
proposes an expedition to Monte Carlo.

'you have often said you wanted to try
your luck, Milly, and I think you might
venture as far as a ten-franc piece," he says
to her, as they sit at breakfast, and Milly
joyfully accedes to the proposal. A vague
misgiving, that Geoffrey would want to leave
her behind while he devotes himself to the
business  which is no longer merely an
amusement of the moment to him  has forced
itself into her mind, and she is greatly
relieved by his expressing a wish for her
company, and appearing to .take it as a
matter of course that she should come with
him. It seems to her that the measure of

her happiness is now complete, that she
would have nothing to wish for were it not
for that one ever-present cause for self-reproach,
which forms the alloy to the otherwise
pure gold of her bliss. We allude to
the haunting remembrance of her behaviour
to Mr. Tomkinson. Try as she will, she
cannot shake off the feeling that he has
suffered hardly at her hands. For two or
three days she had almost hoped to have
had a line or two in response to her note,
but her expectations have not been realized,
and the conviction grows strong upon her
that he cannot bring himself to pardon her
offence. She knows she has behaved ungratefully
and treacherously towards one whoever
treated her with kindness and consideration,
whose friendship  proffered in an hour
when she was most in need of human sympathy
 was at one time valued by her asa

most precious possession, and who, undeterred
by rebuffs, impervious to her frequent
waywardness and petulant whims, never
wavered in his allegiance to her. Nay, did
he not even accept a reluctant and tardy
toleration from her in exchange for his honest
and warm affection, content with so little,
where he gave so much, in the hope that
one day his patient waiting would be rewarded
by the bestowal of that free gift of
love, which, indeed, was his just reward ?
And she ! what had she done ? She had
not rejected his offer of friendship ; on the
contrary, she had been glad to avail herself
of it, and to take advantage of it, when it
served her purpose. She had finally been
induced to give him her promise to marry
him, on the understanding that nothing more
than her bare promise should be demanded
of her, until she voluntarily tendered him

that for which he craved the surrender of
her whole heart into his keeping. He had
trusted her implicitly, he had spared no
pains to win her over, his forbearance and
indulgence towards her had known no bounds
and how had she repaid him ? By committing
against him a grievous wrong, by
leaving him, without a word of warning, at
the last moment, and, within a week of his
marriage with her, leaving him for ever to
become the wife of his rival ; by humiliating
him, and causing him to become the laughingstock
of the county, by letting him feel that he
had been tricked and deceived by a woman
who, up till the last moment, had played out
her role as his intended wife, all the while
planning to play him false and forsake him !
Again and again Milly turns over the
events of the last ten days in her mind,
trying vainly to find excuse for her own

conduct, to palliate her own unjustifiable behaviour.
But she cannot do so. She is
honest and true, and she is well aware that,
in the judgment of her fellow-creatures, she
would be found guilty of wronging this man
deeply ; and she herself cannot condone her
fault, even in her own mind. She will never
be able to put aside the remembrance of her
sin  for such, indeed, it appears to her to
be ; every hour of the day it is present with
her. Even when she is most happy, most
content, the thought of what she has done,
the memory of the blow her hand has struck,
comes back to her mind with ever unmitigated
force and weight, poisoning her present
happiness, and reminding her at what
sacrifice of principle and honour such happiness
has been attained. If she only could
hear him say he forgives her ! But she waits
in vain, and that word never comes.

A FAINT SHADOW.

Milly's lively anticipations from the pleasure
to be derived from her first visit to Monte
Carlo are hardly borne out by the reality.
After remaining by her side for about a
quarter of an hour at the roulette table, and
superintending her first ventures, whereby her
little sum of ten francs is increased fourfold,
Geoffrey consigns her to the care of Major
Mainwaring, who met them on their way in,
and passes on to the inner room, where more
serious business is being transacted. For a
time Milly is excessively amused and diverted
by the scene before her, and almost
childishly excited by her varying trifling gains

X26

or losses. Major Malnwaring appears to be
by no means weary of his charge, but, with
the utmost good nature, condescends to throw
his whole attention into the (to him) paltry
excitement afforded by Rouge et Now, Pair
et Impair, etc, and offers her his advice with
a solemnity and air of carefully weighing the
pros and cons, as if thousands of francs were
at stake. He has taken rather a fancy to
Milly, this curious, worn-out specimen of the
man of the world, and he takes the greatest
interest in studying Geoffrey in his new
character of a married man. Geoffrey Bering
as Benedick was an agreeable companion,
almost a kindred spirit ; but Geoffrey in his
role of husband, playing his part in the duet
of domestic felicity, is a phenomenon, a mystery.
And his friend is curious to know how
the experiment will succeed. Judging by
Milly's bright face each time he has seen

her of late, the venture up to the present
moment has been a success. Just now there
is a slight shadow on her brow, a touch of
weariness in her voice, and a growing lack
of interest in her occupation of the moment,
which tells him plainly enough that she is
growing impatient of Geoffrey's absence.
Finally, to his surprise  for her good star
appears to be in the ascendant, and he has
just raked towards her a succession of broad
five-franc pieces  she rises from her chair
with a hasty gesture, and declares her intention
of playing no longer.

'' It is not so amusing as I thought," she
says abruptly, catching sight of his look of
surprise. '' I get tired of those monotonous
cries of the croupiers ; and, after all, there isn't
a great deal of excitement about it. One
wins one moment, and loses the next. I
have been playing, I suppose, for nearly an

hour, and I have got just twenty francs to
the good."

Shall we go and find Bering, then, and
see if he has been more successful ? " asks
he ; and they are just about to pass on in
search of him, when Geoffrey himself arrives
on the scene. He is not alone. With him
are two smartly dressed, vivacious looking
young ladies, and an old gentleman, presumably
their father, bringing up the rear.
Evidently Geoffrey has found some more
friends here. The taller of the two skirts,
a slight, bright-eyed, much befriended brunette,
is laughing and talking to Geoffrey with all
the ease of an old acquaintance. Geoffrey
does not at first see his wife, and she has
ample opportunity of taking stock of the newcomers.
She is very sure that she shall
never like them. There is something almost
otitrd about their style, about their dress,

VOL. III. K

which offends her taste ; and the tones of
their voices are unmodulated and shrill, their
laughter a little forced and unnatural.

The next moment Geoffrey perceives her,
standing by Major Mainwaring's side, and
comes across to her.

There you are, Milly ! I want you to
come and be introduced to some more friends
of mine jolly girls they are. I met them
just as I was coming back to look after
you. Miss Williams, let me introduce you
to my wife. Miss Lizzie Williams, Mr. Williams."


Never has Milly felt more stupid and
incapable of making the first little social
advances. She does not wish to know the
Misses Williams, and she is too sincere to
take refuge in conventional polite phrases, and
express pleasure in making their acquaintance.
There is a second's awkward pause, promptly,

however, bridged over by the ready tongues
of the two young ladies in chorus.

*' Have you been playing too, Mrs. Bering
? How do you like it ? Isn't it awful
fun ? ' Shan't you come to Monte Carlo
every single day you are here ? "

We were so surprised to meet Mr.
Dering just now. We had no idea he was
in this part of the world. You have only
been at Nice a few days, have you ? "

No ; only since Thursday," replies Milly,
answering the last of this rapid volley of
questions. '' And I don't think I shall often
come here. I don't care for gambling."

Quite a new discovery, my dear," puts
in Geoffrey lightly. " This morning you
were so anxious to come, and could hardly
control your impatience till the time came
to start."

''Oh, but Mrs. Dering will get to like it

the more she goes on with it, I'm sure'
puts in the eldest of the two sisters. '' Papa
won't let us go in for playing, really, you
know, but we have our little fling now and
then when his back is turned. Yes, papa,
it's no use your frowning at me in that
ferocious way. We make Uncle Edward
come with us sometimes, you know, and then
the mice have a chance of a little fun."
Then, turning again to Milly, Miss Williams
continues, ** We are so glad to hear that
you and Mr. Bering are settled at Nice for
some time, Mrs. Bering, as we are there too.
We have got an apartment in the Rue des
Anglais  quite a tiny stage, but mamma
likes it better than being in an hotel. We

must see a great deal of you. Would it

Papa, don't you think If you will excuse

informality, Mrs. Bering, and come to dine
with us to-night with Mr. Bering, we should

all be so glad. I can answer for mamma, I
know ; she will be so pleased to see Mr.
Bering again. Papa, we have no engagement,
have we ? "

*' Not that I am aware of, my dear. It
will give us much pleasure, Mrs. Bering, if
you will come."

Milly hesitates. The invitation is quite
unexpected, and she does not know what
Geoffrey would like her to say. But he is
exchanging some words with Miss Lizzie in
the background, and from the expression of
their faces, Milly feels convinced that she is
adding her entreaties to her sister's suggestion,
and that Geoffrey is assenting. Some
perverse instinct urges her to refuse.

** Thank you ; but I am afraid I shall be
too tired to go out again this evening, after
my long day here."

It is not very graciously said, and her

chill, decided manner forms a strong contrast
to the cordiality  perhaps a little overdone
in this case, as extended to a perfect stranger
with which father and daughter press their
invitation.

Miss Williams says no more, beyond a
few civil words of regret, but turns away
to Geoffrey.

** We cannot persuade Mrs. Bering to
come to-night," she says to him politely.
She is afraid she will be too tired."

** I think you had better come, Milly," puts
in her husband, looking at her. ** You will
have time to rest when we get back, you
know."

I'm afraid it would be out of the question
for me to attempt it," repeats Milly,
still more decidedly. " I am very tired already,
and I should be anything but an
acquisition to the party."

*' Don't tease her to come, if she does not
feel up to it, please' says Miss Williams,
with a smile intended to be full of sympathy,
while inwardly she is setting down
Milly as a *' very poor creature " to be
tired out by a few hours' outing. '' I suppose,
then, we cannot hope for you, Mr.
Dering ? "

Well, indeed, I was just thinking. Milly,
you would spare me, would you not ? You
will want to rest, as you are so tired, and
so would not miss me if I went."

Of course not. Do exactly as you like.
As you say, I shall want to rest."

Milly's tone betrays a lurking feeling of
mortification, and Geoffrey is quite quick
enough to see it, although it suits him to
ignore the fact.

*' Very well, then, you will be best without
me. If you will have me en gar f on,

Miss Williams, I shall be delighted to accept
your invitation'

So it is all settled, and presently they all
walk down to the station together, and travel
back to Nice in the same compartment.
The Misses Williams are in ofreat force, and
seem to have endless reminiscences of former
meetings and expeditions to talk over with
Geoffrey. They do, indeed, make one or
two efforts to induce Milly to join in the
conversation, and Geoffrey himself turns to
her to explain some allusion or some joke
which they share in common, but by degrees
they grow tired of their vain attempts, and
leave her alone to the care of Major Main-waring,
who has taken a place by her side.

On arriving at Nice, they part company,
and Milly and her husband proceed straight
to their hotel, the Williamseses having promised
him half an hours law, in consideration of his

having to adorn himself. No sooner are they
out of sight than Milly, wisely or unwisely,
plunges into the subject nearest her heart.

I did not think, Geoffrey, that you
would leave me alone, and accept the invitation
without me."

''My dear Milly! Isn't that a little
absurd ? For goodness' sake don't be one
of those ridiculous persons who makes a
grievance out of nothing ! I don't want to
go without you. I should like you to come
too. I am sure Miss Williams invited you
warmly enough. Why not change your mind,
and come after all ? They would only be too
glad, I am certain."

*' You forget that the Misses Williams are
complete strangers to me," she answers
coldly.

" Never mind. They are old friends  acquaintances
of mine, and I would undertake

to be responsible for your reconsidering the
matter."

** Thank you ; but I have not the slightest
intention of going. I am much too tired,
as I told them. Besides, I have not taken
a fancy to them at all. They are fast and
loud, and very bad style, I think."

A curious look comes into Geoffrey's eyes,
and hardens his whole face as she gives
vent to this unsparing criticism.

'' For a person who has seen very little of
society, and can have small experience of
what is ' fast ' and ' bad style,' you certainly
are wonderfully quick in * spotting ' the
genus,' " he answers sarcastically. " The
bottom of it all is, that you do not quite
approve of my going out to dine without
you, do you ? Well, that is easily remedied.
I will stay at home."

'' You will not," returns Milly promptly.

'' As if it was likely I should let you do
that, or even wish you to ! "

Then, my dear Milly, I cannot help
saying that I think you are a little unreasonable.
I have offered to take you with me
even now, but you won't come. I have
offered to give up going, but you refuse tolet
me. What, then, can I do ? "

Milly is silent. She does not choose to
tell him the truths that she is hurt at his
having said '* Yes " in the first instance. Now
that it is all seeded, she would not for
worlds make herself ridiculous by accepting
his proposal of staying at home, but she
resents the fact of his thinking it possible to
go out without her,  and when they have
hardly been married a fortnight.

By this time, they have reached their hotel,
and Geoffrey hurries away to dress.

I have no time to spare now, to talk it

over,  if, indeed, the matter is worth discussion
at all," he says. *' But, surely, Milly,
you are not one of those foolish wives who
think their husbands ought to be tied to
their apron-strings all day, are you ? A man's
nature does not change utterly and entirely
with marriage, you know, and I have always
been fond of society, and accustomed to take
all that comes In my way. It's your fault
that you are not coming with me'*

Then she goes into her own room, and
sees him again only for one instant before
he starts.

'well, Mil, I'm just off. I'm afraid it's
rather late as It Is. I suppose they'll bring
up your dinner directly ? You look very
much in want of It, my child. I shan't beat
all late, I expect."

Then he kisses her rather reluctant cheek,
and hurries off, whistling.

The next morning, he is in extra good
humour, very attentive to Milly, and sparing
in his praises of the evening's entertainment,
beyond saying that he had a tolerably good
dinner.

*' By the bye, Mrs. Williams told me she
hoped to come and call on you to-day," he
says lightly. ** I think you will like her.
She is a good-natured old lady, who takes
to everybody, and spends her life in knitting
endless stockings, and in petting her
mangy old poodle."

" Which of these peculiarities of hers do
you imagine will take my fancy ? " inquires
Milly satirically. But she says it good-humoured,
having quite recovered from her
little fit of jealousy, and not feeling very sure
that she had not made a fuss about nothing.

Geoffrey laughs.

Well, certainly not the knitting, as you

are not often to be seen with work In your
hands," he answers. " But what I meant
was, that she is a Hvely, sociable old lady,
and everybody gets on with her. The girls
are very keen to get up a large picnic one
of these days, and want. us both to join, of
course. They certainly have got a lot of
superfluous energy."

And then he dismisses the subject, and
turns, not unwillingly, to the perusal of a
bundle of letters, which the waiter just brings
in.

One from the governor, I declare ! " he remarks,
selecting one of the envelopes from
his heap. " And he's really managed to shell
out something," as a cheque falls out from
the letter. '' Fifty pounds ! Well done, old
boy ! That'll represent the sinews of war
for some little time to come. He isn't a bad
old buffer after all, is he ? "

How disrespectfully you speak of your
father, Geoffrey!"

Hum ! How about uncles who go about
with the playful epithet of ' Ogre ' tacked onto
them, my dear ? "

Geoffrey is deep in the perusal of his
fathers letter now, and an amused smile flits
across his face from time to time, which
excites Milly's curiosity.

'' What does he say to make you laugh,
Geoffrey ? Can t you show it to me ? "

'' You wouldn't be edified with it, Mil. My
fathers strong point is decidedly not letter
writing, and his style is not strikingly elegant."

And then Geoffrey laughs again, folds the
letter up, and puts it in his pocket. We
take advantage of our privilege of transcribing
Mr. Bering's pithy note, which certainly
would scarcely have been pleasant reading
for his unknown daughter-in-law.

*' Dear Geoff, 

I never had two opinions as to the
knavery inherent in your nature, but up till
now I always flattered myself that I had a
son who was not a fool. You have destroyed
the illusion by tying yourself to a
penniless girl, and my congratulations on the
subject would be an arrant piece of hypocrisy.
You were in a chronic state of hard-up-ism
before,  what, according to the laws of 'multiplication,
will your state be for the future ?
I enclose a trifle to oil the wheels of your
double-harnessed vehicle for the first week
or so, after which, I am afraid, you will
have to be content with jogging along as
best you can.

'* Your affectionate father,

Richard Bering."

Apparently, no fears for the future trouble

Geoffrey's mind at this juncture, for he is in
the best of spirits ; and Milly, sunning herself
in the reflection of his smiles, is unspeakably
happy and content.

VOL. nr.

THICKENING CLOUDS.

Somehow, from the moment of the advent
of the Williams girls on the scene, Milly's
star seems to have begun to set. She cannot
take a fancy to these girls. Every gesture,
every look, every word of theirs, grates
against her sense of refinement, and offends
her taste. They make open and gushing
advances to her, which she repels with hardly
veiled disdain ; and naturally it is too much
to expect that in the face of such persistent
opposition they should persevere in
their attempts to make friends with her.
Mrs. Williams pays her promised visit to her,
and manages to create no more favourable
impression than did her daughters. Mr.



Williams she sets down with arrogant and
uncompromising judgment as a pompous and
tediously prosy old man. Of course, her
outspoken adverse criticism on his friends
has the inevitable result of making Geoffrey
still more warmly espouse their cause. In
this matter Milly decidedly behaves with a
want of tact, and shows a total absence of
the capacity for " managing " that masculine
specimen she has elected for her lord and
master. Geoffrey and she have already had
one or two slight passages of arms on the
subject of the Williams family, which end
by leaving her more than ever indignant
and unfavourably disposed towards them, and
drive him to take refuge from her complaints
in the warm welcome accorded to him in
Rue des Anglais. During the weeks succeeding
that rencontre at Monte Carlo, the Misses
Williams inaugurate a succession of picnics.

walking parties, expeditions of all kinds, and
Mr. and Mrs. Dering are, of course, invited
to one and all. But Milly, having made an
experiment of one or two, and finding that
the misery she endures at the sight of Geoffrey
so exclusively devoted to the service of the
elder Miss Williams too great a strain for
her endurance, will not be persuaded to join
these parties any more. Vainly Geoffrey
urges her, argues with her, even scolds her ;
nothing will shake her resolution. She does
not care to go, she says, she would rather
stay at home by herself; anything is better
than the company of uncongenial people for
so many hours together.

Then Geoffrey waxes angry and sarcastic.

*' You prefer your own company, then ?
Well, have your own way. You have taken
an extraordinary prejudice against my friends,
but I imagine that is the way with most

wives. I never abuse your friends. You
can enjoy Maintains society as much as
you like for all I shall prevent you."

Thank you. Major Mainwaring is scarcely
a friend of mine, although I will do him
the justice to say that he never lets me feel
neglected."

** Pray, Milly, don't begin to assume the
role of 'jennie incomprise! I couldn't stand
it long. And you really have got no ground
to go upon. The Williamseses are quite anxious
to have you with them, and you cannot say
I have not pressed you a hundred times."

No ; you have quite done your duty,"
answers Milly, with cold acquiescence. " Don't
trouble yourself any more about me. You
and Miss Williams have quite done all that
could be expected of you."

And then, Geoffrey, knowing, in his experience
of women, that it is waste of time

to argue with them when in such a mood,
checks with an effort the angry retort that is
on the tip of his tongue, and leaves her to
her own reflections. Very bitter ones these
are. It is not so much that Geoffrey openly
slights her or neglects her. For a man of
his nature, and considering the undeniable
provocation he is put to, Geoffrey fulfils most
of his duties as a husband with commendable
completeness. Whenever he has a day to
spare, he devotes it to spending it in her
company in the way which appears to please
her best. He exerts himself to describe, in
his most lively manner, the gaieties in which
he takes part without her, as if determined
to make her sympathise in his interests, and
with a ready ignoring of the fact that these
very amusements of his have been a source
of contention between them. Of course, what
with dancing attendance upon his rather

exacting friends, and his constant visits to
the tables,  where Milly again will not be
induced to accompany him,  his leisure time
is rather limited. But every hour he can
call his own he conscientiously consecrates to
his wife ; and the small circle of critics at
Nice, looking on at this domestic drama,
decide that Mr. Dering has really settled
down in a wonderful way, and that Milly is
not to be pitied nearly as much as they expected.


But Milly herself, meanwhile, is eating out
her own heart in silent bitterness. With
instinct sharpened by the very strength of
the love she bears to Geoffrey, she is becoming
daily more and more alive to the
fact that the affection she lavishes on him
is not reciprocated in anything like full
measure. Let him try and hide it as best
he can  and Geoffrey Dering has an unequalled

capacity for donning a mask, an
unlimited power of self-control  she knows
well that the warmest feeling he entertains
for her is that of polite toleration. She has
noted now and then a gleam of infinite
boredom in his eyes when relegated to her
company for long together ; she has observed
his occasional fits of absence, of inattention,
and  were additional testimony needed  his
punctilious fulfilment of all the ordinary forms
of surface politeness supplies it. Besides
which, he shows only too plainly, by his
unabated relish for the attractions of outside
society, that the perpetual, or even the frequent,
endurance of a solitude ct deux is
a bore to him. And then, she has never
been able to efface from her mind the remembrance
of his unkind speech uttered on
the impulse of the moment in the first burst
of his disappointment as to the amount of

her reputed fortune, and little by little the
feeling that he married her on the strength
of her expectations alone gains ground with
her.

Milly's nature is of a sullen, brooding tendency,
and though she cannot refrain from
betraying now and then her jealous anger
to Geoffrey himself, she for the most part
takes refuge in stony reserve and silence, and
hugs her woes in her own bosom. Certainly
marriage has not brought to her all that she
looked for and hoped from it. She feels
herself thrust in the background, no longer
first with Geoffrey, no longer sufficient for
him. She never pauses to think whether she
is herself in any part to blame for this state
of affairs. Like most girls of her age, she
had always shared the absurd delusion that
married life would but be a continuation of
the delightful time of betrothal, when the

woman carries all before her, and the man
is her avowed slave. She always pictured
to herself a long vista of months, nay, even
years, with the lover transformed into the
husband, still showering devoted attentions
upon her, serenely content with her society,
to the exclusion of all others, with the undiminished
halo of romance surrounding their
relations to the end of all time. And slowly
and sadly she is beginning to find out that
these were but dreams, idle dreams, and the
process of disenchantment is by no means
an agreeable one. Poor Milly ! she is not
the only woman who has learnt, by painful
experience, that love and overtaking  the
most important, all-absorbing events in her
comparatively narrow sphere  are to a man
but episodes in his life, and form no very
prominent part of his career.

Major Main waring, watching the comedy,

or rather the tragedy, from his vantage ground
of looker-on, feels an amount of compassion
for her which causes him to be astonished
at his own soft-heartiness. Without putting
himself at all forward, he is always at hand
to escort Milly when she needs his company,
and applies himself assiduously to minister to
her small wants, and to show her all the
attentions in his power. Milly is grateful for
his kindness ; but as a rule she prefers her
own company, and spends the greater part
of her leisure in solitary rambles through the
olive groves, or in staying at home and
reading the books with which he makes it
his business to supply her.

And so the time passes by, slowly and
heavily to her, and, we may presume, swiftly
and pleasantly to Geoffrey. Towards the
end of April they have a spell of bright,
warm weather, and although she revels in

the sunshine, and spends half her days basking
in it, yet she finds something very
oppressive in the unaccustomed glare and
heat at this time of year, and wonders
whether Geoffrey is thinking of moving to
some cooler spot.

He, however, appears quite content with
his present quarters, and if it strikes him
that his wife is beginning to look pale and
languid, he makes no remark on the subject.


One day, after two or three successive visits
to Monte Carlo, he comes to her on his
return, and after beating about the bush for
some time, asks her if it has ever occurred
to her to open any communication with her
uncle of a conciliatory tendency.

I see no good myself in keeping one's
relations at arm's length, and doing nothing
to bridge over the breach," he says. " I

don t suppose your uncle takes your deserting
him in the unceremonious fashion you did
very much to heart ; but it is just as well to
show a wish to be reconciled, and then you
must be held free of blame afterwards. After
all, it is the proper thing to cry * Peccavil
and eat humble pie, after taking the law into
your own hands, as you did, isn't it ? "

I don't know about its being the proper
thing," answers Milly, not very graciously.
'* And as, as you say. Uncle John does not
care in the least what happens to me, nor
am I heart-broken at his so completely
ignoring me, I think it would be rather
hypocritical in me to imply that I am. If
he were my father, or if I really cared for
him at all, it would be different."

*' My dear child, I don't want you to affect
anything you don't feel, or to make yourself
out stricken with remorse for your rash deed.

But, looking at the matter broadly, I suppose
you are just a trifle indebted to him for
having afforded you the shelter of his roof
for so many years, and he might think it a
queer way of showing gratitude by running
away without his leave or licence, and getting
married to a man he was not  well, not
exactly devoted to, under the rose."

** Now, Geoffrey, you are trying to work
on my feelings by proving to me that I
have behaved badly towards him. But I
assure you it is of no good. I cannot pretend
to any affection for Uncle John, and I
cannot say that the thought of his displeasure
weighs with me one iota."

Geoffrey laughs, amused at her vehemence.


*' Well, then, my dear, do It as a matter
of policy. The fact is, Mil  you know my
motives are rarely disinterested." Mr. Bering

is one of those people who make a great
show of self-depreciation, and wish to Impress
on the world at arose that the frankness with
which they bring their own demerits to the
fore Is so conspicuous as to cover a multitude
of sins. " The fact is, Mil, I am rather
hard up just now."

Milly expresses neither surprise nor concern
at this announcement.

And you hope that Uncle John will do
as your father did, and send us fifty pounds ?
Well, you aise sanguine."

I dare say I am," replies he coolly. " But
it is worth the experiment, all the same, and
there's no harm done if you fail. The truth
is "  a very favourite phrase with Geoffrey 
'' I've been rather unlucky at the tables lately.
Of Course my luck will turn soon ; it can't goon
like this long  but just for the moment I
am rather pinched."

Milly magnanimously forbears to remind
him of the many trifling expenses incurred in
the picnics and expeditions which the Misses
Williams are daily setting on foot, and which,
no doubt, entail constant attendant outlay.

'* Well, I don't mind writing," she says,
after a moment's reflection. 'what sort of
thing shall I say ? "

'' Oh, I'm sure you're much more capable
than I am of concocting an epistle suitable
to the occasion. Ain't there a lot of stereotyped
expressions which people always use,
after the thing is done, and they want to
make it up with their relations ? You must
know the sort of thing by heart. I shouldn't
be a good hand at helping you, for I don't
suppose I've ever wished to repent, or pretended
to regret, anything I've ever done in
my life."

And Milly, thankful for the implied crumb

of comfort contained in this careless speech,
as embracing a reference to their marriage,
flushes all over with repressed delight, and
makes no further demur to doing as he
wishes.

As she is sitting down to her task,
Geoffrey strolls over to the window, stands
there whistling, with his hands in his pockets,
for some minutes, then recrossed the room,
and says, in a tone which has just a shade
of embarrassment in it, 

'' While you're getting through that, Milly,
I'll just step over to the Rue des Anglais,
and see what the Williamseses have settled
to do this afternoon. They talked of going
to Bordighera for two or three hours, and I
was to go and hear what was decided. You
wouldn't care to come too, I suppose ? "

He asks her more as a matter of form
than as if he expects her to consent, and is

VOL. III. M

surprised by seeing a pleased smile pass over
her face. What sudden impulse urges her
to depart from her usual custom, and makes
her wish to join this special party, she knows
not. Perhaps the effect of Geoffrey's last
unexpectedly reassuring speech has not yet
died away ; perhaps she construes his lukewarm
invitation into a sincere desire for her
company. Anyhow, she answers with unwonted
alacrity.

*' To Bordighera ? Do you know, I really
feel quite inclined to come. I have always
had a great wish to see the scene of ' Doctor
Antonio,' which is very near there, I
believe. And they tell me Bordighera is
quite worth seeing. But perhaps I shall
make the party too large ? "

*' What nonsense ! As if one more would
make any difference ! You had better make
Main waring come too, when you're about it.

It'll do you good to have a little outing;
you stay a great deal too much indoors."

I hope It will not be a very tiring day.
This heat makes me feel quite unable to
walk."

'' You needn't walk a step more than you
like. I'm sure Mainwaring will be very
happy to cicerone you about, and sit down
whenever you like. I'll just call in at his
hotel, and get him to join us. Now, I must
be off to arrange the thing with the girls.
You'll have time to write that letter, won't
you ? for I expect we shall have to start
by the first train from now."

With that he goes off hastily, as a man
bound on an agreeable errand, and Milly,
stifling a sigh, the raison d'etre of which she
is ignorant, turns once again to her interrupted
letter.

It may as well be said here that, as she

expected, Mr. Falconer took no notice whatever
of her somewhat tardy appeal to his
favour. In the course of a week or so,
however, she receives an answer from Charlie,
now domiciled at the Abbey, who informs
her that his uncle had received it, and had
passed it over to him unopened.

'* You and I are like shuttlecocks  one
up in the air, the other on the ground,"
writes Captain Devereux. " I am in high
favour now, and the ' Ogre ' is on the best of
terms with me. Ruth is writing you a long
letter to tell you how all this came about.
I am not a good hand, as you know, at
telling a long story on paper. But the withdrawal
of the Ogre-wish favour is, of course,
not such a matter of vital importance to you
as it was to me, nor do I imagine you take
it much to heart. We were so old to see

o

your writing again, dear Mil, and to know

of your whereabouts. You seem to have
disappeared from the face of the earth since
the day you became Mrs. Dering. Do write
to me a long letter, and tell us all that you
are doing. I am longing to hear that you
are very, very happy. Remember me to
Dering, If he recollects meeting me on that
one occasion at the Trehernes'."

How vividly the easy, careless style of
her cousin's letter recalls to Milly's mind the
memories of those bygone days when he
and she had so much in common, and shared
the same interests ! How far off to her does
that period appear now ! What a gulf between
her present life and her girlhood's
days, spent in monotonous seclusion at Whin-cote
Abbey ! How completely she seems cutoff
from the past, and what a different
person she feels to the Milly of old days,
the Milly who cherished an ephemeral worship

for the very cousin who addresses her
now in such Hght, jesting strain ! Would she
recall those times if she could ? Ah ! who
knows ? It is often a difficult matter to know
what our own wishes are under certain circumstances
; and so complicated are the workings
of the human mind that there are many
among us who would be unable to decide
whether an even monotony, exempt alike
from the majority of cares as from the
majority of joys, is preferable to the attainment
of our most cherished hopes, with its
almost certain corresponding sense of disappointment.


Vainly Milly looks for a mention of Mr.
Tomkinson in Charlie's letter. It does not
contain even the remotest reference to him,
and she is still in utter ignorance of the
state of his feelings towards her. Nor can
she bring herself to make any Inquiry about

him in her reply to her cousin. So her conscience
remains enlightened of its burden,
and the ever-present remorse lies heavy at
her heart, reminding her sharply at what
cost her own way has been gained.

A VISIT TO Cordillera.

The expedition to Bordlghera comes off that
same day. The Williams girls welcome Milly
with effusion, and profess themselves delighted
to have her with their party. Milly herself,
the first edge of her good humour rubbed
off by the sight of the excellent camaraderie
which evidently exists between them and her
husband, feels all her original prejudices
against them return in full force, and cannot
bring herself to respond to their advances.
After the first ten minutes, she takes no more
part in the conversation they are carrying on
with Geoffrey  a conversation much interspersed
with banter and light laughter  and
gives her whole attention to Major 



waring, who exerts himself to interest herby
pointing out the many views unknown to
her along the coast. Her manner to Geoffrey's
friends is so short and chilling that the girls
can hardly fail to observe it, although, being
thoroughly good-natured, they rattle on without
appearing to notice anything unusual.
But Milly sees a dark cloud gathering on
Geoffrey's brow, and knows full well that
she is incurring his heavy displeasure. Nevertheless,
though she is conscious that the line
she is adopting is very mistaken policy, she
feels too sore and defiant to care much, and
she will not abate one jot of her sullen
dignity. When they arrive at Bordighera
station, Geoffrey finds a moment to say to
her, unheard by the others, 

'' Don't you think, Milly, it's rather bad
form for you to be so glum, and to look
daggers at us all, when you came a self-invited

guest to join the party ? I'm sure
Fan and  I mean the Miss WilHamses  are
pleasant enough to you ; but if you are going
to be so rude to them, why on earth didn't
you stay at home ? "

'' Why didn't I, indeed ?" echoes poor Milly
drearily. ' If you begin to talk about bad
form,' Geoffrey, I can tell you what I think
is far worse form on their part, and that is
the open way they flirt with you ! "

** Flirt!" returns Geoffrey contemptuously.
Do you call that flirting ? What nonsense !
They're just jolly, capital girls, and excellent
company, and we're very good friends ; that's
all ! So they would be with you, if you'd
let them, and not scare them away with your
absurd airs and graces ! I always thought
it was an understood thing \rv society to be
outwardly civil, at least, even to people one
doesn't particularly care for. And as they

are my friends, Milly, I think you might
take the trouble to be decently polite."

With which parting shot he leaves her,
without waiting for her answer, and joins
the *' Williams girls " once again. They are
all on their way to the '' pause'' ox old town
of Bordighera, which stands upon the hill,
some distance from the railway station. It
is a close, oppressive day, and Milly finds
the sun's rays almost unbearably hot as she
drags herself wearily along the white, dusty
roads, and tries hard to take in what Major
Mainwaring is saying to her all the time.
She feels curiously weary and inert to-day,
and is once or twice tempted to declare that
she can walk no farther. However, they
arrive at the '' pause " at last, and while the
Misses Williams exhaust themselves in enthusiastic
expressions of delight at the quaint
picturesqueness of the scene  at the crooked,

winding streets, the " bits of colour " introduced
here and there by the bright tints in the
women's dresses and in the men's costumes 
Milly seats herself listlessly down on the
edge of a fountain, thankful for the chance
of a moment's rest.

You look dreadfully tired, Mrs. Dering,"
says Lizzie Williams, coming up to her, struck
by the pallor of her face. 'i'm afraid you
have felt the heat too much, and have no
energy left to admire these curious old
houses, and this splendid view. Do look
down below you once. Isn't it lovely ? The
sea sparkling in the sun, and all that mass
of olive-trees straight in front of us. Oh !
I think Bordighera is a beautiful place ! And
look at this boy coming with his oranges !
Hasn't he got lovely dark eyes ? And his
blue cap and red waistcoat  how picturesque !
how different they look to English peasants,

who never wear anything but the most sober
colours ! "

Yes, it is very beautiful," answers Milly,
with no corresponding enthusiasm. '' But I
wish there weren't so many horrid smells
here. They will give me a headache very
soon."

Then the other Miss Williams comes forward
to inquire into the plans of the party.

Mr. Dering thinks we ought to explore
the village a little more, as he knows one
or two bits in it which would make lovely
sketches," she says, speaking for Geoffrey,
who stands at a little distance off " And
then he says there is a very pretty walk
through some olive groves just above here,
where we might sit down in the shade and
rest. What would you like to do, Mrs.
Dering ? You don't look up to much more."

*' I will not go up any higher, I think,"

replies Milly, after waiting an instant for
her husband to suggest some plan for her.
'* What I want to do is to walk towards
Ospedaletto, to see the place where the first
scene of ' Doctor Antonio ' was laid  where
the carriage was turned over. Major Main-waring
says it is not so very far."

** Well, I hardly think that, tired as you
are, you will manage to get as far as that,"
says Major Mainwaring. " But, at all events,
the road will be all on the flat, and downhill,
and if you went slowly, you might get
near enough to satisfy you. If you will
allow me, I will escort you there."

Thank you. I should like to go at once.
Anything to get away from this poisonous
place."

Then, Mr. Dering, will you act as guide
to Lizzie and me ? " asks Miss Williams,
turning to him. ** I don't feel a bit tired

yet, and I haven't seen half enough of this
dear old ' pause! "

'' With pleasure. Milly, you know the
time the train starts back. We will all meet
at the station then."

" I will take care of that," says Major
Mainwaring. " And I will see that Mrs.
Dering does not overture herself."

Thanks, my good fellow. Now, Miss Williams,
we must come up this turn to the left."

And off they go, with waving of hands
and ' au devoirs'' and Milly and her companion
slowly take their way down the hill.

Good-natured sort of girls, those Miss
Williamseses," remarks Major Mainwaring, with
studied carelessness, as their voices die away
in the distance. " Full of spirits and fun ;
perhaps just a little noisy and unrestrained,
but no harm In them whatever."

No reply whatever from Milly.

They say that the eldest one is engaged
to be married to a curate, but the father
won't hear of their marrying until they makeup
an income of six hundred a year between
them," he continues easily.

And how are they to arrive at that ? By
his getting a living ? "

*' I suppose that is what they hope. But
I doubt her having the patience to wait for
him if the living is a long time coming.
These sort of girls are not generally given
to stick to one man, but contrive to amuse
themselves with every fellow they come
across. Last winter they were at Florence
when I was there, and she was carrying on
desperately with an Italian artist, whose very
name, I dare say, she has forgotten by now.
She is a thorough butterfly, and thinks of
nothing beyond the amusement of the
moment."

'rand the younger one  Lizzie  is she
engaged to be married too ? " inquires Milly,
rousing herself to a faint show of interest in
the chronicles of the Williams family.

Not that I know of. She is a pale edition
of her sister  perhaps rather less noisy and
more good-natured. They have just that
style of light, superficial 'chaff' and chatter
which goes down and amuses most men of
the present day. But once you get below
the surface, you find that they have nothing
in them."

It Is very seldom that Major Mainwaring
launches out into such a detailed disquisition
on character as on this occasion, and, indeed,
it Is doubtful whether his discoveries with
regard to the Misses Williams' dispositions are
the result of observation, or do credit to
his Imagination, drawn upon with the object
of diverting Mllly's thoughts. He wishes to

VOL. III. N

convey to her the assurance that the girls
are harmless, every-day specimens of young
lady-hood, whose one aim In life is pursuit
of pleasure, indifferent through whose means
this is to be procured. And Milly quite
understands the drift of his discourse, and
though she is too much out of heart to take
comfort by it, feels grateful to him for his
evident wish to cheer her up. At the same
time, her pride causes her to resent the
feeling that this man divines the reason of
her abstraction and gloom, and she takes
the first opportunity of turning the conversation
to other subjects  a hint this experienced
man of the world is not slow to take.

They stroll lazily along the road leading
from Bordighera to Ospedaletto, Major Main-waring
insisting on her sitting down to rest
every now and then, urging that there Is not
the slightest occasion for hurry, and that if

they do not succeed in reaching the object
of their walk to-day, she can make it an excuse
for another trip to Bordighera, and, by
taking a carriage, will easily accomplish the
journey.

You do indeed look quite worn out," he
says, looking somewhat anxiously at her.

Major Mainwaring is not exactly a ladies'
man, and vague visions of Milly fainting on the
way, or declaring herself unable to proceed any
farther, begin to take possession of his mind,
and fill him with a sense of his own inefficiency
under such circumstances.

I confess to having a bad headache," says
Milly, with a wan smile, passing her hand
across her forehead. '' Those smells in the
town were too awful ! I wonder the whole
place doesn't reek of fever."

I suppose the people get hardened to
the sweet odours around them, for I never

remember hearing of any infectious illnesses
round about the neighbourhood. But really,
Mrs. Bering, do let me persuade you to
turn back now. It is madness to go on
along this hot road with a bad headache.
You will be quite ill. As it is, I am not
quite certain as to the exact spot where
Lucy's carriage was overturned, which you
have set your heart on seeing, so we had
better give it up for to-day, and next time
we come, get a reliable guide to come with
us, and tell us all about it."

And Milly takes his advice, all the more
readily because she is beginning to feel that
it is indeed an effort to her to advance a
step farther ; and, by halting stages, they
once more return to the station. About ten
minutes after their arrival, the exploring trio
rushes in, flushed and heated, but still merry
and overflowing with spirits, declaring that

they are not the least tired  no, not the
very least in the world, and full of the delights
of the charming afternoon they have
spent.

Milly cannot follow their example, and
disclaim all feelings of fatigue, for she is
thoroughly worn out and exhausted with a
racking headache, which seems to grow worse
every moment. She goes straight to bed on
arriving at their hotel, and is too broken
down to make any response to Geoffrey's
announcement that the Williamseses have taken
compassion on his solitary state, and asked
him to dine with them. Geoffrey conveys
this information to her in his coldest tones,
and she knows very well that he is deeply
offended with her, but she is physically incapable
of resenting the fact. Her slumber
that night is broken and fitful, and her
dreams take the shape of all kinds of impossible

horrors, in which Miss Fan Williams
largely figures, aided and abetted by Geoffrey
himself, whose countenance is transformed
into that of a scowling, demoniacal beings, with
eyes blazing with hatred against herself It
is not wonderful, under the circumstances,
that she should wake up unrefreshed and
heavy, and but ill-prepared to listen with
patience for the lecture which she knows is
in store for her.

x'\nd Geoffrey is not inclined to spare her.
She has thoroughly roused his anger by her
distant treatment of his friends, and he is
in a mood to give her a "bit of his mind,"
determining to come to some definite understanding
with her for the future. He has
taken upon himself to make a sort of half-apologetic
speech on her behalf to the Misses
Williams the evening before, and though
they accept his excuses with the utmost

good-nature, he cannot fail to see that they
are a Httle bit piqued and offended by her
persistent coldness and repelling manner.

Therefore, in broaching the vexed question
to his wife, Geoffrey Is not inclined to pick
his words very carefully, and the more defiantly
she retorts to his accusations the
more vigorously does he assail her. It is
their first real quarrel, and Milly, too proud
to show her wounded feelings, maintains an
undaunted front, and never betrays the despair
and misery she is enduring, or the
wild alarm which assails her at the thought
of her future life lying before her.

*' I insist upon it that you show at least
ordinary politeness to the family as long as
you are thrown in their society, and especially
as you take advantage of their good-nature
as you did yesterday," he says peremptorily,
in conclusion. '' There is no earthly reason

why you should set up yourself to take unfounded
dislikes to people who have done
you no harm whatever, but, on the contrary,
have shown you far more kindness than you
deserve. If you will not do this, you
must go your own way, and I mine, and
I will not even ask you to give tacit sanction
to my choice of friends by introducing
them to you. If there is to be a breach
between us on this subject, you will have
only yourself to thank for it'*

Then he rises, intimating that he has said
his say, and wishes to end the discussion.
Perhaps he expects a word from Milly expressive
of her willingness to give in and
concede the point. But no such word comes.
Her face wears its hardest, most provoking
expression, and shows no sign of relenting.

Well, no one can accuse you of not saying
out exactly what you think," she answers

sarcastically. "It certainly saves trouble to
have a person giving out so clearly what his
precise wishes are. One thing I should like
to ask you before you go  have you made
any plans about leaving this place ? for it
is getting so hot that it is making me feel
quite ill."

I have no plans," answers her husband
sullenly. " Mine are dependent on a host of
circumstances."

And on other people's as well ? " retorts
Milly, with a mocking smile. " If we both
get ill by staying in this scorching place, I
shall know who is to blame for it."

For all answer to this ill-judged speech,
Geoffrey tears out of the room, banging the
door after him, nor does he reappear in her
presence till a late hour that evening. Once
alone, all traces of smiles vanish from M lily's
lips, and with a smothered groan she buries

her aching head in her hands, and gives
herself up to the ineffable sense of misery
which overpowers her. She feels so utterly
deserted and forsaken, she has no hope
whatever of even a moderately happy future,
for she feels confident that the estrangement
which dates from to-day will be a lasting
one, and that the gulf between them will widen
day by day. She sees her rose-coloured
visions fading one by one in the dim distance ;
she is vaguely conscious that she has staked
everything she possesses on this one venture,
and that she has lost. She has counted the
world well lost for love, and lo ! it has turned
to dust and ashes in her grasp ! How is
she to go on living through those dreary
long years stretching out before her } how
can she endure to see Geoffrey's love  or
what she took for love  slipping away from
her, till not so much as the shreds of it remain

? How do people live on under similar
circumstances ? Is this to be her punishment
for the wrong she wrought to that trusting
heart, whose bestowal she disdained and despised
? Is it more than her just reward ?
And her stricken conscience cries out to her
that It is but meet that she should suffer, and
her whole soul humbles itself into a silent
confession of that pathetic cry, " I have
sinned."

FRIENDS IN NEED.

Matters grow rapidly worse between Milly
and her husband. A certain ingrained obstinacy
in her nature prevents her from
making any attempt at conciliation, and the
more studiously indifferent is her manner to
his friends the more keenly he resents it,
and is determined to make up for her slights
by frequenting their society more persistently
than ever. Milly is not actually uncivil to
them, but she receives all their overtures with
that icy politeness which tells so plainly of
an ill-repressed dislike. No wonder that
they observe her manner,  their powers of
discrimination would be small if they had not

done so,  and naturally it does not pre-dispose
them in her favour.

Between ourselves, Fan," says Lizzie
Williams one day in the privacy of their
own room, "I think that Geoffrey's wife" 
he is always Geoffrey with them when talking
to each other  " is one of the most
odious people I have ever met. I am sure
the trouble we have taken to insinuate ourselves
into her good graces has been something
superhuman, and yet she really is not
decently civil to us. I shan't try and propitiate
her any more."

It is certainly uphill work. And it is
very plain to see that the reason Mrs. Gaff
does not like us is because she fancies weare
trying to ensnare her beloved husband
from her. Probably she sets us down as the
most desperate flirts she has ever seen ! "

And Miss Williams laughs aloud, a laugh

expressing genuine amusement at her own
suggestion, which, could Milly have heard it,
would surely have done much to dissipate
her jealous fears.

To the girls' credit be it said that they
never let fall a word to Geoffrey in depreciation
of his wife. On the contrary, they
good-naturedly make all possible excuses for
her, and discourage him decidedly when he
shows a disposition to make confidantes of
them concerning the little jars of his domestic
life. Truly, as Major Mainwaring
said, there is no " harm " in these girls whatever,
and if Milly would but recognise the
fact, and see that they are treating Geoffrey
merely in the friendly, free-and-easy style
which is their usual way with all men, she
would spare herself a good many hours of
unhappiness. But she takes the opposite line,
and absolutely refuses to believe in their

good points, and Geoffrey, with ever-increasing
indignation, resolves to waste no
more time In arguing with her, but to go
his own way, without reference to her wishes.
And so the breach between them grows
daily wider, and Mllly, sore and disappointed,
feels that the glory of her life has Indeed
departed from her.

To add to her troubles, she Is feeling
anything but well. The heat tries her severely,
and the slightest exertion seems to
exhaust her strength and energy. A strange
sense of lassitude and weariness takes possession
of her, from which she cannot succeed
in rousing herself. Her once bright colour
fades away, and her face looks pinched and
worn. She finds she cannot sleep at night,
loses her appetite, and is often, even in the
middle of the day, seized with a shivering
fit, and obliged to wrap herself up in a

thick shawl, which, half an hour later, she is
compelled to throw aside on account of the
burning fever which consumes her frame.
Most people in her place, with such symptoms,
would instantly have sent for the doctor.
But Milly is not easily made anxious, and,
never having known a day's illness in her
life, is inclined to make very light of ordinary
bodily ailments. She puts down her constant,
unaccustomed headaches to the score
of the weather and the relaxing climate, and
never doubts that, were she once away from
Nice, all these unusual feelings would instantly
disappear. Once or twice she mentions
to Geoffrey that she is not feeling welland
tries to persuade him to move to some
cooler place.

" This intense heat is enough to try anybody,
Geoffrey. You may be hardened to it,
having been here so much, but to me, accustomed

to the racine air of C shire, I

assure you it is dreadful. I feel as if I can
hardly breathe. Do you know that we are
in May now, and I have always heard that
that is very late for the Riviera. Everybody
but ourselves is gone away. I know
I shall be ill if we stay on here any
longer."

It strikes me that you are getting uncommonly
fanciful about your health all of a
sudden, my dear," is his answer. " Of course
if you mew yourself up in the hotel, and
never go beyond the garden, you naturally
get to feel nipped and low. You ought to
get out of the town as much as you possibly
can. You'd find plenty of air to breathe
if once you got up high."

Yes ; but walking tires me so dreadfully.
Yesterday, I went once along the
Promenade des Anglais  not quite to the

VOL. HI. o

end even  and I was so tired when I came
back that I had to He down."

Women are the most extraordinary creatures,"
returns Mr. Bering reflectively. " The
moment they feel the least tired, their one
idea is to Mie down.' Do you suppose /
never feel a little tired, too, after a long
scramble in the hills, and perhaps walking
fifteen miles or so ? But I don't think it
necessary to ' lie down ' the moment I come
in."

'' You are a man. That makes all the
difference. But to go back to what I was
asking you, Geoffrey. When do you mean
to leave this place ? "

** Whenever it suits me, my dear. At
present I am very well content, and things
are going on well with me. I've made a
pretty good haul lately."

** Geoffrey, will you tell me  does your

going from here depend on the Williams'
plans ? "

Well  yes  if you ask me  it certainly
does. They will be leaving before very
long, when they have settled where to go
for the summer."

And  and  do you think of going to the
same place they do ? "

*' What rigid cross-questioning you are
putting me to ! Well, I think that will
probably influence my plans a good deal."

'' And so you mean to spend the whole
summer in their company ! " says Milly, In
low, suppressed tones. " I suppose my wishes
are to count for nothing, then ? I suppose
you will not even go through the farce
of asking me whether I have any objections
? "

'' Well, really, my dear, you have shown
yourself so absurdly unreasonable  and I

warned you long ago that you had married
a man who was a thorough Bohemian, and
wandered about wherever his fancy took
him. What's the matter now?" as Milly
leans heavily back in her chair, with face as
pale as death.

'' I  I  don't feel very well," she gasps
faintly. *' I feel so giddy, and there is such
a mist before my eyes."

Without a word, Geoffrey takes her smelling
bottle off the table, and hands it to her.
He does not pay much importance to her
sudden seizure, ascribing it chiefly to vexation
at his unpalatable communication. Like most
selfish men, he detests anything like a scene,
and in his heart believes that all women are
molly-coddles," and inclined to make th-e
most of their little ailments.

He stands there by her side, looking at
her in silence, with rather a bored expression

on his countenance, which she is not slow
to see and understand.

*' I am better now," she says, doing her
best to conjure up the ghost of a smile. " I
can't think what made me feel so faint all
in a moment like that. It was a horrid
feeling."

*' It would do you good to go in the
garden, and get a little air," responds he,
not too sympathisingly. [Milly does not tell
him that it would be literally impossible for
her to drao herself across the room at that
moment.] ** It's awfully hot in here. But
outside there's quite a breeze to-day. I
hope "  a little awkwardly  ** you'll be all
rioht when I come back this evening."

Oh, Geoffrey, won't you stay at home
with me to-day ? I really do feel so unwell,
and I shall be left all by myself! "

What impulse induces her to make this

petition of him, she cannot tell! It is the
first time for many a long day that she has
expressed a wish for his company. In an
ordinary way she takes his absence, day
after day, with the calmness of despair, and
never dreams of putting forward her claims.
But to-day a sense of utter loneliness and
desolation takes possession of her, and the
prospect of the long, solitary hours before
her fills her mind with a feelings of dread
for which she cannot account.

Geoffrey checks an impatient exclamation
just in time.

'' You surely would not wish me to throw
over other people, and put the whole thing
out ? " he says a little irritably. "If only
myself were concerned  but they depend on
me, I know, as old Williams is the only other
gentleman going. You're looking all right
again now, Milly ; you've got your colour

coming back. And I don't see what possible
good I could do you by staying."

Milly is too miserable and too ill to answer,
save by a wave of her hand, which Geoffrey
construes into a dismissal, and, only too glad
to escape without further argument, he obeys
the gesture and goes out. Perhaps his conscience
pricks him a little, for the moment
after he puts his head in again, and says,
in the tone of one who is making an unwilling
concession, 

You don t really want me, Milly, do you ?
I'm sure you ought to have absolute quiet."

'' No. Go, go ; pray go ! " cries out Milly
sharply. In her voice there is an accent of
intense pain and anguish, but Geoffrey does
not appear to notice it. He has gained his
object, and can satisfy his mind with the
assurance that he has done all that could be
required of him. With a light " Matt revoir,

then," he takes his final leave, and Milly,
opening her heavy eyes to look, sees him
passing across the lawn with a jaunty step
the next moment.

How long she remains there, lying back
with closed eyes, in a state of torpor, with,
as it seems to her, no consciousness of either
mental or bodily pain, she never knows. She
is first wakened to a sense of where she is
by the sound of strange voices, which reach
her ears as in a dream. She fancies she is
still dreaming when she looks up and sees
dimly the faces of Edith and Dorothy Tree
They are both looking at her with
countenances expressive of the utmost consternation.


My dear old Mil ! what is the matter
with you ? You look like a ghost ! And
why are you all alone like this 1 Where is
Mr. Bering ? "

Milly passes her hand over her brow, and
tries to collect her scattered thoughts.

'* Geoffrey ? " she answers vaguely. '* Oh,
he is gone out. He won't be here till late.
And you  why are you here ? "

We arrived only last night, on our way
to England. I saw your name in the list,
and we instantly came off to see you. But,
Milly, I am horrified at your looks ! What
have you done to yourself ? "

** I  I  am not very well "

I am sure she ought to go to bed at
once, Edie," says Dorothy decidedly. " She
is not fit to sit up, or to talk to us. Milly
dear, won't you go to bed ? "

And to their surprise, for they had expected
great opposition on her part, she
acquiesces without a remonstrance.

'' And now," says Edith to her sister, half
an hour later on, when they have seen

Milly comfortably settled in bed, *' I shall goat
once and get a doctor to come and see
her. Or, let me see, I can send a note by
the porter to Dr. Escort. How lucky it is
that we know something about him ! "

'* Do you think she is very ill ? " inquires
Dorothy, in awe-struck tones, as soon as the
note has been written and despatched.

'' I think  that she ought to have had a
doctor days ago," returns her sister promptly.
And I think, Sorry, that Geoffrey Dering
is a brute ! "

*' My dear Edie ! "

*' I am certain of it ! " continues the girl
vehemently. '' One has only to look at
Milly, and see how changed and miserable
she looks, to know that she is not happy.
And why is he not here, I should like to
know, looking after her, instead of leaving
her, ill as she is, quite by herself in this

dreary hotel ? She let out to me just now
that he is gone out with a party of friends
for the day."

'' Still, Edith, you should not judge him
before you know the facts. Milly may have
wished him to go."

Fiddlestickss, my dear ! They have only
been married two months, and you won't
make me believe that Milly, who was overhead
and ears in love with Mr. Bering, has
now arrived at the pitch of wishing him to
go out for the whole day, and leave her to
her own company. Poor Milly ! I am so
very sorry for her. And I believe I hate
him!" adds Miss Treherne viciously. "I
remember I never was prepossessed by him.
I always thought he would show the cloven
foot ! " [Surely Edith forgets how enthusiastically
she sang Geoffrey's praises that first
time she saw him at Bearsted Park !]

*' But Milly has not complained of him,
surely, Edith ?"

*' Not she. She is feeling much too ill
to speak more than she can help, poor child !
But I can read a whole story in her voice,
in her looks ! He is just like all the rest of
mankind  as charming as possible when he
wants to marry a girl, and does not feel
secure of winning her, and as odious and
selfish as can be when there's no more uncertainty
about it. And now I shall go back
to Milly, and sit with her till the doctor
comes."

The doctor's verdict is not altogether satisfactory.
He pronounces Milly to be in the
first stage of a low fever, and resents the
fact that he has not been called in before.
He shakes his head over her state of weakness
and prostration, and gives it as his
opinion that she has " no constitution whatever."

She ought to have been moved to
a more bracing climate weeks ago, he says.
Now she will require most careful nursing
for a long time to come, and must have her
strength maintained by every possible means.
There is nothing infectious whatever in her
illness, he says, in reply to Miss Treherne's
questions, upon which Edith immediately
announces her intention of persuading her
grandmother to prolong their stay at Nice,
in order that she may nurse her friend. Old
Mrs. Treherne, indulgent as ever, willingly
concedes the point, and on Geoffrey's return
home that evening he finds the girls regularly
installed as nurses by the bedside of his
wife. The news of her illness sobers him a
little, the more so that Edith openly shows
him that she accounts him responsible for it,
and his sullen resentment at her attack more
than confirms her suspicions.

Meanwhile poor Milly lies there in a state
of coma, taking but little heed of passing
events, and sometimes hardly appearing to
recognise her husband's face, when he comes
in, in rather a shamefaced fashion, to inquire
how she is. Now and then she seems to
be half conscious, with a tendency to ramble
in her talk, and puzzles the Miss Trehernes
by her frequent repetitions of the name
Hugh," and by her pathetic appeals to him
to *' forgive " her. And so the days  hot,
sultry days  drag slowly by, with no perceptible
change in her condition, save that
her intervals of unconsciousness are on the
increase. And ever that cry for forgiveness
is on her tongue, as if peace of mind will
not come to her until her prayer for pardon
is granted.

A CRY FOR PARDON.

After nursing his wrongs for some time In
the solitude of Moor House, Mr. Tomklnson
makes up his mind to pay a visit to London,
and to try and find in its distractions a relief
for his woes. Easter being now over, the
fashionable season is just beginning, and, possessed
of the golden key which forms the
"Open Sesame" to the houses of the " Upper
Ten," he experiences no difficulty In making
of the crowd of idle pleasure-seekers.
He devotes himself to the object he has In
view with praiseworthy perseverance. He
wishes to drink of the waters of Lethe, and
he hastens to steep himself In its flood without
loss of time. He walks the social treadmill



with a persistency which causes the
lookers-on to utter exclamations of amazement
at his marvellous energy and apparent imperviousness
to fatigue.

I never saw any one like Mr. Tomklnson,"
IS the general verdict. " One meets him
277'where. He seems to have developed a
sudden mania for society."

Mr. Tomkinson rushes from ball to concert,
from 'eat Homes" to opera and theatre, from
breakfast parties, luncheons and dinners, to
entertainments at the " New Club "  then just
coming into fashion  with a feverish desire
to take part in everything that is going on,
with all the ardour of a youth in his first
season. He takes an opera box, and occupies
it frequently with a select party of friends ;
he gives bachelor dinner-parties in magnificent
style in his rooms at the luxurious hotel
where he is staying ; he dances more than he

has ever danced in his Hfe before ; he is the
delight of mothers who are looking out for
an eligible young man to escort them to the
play, or to a concert  for no matter in what
shape gaiety is offered him, he is sure to
accept it if it is in his power. Portly
dowagers begin to talk of him as a '' really
charming person." ''So attentive, my dear!
What a good thing it is that he is coming
out in this way, and getting himself known
a little ! "

The general opinion is that Mr. Tomlinson's
sudden craze for cultivating the society
of his fellow-creatures is due to the fact of
his being on matrimonial schemes intent.
Nor is the supposition a far-fetched one, as
it is undoubtedly true that he pays a certain
amount of attention to one or two fair
damsels, who are nothing loth to be singled
out for notice by the rich Mr. Tomkinson.

VOL. III. p

And yet  and yet  even when he shows
himself most ejnpressS and devoted there is
a certain something undefined in his manner
which causes the AnoeHnas and the Valentine
of his acquaintance to doubt whether
they have really made any impression on
his heart. Some instinct tells them that
the bird may be lured, but not trapped, and
that more than an ordinary amount of skill
and care will be needed to prevent its taking
Its flight and escaping altogether. But for
the maternal voice in the background urging
them on to the attempt, they would very
soon have tacitly owned themselves defeated,
and withdrawn from the field, to find consolation
in other quarters where they would be
more likely to meet with appreciation.

And Hugh himself; has his experiment
succeeded ? Has he achieved forgetfulness ?
Is his cure completed }

By no means. He finds, as many have
found before him, that the past is not so
easily banished from the memory. He plays
his part bravely and resolutely, but he finis
he is unable to put any real heart in it. It
is a fine piece of acting, but the acting is
mechanical and cold, and he has great difficulty
at times in sustaining the character.
He starts with the determination to root out
the one hapless love of his life from his
remembrance. He really does his very best
to replace her, and to fill up the void
brought about by her defection. So far it
is true that he sets out with a deliberate
intention of selecting a mistress for Moor
House, if he can possibly find one to suit
his somewhat peculiar taste  at least, in
some degree. But the attempt is a complete
failure. Mr. Tomkinson has never been
much addicted to the society of young ladies ;

he never feels exactly at ease with them,
and is certain that all the time he is talking
to them they are voting him a terrible bore.
Before Fate threw him in Milly's path, he
had indeed always shunned the genus '' young
lady," and had been accounted farouche for
his pains. Probably, from having escaped
the infection of the love-fever up to that
comparatively late period of his existence, he
took the disease all the more violently when
his time arrived. For now he finds it a
difficult, almost an impossible matter for him
to rally from the effects of the attack. However
much he may try to avoid It, however
much he does his utmost to banish unwelcome
memories, and to leave himself no time for
dwelling on the past, there yet must be
several hours in the day when he Is left to
the company of his own thoughts  hours
which are necessarily free from the claims

of society. And it is then that he realizes
how futile his efforts are, how little he has
been able to do towards effecting a cure.
Milly's image is always before him, haunting
his dreams, filling his waking thoughts ; and
try as he will, he cannot shake it off. Then
he gives way to impotent bursts of wrath,
and fiercely anathematizes the memory of
the woman who played him false. For he
has not forgiven her yet ; he cannot forgive
her. His heart has not softened towards
her one whit, and he cannot even bring himself
to hope that she has found happiness in
the path of life she has carved out for herself
with her own hand. All he feels conscious
of is, that it is owing to her treachery that
his life is ruined, that his future is a blank,
and that his brightest, most cherished visions
are dispelled. And at times he absolutely
hates her as he remembers this.

He has seen nothing of the Falconer
family since the first week or two following
after Milly's flight. As soon as Charlie and
his wife found themselves installed at the
Abbey, the former had taken advantage of an
early day to walk over to Moor House, with
the intention of paying a visit to his whilom
benefactor, but only to find that Mr. Tomlinson
had gone to London for an indefinite
period.

So Hugh has had no tidings of Milly, 
does not even know her whereabouts, and
certainly would not take the trouble to inquire
anything concerning her. Mrs. Falconer,
indeed, keeps up an irregular, intermittent
correspondence with him, writing long discursive
letters from time to time, filled with
trifling items of county news and small
family details, which he finds eminently uninteresting.
She is evidently determined to

make the most of the Hanks of association
which bind him to the family, and make
him a sharer in her interests. But in these
letters of hers she avoids all mention of
Milly's name. There is not the slightest
allusion to past events contained in them.
And though he is thankful that in this
matter she shows unusual tact,  though he
would angrily resent the smallest reference
to the fiasco of which he is the victim,  yet,
with the inconsistency of human nature, the
first thing it occurs to him to do, on receiving
one of these effusions, is to run his eye hastily
over the pages to look for the name which he
dreads, and yet unconsciously longs to see.

Very few of his London acquaintances are
cognisant of that episode in his life. He has
lived a good deal out of the world since his
father's death placed him in possession of
his property, and the story of his engagement

to a Miss Byron,  a young lady whose
name is quite unknown to the London
world,  with its romantic finale, is known to
very few people. At times a touch of
melancholy in the expression of his face,
when in repose, causes observant dowagers
to infer that " that young man has had a
story of some sort or other, my dear, I feel
certain " ; but the suggestion only serves to
enhance the interest with which he is regarded,
and invests him with a certain halo
of romance.

And so time wears slowly away  slowly
and sadly to Hugh Tomkinson himself, although
it would have taken a keen observer
to have discovered the fact. Who among
the number of our acquaintances or so-called
friends really care to penetrate beneath the
surface, and take a real, genuine interest in discovering
the cause of our smiles or our sighs ?

So long as we do not obtrude our sorrows on
their notice they are content to ignore them,
and to disbelieve in their existence, for mankind,
as a general rule, prefers to shut its
eyes to the contemplation of anything which
is unpalatable and disagreeable, and human
nature is intensely selfish, and resents any
demands on its sympathy, and, above all, any
inopportune reminder that life contains its
seamy side."

About the second week in May an event
occurs which startles Hugh considerably in
the monotony of his self-imposed social routine,
and goes far to shake to its foundations
that stoicism which he flatters himself he
possesses, and has cultivated to a point of
perfection. A letter is forwarded to him
from Moor House, with the postmark of
Nice, and with these few words enclosed,
traced with a feeble hand : 

I have been, and am, very, very ill, and
they tell me that it is possible I may not
recover. If you could bring yourself to let
me have one line, saying you forgive me
for the wrong I did you, I could die content.

*' MiLLY."

What a tumult of emotions takes possession
of this man's mind as he takes in the
meaning of this pathetic little missive! Milly
ill, and possibly dying! It is incredible, and
comes upon him with the full force of a terrible
shock ! The thought of her  the bride
of a few months only  lying on her deathbed
in a foreign land, far away from all her
friends, and in that state, overcome with
remorse for her past misconduct, is a picture
which has never presented itself to his
imagination on the few occasions when he
has let his thoughts travel in her direction.

It will be, perhaps, difficult to believe that,
after the first softer sentiments roused by
this unexpected tidings have passed away,
the prevailing emotion which retains hold of
his mind is even yet resentment. He may,
indeed, regret to hear that she is ill, perhaps
dangerously, hopelessly ill, but he cannot,
even in this moment, feel that he can
freely, generously tender her the forgiveness
for which she sues. We have said before
that Hugh Tomkinson is not one of those
people to whom it comes easily to forgive
injuries. There is something hard, something
unrelenting in his nature, and it costs him
more of a struggle than it does to many
men to achieve the victory over himself,
which he is well aware it is his duty, as a
Christian, to attempt. Thus he cannot all ina
moment forgive Milly  the memory of the
wrongs inflicted on him at her hands is ever

paramount with him, keenly felt as ever, and
the sight of her name  that name, once so
dear to him  at the foot of that sheet of
paper brings back the whole story all too
vividly before him. No doubt If he had
seen her, If she could have pleaded to him
in person, he would have given way, and
assured her that all was condoned and forgotten,
his better feelings would have resumed
their sway. But he deems It mockery and
falsehood to write the words she asks for,
when his heart does not subscribe to them 
to say " I forgive," when all the time he Is
feeling bitter and wrathful against her.

For more than an hour Hugh Tomklnson
sits, lost In thought, after opening M lily's
letter, trying to make up his mind what todo.
Finally he gets up, thrusts the letter
Into his pocket, and hastens out to keep one
of his numerous engagements, which Is due

at this hour. He is only half softened yet,
and he Is a man who, when he makes up
his mind to anything, carries It out very
thoroughly, or not at all.

For two days he goes about, carrying
Milly's piteous little missive in his pocket,
and not yet able truthfully to give her the
satisfaction for which she prays. On the
evening of the second day, to his surprise,
he runs up against Captain Devereux just at
the corner of Piccadilly.

What, you in town, Devereux ? "

Only for one night. I am going to catch
the 1 1 o'clock from Charing Cross tomorrow.
I am off to poor Milly. What! have you
not heard ? We had a telegram this morning
from Bering, to say that the doctors have
given up all hope, and that she can only
last a few days."

There is a dead silence for the space of

two minutes, and Hugh Tomkinson turns
white as ashes. '' Then I shall come with
you," he says determinedly. And Captain
Devereux, looking at him, does not dream
of opposing him.

TOO LATE.

To his dying day, Mr. Tomklnson will never
forget that rapid journey to the South, taken
in company with Captain Devereux. Beyond
what is absolutely necessary, they do not
halt anywhere on their way. As fast as
steam can take them they rush onwards,
with but one object, one aim in their minds
that of arriving there before it is too
late.

Mr. Tomkinson gives his companion a
rapid explanation of his strong wish to accompany
him, but dwells very slightly on his
own feelings, and says not a word descriptive
of the remorse and misery to which
he is a prey. By tacit consent, the object

of their hurried journey is put in the background
as much as possible, and though
both men's faces wear an expression of
anxiety and scarcely-repressed impatience, yet
they are able to talk calmly on ordinary
subjects, and even to laugh a little at a few
humorous Incidents which strike them as
provocative of mirth.

*' And so you are settled down at the
Abbey for good and all?" inquires Hugh
Tomkinson of the other, in one of their
intervals of conversation.

Yes, Indeed, much, I fancy, to my step-aunt's
disgust. She evidently looks upon us
as interlopers, defrauding her and her one
ewe lamb of their rights. That child Cilia
Is an Intolerable nuisance, and her mother
never keeps her In order. However, she's
got a governess to look after her now, Fm
thankful to say."

'' I remember she was always a true
specimen of the enfant terrible. I have
often wondered what hidden charms your
uncle saw in the late Mrs. Verschoyle to
induce him to convert her into Mrs. Falconer."


*' It Is a question which often puzzles me
too. Between ourselves, I am not at all
sure that he would be sorry to be rid of his
bargain. She's a regular snake In the grass,
that woman."

Mr. Tomklnson laughs at his vehemence.

"Not quite so bad as that. Is she? But
I confess I never took to her particularly, and
don't feel as If she were a person I could
ever thoroughly trust. What a fine old place
the Abbey Is ! and what a pity it is that so
few . people are admitted to see It, owing to
your uncle leading such a retired life ! "

Yes. He is not what you may call

VOL. III. Q

given to hospitality ' very largely," answers
Charlie drily. " His one craze of saving
up money  Heaven knows for what object
occupies his mind from morning to night,
and how on earth he reconciles it to his
conscience to make the increase to his establishment
entailed by his marriage is a
problem to me."

'' And you are by way of looking after the
estate ? "

*' Yes. Very much ' by way.' I know no
more about the business than a cat knows
of flying, but the present agent is to stay
on a few weeks to put me up to things. I
expect I shall make an awful hash of it ; but
the post was not of my own choosing, it was
thrust upon me, and therefore the responsibility
does not rest with me."

You must be olad to be back aorain at
the Abbey, under any circumstances."

Compared with my experiences of the
last nine or ten months, I certainly feel myself
to be in clover. That trial of life in London
lodgings, in rooms twenty feet square, makes
me appreciate the change all the more, I
dare say. But the Abbey is not what it used
to be in the days when Milly was there 
poor Mil ! "

And, suddenly conscious that he has made
an unfortunate slip of the tongue in introducing
his cousin's name into the conversation
under present circumstances, Captain Devereux
relapses into silence, and leans back, lost ina
train of thought  an example closely followed
by his companion.

At last they are drawing near to the end
of their journey. The Riviera lies before
them in a blaze of dazzling sunshine, and the
sultry heat of a May day in the South begins
to make itself unpleasantly felt.

It is enough to kill any one to have to
endure this stifling atmosphere for a few
hours only," remarks Captain Devereux.
'' What could Bering be about to hang on
here so late in the year ? "

Hugh Tomkinson makes him no answer.
For a long time back he has felt quite
unable to respond to his companion's efforts
to maintain some semblance of cheerfulness.
His anxiety Increases with every mile which
brings him nearer to the place where she is.
Even Charlie, fond as he is of his cousin,
and full of genuine concern on her behalf,
suffers far less than does the other man, on
whose mind lies the heavy, almost unendurable,
burden of remorse and unavailing
regret. If he only had answered that letter
at once ! If he should find himself too late,
after all ! Shall he ever be able to forgive
himself?

They find an omnibus waiting at the station
belonging to the hotel where Milly and her
husband are staying, and without waiting to
convey their '' traps " with them, they drive
off at considerable speed, urging the coachman
to put on his best pace. Neither of
them dares ask the man the question which
hovers on their lips, and which he no doubt
would be able to answer. Not a word passes
between them during that drive up to the
hotel. Once arrived, Charlie jumps hastily
out, followed by his companion, who is white
to the very lips. In the hall they see Mr.
Bering himself. One glance at his face tells
them that they must not look for any good
news. He comes hastily towards them, and
shakes hands with both, glancing a little
curiously at Mr. Tomkinson as he does so.

Milly ? " falters out Charlie inquiringly.
It is all he can utter, that one word.

'' You are too late," returns Milly's husband
gravely. "It is all over ; she died last
night."

After that no word Is said. Hugh Tomklnson,
indeed, has not spoken at all since
he arrived at the station.

Silently Mr. Bering leads them upstairs
to their apartments on the second floor, and
ushers them into the little sitting-room, where
traces of her presence are still visible. A
young lady gets up to greet them, in whom
Charlie recognises Edith Treherne. Someone
murmurs Mr. Tomkinson's name, and
the girl's eyes flash indignation upon him as
she coldly returns his bow. Geoffrey Bering
is the first to speak again.

Of course you travelled as quickly as you
possibly could," he says, addressing Charlie.
I knew you would. But you could not
anyhow have been here in time. She died at

eleven last night, quite without pain. The
doctors say that she sank from sheer exhaustion."


And all that Charlie can say in return is,
Poor Milly ! "

Yes, " poor Milly " now lies at rest for ever,
freed from the cares and troubles of life. Her
short span of existence has not been a very
happy one, and no doubt it is in mercy that
she has been taken away.

After a short pause, Charlie finds voice to
ask a few more questions of Geoffrey, who
answers them in a dreary, indifferent manner,
as of a man in a dream. Presently he rouses
himself a little, and suddenly remembers that
the new arrivals must be in need of refreshment
after their long journey. Possibly glad
of the necessity of doing something, he insists
on going downstairs himself to see about ordering
it, and Charlie volunteers to accompany

him. Hugh Tomklnson and Edith Treherne
are left alone. The girl's eyes are red with
recently shed tears, and she looks pale and
worn. As soon as the door closes behind
the two other men, she turns to her companion
with a resolute expression on her face,
as if determined to get over what she has
to say.

"You do not know who I am, Mr. Tomkinson
? " she begins. " I was a great friend
of dear Milly's, and I and my sister arrived
here by chance about ten days ago, found her
here very ill, and stayed on to look after her.
For she was quite alone in this hotel, except
for her husband, and he "  with an intonation
of hot anger  '' was not fit to take care of
her. I heard Milly often mention your name.
Oh, why did you not answer her letter at
once } "

** Would to God I had ! " cries he, in tones

I

of keenest regret. *' Why didn't I ? Because
of my absurd pride, I suppose, Miss Treherne,
which would not let me do so ; because I could
not, all at once, send her the pardon for which
she asked. Pardon ! as if any one among us
has the right to withhold it from our fellow-creatures
! Did she  did she expect to hear
from me ? "

** She talked hardly of anything else during
the last few days. It was the one thing on
her mind, that word of forgiveness from you.
And it never came ; she had to die without
receiving it. Oh, I can't think how you could
be so hard on her ! "

'' Don't blame me more than you can help,"
he pleads, in a low voice. "It is enough that
I blame myself from the bottom of my heart,
arid am suffering for it, as, to the last day of
my life, I shall suffer for it. And  did she
feel it very much when no letter came ? "

** She did not say a great deal to me,
but I saw her face change when she heard
that the post had come in and brought her
nothing. If ever any one was remorseful
for the one mistake  sin, she called it  of her
life, it was Milly, for the wrong she had done
you. I firmly believe that the remembrance
of it spoilt any amount of happiness she may
have had ; and little enough she had of that,
as far as I could learn," adds Miss Treherne
bitterly.

Hugh Tomkinson looks up at her inquiringly.


Was she not happy in her marriage } " he
asks quickly. *' Surely she was  she was
so much in love with him ; and he "

*' Is the most detestably selfish man I have
ever met ! " puts in Edith hotly. '' She did
not confide much in me,  Milly was too proud
to do that,  but from what I gathered, I feel

sure that Mr. Bering neglected her, and was
growing tired of her. He had some other
friends here, whom he was always with, and
whom Milly did not care for; therefore she
was left very much to herself, and I know
she felt it deeply. She worshipped him, and
she had only been married two months! It
was hard on her."

Yes," says Mr. Tomkinson, between his
teeth ; '' it was hard on her. Poor Milly ! "

He is thinking how different things would
have been had she become his wife. How
he would have cared for her, and looked
after her, so that no one would have been
able to cast such reproaches on him. And
he feels bitterly angry against the man who
won her, only to neglect her, and to grow
weary of her.

Something In his face rouses Edith's compassion.


'' You must not be too angry with yourself,"
she says gently. ** Milly, I am sure, knew
you well enough to feel certain that if you
could not comply with her request at once
you would do so later, after you had time
for thought. She often told me how generous
and kind you were. And for the last
twelve hours or so she was quite unconscious,
and had your letter come, it would have been
of no use to her."

*' You are very kind to try and give me
all the comfort in your power," he says,
rising, for she has got up from her seat, and is
evidently about to take her leave. ** It does
not excuse me in the very least  nothing ever
can  but at least I shall feel that her last
moments were not disturbed through my
means. I hope it will be a lesson to me for
the future."

'rand do not regret her death," continues

Edith calmly. " I do not. I do not think
she would ever have been happy here ; and
I feel certain that she was not sorry to die.
She once said to me, about a week ago, that
she felt so tired of life, and was afraid that she
had not the necessary courage to battle with
its trials. I feel it is best that she is gone."
'* And her husband  does he feel it much ? "
I think it was a great shock to him. He
was quite unprepared for it, and I think he
must feel that he did not treat her quite ashe
ought to have done. But I have no hope
of its making any lasting impression on him.
He is encased in a crust of selfishness which
nothing can really penetrate. And now I must
go, and you ought to go downstairs, and get
something to eat. You look quite worn out."
''i shall see you again. Miss Treherne ? "
** I suppose so, if if you are going to
stay for "

For the funeral ? Will it be here ? at
Nice?"

** I think so. Geoffrey talked of Saturday ;
but nothing is settled yet."

'' I shall certainly be here for the next two
or three days, at any rate. Thank you for
your kindness to me, Miss Treherne. Goodbye
for the present."

Then he turns slowly downstairs, wondering
in his own mind whether he will be able to
meet Geoffrey Dering with any show of friendliness,
or speak to him without betraying the
deep indignation which is burning within him.

Two days later a small group of people
stands by the side of an open grave in the
sunny cemetery of Nice, where all that remains
of Milly Dering is laid to rest. Old Mrs.
Treherne is there, and her two granddaughters,
and close to Mr. Bering's side stand Charlie
Devereux, Hugh Tomkinson, and Major

Maiiiwarinof. There are but few outward
signs of grief; of all the party, Captain
Devereux is the one who finds it most difficult
to maintain a composed demeanour ; but
the sad countenances and the solemn silence
and stillness which reigns amongst them impresses
one forcibly with the sense of repressed
and bitter sorrow they are enduring.

And there they leave her, sleeping her last
sleep beneath the glowing southern sky, with
the blue Mediterranean below her, and all
the rich and gorgeous verdure of that bountifully
gifted spot. At peace at last ! Poor,
misguided, wilful Milly, whose penitent cry
of ' Peccavi ' was never responded to on earth,
has now gone to a higher tribunal, where
doubtless she will find a Judge more merciful
to her shortcomings than were her fellow-creatures.
And those that mourn her now
will in time be comforted, and resignation

will replace the first poignancy of their grief
for her loss. It must be ever so. The gaps
created by the hand of Death will of necessity
be filled up in due course of time. Other
interests will awaken, other friends take the
place of those we have lost ; and after the
lapse of, say a year, at utmost, the life of those
who are left will flow on in its ordinary course,
its surface apparently unrefined by any memory
of the past, which, not long ago, looked
so dreary and so well-nigh insupportable.
And the great world of Vanity Fair jogs on
merrily as ever, and finds consolation in the
repetition of trite aphorisms and conventional
mourning phrases.

One writes that other friends remain,
That loss is common to the race.
And common is the commonplace,
And vacant chaff well meant for ordain."

Butler & Tanner, The Selwood I'rintinjj Works, Frome, and London.

I
