CHAPTER I.

c GUIDE, PHILOSOPHER, AND FRIEND.

Lid brevi fortes jaculamus svo
Multa," if one may be allowed
the seeming incongruity of
quoting Horace to a lady,' and the Rev.
Lawrence Shipwright lounged luxuriously in
his chair as though thorough enjoyment was
 the ne plus ultra of life.

 * My dear father had me initiated in a

little Latin. I suppose you mean that more

 work would exhaust your vitality and deepen,

before middle age, the furrows on your brows'

said Mrs Desborough in a soft voice, points

VOL. I. A

ing her words with just that happy admixture
of component and sneer, of which only a
woman knows the proportions.

The vicar laughed  for he was the vicar
of the parish, this elegant disciple of Epicurus
and he was quite fifty, notwithstanding Mrs
Desborough's kindly allusion to the date
when he should reach the usually long halting
place between youth and old age.

Only dry wood burns steadily,' he answered,
using metaphor, a mode of speech in
which he frequently indulged. ' Why introduce
damp twigs which are the mere offshoots
of young half-grown trees, unless for the sake
of squandering your energies by the perpetual
use of the bellows ? ' Mrs Desborough
shrugged her shoulders ; but before we follow
their conversation sufficiently to reach its
subject-matter, a sketch in black and white of
place and people were perhaps convenient.

Vantage Park is a grand old seignorial
estate, situated in a northern county about

twelve miles from the sea. An architectural
digression, long enough to form a volume in
itself, might be made out of its gables, architraves,
corbels, mullions and gargoyles, not
to allude to more than one stirring epoch of
which those ancient walls have been mute
witnesses in times gone by. But in the year
of grace 1869, the possessors of Vantage
Park, endowed to the fullest with this world's
goods, had made it the abode of luxury and
modern art. True, the squire loved the traditions
of his race and name, and secretly
revered the old pile for its time-honoured
descent ; nay, it is even whispered that he
made a daily pilgrimage to a particular
column, whereon was faintly inscribed a date
that conveyed a twelfth-century recollection
to his mind. But of the cheery pleasant-tempered
artistic little squire anon. ' He is
but a cipher in the great account'

Mrs Desborough holds the reins, and
governs house and lands.

Sitting gracefully on a satin sofa, knitting
usefully for the poor, and talking, oh ! so
softly and complacently to the vicar, Mrs
Desborough, with her calm white countenance,
matronly figure undulating with creamy
lace, and her genial smile, scarcely looks
a formidable dame. Still, given the velvet
exterior which charms and holds a fresh
acquaintance captive, her eyes  mark ! we did
not speak of eyes In the pleasant picture 
they are usually half shut, under drooping
lids, but seldom are they allowed to tell the
latent thought ; besides, although you scarcely
own it even to yourself, there Is a barricade
of manner between you and Mrs Desborough.
It arises probably from a consciousness of
her own superiority, which she cannot help
displaying  unwillingly It Is true, for Mrs
Desborough spreads her net to please, though
she Is the mother of two grown-up sons.
She likes what she calls the intellectual
companionship of men  perhaps she does not

altogether stop there  and craves something
more than mental flattery in her relations
with the sterner sex ; but, alas ! Mrs Des-borough
was born 2iprecieuse, and in displaying
too freely her blue stockings, well-shaped
though the feet and ankles are they encase,
she loses the power of mere womanliness.

History, chronology, especially as to the
births, deaths, and marriages of her acquaintances,
linked with an unconquerable
predilection for the Dutch school of word
painting, are characteristics, taken collectively,
which must nip in the bud as a keen
March wind, any utterances of tenderness.
What so freezing as a tedious detail  a long
episode of the reign of Phillips le Bel, carefully
elaborated, or more annihilating than a
wordy lecture on the absolute necessity of
being useful to your fellows ? No, Mrs
Desborough in her efforts to be admired,
lost the chance of being loved.

Yet the Rev. Lawrence Shipwright, vicar

of Fernwood-cum-Grasdale, a fat living in
the gift of the owner of Vantage Park, was
on terms of close Intimacy with the lady of
the house. It was an alliance based on the
usual premises, antithetical opinions ; hence
argument was the pumice stone which prevented
rust from corroding their friendship.

Vantage Park, with Its ever hospitable
reception, was a pleasant lounge for the
vicar, who appreciated fully the comfortable
appointments of the establishment, the
luscious wines of which the cellar boasted,
and above all what he was wont to call
the * ambrosia provided by M. Baptiste,
who was a veritable cordon bleu. Not
that Mr Shipwright's bachelor surroundings
were very Inferior In luxury to those of the
great house, for this modern Lucullus, with
his classical proclivities and self-indulgent
 we had almost written sensual 
habits, had metamorphosed the vicarage Into
an abode of luxury which more resembled

a villa of old Tusculum than the working
quarters of a plain steady-going English
clergyman. Mr Shipwright's appearance
was in strict accordance with his tastes. He
was tall, in his youth had probably been
slight ; but now his embonpoint almost
amounted to obesity, though it could never
degenerate into coarseness, for seldom does
high breeding stand in such good stead as
when age or indulgence have banished the
more transitory attributes of humanity. Mr
Shipwright had a noble head, a calm philosophic
brow ; his hair, which was iron grey,
grew plentifully, and just turned into a curl,
perhaps naturally ; it were scarcely seemly
in so dignified a personage to hint at art ;
yet only valets know the trifles by which
great triumphs are completed. His face
was closely shaven, the dark well-formed
eyebrows, and the clear speaking eyes were
its chief beauties. The nose was Roman,
and well-nigh perfect in shape, yet the

possibility of an ideal man vanished as you
looked at the full ruddy lips with their
epicurean expression.

Dress manifestly was one of Mr Sive-wright's
especial studies, and not only was he
never seen with a speck or flaw on his broadcloth,
but the form and texture were to him matters
of interest ; nor did he rigidly, except on
state occasions, adhere to the ordained churchman's
garb, as did his neighbour and dear
brother in orders, the Rev. Mr Lently, even to
exaggeration, almost amounting to caricature.

As Mr Shipwright sits now in Mrs Des-borough's
morning-room, quoting Horace in
that clear, well-educated voice of his which,
together with his elegant scholarship, might
with more energy have made him an orator,
he feels that the ground on which he rests is
trembling as if by electricity  he is sensible
of disruptive signs  an earthquake is at
hand. His long white fingers paddle among
his silvered locks, and he mentally observes

that there has been an interview between Mrs
Desborough and his reverend brother Lently,
whom he ever designates as the disturber
of peace. It is against Mr Shipwright's
creed to give way to strong language and
vituperative epithets. Yet Ritualism is his
bHe noire, he endures it with a smile and
denounces it more in acts than words, though
never perhaps does he feel more inclined to
throw off his apathy and fight for his rights,
than when the Rev. Luke Lently, the ritualistic
thunderer of the adjacent parish,
makes a descent on Vantage Park and seeks
to convert the lady of the house to his
peculiarly limited views.

Mrs Desborough is angry. She shrugs
her shoulders and knits very fast ; but, like
her classical friend, she has her feelings
under command, and for a moment or two
she does not speak.

What does he mean by damp twigs and
bellows ? If any one ever wanted rousing

he does himself. It Is the old story of the
mote and the beam At last she breaks out,
darting with woman's love of sudden digression
into another branch of the subject. * It
is not that I hold all Mr Lently's views,
though I think there is much good in some
of them ; but I do wish I could see a little
new work begun in this parish.'

Heaven forbid ! ' fervently ejaculated the
vicar.

My dear Mr Shipwright, you need not
disturb yourself. I shall be only too happy
to qualify for a machine. Giving the people
objects of interest and usefulness would help
to smooth away some of the difficulties of
one's own life.'

And she sighed as though the last part of
the sentence was pregnant with meaning.
The vicar declined the hidden interpretation
by a straightforward answer.

Increase them tenfold, you mean, my dear
friend, by setting an immense amount of

parochial machinery In motion which you
will be powerless to stop. All these Innovations
are, as you know, quite against my
conservative views. Let us keep the people
as they were primitively, '' hewers of wood
and drawers of water ! " These so-called reforms
only defeat their own ends, and render
the profane vulgus totally unfit for duty.
Progression applied to the lower orders is
the crying mistake of the century ; feed them,
clothe them if you like, but  '

Really, Mr Shipwright, this is going too
far. Has not every healthy child that is
born a heart and head as well as a stomach ?
What did Heaven make them for ? '

Use naturally ; but not use artificially. If
you turn a common field flower into an exotic,
it is no longer a field flower. It becomes a
specimen of a totally different plant, unless,
indeed, It dies in the forcing. Since Providence
has instituted diversity, why should we
attempt to establish oneness by lowering

ourselves to the level of the masses, which
we must necessarily do in our endeavours
to raise them to our standard. Against all
this abominable democracy nature rebels.'

But they have souls to save ! '

Mr Shipwright bowed his head and looked
at his filbert nails.

They worship Heaven in the fulness of its
power, its works, its benefits  in fact, what
more do you want ? '

But Mr Lently says  '

A smile spread itself over Mr Shipwright's
countenance ; he looked radiant when most
men would have been angry.

With your erudition, your broad free
views, your capability for grasping the truth,
I am surprised that you should do more than
feel amused by the study of Lently 's " Guide
to Heaven." Poor fellow ? '

Mr Lently is very zealous, he can scarcely
fail to reach the desired goal, while we  Mr
Shipwright, I am beset by many scruples.'

Since this morning. Mr Lently lunched
here, I fancy ? '

You do not object to my indulging occasionally
in a little conversation with those
who do not altogether think as you do ? '
asked the lady very humbly.

Certainly not, my dear Mrs Desborough,
certainly not. " Truth loves open dealing."
If you or any of my parishioners feel that
you are made happier by following the road
of which Mr Lently has installed himself as
signpost, pray do not let me be considered
for a moment in the matter. My desire is
that every one should discover what he or she
feels to be the truth. All minds are not constituted
alike  to some it is veiled in spiritual
types, to some it is clear and unbidden.'

Ah ! ' said Mrs Desborough, as though
her thoughts were beyond expression in
words, and she laid her knitting in her lap,
and folded her hands over it.

Mr Shipwright's was pleasant, gentlemanlike,

easy teaching. She would follow it
gladly, if only that Mr Lently would not cross
her path, and by uprooting all her calculations,
fill the air with scruples, and bring
about those occasional small earthquakes
which dislodged, for a time at least, all the
placidity and geniality of the social relations
of life.

Then there is Matthew,' she observed
after a short pause. It seemed a somewhat
illogical remark, but to the initiated it had its
sequence, as Mr Shipwright's answer proved.

Matthew is passing through the unstable
period of extreme youth  his principles are
by no means fixed. You surely would not
allow him to influence you ? '

Yet he is going to take orders.'

Just so  in time. Before that time
arrives there may be many changes.'

Really, Mr Shipwright, you are not encouraging
to-day ; and from such a friend as
you are, I always look for help.'

Yet you sip the waters of every fountain,
and imagine each one a Hippocrene

Pardon me, when poetry and the arts
are in question, I never desert you ; but you
are scarcely the Delphic oracle  is it not a
voice rather than a mere human friend one
wants to reveal the secrets of mystic life ? '

Thereon hangs the whole question of a
priesthood.'

And Mr Shipwright rose as though the
priestly dignity were one which his shoulders,
developed though they were  yet scarcely
felt broad enough to carry.

The interruption was timely, for the sound
of voices in the hall told of an arrival, and
in another moment Mrs Desborough was
in the arms of her eldest son, who for some
months had been abroad seeing a little life
on his own account  a good deal more than
was good for him, if the truth were told.

My darling George ! ' and she looked
into his face and smoothed the hair off his

brow, as though she would still find the
baby among his features, for George was
Mrs Desborough*s favourite child, ' the
glory and the darling of the old manorial hall.'
'You look charming, mother. How are
the rest ? Is Matt going to take orders,
young noodle ? I beg your pardon, Mr
SIvewright, but you know you are an exception.
I always forget you are a parson.
I have got lots to tell you. You'll ask me
to dinner some night at the vicarage ; won't
you ? '

Yes, my dear young friend, whenever you
like, so long as you bring a contribution to
the feast In the form of anecdote.'

Ay will I, and good stories too.'

And they shook hands warmly, for the
vicar would have accused himself of want
of tact If he had Intruded farther on the
tte--tte, In which he believed, and truly,
that mother and son would gladly Indulge
after a long separation.

K

TABLE TALK.

N a Image de son coeur,' they say.
This being so, Mrs Desborough
was on the sunny side of thirty,
whereas, in reality, she had completed her
fifth decade ; but impressionable natures are
apt to maintain perpetual youth, and Mrs
Desborough was very sensible to impressions.
Her character presented a curious
mixture of cleverness and weakness ; in fact,
she might have been in danger of passing
for rather a silly woman, but for her rare
educational advantages ; consequently her
mind ran riot on theories instead of trifles.
She was more or less under the mental

VOL. I. B

dominion of the Rev. Lawrence Shipwright,
though, for the sake of argument, she usually
fought his opinions at every issue.

To-day, however, Mr Lently has had his
turn, and been listened to with a degree of
interest which has made him almost believe
in the conversion of the mistress of Vantage
Park ; but already a counter power has
sprung up in the person of her son George,
than whom Mr Shipwright could not have
a more able coadjutor. The dinner-bell has
just been rung, and Mrs Desborough sails
in her soft quiet way into the room to join
the family party there assembled before
dinner. The squire and his son are talking
on the hearthrug.

The dinner-bell has rung ages. Whom
are we waiting for ? ' asked George, after
some minutes had been passed in farther
conversation with the squire, his mother
meanwhile looking out of the window.

For Matthew, I suppose ? '

Matthew ? Since when has he become
a defaulter in hours ? Where is he ? We
surely are not going to wait for him ? '
and this time George addresses his father.

Mr Matthew has not come in yet,' at
this moment announces the butler, ' and
dinner is served.'

Matthew Desborough was like his mother,
precise in matters of detail, vague and shifty
in opinions, while he possessed even more
than her natural amount of cleverness. His
present absence was then the more remarkable,
in that it was unusual. If George had
been late or not forthcoming at dinner time,
no one would have observed it ; but with
Matthew the case was different, and each
of the family formed his or her own conclusions
as to the cause as they went into
dinner.

Matthew, during a long and highly dangerous
illness, had been converted to Mr
Lently's tone of thought, but had scarcely

sufficiently cultivated among other Christian
virtues that of tolerance ; perhaps
because he felt that by giving way to
invective against others he was rendering
his own ground more secure. Be
it as it might, he railed smartly against
what he deemed his brother's heathenism,
and suffered cruelly, in that his words seldom
called forth more than a smile from
either George or Mr SIvewright, who were
nearly allied in their contempt for, rather
than their dread of, Matthew's and Mr
Lently's school.

The dinner, with its many courses, dawdled
on, interspersed with such fragmentary conversation
as the presence of the servants permitted,
during which let us finish our portrait-painting
with sketches of father and son.

Mr Desborough was a little fussy good-tempered
garrulous man, his small talk being
amusing, because generally on artistic subjects,
and rendering him more or less a

favourite with every one excepting his wife,
who did not deny the fact that the squire's
tongue, Hke the dripping of perpetual water,
became monotonous, and bored her. He
was a thorough little gentleman  we might
almost say courtier  and it would have galled
Mrs Desborough not a little had she known
that many of the invitations they received
were more for the pleasure of enjoying his
cheery society than for the sake of her prosy
detailed stories.

George, their eldest son, scarcely resembled
either of his parents, except that he was
thoroughly well-bred  a birthright of which
a very free indulgence in the fashionable
slang and fast manners of the day had not
succeeded in depriving him. He was tall,
good-looking, with a genial happy face ;
owing to an amount of inborn philosophy
the troubles and disappointments of life
affected him but little.

If you can't get the thing you want

the most, take the next best and be happy,'
was the motto of George Desborough's life ;
and he was one of the very few who
succeed In leading a don't-care existence
gracefully.

Dinner has come to an end, and still
Matthew is an absentee. Mrs Desborough
is a little anxious ; a violent storm that
had reed in the afternoon makes her fear
she knows not what. A footstep Is heard
crossing the hall ; the important-looking
butler comes once more into the room.

Mr Matthew ? ' she asks, showing her
family for the first time where her thoughts
have been straying during dinner.

No ; the servants' entrance has naught todo
with Matthew. It is a note from the
Duchess of Monarchs, conveying an invitation
to Monarchs Castle for the following week.
A curious little fluster manifests itself in the
manner of the mistress of Vantage Park,
during which Matthew is entirely forgotten

and Mr Lently's lecture on the vanities of
life are conspicuously absent from the lady's
mind.

In the weakness of her human nature Mrs
Desborough  established though her own
position is  is not, with all her cleverness
and sense of self-superiority, above having
her vanity tickled and her pulse quickened
each time she is brought into intimate
relations with the very great lady of the
county  her dear friend, the Duchess of
Monarchs.

A dinner or what ? ' inquires George.
I hate a ragamuffin fete when the duke
asks all the voting lot.'

You are not invited, George ; but then of
course the dear duchess does not know you
have returned. It is a dinner this time  on
the 24th. The invitation is only for your
father and me. Shall I accept, Richard ? '

Yes, dear, if you like, of course. We
have no other engagement I presume. I

wonder who will be there ? Not the Lancelot
Cairns I hope. I took that mummy-headed
woman into dinner the last time, and she is
a bore. Oh ! Sivewrlght ; he is sure to be
asked. We can offer to drive Shipwright
over if he is going.'

The duchess never gives a party without
Mr Shipwright ; of that you may be very
sure.' And there was a strong emphasis on
the never. George set up a shout of laughter,
at which he received a look from his mother,
which spoke a volume of rebuke, but he paid
no attention, only went on laughing, and
asked ironically, 

Do you think exalted rank makes people
stricter, mother mine ? '

I don't know what you mean, George
The dear duchess has very religious tendencies,
and the duke is quite evangelical.*

So I should suppose. He would not
stand Lently at any price.'

No ; although they are not in his parish,

I think Mr Sivewrlght directs the family
consciences. The duchess  '

Now, mother, be accurate ; you are
generally so scrupulous in matters of detail.'

Well, they do say,' and Mrs Desborough
prepared for a story in true narrative form,
while George heaped his plate with fruit,
for though he quite believed his mother
would discover a good point at last, he imagined
she would be tolerably prolix before
she got there. * You have not heard, my
dear George,' she went on, ' how should
you, since you have been away  the little
tale about Mr Shipwright and the duchess ?
I believe it is quite true, though Mr Sive-wright
only laughs whenever I vaguely allude
to it. It seems then that the duchess (it was
before Mr Lently came) was beset by religious
scruples. She had spent some months
in Italy  what happened there who shall
say ? but her head had been filled with
ideas about auricular confession, at which

the duke was quite aghast. Well, one morning,
soon after her return home, she drove
over In her pony carriage to Firewood
Vicarage, and asked for a private interview
with the vicar.'

For a second or two George held a
plum hesitatingly between his mouth and
his plate, and then put it down before
him and gave his undivided attention to
the riper fruit his mother offered him.

What passed has not been exactly divulged,'
went on Mrs Desborough. ' Only
a few days afterwards the duke sent for Mr
Shipwright in order to speak with him
anent something important. On his arrival
at Monarchs Castle he found the duke 
you know he can look very fierce when he
likes  perfectly livid with anger. But whoso
great an adept at pouring balm on open
wounds as our facile vicar ? He succeeded
not only in pacifying, but in reassuring the
duke.'

Well, go on. You are not going to leave
a fellow there. What happened ? '

The duke's evangelical bristles were up ;
in fact he did not altogether understand the
sort of creed Mr Shipwright professed. From
hearing him preach the Sunday before, he
came to the somewhat rash conclusion that
the divine's unction had entrain, that he gave
evidence of a fresh accession of religious life.
With a confusion of ideas for which you know
the dear duke is proverbial, he also settled
it in his mind that Mr Shipwright's sanctity
must be inseparable from what he calls the
new-fangled church views which are creeping
into the country. He therefore summoned
the vicar in order to make him promise, as a
man of honour, that nothing should induce
him to hear the duchess's confession, however
much pressed.'

Shipwright, surpliced, shriving the duchess,
what a caricature it would make ! Why the
deuce did she not go to Lently ? But goon,

finish the story. What did Shipwright
say ? '

It was before Mr Lently came. Our
vicar met his grace's tirade with a smile of
mingled pity and amusement, and having
contemplated him with his head on one side
for full a minute and a half, merely said, in
that velvety voice of his we all know so well,
*' My dear duke, I hope to keep my reputation
of being a respectable member of society, but
before I shrive yours or any man's wife
Heaven forgive me !  I'll kiss her." '

No !' and George roared with laughing till
the room rang again, ' No, that is the man Ina
sentence. He merits Immense kvo. Kiss
the duchess ! and he actually said that to
the duke ? '

'Who was so relieved by the discovery
that they have been firm friends ever since ;
but Mr Shipwright is very clever you know.'
And Mrs Desborough gave a little sigh.

It is all an invention, Minnie, a horrid

country side fabrication. I can't think how
you can circulate it. George, pass the
wine. '

Still the squire looked amused. He
scarcely wished it not to be true.

I'll ask Shipwright about it the first time
I am with him alone put in George. * Kiss
the duchess ! Well she is tempting enough.
Do you think the duke would let me try ? '

My dear George ! you don't imagine for a
moment that Mr Shipwright really did mean
to kiss her ; he is far too correct. It is only
a little playful way he has of strengthening
his words by a practical allusion ; and Mrs
Desborough looked the very incarnation of
prudery, which only, however, called forth
another fit of tempestuous hilarity from her
son.

The dear credulous mother ! she believes
in the sanctity of every sinner 
even in mine, I do think.'

I don't know about you, but I feel quite

sure about Mr Shipwright,' she said, rising
and going towards the door.

George sprang up to open it for her,
giving her a hearty kiss as she passed him.

During the temporary amusement Matthew
had been forgotten, but he put himself
in evidence at that moment by appearing
suddenly at the other end of the hall. * Why,
George, when did you come ? ' he called out
as he saw his brother.

'And you, you truant, where have you
been ? '

Yes, where had Matthew been ? There
was a flush on his cheeks and a light in his
eyes, which even Mrs Desborough failed to
read, anxiously and inquiringly though she
looked at him.

LOVES YOUNG DREAM.

T is an oppressively warm, almost
sultry afternoon. Storm clouds
veil the sun, and all nature seems
lazy, inert, and at rest. The very insects
have ceased their buzzing and their gambols,
the birds their twittering and their flight.
Shelter from the coming rain is the instinctive
craving of all living creation, excepting
evidently the human, for a girl is
wandering slowly through a little copse
which ' skirts the road, as fringe upon a
petticoat.' She seems totally regardless of
the large rain drops which are already
pattering among the leaves above her head.

Perhaps she delights in storm and wind
and wet ; yet she is scarcely a girl of a
daring type  there is neither fire nor determination
in her countenance ; she is simply
a modest-looking Saxon maiden on whom
the good fairy who presided at her birth
had bestowed prettiness, rather than power
for a gift. Pink and white and flaxen
sweet-faced Claire Bailey has not a few
admirers among the male youth of the
county ; yet she is very retiring and
modest, scarcely seems to recognise the
fact that she is thought pretty, and never
gives pert answers as do some of her
intimate friends and playmates.

It is evident that Claire is returning
from some errand of mercy, for she is
carrying a tin can and a basket, both of
which have once been filled with this world's
good things. But it is scarcely probable
that Claire's poor neighbours have provided
the thoughts on which she is dwelling so

profoundly, that she does not heed the rain
clouds threatening overhead, nor the electric
fluid charging, almost to suffocation, the
autumnal breeze. All living beings, however,
are not so inactive as Claire and the insects
and the birds, for a horse and rider come
clattering along the road as though determined,
by their example, to wake all nature
into life. To a degree they succeed, for
Claire returns suddenly from dreamland, and
looks across the underwood dividing the path
along which she is idling from the high road.

The rider stops so unexpectedly as to
bring his horse almost down on his haunches.
A deep blush suffuses the young girl's white
brow, a blush which has not even cleared
off when the man leaps off his horse, quiets
the half frightened animal, and scrambles
with the bridle on his arm across the
bushes to her side.

Why, Claire, what are you doing out
in this weather ? It is raining hard.'

VOL. I. c

'Is it?' And either from shyness or
some other cause, she seems afraid to answer
him ; yet he is not such a terrible individual.
Most women would have thought
him a handsome young fellow. He is
just five-and-twenty, tall and well made,
almost an athlete in proportion, with curling
brown hair and large expressive eyes.
The sort of man of whom boarding-school
misses would say, 'Is he not sweet ? '
And yet Claire  poor timid little Claire 
seems afraid of him. She does find justa
little voice though, to whisper fluttering,


If it is raining should you not go home,
or come up to the house ? Mamma will be
glad to see you.*

Since when have you been so careful of
my health, Miss Claire ? '

The colour was deeper than ever now,
the voice more inaudible.

Have you not been very ill ? '

Oh, yes ; but I have been quite well for
weeks. I should have been to call on you
I mean on Lady Laura  before, only  '

The girl looked a query.

I thought I was not wanted.'

There was a short silence, for she did not
contradict him, during which Matthew Des-borough
gazed at the young lady with his
curly head just a little on one side, and wondered.
They were very old friends these two,
friends from early childhood, when Matthew,
who was a few years Claire's senior, used to
play the part of patronising elder brother.

To her he was
Even as a brother  but no more ; 'twas much,
For motherless she was, save in the name
Her infant friendship had bestowed upon him.

While he, as years passed on, and boyhood
drew to manhood, learnt his first
love lesson as he one day saw Claire
dainty feet tripping from boulder to boulder

across a stream. Matthew was an impetuous
youth, and like wild-fire the new feeling
increased till its demonstrative character
frightened the timid Claire, and she said
she would have no more of Matthew Des-borough
for a friend  still less for a lover,
for he terrified and bewildered her. Twice
had he pleaded his suit in urgent passionate
words ; each time she had fled from
him like a scared lapwing to the parent
nest, and he had been compelled either
to eat his heart ' in solitude, or rush inconsequently
into other pursuits, loving more
desperately, because thwarted in his love,
vainly seeking to forget.

The rain began to pour in torrents.
What was to be done ? All chance of getting
to the house without being wet through
was quite hopeless. An overhanging elm
a few yards off was the only shelter the
situation afforded. The man bade his fair
acquaintance run there at once, and began

to coax his horse through the bracken, a
proceeding which the animal did not regard
very kindly.

At last, however, horse and man are once
more standing beside Claire, who evidently
dislikes the present position of affairs quite
as much as does her equine companion.

Had I not better go home ? What will
mamma think ? ' she asks nervously.

That you are safe in Goody Morris's
cottage, where, I suppose, you have been.
At any rate it is quite impossible for you to
walk across the open park in such a downpour
as this. I shall not think of allowing
it'

She looked up at him and smiled  probably
the magisterial tone of the last part
of the speech amused her. The most ,
the least pretentious of women
will fain assume little airs of sovereignty
when she finds herself reigning with despotic
sway over an adoring lord of creation ; but

she caught an expression in his eye which
made her instantly look down again and
blush as she had done once before. Matthew
Desborough, who, It was evident, had learned
to serve two masters, since he was not only
a disciple of Lently, but also a votary of
Cupid, took her hand  somewhat of a daring
measure, all circumstances being considered ;
she did not attempt to withdraw it, however,
but stood looking very frightened and flushed.

Can it be possible, Claire, that I am so
wholly indifferent to you as you would have
me to believe ? '

I don't know,' she said almost inaudibly.

It was a silly answer, but it served to raise
by many degrees the thermometer of Matthew
Desborough's spirits, for he looked radiant,
and the large eyes beamed with delight.
This disciple of Lently's then could think of
earthly love, or was it from the supposed
absence of human affection that he had
become a disciple of Lently ? Who shall

say ? It is a question involving many subtle
workings of the mental machinery. His next
remark, at all events, was mundane enough,
for he asked, quoting Benedict, cheerily, 

And pray, then, now tell me for which of
my bad parts didst thou first fall in love with
me?'

The lady, however, lacked Beatrice's spirit,
for she answered very simply, 

When I heard you were ill I was so afraid
you would die.'

Claire ! ' and his arm encircled her waist
before she had time to stop it, even if she
would.

'Is it true, then, you do really love me
just a little ? '

Claire's timid lips refused to utter anymore
words, but she hid her face on his
shoulder, and drops fell there that came not
from the clouds above, though Matthew
Desborough deemed them heaven-sent. He
had already descended many degrees from the

summit of Lently's goodness-standard. And
thus it happened that he was a truant from
the family dinner-table, for thunder showers
do not clear off quickly, and before there was
a rainbow in the sky and a bright gleam of
happy sunshine in Claire's face, the dinner-bell
must have long since rung at Vantage
Park.

The inmates of Swanover Cottage, where
Claire and her mother. Lady Laura Bailey,
lived, were not so ambitious in their habits ;
they dined at two o'clock, contenting themselves
in the evening, when alone, with that
highly indigestible and especially feminine
meal  a meat tea.

About seven o'clock, when it was already
beginning to grow dusk, Matthew was carrying
the can and basket, with the bridle on
his arm, giving Prig occasionally an encouraging
word  though naturally the chief of his
attention was bestowed on Claire  astonishing
the horse, who was unaccustomed to such

vagaries on the part of his master, not a little.
He was however at last In the open, when a
fresh eccentricity was in store for Prig.
Matthew Insisted that Claire should mount
him, while he led him carefully at walking
pace ; the long rain-charged grass would wether
frivolous boots through in no time, he
declared. Vainly she assured him they were
very thick  even clumped. It was useless.
Matthew, in his new position of accepted
lover, would have his own way.

Lady Laura was at the drawing-room
window ' when they arrived. She opened
it, and looked at them with a half-comical,
half-surprised expression on her comely
face. Left a widow when she was very
young, she had by no means passed the
attractive age ; but she was old fashioned
enough, she explained, to grow prematurely
old when her husband died, and she had
since then devoted herself solely to Claire,
who was her Idol. Perhaps there was no

dearer wish in Lady Laura's heart than
that her child should become Matthew
Desborough's wife. She held his character
in high esteem, and did not perceive the
priggishness which George contemned, or
the volatility of disposition of which Mr
Shipwright was fully conscious. So she
received them graciously, but with much
tact, making no allusion to the change she
instinctively felt had taken place In their
mutual relations.

Come in both of you, at once. Are you
very wet ? ' she asked eagerly. * I have
had some fire lighted, as I thought my
Claire would be cold. So good of you to
put her on your horse, Matthew. Ben will
take him round to the stables. Come In
and tell me all your adventures.

And thus, without more words, they both
went together Into Lady Laura's pretty
drawing-room, where Claire was petted with
a mother's tenderest care, and Matthew

was not reminded that it was six months
since he had crossed the threshold of Swan-over
Cottage. They gave an account of
how they had accidentally met as the rain
was beginning, though it was but a bald
and halting tale at which the mother smiled.
Perhaps her imagination filled with bright
colouring the seeming weak places.

Run away and take your hat off, Claire,
love, and then we will go into the diningroom
and see if we can't refresh this hungry
man.'

Claire wanted no second bidding. How
glad she was of five minutes' solitude, during
which she vainly strove to arrange into
some order the tumultuous feelings circling
round her heart. She had scarcely closed
the door when Matthew rushed up to Lady
Laura, and taking both her hands said
excitedly, 

'You will give me Claire, dear Lady
Laura  say you will. She has consented to

love me, and I shall take such care of her.
I shall have some money eventually, my
mother's fortune, you know ; but, of course,
we shan't be married till I have taken
orders and  '

Stop, my dear Matthew, not so fast 
you take my breath away. She has consented
to love you, you say ? That is an
odd phrase. What does it mean ? I must,
cross-question my little Claire. I thought
it was arranged she did not care for
you.'

Oh, that was long ago, before she understood
her own feelings.'

And you have been trying to instruct
her in them. So, so, I must go farther
into this matter and have a talk with
Claire.'

But if Claire wishes it you will consent,
will you not, dear Lady Laura ? '

Well, between you, I suppose I shall be
compelled. We poor chicken - pecked

mammas have no alternative but to obey.
But I don't feel so sure about Claire

Oh, that is all right. I am not afraid of
her now if you don't object.'

A thunder-shower seems indeed to have
cleared the air,' said Lady Laura laughing,
as at this moment Claire, looking very
bright and happy, popped her head in at
the door.

Tea is quite ready, mamma,' but she
was gone again before either her mother
or Matthew had time to stop her.

The presence of the servant in the diningroom
was the safeguard she sought to shelter
her from the otherwise inevitable explanation.
Before the homely repast was over
it had proved itself unnecessary to the
mother's heart.

Claire's eyes had told their own tale.

Some half-hour later Matthew was suddenly
overcome by the recollection that his
family would be anxious at his unusual absence.

Prig was brought round from the
stables, and both the ladies went out to see
him mount.

I think you may reckon on me for a
coadjutor,' said Lady Laura in a low voice,
as she shook hands with him, while Claire
fondled the horse, kissing his brown velvet
nose with a sort of approximate affection,
for once in your life I do believe you have
read the signs aright.'

When George learns what eventful episode
made his brother late for dinner, it will probably
afford him even more merriment than
the account of Mr Shipwright's passage-alarms
with the duke.

MONTARLIS CASTLE.

E is a duke ; but he might be a
cobbler is a stricture not infrequently
passed on William,
seventh Duke of Monarchs, Marquis of
Suthorne, Earl of Greatly, and Baron Gold-ford
as says Burke. Sitting at the bottom
of his own table, he certainly presents no
very imposing appearance.

Cunning and common,' were well chosen
epithets were he an ordinary man ; but he
is a duke, so they are magnified into ' distinguished
and discerning.'

The duke was not a young man ; he was
considerably over sixty before he inherited the

family title, having been up to that time plain
Mr Scrivener, the offshoot of a very remote
branch of the ducal house of Monarchs.

To a degree he was sensible of his own
shortcomings, both in appearance and in
the capability, for all at once assuming the
position of one of England's greatest nobles.
He had therefore judged it expedient to
bestow his hand and dukedom on a lady
who, herself but the daughter of a rich commoner,
yet was well qualified in every respect
to fill a duchess's place, wearing his
honours with little sovereign airs, and dispensing
her hospitalities with a knowledge
of amalgamation and combination of which
the duke was totally ignorant.

She was a white skinned, fleshy woman,
about thirty. She had been married a little
over three years, and fashionable gossips
said she had decidedly been fast herself
before her marriage, though no one could
exactly attribute any particular scandal to

her name, probably from the fact that she
had very quiet manners, and a ' don't understand
' look in her large eyes. Be it as it
might, since she had become Duchess of
Monarchs, she had followed a discreet path.
Perhaps she was just a little afraid of stumbling
back into old habits, and had therefore
selected the Rev. Lawrence Shipwright as
confidant and counsellor  a strong rock on
which to lean without the fear of brittle
pieces breaking off at those inconvenient
moments when she most wanted support.
Especially since she had returned from Italy,
now more than a year ago, had the duchess
clung to Mr Shipwright, much to the secret
dissatisfaction of Mrs Desborough, who could
have forgiven everything in the 'dear duchess,'
save this attempt to monopolise the vicar.

While the duchess had been abroad she
had made or rather renewed acquaintance
with a Mrs Tremayne, who had since then
been a tolerably constant visitor at Mont-vol.

I. D

artis Castle. She was a widow, a year or
two younger than the duchess, in the full
zenith of attractiveness and intrigue. A
brunette, with laughing eyes and bright
warm colouring  this fashionable, dashing
siren kept the house-party alive with her
laughter and her jokes, while the neighbours
muttered little ' Ohs ! ' and ' Ais ! ' in suppressed
tones  * she was scarcely the woman
they would have imagined the duchess would
have selected for her familiar friend.' It had
been explained by the word ' playmate,' still
an uncomfortable feeling hung about the
intimacy, as though the duchess were not
altogether a free agent in the matter.

Mr Shipwright and the lady in question
constantly had little spars, owing possibly to
some degree of jealousy with which each
one regarded the other's influence in high
quarters. To Mrs Desborough, who by
some fortuitous circumstances had not yet
met Mrs Tremayne, the occasional accounts

she received of these battles were indeed
treats, and she was fully prepared to worship
at the Tremayne shrine when they should be
introduced at the ducal dinner party.

Scarcely, however, did she expect such a
bewildering little woman as the gay young
widow proved, with her dazzling complexion,
her brilliant eyes, her pearly teeth, and her
toilette. The Maison Roger might well be
proud of such a master work of diaphanous
pink  yet she sued in forma pauperis , asking
always for indulgence in her vain efforts to
vie with ducal riches.

It is so dreadful to have rich friends. I
am at my wits' end ; and quite at my purses'
end too for the matter of that,' she had confided
to Mrs Desborough when, the long
dinner being over, they were sitting having
a little woman's talk before the advent of the
gentlemen.

I am always telling dear Julia she should
let me go back to my doll's house, for I have

LIBRARY

It T mfC

a doll's house of my own. Oh ! it is tiny.
However, if Julia wants me, of course I must
remain for the sake of auld lang syne.
Height!'

And fringed lashes veiled her dazzling
eyes, but for all that she failed to look subdued
or sentimental. For a second or two
Mrs Desborough had time to wonder what it
all meant. Then Mrs Tremayne looked up
once more, and the flush came back.

Isn't Julia handsome ? And doesn't she
look every inch a duchess. I always said
she was born for an exalted position instead
of'

Mrs Desborough looked a query.

A miserable, petty lot like mine,' went
on the chatterton, whose first idea had
obviously been a different one.

I admire the duchess immensely,' Mrs
Desborough began. ' There is something
so very distinguished in her bearing, and
she is so very  '

Chic, cachet, and all that sort of thing
yes,' and Mrs Tremayne laughed rip-singly
; ' particularly when you compare
her with her surroundings. This room is
a perfect museum of oddities. Do tell me
who some of them are.'

The lady in black with the dried-up face
is Mrs Lancelot Cairns ; the girl in brown
is her daughter. They are very worthy
people  do an immense amount of good.'

Do they ? What a pity they ever leave
off. I am sure they are doing no good
here. And the bright green woman by
the piano ? I hope she is not going to
sing.'

She is a Miss Chiffonal. Her father
sat by you at dinner.'

Just so. He drew me ; was it not bad
luck ? Do you like the practice here of
drawing lots for your dinner partner ? It
is rather fun standing at the door with the
hat. I feel as if I was making a quite ina

church  in fact, it is the only time that
I ever feel really good.'

I think I like the old plan of precedence
best,' observed Mrs Desborough. ' This
one must inevitably lead to a good deal of
ill-feeling.'

Squabbles without end. I'll tell you
such an amusing one. Mr Shipwright was
the hero. You know Mr Shipwright, of
course ? '

Mrs Desborough's soft laces fluttered.

Our very dear vicar. Certainly I know
Mr Shipwright'

*Ah! Naturally you and he would sympathise
; but he does not approve of me.
I shock him. I have had an odd education,
Mrs Desborough, or rather none at all. I
was dragged up in a sort of fashion.'

Were you brought up in France ? '

Well, yes, partly,' and Mrs Tremayne
laughed. ' But never mind that. A few
nights ago when your vicar was dining

here he drew me. I saw it as plainly as
if Violet Tremayne had been written on
his brow. Of course, he thought that luck
would be sure to favour a parson in the
game of speculation, and that he would
draw the duchess.'

This time Mrs Desborough's lace grew
ruffled, and little points seemed to show
themselves.

Well, our mutual friend walked away
without uttering a word, and left me to
finish my partner-lottery. The last straggler,
a man they call Adonis Valmont, came in
just before the dinner was announced. I
presented him with the last ticket and put
down the hat. Too much engaged in twisting
his moustache to look at his paper, he
sauntered on to the hearth rug when I saw 
actually saw  him change it with Mr Sive-wright
for coin  half-a-crown, I believe. It
was the duchess  that I also saw on Mr
Shipwright's face.'

*' Bribery and corruption," I said, walking
up to him, " are not permitted. I am
the genius of the hat." '

" And I have the honour of taking you
into dinner," said Adonis Valmont.'

'* No, Mr Valmont, I decline ; you are
to take the duchess. Give back that half-crown
; we are not going to be bought and
sold like merchandise. Come, Mr Sive-wright,
I'll answer for it  you shall be
punished here if you think you won't be
there," pointing downwards of course.'

Mrs Desborough laughed and looked very
beaming, though of course she protested.

Mr Shipwright could not do such a
thing,' she said.

He'll do anything not to be bored,'
answered the other ; ' and there is no mistake
about the fact he was bored that night.
I would not even argue with him ; I never
spoke, and he had got a deaf mummy on
the other side. I hope he liked it, anyhow

he will not throw me over again, and the
next time he draws me I shall decline to
go with him, if I go to bed without my
dinner.'

So it is war to the knife between you
and the vicar. I did not know he was of
so belligerent a turn. Do you really dislike
him ? '

I ? No. He is a sort of clerical anomaly
that amuses me ; but I never put up
with slights from men  but here come the
gentlemen. I'll go and sing them in before
Miss Chiffonal gets possession of the instrument.'


And in a second or two the atmosphere
of the room seemed filled with ripples from
Violet Tremayne's liquid voice.

Mr Shipwright dropped into the vacant
place by Mrs Desborough.

How beautifully she sings ; how charming
she is,' said the lady. She felt she
could afford to praise.

Yes, but she is too overpowering  a restless,
excitable woman. She has no repose.
She does not understand the present moment ;
enjoyment with her consists in anticipating
what is going to happen in an hour. I
don't think I ever met any one who tried
all my senses like Mrs Tremayne.'

Who was she ? '

Mr Shipwright shrugged his shoulders.
She is not in Burke, I fancy. She and
the duchess knew each other as girls ; it
is almost a pity they met again.'

They are of very different natures, hence
the sympathy, I presume,' said Mrs Des-borough
in a little prim way she had at
times.

Perhaps ; the duchess decidedly gains by
the contrast. Oh ! how infinitely I prefer
quiet reposeful women. There is something
so much more sympathetic about them. Look
at the duchess as she moves now from one
to another of her guests. Queen-like, swanlike,

undulating  that is the perfection of
feminine grace ; and that clinging white
satin  see how it sets off the contour of
her figure.'

Are you joking, Mr Shipwright ? ' asked
Mrs Desborough, to whom these rhapsodies
on another woman's charms were most unpleasing.
It was the first time too, the
vicar had ever talked to her In this strain ;
but on this occasion he had sat very near
the duchess at dinner, and the duke's champagne
was of the best. Nor did Mrs Des-borough's
frowns deter him from persisting
in the assertion that 'her grace of monarchs
was a magnificent woman  a monstrous
fine woman.'

Yes, she had chosen wisely when she had
selected the Rev. Lawrence Shipwright for
an ally, and Mrs Desborough was beginning
to fear that her longer friendship with
the vicar was crumbling away from its very
antiquity  for that probably her twenty

years of priority in age were beginning to
tell. Mrs Desborough had, however, learned
the discretion of silence ; only by the sharp
quick movement of her face were her feelings
visible. After a second she recovered
herself completely, and smiled benignly
on the vicar. During that second she had
resolved to hold her ground, and perhaps
she thought a tilt with a duchess were no
mean warfare.

In matters of taste you are infallible,' she
said blandly. ' No one can gainsay that
the duchess is beautiful  to-night looking
more than usually so  and that she has
wonderfully good style ; but still, for all that,
I am vastly taken with Mrs Tremayne's
laughing face and laughing manners. She
is like a beam of sunshine on a winter's
day.'

Thus it was clearly manifest that Mrs
Desborough had the intention to cultivate
the acquaintance of Violet Tremayne, and

through her means to strengthen the intimacy
between MontarHs Castle and Vantage Park.

Always be on the most sociable and
loving terms with people of whom you have
sufficient fear to be jealous.

Mrs Desborough had lived long enough
in the world, and studied its ways sufficiently
close, to be thoroughly cognisant of this
fact. Her patience with Mr Shipwright in
his present mood, however, was nearly exhausted
 though she did not wish to show
it  so she got up and walked towards the
piano, meeting her hostess half way across
the room.

Dear duchess, that charming friend of
yours is too delightful ; and how she sings ! '

Yes. Violet is a good little thing, and
is always ready to please and be useful.'

But the duchess's brow clouded as though
praise bestowed, even by a woman, on Violet
Tremayne were scarcely pleasing to her.

'Will you drive over to luncheon, and

bring her with you some day soon ? ' went
on Mrs Desborough. ' You have not been
to see me for so long

'Yes, with pleasure, it will be something
new for Violet ; she is always craving for
new excitements.'

George has come home said Mrs Des-borough.
' And the dear boy has no end
of funny stories  some of them very amusing.*


Indeed ! George is a great favourite of
mine. He is so fresh and racy. I am sorry
I did not know. I should have asked him
to come to-night. Shall we say Tuesday
for luncheon ? Tell your son I shall count
on his being at home.*

Mrs Desborough was radiant. She could
not guess the thought that lay beneath
that serene voice ; it had its existence
nevertheless.

If only George Desborough would marry
Violet Tremayne.*

THE CHURCH OR THE HOME.

Kate la! impetuous youth

oj   And Matthew, who was walks
ing with rapid strides down the
carriage drive at Vantage Park, found himself
suddenly arrested by the appearance of
an umbrella in front of him.

Ah ! Mr Shipwright, I was going to
call on you.'

Indeed ! ' and the vicar's eyebrows arched.
It was not often Matthew turned his steps
towards Fernwood Vicarage.

Yes ; I did not wish you to hear of my engagement
to Miss Bailey from any one else.'

Your engagement to Miss Bailey ? Mrs

Desborough did not tell me,' and the vicar
looked as surprised as a man of his calibre
could permit himself to look.

No, no ; my mother does not approve.
Besides, I begged her to be silent for the
present. But you do not congratulate me.'

My dear Matthew, to see you comfortably
ensconced as paterfamilias in some
snug country parsonage were indeed a
matter for congratulation could I believe it
possible ; but I thought you were vowed
to celibacy and all that sort of thing.'

Not at all  not at all. If such were my
views I might as well go to Rome at once.'

Oh ! I don't pretend to have a lens
sufficiently clear to detect the microscopic
line which defines the boundaries of the
two faiths. In my private opinion it is
non-existent  a mere optical delusion.'

One must be allowed to exercise a little
private judgment, pleaded Matthew, ' whereas
in Rome  '

Pooh ! nonsense, my dear young friend.
There is no middle way  faith or reason.
As soon as you begin to exercise the latter
the first disappears. You are only cheating
yourself by trying to take the kernels out
of both nuts. A married father-confessor
is an anomaly, though, if you follow my
advice, you'll stick to matrimony, and give
up all this new-fangled nonsense.'

You forget that Claire entertains the same
views.'

Oh ! yes, silly children both of you. You'll
grow wiser as you grow older. Your mother
does not approve of the marriage, you say,
and wherefore ?'

She thinks we are both too young, and,
moreover, upon my word I hardly like to tell
you, but, in short, she hints that it is the
result of some manoeuvre on the part of Lady
Laura.'

While it is entirely a matter of spontaneous
combustion, eh ? Well, I must have a few

VOL. I. E

words with Mrs Desborough on the subject.'


You will  you will tell her that you think
it highly, intensely advantageous for us both ;
that it would be cruel and unkind to do anything
to prevent it.'

Stop, stop ! I am not going to pledge myself
to any wild extravagancies. It is more
probable that you will have to bring a little
more common sense to bear on the acts of
your daily life. Fewer visions and more real
practical working will be expected from a
man who has saddled himself with the onus
of matrimony.'

Not even for Claire can I deny my faith,'
said Matthew fervently.

Your faith ! Well, well, well, we shall see
which is stronger, love or fear.'

And Mr Shipwright leant gracefully against
a rustic seat which chanced to be close by.

Fear, Mr Shipwright, fear ! What do you
mean } '

It is excessive selfishness that makes all
you fellows so perverse and argumentative.
If you were not afraid of eternal
punishment you would talk in a very different
strain.'

And are not you afraid of eternal punishment,
Mr Shipwright ? ' and Matthew looked
horrified and aghast.

I ? I hope I have too unbounded a belief
in the power and goodness and wonderful
benevolence of Heaven.'

Perhaps you don't think we shall be
punished at all ? '

Mr Shipwright shrugged his shoulders.

Let each follow his own conscience, and
trim, to the best of his power, the lamp which
illume it, and don't let us trouble our heads
about an unknown future, which is more inexplicable
than even the Arctic regions to
which, by the way, do you observe a new
Government expedition is about to start ? '

More energy is displayed in connection

with the things of this Hfe than about the
great matters of eternity ! ' exclaimed Matthew
fiercely. He was very irate at what
he considered Mr SIvewright's levity.

And yet the great Creator gave us to
enjoy, or why this beautiful earth, these riches
of nature and art by which we are surrounded ?
Your creed seems to me so suppressive of
all natural enjoyment, that if for no other
reason I should condemn it. It is no use
to set our religious standard too high, my
young friend ; we are but human, and are
apt to get dizzy on a height. You are at this
moment in danger of toppling over ; Claire
versus Creed  something of a desperate conflict
I expect. Of course you will follow Mr
Lently's advice, so I will withhold any farther
counsel for the present, and go and pay my
respects to Mrs Desborough.*

And they parted, the vicar muttering to
himself 

Wise woman, Mrs Desborough ; but whoso

wise as a woman in diplomacy ? She
thwarts this boy because, forsooth, she
wishes him to marry. I have taken the
cue, I think, and Lently will find a restive
pupil when next he and Master Matthew
regale themselves with a little disputation.'

The vicar was right. He had sown the
seeds of discord in Matthew's mind, for he
too went muttering down the avenue, 

Why should I not marry ? Who has any
right to stop me ? Am I not a free agent ?
Lently  Shipwright  what bosh ! I shall do
as I please. I shall see Lently at once and
tell him what I think. He is married.
Bother Shipwright ! he is always so consumedly
satirical.'

So, instead of the ceremonious visit which
Matthew felt himself in duty bound to pay to
the old family friend, when he got outside
the park gates he vaulted a stile, crossed
some fields with hasty steps, walked a good
half-mile down a rutty green lane, then over

some more fields, till the spire of a pretty
village church was visible, and close to the
church a gabled parsonage-house, snugly-built
among elm trees.

Ravensholme Vicarage was less pretentious
than its sister of Fernwood, but it was
homely and comfortable-looking, if only its
internal arrangements had not contradicted
external signs.

As Matthew approached, screams from
young voices met his ears  not the happy
joyous yells of exulting childhood, but the
discordant, hideous outcry of spoiled, unmanageable,
discontented brats. Matthew
was a privileged individual ; he had free
admission at all hours into Ravensholme
Vicarage, and he used it now, for he walked
straight in at the back-door, and came
abruptly on the scene of the affray.

Mrs Lently  for the Rev. Luke, notwithstanding
his tendencies, was a married
man  Mrs Lently was standing slipshod, ina

state of greasy dishabille, among her progeny,
who were all squalling round her,
while she strove vainly to raise her voice in
angry tones, so as to be heard above the
general uproar. Neither her own un-grooved
condition nor the generally unruly
state of the establishment seemed, however,
to affect her, for she turned to Matthew
with a smile on her broad, kindly face, 

Quiet them for me, Mr Matthew, will
you ? You are the only one who can.'

These words were conveyed more by signs
than sound, for the youngsters' clamour increased
when they saw Matthew, who very
frequently indulged them in a game of romps.

At the present moment, however, his mind
was too much bent on his own affairs to be
very indulgent for the little Gently' shortcomings.


I'd smack every white head of you if I
were your mother,' he said sharply. ' Cease
this din instantly, or I'll never race you round

the garden again, or take you up to the park
to dumb the mulberry tree.'

Matthew looking angry was an unusual
sight, and so impressed the children that they
left off howling to stare at him.

Master Bobbie, a four-year-old, was the
first to break the silence. With his thumb
well in his mouth he heaved a deep sigh,
while two tears stopped half way down his
cheeks, as though they too wondered what
had happened, and when he had looked at
Matthew for a few seconds, he said sententiously,
 * Bobbie bad boy ! Bobbie must goto
black place. Bobbie be good for sweets.'

Matthew turned from the group of children
and looked out of the window.

Bribery and fear,' he repeated to himself.

How unbidden thoughts will force themselves
 how involuntary is at times the
action of the mind ; his recent conversation
with Mr Shipwright was paramount.

But the children having speedily recovered

their natural buoyancy, clamoured round him
for play, and thus disputed the possession of
him with his thoughts. For a few minutes
they were successful ; but Matthew's feelings
had been too deeply stirred for him to lay
them long on one side at infantine bidding.

Mrs Lently perhaps noticed a pre-occupied
look on his brow, for she rang the bell. A
maid, wearing earrings and dirty ribands,
answered the summons.

Take them all away Susan, every one,'
said the mistress pettishly.

This order was the signal for another outbreak
from the youngsters ; but among much
weeping and kicking and shrieking they
were at last conveyed, to Matthew's no small
satisfaction, to the nursery.

Mr Lently is out. Do you want to see
him ? ' asked the lady, as soon as the door
was closed.

Out ! of course he was. What man could
stand such a household ? So instead of his

club he took to what he called parochial
work. Stop a moment though. Reverse
the picture. May it not be because he is
always out that his home has become a
pandemonium ? And when he does come In
his martyr-like appearance and general condemnation
of everything that is pleasant or
cheery do not contribute largely to the
gaiety of the establishment. He married
when he was very young a woman some
years older than himself. They were Ill-assorted
in every way. He was unpractical,
visionary, and theoretical ; while she was a
pretty doll, plastic in mind as the wax from
which her body seemed to have been moulded.
Mrs Lently would have followed any path that
had been shown her clearly and practically ;
but she was totally incapable of selecting one
for herself, and failed utterly in reaching her
husband's high flights. In the early part of
their married life he had spread his pinions
and soared above the earth in a good many

different directions, till he had at last flapped
his wines into the Ritualistic course. His
wife tried to accompany him, but after
several futile attempts she floundered hopelessly.


There were the children, the dreadful servants,
the house-bills, the mending, the
cleaning, and, worse than all, there was an
incompetent head that never could arrange
the simplest plan or carry out unassisted the
merest trifle. So Mrs Lently never found
time to go to her husband's week-day services,
but led an untidy tangled life, in which
nothing was begun at the beginning or finished
up to the end ; and while the Rev. Luke
Lently's church decorations and services were
remarked on as more ambitious and advanced
than those of any other divine in those parts ;
while his teaching, in spite of his belief in
purgatory, left no middle way for imperfection,
his home afforded a theme for speculation,
and made people remark how frequently

experiment fails to prove theory. All
his neighbours admitted readily that Mrs
Lently was a well-intentioned, simple-minded
woman, and it was weakness of purpose, not
vicious inclination, that made her a slattern
and a peevish whining grumbler.

For natures such as hers, the Rev. Luke
Lently's religious code had not provided.
She never even succeeded in understanding
the dogmas he was perpetually enumerating ;
so she contented herself with setting him
down in her own private calendar as a
saint, and following the cursory unmethodical
way of her own very earthly life, nagging
off the roughest bits by means of her
tongue, as though the sound of her own
voice were a consolation to her.

Matthew Desborough and Mrs Lently
were on very friendly terms. He himself
was somewhat halting in determination, and
he had consequently a certain amount of
fellow-feeling for her shortcomings, not unfrequently

doing her a good turn in the way of
helping her out of some difficulty, about
which the great Lently would not have
allowed himself to be troubled. He had not,
however, sufficient respect for her sagacity
to make her his confidante on this occasion,
scorching though the words were
which burnt his tongue impatient to be
uttered.

He walked up and down the room excitedly,
every now and then fidgeting with
the things on the mantel-shelf or table ina
way that would have made most women
chide him ; but Mrs Lently was accustomed
to Matthew's vagaries. She took no notice,
only chatted on in a maudlin sort of way
about the petty worries of her every-day
existence, and gave the usual catalogue
raison of children, servants, breakages,
butcher's bills, etcetera. She was interrupted
at last by a sudden question from
Matthew.

Does Lently ever go to Lady Laura
Bailey's ? '

Yes, sometimes, I think ; and Miss
Bailey comes here pretty often, and is so
nice with the children. She used to come
here every day when you were ill. It is
a pity you have quarrelled with the Baileys,
Mr Matthew.'

He coloured up, and answered rapidly, 

Who said I had quarrelled with them ?
Why did you not tell me Claire had been
here ? '

Oh ! because she told me not. I can't
think how it slipped out now, but I am a
poor thing at keeping a secret. She is so
good. Do you remember when the children
had measles, and then Jane took them too,
and cook had a bad leg. There was I left
as usual without a living being to do the
work, and Luke saying I ought to go to
church at eight, and again in the afternoon.
Of course I know I ought, but how could

I ? It's only idle people that will get to
Heaven if church is to take them there 
that is what I tell Luke ; but of course
he is a saint ; he can't understand my
difficulties.'

Well, and Claire Bailey ? ' interrupted
Matthew.

Oh ! she came and helped me  actually
made puddings and gruel for the babies
with her own hands. Ah ! I wish I was
like Miss Bailey. The place used to look
quite different after she had been here an
hour or so. But I never could be tidy.
My poor mother used to say  '

And Claire came every day and did
these things ? Where was I ? '

Oh ! you were ill, and then you went
abroad. I don't suppose you ever even
heard of the trouble we were in here. I
don't know what I should have done without
that angel, for Luke is nothing at  '

And Claire was not afraid of catching

the measles ? ' asked Matthew, anxious to
keep Mrs Lently from wandering.

Not she. When is she ever afraid for
herself when there is good to be done ? I
had hoped, Mr Matthew, that you and
she'

Is not that Lently coming along the
road ? '

And Matthew was suddenly desirous to
change the subject, for he perceived that it
was growing personal.

Yes, that it is ; and, good gracious ! he
had no breakfast before he went out. He
said he would have it at twelve. It is now
half-past, and I've forgotten to tell the cook.'

And away went Mrs Lently to see what
sort of an uncomfortable repast could be
concocted at a minute's notice for her
hungry husband.

MR Gently's cross.

R Gently's private study is
small, paper strewn and un-orderly,
the latter being the
characteristic disposition of everything at
Ravensholme Vicarage, both mentally and
materially. His sanctum has, however, the
merit of being a quiet nook, as far removed
as possible from nursery clamour ; while a
side door opening on to a little path which
leads directly from the garden to the church
renders the Rev. Luke an independent agent
in his exits and entrances.

Matthew is sitting there now, his legs
stretched out, his hands clasped together,

VOL. I. F

his brows flushed, his eyes flashing ; in fact
there are decidedly feverish tendencies exhibiting
themselves, and considering how ill
he had been a few months back, his mother,
and probably Claire, would have thought his
present state a highly dangerous one ; but
the Rev. Luke Lently has no such scruples,
as with a stern look on his ascetic brow
he is, to all appearance, holding the knife
firmly which is to eradicate what he calls the
hankering after worldliness in his young
friend and disciple. He is, however, but
one of those bungling operators who slash
without science. Mr Lently is inflicting a
desperate wound which fails nevertheless to
touch the supposed disease ; he has reckoned
too much on his patient's belief in his advice,
without which belief it is said that no real
cure is ever effected. Weak natures are not
necessarily the most plastic by reason of the
very obstinacy that is in them, and for this
strongly-developed feature in the neophyte

he thought all his own he had not calculated.
Ah ! the Rev. Lawrence Sivewrlght,
whatever his shortcomings in matters of
faith, possessed undoubtedly the larger share
of acumen ; there were few dispositions,
whatever their peculiar proclivities, that he
was incapable of bending if it pleased him
to make the attempt. A pity the gift were
not bestowed on a holier man, it had been
observed, but the laws of compensation are
very evenly balanced, and the gift was in
itself a trial  a burden on that conscience
Mr Shipwright was always striving so manfully
to follow  for was there not hidden
away somewhere in his heart a whispering
fear lest, in influencing people to his views, he
was corrupting them to evil ? for that which
seemed truth to him might scarcely fill the
void in another soul. But to waive digression.
Matthew's last remark, whatever it was,
had roused the usually dormant irascibility
which was latent in Mr Lently's nature. He

had been writing for some time with his
back turned to his pupil, occasionally writing
and occasionally enunciating his dogmas
in a phlegmatic sort of way, which, to say
the least, was irritating. At this juncture he
turned suddenly round and faced the younger
man.

Marry, marry if you will, but renounce
at once all claim to ever becoming a true
priest. We want no more married clergy to
choke up the ranks of the Anglican Church.'

Matthew rose, and stood looking doggedly
at his opponent.

I shall marry, of that I am resolved, and
I shall take orders too, if it so pleases me
when the time comes. I was wrong perhaps
to have consulted you, since your own
married life seems to have been a mistake.'

Every married life is a mistake, when a
man's first mistress is the Church,' answered
Mr Lently.

I cannot see any difficulty in the combination

of Church and marriage,' pursued
Matthew ; ' it works very well in many instances.'


Claire Bailey, forsooth ! Claire Bailey to
be set up against our holy mother Church !
Give her up Matthew, give her up as you
value your immortal soul.'

Pooh, nonsense, Mr Lently, you are mad.
You of all men to talk like this.'

It is because I am what I am that I do
talk thus. Do you think my life is not one
endless penance for past foolishness. You
know better than any man that my home
is anything but a happy one, that wife and
children rise in continual rebellion against
my views and feelings. It is my cross,
Matthew, the cross I have had to bear 
shall bear to the end  avoid it, my young
friend, avoid it. If you have the strength of
Samson, it will crush you with its weight.'

Matthew thought of the two pilgrims who
started on their pilgrimage with peas in

their shoes, and how the one who took the
precaution to boil his peas arrived with
speedy steps and fresh mien at the goal,
while the other lagged behind footsore and
weary ; but he had too much respect for his
pastor to point the allegory, he merely observed
quietly, his impatience abating as
that of Mr Lently increased.

There are various ways of governing a
household. Because you and Mrs Lently
do not understand each other, it does not
follow that every couple should be equally
mis-mated.'

It is not the case in point, not the casein
point,' thundered the Rev. Luke ; ' it is
marriage that is a mistake, not the fact of
being linked to any particular woman. A
married priest brings a curse down on his
house which no prayers nor penances can
remove.'

'Yet St Paul writing to Timothy, says
that '* a bishop should be the husband

of one wife  having his children in subjection
with all gravity. For if a man
know not how to rule his own house,
how shall he take care of the church of
God"'

Mr Lently turned once more to his writing,
and then after a second or two, as though he
thought a pause would make his words more
effective, he said slowly, 

For they are virgins. These follow the
Lamb whithersoever He goeth.'  Rev. xiv. 4.

Matthew bit his nails. He had joined the
Ritualistic phalanx in order, as he had hinted
to Mr Shipwright, to combine ultra faith with
its equivalent in self-will, and this determined
opposition to his wishes he felt by no means
inclined to tolerate. Yet what was to be
done ? It was unreasonable and preposterous
to expect him to give up Claire, while to turn
renegade was equally impossible. No, he
must bring all the obstinacy which contradiction
had awakened within him to bear on the

matter, and follow the promptings of his own
inclination.

You then really consider that marriage,
under the circumstances in which I am
placed, would be sin ? ' he asked more for the
sake of receiving a definite answer from Mr
Lently, than from any intention of being
biassed by the same.

Unquestionably, and one which you will
have to expiate by severe penance.'

I accept the penance,' said Matthew very
quietly ; * it were worth countless penances to
win Claire.'

Boanerges could be restrained no longer,
he rose and began to pace the tiny room excitedly,
waving his hands and arms at times
in violent gesticulation, while he declaimed
at his disciple as though he were practising
for platform oratory.

Is this the result of all my teaching  one
more cross that I am called on to bear  to
see the strong firm earth on which I had

hoped your feet rested crumbling away
beneath the weight of worldliness ? You
who I had hoped were called to be a saint,
if not a martyr, for the good cause, succumbing
so soon to the lust of the flesh. Oh,
Matthew, return while there is yet time to
your first love. *' Behold, thou an't fair, my
love ; behold, thou art fair ; thou hast dover
eyes. Behold, thou art fair, my beloved, and
comely ; our bed is flourishing. The beams of
our house are of cedar, our rafters of cypress
trees!' Ah, is she not fair, fairer than the love
of woman, our dear and holy mother Church,
to whom you gave your first affections, the
virgin aspirations of a young and guileless
heart ? And now, before the bride you had
selected has even received your vows and
granted you all the blessings she alone can
grant, you have fallen from your first determination
to love her alone in all her purity,
her beauty, and her grace, and you would
already share the adoration you had once resolved

to bestow individually on her with a
frail, sinning daughter of Eve. Ah ! if you
only know how I have regretted  regretted
with shuddering and tears, the web I have
woven round my own life, although I am fully
aware that I had not seen the truth in all
its fulness when I took this step. This, this is
my only chance of atonement ; but to plunge
wilfully, knowingly, into the flagrant sin of
disobedience, were an act from which he
who would lead a holy life must turn with
horror, and from which I would pray  pray
fervently, my dear Matthew, that you maybe
spared. Remember, too, every one who
sins extends the image of his sin far beyond
the sphere of his personal presence. An
example of this nature would not fail to produce
such a generation of increasing sin
that he who sets it becomes the ancestor, so
to speak, of a vast multitude of disobedient
and erring souls. Believe me, the truest
way to aid the faith which you profess is

to suffer for that faith : resist then, I conjure
you, without farther hesitation, this temptation
to backsliding  hold firm to your earlier
determination, become, God willing, a faithful
striving priest, and never let the reproach,
hurled at the Church of Ephesus, be hurled
against you, " Behold, I have somewhat against
thee, because thou hast left thy first love '

While this avalanche of words was falling
on him with such swiftness that they were
as one crushing blow, Matthew stood passively
wondering. He was used to Mr
Lently's high flights and somewhat theatrical
tirades ; but he could not bring his mind
to think that the present occasion warranted
the amount of fervour displayed by the overzealous
pastor. When so many clergy were
married, why should he be selected as the
victim to be offered on the shrine of celibacy
; but to ask Mr Lently such a question
in his present mood would, he felt, be
worse than useless, so he contented himself

with saying very quietly for him  Matthew-being,
as we know, a youth of a hasty,
passionate temperament, 

Your words have scarcely convinced me,
but I will take counsel of my own mind,
and let you know the result'

It was evident the Rev. Luke had lost
ground  not gained it. A week ago Matthew
would not have presumed to dispute
his opinion, but would have accepted with
blind obedience any dogma, however authoritative,
he had sought to impose.

Mr Lently was about to commence a
second portion of his wordy discourse, but
Matthew took up his hat.

Please, Mr Lently, no more to-day. I
have received as much as I can digest, and
having been, moreover, wounded to the
quick, I must beg for breathing space to
recover my mental equilibrium.'

This was scarcely a flattering response to
the Rev. Luke's earnest appeal, but he bore

it unflinchingly  perhaps he had enough
good sense left to recognise that sufficient
difficulties had been thrown in Matthew's
path  for he only said very unctuously, 

God be with you, my dear young brother,
and give you light by prayer and fasting
to discover the truth, and, having done all,
to stand.'

And so they parted, Matthew, his soft felt
hat well pulled over his brows, rolled rather
than walked with unsteady gait along the
homeward path, for the interview through
which he had just passed had fevered his brain
and convulsed his reason as though it had
possessed the qualities of a potent and exciting
draught. Suddenly, he stopped and
considered. To go back to Vantage and
be cross-questioned was, he felt, quite impossible
at this moment. Claire's sweet
eyes reading into his soul were equally difficult
to answer. No, solitude was his only
chance of regaining the composure he so

much required, and he turned into a sidewalk
through a wood, and let his feelings
rage at will, while he

Listened to the wind that now did stir
About the cried oaks full drearily ;
Yet with as sweet a softness as might be
Remembered for its velvet summer song.'

And while Matthew dreamt, time passed
on, till growing weary perhaps of his own
unsettled train of thought, he roused himself
with an effort and tried to force himself
back into actual and active life. He
had been stumbling backwards and forwards,
striving to define right and wrong to the
satisfaction of his own conscience, till he
had become as illogical as a woman. It was
useless to pursue the subject farther for the
nonce. He would go home and restore his
jaded frame with food. What an unpoetical
ending to the contemplation of a difficult
love problem ! Nature, however, was stronger
in Matthew Desborough than romance, and
nature demanded alimentary sustenance.

He arrived at home about four o'clock by
a little gate which opened on to the flower
garden from a copse ; perhaps he hoped in
this way to reach the house without meeting
any of his family, if so, he was destined to
be disappointed, for George's cheery voice
called out, 

Hullo, Mat, playing truant again; we were
thinking of having you tambouring, as they
do in France,' and before he could avoid a
meeting Matthew found himself in the midst
of a gay party, consisting of the Duchess of
Monarchs, Mrs Tremayne, Mr Shipwright,
his mother and brother.

Escape was impossible, so there was no
alternative but to conceal as well as he could
his mental agitation, and join in the conversation
which was going on. ' From possessing
usually an excitable manner, he succeeded in
hiding from every one, excepting Mr Sive-wright,
the fact of the general mental overthrow
under which he was labouring ; but the Rev.

Lawrence vas far too acute a physiognomist
not to read as in an open book the thoughts
as they passed flightily through Matthew's
brain, and he had no difficulty in supplying
all the harassing conflicts through which his
mind had passed since their interview in the
morning. Mr Shipwright was sorry for
Matthew,  he regretted that so much mistaken
zeal should be thrown away on bubbles
and, both for his own and his mother's sake,
he would have taken an unusual amount of
trouble to save the young man the painful
ordeal through which he saw his mind was
passing. He must go home, think the matter
carefully out, and then have an interview with
Mrs Desborough,  and for this reason he
declined to remain for dinner, warmly though
he was pressed both by the lady of the
house and her son George ; ' he had important
business,' he said, ' which would
employ his entire evening.'

And so a few minutes after the duchess

and Violet Tremayne had been packed
Into the pony carriage and had started
for MontarHs, Mr Shipwright took his
leave, giving Matthew so friendly a handshake
as to bring the warm colour into his
cheeks, though little perhaps recked he how
much more the Issues of his future life lay in
the hands of Mr Shipwright than in those of
the Rev. Luke Lently, his chosen director.

Mr Shipwright's power lay in the immense
capability he had for weighing the equivalents
of life, an art In which Mr Lently and
Matthew both utterly failed.

Est modus in rebus ; sunt certe denique fines
Ours ultra itaque requit consisted rectum,'

he murmured to himself, quoting his beloved
Horace as he walked towards the vicarage.

This probably was the text of a sermon he
was preparing for Matthew.

To men of Mr Shipwright's school, a text
is not necessarily biblical.

VOL. I. G

ADVICE.

T is quite true  Matthew has
engaged himself to Claire Bailey.
I had hoped he would listen to
reason and have told no one, not even you,'
and Mrs Desborough's laces were very
much agitated as she fidgeted from side
to side, vainly struggling into a comfortable
corner for a talk with the vicar.

Engaged  but not married,' said the
vicar smiling  * there seem to be difficulties.'


Indeed there are  my husband can't
allow him enough to provide for a wife
and family  and though, I am sorry to

say, he must inherit my fortune, still I am
not dead yet Mr Shipwrights and the lady
looked sufficiently instinct with life to be
accepted as only forty by any life insurance
company in the kingdom.

Mr Shipwright bowed and smiled again 
the mother was in a spiteful mood, and Mrs
Desborough's spiteful moods invariably
made the Rev. Lawrence more unctuous
besides, he had thought the matter out
since yesterday, and knew exactly the view
he meant to take of the case  than which
there is no stronger weapon for argument.

You object to Claire for a daughter-in-law
; but not to Matthew marrying anyone
else, I presume ? ' he asked, but more
as though he was stating a fact than asking
a question.

To Claire  yes, of course I object to
Claire. I suppose you know why ? '

Matthew tells me you think them both
too young.'

Pooh, nonsense  that is mere fiction. I
object to Claire, because she Is Lady
Laura's daughter, and It has been guerre a
outrance between Lady Laura and me ever
since we were girls. She always put herself
in some objectionable form between
me and the thing I most wanted even did
her utmost with her usual sly deceit to lure
from me Mr Desborough's affection.'

The vicar's head turned just a little on one
side bent into the least perceptible of nods :
he was not quite prepared to give full
credence to this statement  having always
understood that Mrs Desborough had
cleverly manoeuvred for the squire, who
had been, in the first place, more inclined
to admire Lady Laura. It was not that
Mrs Desborough was purposely prevarication
to the vicar. She had asserted
this fact so frequently both to herself and
to other people that she had ended by
sincerely and firmly believing It. For years,

by a consistent series of snubs and petty
rudeness conferred on the inhabitants
of Swanover Cottage, she had acted up to
her belief, for the circumstance that Mr
Desborough was always very porte, as
she observed ' quite affectionate to those
Bailey's '  had the effect of some irritant
poison on his wife's nature. More particularly
was she annoyed at this juncture, for
though he did not approve of the fact of
Matthew marrying at all, he could not be
coerced Into giving it as his opinion that
a marriage with Claire was especially objectionable.


Thus it may be Inferred that for the
last ten days, in fact ever since Matthew
and Claire had walked together in the
wood, with no other chaperone than Prig,
the general tone at Vantage Park had been
inharmonious and full of jars ; now, however,
that the vicar had undertaken to
accord the various tuneless instruments.

perhaps the home-concert would show a
little symphony.

The sins of the mother being visited
on the daughter, eh ? ' he said with a half
jocular expression ; but If he meant to
joke Mrs Desborough Into a good humour,
he was quite unsuccessful, for the latent
venom of her nature exhibited Itself virulently.


Claire Is a half-educated doll ! ' she
said, * with no cleverness about her, excepta
talent for manoeuvring, which she has
Inherited from her mother.'

Humph ! I have not altogether understood
the situation, It seems. I always
fancied you wished Matthew to marry, and
were therefore simply raising objections in
order to make him more anxious to do so.
You are aware that I consider marriage
to be the only thing that will sever him
from the fanatical set with whom he has
lately become involved

Marriage, yes  with anyone but Claire
Bailey. I would rather see him an Anglican
Monk, much as I despise the body, than
married to her.'

'Just so ; then Mr Lently had better take
the case in hand. Poor Matthew  if I am
not mistaken Lently has already been
sowing the seeds of much tribulation in his
mind.'

And you, Mr Shipwright, one of my
greatest friends, you actually mean that you
are inclined to promote this marriage of
Matthew into the family of my bitterest  '
she broke off with a little gulp, and catching
up her words, went on in a higher key, ' Oh,
it is too unkind, too dispiriting, to find that
everybody is against me.'

My dear Mrs Desborough, what can it
matter to me whom Matthew marries, except
as far as my personal interest in you is concerned
; all I say is, marriage is the only
chance of his ever seeing life from a realistic

point of view, and giving up all the ideal
nonsense with which his head has of late
been crammed. However, as you seem
so strongly to object to this alliance, there
is only one alternative -send him away.
Matthew is impressionable, and by this
means you may  I don't say you will  succeed
in forcing his ideas into another channel,
and making him break fresh ground, over
which neither Lently's teaching nor Claire
Bailey's dainty feet have ever passed.'

You were born a diplomat ! ' exclaimed
Mrs Desborough, from whose face all the
malice had suddenly cleared. ' Unfold your
plan  I am all attention,' and she smoothed
the laces, and turned down any points which
seemed to bristle.

The whole thing will require very judicious
management, my dear friend,' and the
Rev. Lawrence looked important and grand.
Matthew's is no ordinary character. I
have studied it in every detail since he was

quite a lad. He must be induced, not forced
he fancies he wants a reason for everything,
though inter nos he is too illogical to
be able clearly to sift error from truth 
hence the self-abnegation with which he
has listened to Lently  till yesterday, when
self-will asserted itself in opposition to the
dogmas of his party ; and the strife has
filled his mind with rebellion.'

How do you know all this ? Did he tell
you ? '

'Had he sufficient confidence in me to
make me his confessor, diplomacy would be
unnecessary  no, I have but observed external
signs ; but I feel quite certain I have
judged aright.'

Shall we send him off abroad at once ? '

There is no motive,' answered Mr Sive-wright,
' he would regard it as simply done
to alienate him from Claire, and o\Adi poser
for a martyr during his entire absence, and
come back more determined than ever to

have his own way, whatever that way maybe
; for, mark me, I don't believe at this
moment he has quite made up his mind what
it is that he does want

Well, then, you suggest  *

That contradiction should be carefully and
steadily avoided  that he should be allowed
to follow the unblessed dictates of his own
feelings

But, my dear Mr Shipwright, where will
they lead him ? '

Into a direct path, I hope, if we guide his
steps without his knowing it. To enable him
to fulfil his destinies in life as a younger son,
and to marry Miss Bailey with any honour to
himself, it is necessary that he should continue
his studies ; that long illness of his has
been a sad drawback, happening as it did at
the beginning of a young man's educational
career. All this should be represented to
him clearly and forcibly, and the modus
operandi practically set forth.'

Just so  there is the difficulty  where can
we send him ? He can't go back to Oxford,
that you know ; he has failed so persistently
in his examinations. Oh ! Matthew is a
terrible thorn  if he were only more like
George

I doubt if George would be more successful
if he were in Matthew's place  he is an
elder son, and is not expected to work ; but
to return to the case in point. I suggest
that for a time Matthew should pursue a
course of private study under efficient training
 not in ecclesiastical matters, but in
classical lore, with a man who will not
attempt in any way to interfere with his
religious opinions.'

What a difficult plan  such a man will be
quite impossible to find  people are so fond
of airing the quirks and ideas they call
religion.'

Just so  still there is an old college friend
of mine, who, if he could be induced to

charge himself with Matthew for a time,
would, I think, prove a valuable mentor.
You have seen him, I believe ; he was staying
with me a few months since.'

Mr Wharton ! why, he is a free-thinker.
Oh ! Mr Shipwright, we must be careful what
we do.'

Wharton is no more of a free-thinker
than I am ; he believes in the broad doctrines
of Christianity as they are revealed to
a clear, capable mind, unclogged by dogma
and superstition. He is not a Lently, if
that be what you mean ; but I fancied we
had agreed to give Matthew free agency of
thought, and let him find out for himself
what he does and does not believe. I am
sure he does not know at this moment'

Where does Mr Wharton live ? ' asked
Mrs Desborough meekly  she was always
more or less awed when the Rev. Lawrence
grew positive.

He lives in London.'

She gave a little start  he perceived it,
and went on, 

Of course I do not dictate that this step
should be taken  I only advise. According
to my view of the case, there is no more
desirable place than London to which we
could send Matthew. He will there mix
with a set of people as yet quite unknown to
him  people who have had their ideas enlarged,
their thoughts matured by friction.
He will hear opinions asserted, doctrines
circulated, which have found no place in
his hitherto prescribed orbit. He will pass
so rapidly from fresh scene to fresh scene
that it will be strange if, in a short time,
he has not forgotten to tighten the knot
which now binds him to Swanover Cottage
and Ravensholme Vicarage ; in a word, it
seems to me that the chance is so in favour
of his becoming a free man under these circumstances,
that the experiment is worth the
trial  of course, it remains with you and Mr

Desborough to take the subject into earnest

and affectionate consideration.'

To send a young man to London is a

bold step said Mrs Desborough ; * there are

so many temptations.'

Certainly there are  but under Wharton's

guidance, and with the many friends you

have, and who will, of course, be civil to

Matthew, I have no apprehension of evil 
unless a general enlargement of ideas, an
expansion of brain capabilities, be considered
an evil  which I deny.'

Of course  of course  ah ! if the scheme
you propose be certain to make Matthew less
of a visionary, and give him the power of
thinking boldly and seriously  how gladly
would I urge Mr Desborough to adopt it 
only, even then, I have scruples. Do you
think, my dear Mr Shipwright, that, our
object attained, we shall see Matthew a
happier man ? Have we any right to wrest

from him the perfect faith he has now  and
to give him  what ? '

Truth ! ' answered the vicar promptly.
You are mistaken in imagining that Matthew
has perfect faith ; his mind oscillates
from one chimera to another, till it is choked
with fanaticism  there is no opportunity for
honest growth. Let him see, hear, argue,
feel for himself ; and then, if he prefer Lently
and his school to the wider range of views
which have been offered, let him rest peacefully
in his perfect faith. We shall have
done our duty, which we certainly shall not
be doing if we allow Matthew to grope blindfolded
along luminous pathways, without attempting
to remove the bandage.'

Mrs Desborough did not look altogether
satisfied  she was evidently a little bit afraid
of the step recommended by the vicar.
Expanded, though her views had become,
principally from his teaching, still she could
not thoroughly divest herself of the fear all

women have of taking the Initiative in a bold
venture ; besides, there were times when
Mrs Desborough herself was under the
influence of Mr Lently's fervid preaching,
and perhaps  had she not been personally
attracted to Mr Shipwright  it is not wholly
improbable that she would have joined the
phalanx who had elected Lently to be their
Pope.

In women's religion, unfortunately, there
is generally mixed a strong amount of hero-worship
 and Mrs Desborough was no exception.
Many a daring thought or axiom
she accepted as uncontrovertible, because it
was believed by her dear friend and ally, the
Rev. Lawrence Shipwright. As it had been
on previous occasions, so it was likely to
prove now. Mr Shipwright had thought fit
to interfere in the direction of the home
affairs at Vantage Park, and he was to obtain
what, by the way, he never doubted  his
own way.

No more stern denunciator of priest-craft
than the Rev. Lawrence ; vet no one more
ready to make use of the power he managed
to hold through his office  call him moral
teacher, or any other latitudinarian name he
might elect.

While Mrs Desborough thought, he walked
silently up and down the room ; after he had
taken several turns, he stopped in front of
her.

I am rejoiced, my dear friend, to note
that you are thinking the matter out in all
its bearings before giving a definite opinion.
Nothing is so pleasing to a man of my nerve
as the exercise of free unblessed thought ;
if you differ from me  as you may  what
matter ? our bond of unity will only be
strengthened by argument  nothing so
nauseating as perpetual agreement between
friends.'

But I am afraid we shall not have the
pleasure of a quarrel this morning. I am

VOL. I. H

beginning to think you are right  as you invariably
are  this is the best, in fact the only
plan that will save Matthew.' Mrs Des-borough
held out her hand to the vicar, who
pressed it warmly.

So the issue of Matthew's life having been
weighed in the scales of Mrs Desborough
and Mr Shipwright's philosophy, it was decided
that  the squire's assent, of which they
did not doubt, having been obtained  the
plan of action they had decided to adopt
should be put into force at once, and the
lever applied to the machinery which was to
have the twofold power of wresting Matthew
from his director and his lady-love.

A FRESH EXPERIENCE.

Arret day at Hurton, invariably
a busy time in the usually dull
old country town, with its grey
Bath-stone houses and half-awakened inhabitants
! By some established custom,
however, everybody goes to Hurton on
market day, not only the portion of the
community directly responsible for providing
the necessary commodities of life, but
county people ; the gentlemen under the
pretext of being really interested in the
prices of animal and vegetable products,
the ladies to shop or flirt.

On a particular Thursday, however, towards

the middle of October, at about eleven
o'clock In the day, only bo7id fide buyers and
sellers are to be seen, discussing samples of
corn, the weight and size of pigs and sheep,
the excellence of cheeses and the like. As
by magic, nearly all the Idlers have disappeared,
and It Is In vain that the most
eloquent of Cheap Jacks discourses extravagantly
on his wares. He can command
but so small a knot of listeners, that he
packs up his boxes of bargains for another
occasion, and gets Into the gay yellow gig,
wheels picked out red, which, with the
boxes shining underneath, serves In the
double capacity of advertisement and cart.
Behind this tiny conveyance, which Is only
wide enough to hold one person, stands
the smallest of tigers In the most theatrical
of liveries, his occupation being that of
horn blower. A cracked Instrument, emitting
sounds between a trumpet and a penny
whistle, being used to announce the arrival

of his master s well-known equipage whenever
they drive into any of the towns of
which they make the circuit on market
days. Cheap Jack and his miniature domestic
are, however, on this occasion, benton
following in the wake of the rest of
Hurton, for they have no sooner got outside
the town than they turn from the main
road into a narrow lane already thronged
with people of every age and grade.

A balloon is going up from Farmer
Nesbitt's ten-acre piece, and all the population
of Hurton has flocked to see it. In
the centre of the field lies the huge Leviathan
of the sky, which, in the course of
time, is to be propelled into mid-air, and
the gaping open-mouthed crowd looks on
and wonders from a little distance, the
space enclosed in proximity to the object
of their curious speculation being roped off
for the reception of those individuals whom
our friend, the Cheap Jack, In his Inflated

language invariably designates as ' castled
swells

Foremost among this party  now handling
the ropes now asking pertinaciously
leading questions of Mr Garden,
the owner of the balloon  is George Des-borough.
Without being very clever or
very well read, George has a good deal of
general knowledge, picked up chiefly by
viva voce inquiry, which he maintains is less
strain on the mental faculties and more
amusing than book learning, while it is
the most practical mode of attaining information,
because usually accompanied by
ocular demonstration. To judge from the
thoroughly interested expression of his face,
he is putting his pet theory into practice
at this moment ; for so absorbed is he in
Mr Garsden's explanations that he utterly
fails to perceive that another person is
listening with as much interest as himself
to the marvellous tales Mr Garsden is

relating of the action of machinery and the
power of gas. It is not till a voice says close
to him, ' I will go up in that balloon. I am
resolved. Will you take me, Mr Garsden, for
five pounds ? I'll risk my neck with pleasure,
that George Desborough looks round and lifts
his hat with a smile to Mrs Tremayne.

Brave  I know you are,' he observes
gallantly. ' But, of course, you do not
mean in sober earnest that you will go
up in that thing ? '

I never say what I don't mean,' answered
Violet laughing, ' a fact which you
will discover when you know me better.
I am going up in that balloon ; there would
be no fun if there were no danger.'

But the duchess ! ' and George looked
round.

The duchess is not here, the duke would
not let her come, he thought it infra dig.
or some nonsense ; but no one has any
right to control me, thank goodness.'

Is it such a happy thing to stand all
alone in the world ? ' asked George. ' I
always thought women liked to have someone
to lean against.'

Lean against ! For one sturdy oak
there are a hundred thousand osier twigs
to be found. Most of my male acquaintances
belong to the last-named species, so
I am learning to pick my own steps without
support ; and by way of proving
my strength I am going up in that
balloon.'

If a body will to Cupar, maun to Cupar,'
said George, laughingly quoting the old
Scotch proverb. ' Still I know no reason
why the body maun to Cupar alone. I am
quite prepared to go too.'

You  in that balloon ? What would
your mother say ? '

George grew instantly serious. No man,
however he may love his maternal parent,
likes to be twitted about the affection.

My mother is no coward,' he answered ;
'and Is fond of new experiences. If she
were here I doubt If we should prevent her
from accompanying us

That acknowledgment on your part is
chaperonage enough for anybody. So arrange
with Mr Garsden, and let us rise
towards heaven as soon as possible. I
doubt if we shall either of us ever have
another chance.'

George, taken at his word, complied, and
while he was making preliminary arrangements
with Mr Garsden, Mistress Violet
looked round at the assembled spectators,
and rejoiced at the expression of wonder
she saw depicted on several faces when It
became known that the lady from Monarchs
Castle was actually going to trust her life
In that ungainly machine. There was,
however, no mistake about the matter ; the
ducal carriage was waiting for her, and they
heard the order given to the ducal servants.

Go back to Monarchs without me, and
tell her grace I shall probably arrive in the
balloon. You can put me down on the
lawn, can't you, Mr Garsden ? '

The aeronaut shook his head.

That I cannot promise. The route we
take must depend entirely on the wind ;
but I will do my best,'

All right. I daresay the wind will take
us where we want to go, at least we'll
hope so. Tell her grace, James, that I
shall come in the balloon. There is no
other message.'

James touched his hat and smiled. He
was evidently more sceptical than Mrs Tree
about the possibility of controlling
at will the capricious upper airs,

Before the carnage really goes, are you
sure you have quite made up your mind
that  ' said George, beginning another appeal
; but it was interrupted by a laughing
declaration from the lady that she believed

he was turning frightened, and if that
were the case, she begged he would not
risk his precious Hfe on her account  she
could very well go by herself.'

What could George do but assure Mr
Garsden that they were quite ready when
he was prepared to start. They got into
the car amid the plaudits of the assembled
crowd, which was quite enthusiastic over
this exhibition of pluck on the part of the
pretty, dainty Violet Tremayne, and loud
above them all was heard Cheap Jack's
voice, expressing in his vernacular that if
ever he had a wife, might he find just such
another as that 'were lady.' In fact, to a
woman less accustomed to mix in the varied
scenes of life, one who had been more carefully
secluded, the present demonstration
would have been most repellant, and George
Desborough looked at Mrs Tremayne wonderingly,
as though he expected she would
jump out of the car, grow hysterical, or

show in some way her dissatisfaction at
being made the centre of attraction to the
populace, a position to which ladies of the
grand nonce, as a rule, particularly object.
Violet Tremayne, on the contrary, seemed
quite in her element, said it was a most
delightful piece of excitement, that her pulse
had not beaten so fast this many a day, and
was evidently thoroughly enjoying herself.

At last the ropes are loosed, and the huge
balloon with its precious freight rises with
startling rapidity from the ground, and starts
up into space. George, if he had told the
truth, must have acknowledged that his sensations
on finding himself wafted above the
strong firm earth,* whereon his feet were
accustomed to tread, were not of the most
pleasurable. He was far from being a
coward ; had faced danger manfully in many
a form ; but this frolic he regarded as foolhardy
and rash in the extreme. Men, asa
rule, only enjoy a daring exploit about

which they have, or think they have, some
knowledge, and on which they can exercise
their power of will or muscular strength.
Women, on the contrary, are fearless, and
consequently most happy when encountering
a danger of which they neither see nor
understand the extent. A sense of his own
total incapacity was painfully present in
George's mind as they pursued their skyward
journey, and this, combined as it was
with a sickening feeling produced by the
rapid and unaccustomed ascent, rendered
the air voyage by no means Olympian in
its impressions.

It was with some difficulty that he managed
to answer with any heartiness Violet's spasmodic
bursts of joy  disjointed as they were
from the fact that she was perpetually rendered
almost breathless by the rapid currents
of air which every now and then swept past
them. Having risen a considerable distance
above the earth's surface  so far indeed that

familiar objects, such as barns and churches,
seemed Hke mere specks, they came to a
sudden stop, and began to sail before the
wind ; but on Mr Garsden's throwing out
some sand-bags  to Violet's intense delight
they swiftly rose again.

If it were only not quite so cold it
would be perfect,' she said. ' I am so glad
we came  are not you ? *

I shall be glad we came  when we are
safe at home,' he answered. * You know I
undertook the expedition solely to please you.

How charming to think you are so
anxious to give me pleasure, Mr Des-borough,'
said Violet, as ingenuously as if
she had been only sixteen, and she dropped
her long lashes, for she had been looking
at him very brightly. * I hope no evil will
come of it,' she went on in a very sober
voice ; ' of course I mean for your sake 
no one troubles about me.'

Oh, Mrs Tremayne, how can you talk

so. Though osier twigs may bend, they are
very difficult to break, and you have at
least one osier twig at your service.'

Ah ! ' and she gave a little sigh.

The rarefied atmosphere up on high was
not conducive to sentiment, and moreover
Violet was bitterly cold ; still it occurred to
her that it were perhaps worth while to
make, if possible, a captive of George.
So she resisted the impulse to give way
to an immoderate fit of laughter, and sat
looking very still and just a little perplexed.

I hope you are not frightened ? ' asked
George, after watching her in this new
mood for a few minutes.

Frightened at being in this balloon .<* Oh
no ! I'm not at all afraid at that,' and her
voice sank almost into a whisper.

At what then ? '

Well, a little at you.'

At me ! Good gracious ! Why, I came
on purpose to protect you.*

Yes, it was very good of you, but I
am afraid foolish on my part. There will
be such a talk, and Julia and the duke
will be so angry ; however, it can't be
helped now. Don't look so woe-begone,
Mr Desborough,' for George was really
annoyed by this sudden light she had seen
fit to throw on the manner of their upward
flight.

Good intentions,' he murmured to himself,
* the devil always mixes himself up
with them. I wish to goodness I had
never come to this cursed balloon ascent'

She did not hear his muttering, or she
would scarcely have been flattered. His regrets
were destined, however, to be tripled
before the adventure came to an end.
Even Violet was beginning to have had
enough of the exploit, for wrapping her
thin cachemire jacket more closely round
her, she said, shivering, 

Don't you think, Mr Garsden, we might

begin to think about arriving on the lawn
at MontarHs?' Just before she spoke two
more sand-bags had been ejected from the
car, and the balloon had risen with a sudden
and rapid flight, which delighted the aeronaut,
but rendered his companions well-nigh
breathless.

Go down already ? ' asked Mr Garsden
in a surprised tone ; ' the air is not nearly
thin enough to necessitate a descent

But I am very cold,' said Violet, ' and
have fully realised what it is to sit on a
damp cloud. If that is the chronic condition
of angels, I'll none of them.'

She was feebly attempting to feign a
degree of jollity she by no means felt, for
pluck was oozing out at every pore ; what
little she still attempted to retain being
merely struggled for, to counterpoise, if possible,
George Desborough's expression of
utter annoyance and dejection.

Do you really wish to go back to earth ? '

VOL. I. I

he asked her ; ' because if you do I am sure
Mr Garsden will at once direct his balloon
into a downward route

Yes, yes. We have done enough to say
we have been, and that is as much as one
ever wants of a thing. Besides, it is no
use to be late for dinner.'

Late for dinner ! ' Violet Tremayne had
yet to learn that air is not so amenable to
the power of man as steam and electricity.

Upon George's interference, however, Mr
Garsden opened a valve and allowed a portion
of the gas which inflated the balloon
to escape. Slowly they descended, but, as
it appeared to Violet, much more slantingly
than they had risen. In answer to her
observation on this subject, she was told
by Mr Garsden that the wind had got up,
but it would be all right, only they must not
attempt to come down too fast. So they
pottered along for a while, floating before
the wind, as it seemed, on a level range.

I wonder what the time is ? ' said Violet,
feeling half inclined to cry, and giving a
violent tug at her watch. It had stopped
at two o'clock, George's some three-quarters
later.

There will evidently be no watches in
heaven,' prattled Violet, trying a joke ;
but George did not laugh, and there was
a long silence, during which they described
an incalculable journey through space.

Don't you think it is getting very late ? '
again asked Violet after a while.

I fancy so, but I have no idea of the
hour ; we seem to be so far above the sun
that one loses all the signs which form a sort
of natural dial,' answered George gravely.

'Well, you are not very encouraging, Mr
Desborough, I must say. Can't you look
jolly, even if you don't feel so.'

And you ? ' he asked with a smile.

 Oh, I am only cold. Mr Garsden, are
you ever going to take me home ? '

I hope so, madam ; but I am afraid it
will not be to-night.'

Not to-night ! ' and Violet gave a shriek.
You don't mean to say I am to sleep in
this thing, and have no food ! I am starving
already, and what will everybody say ? '

I hope we shall have reached comfortable
quarters before night,' answered the
aeronaut, ' though I am afraid they will not
be at Montarlls Castle.'

What on earth do you mean ? Mr Des-borough;
I must go home.' But George did
not answer  he seemed bereft of utterance.

Can't you speak ? Tell me  where are
we  why shan't I be at Monarchs Castle ?
Is there any danger ? '

We are crossing the German Ocean,'
was George's terse reply.

Good God ! ' and Violet looked so wild
that he seized her by both hands, fearful
lest in her dismay she should throw herself
out of the car.

'It is all right  there is no cause for

alarm  we shall be in Holland before dark,'

said Mr Garsden ; ' it is a very good wind,

and there is a lovely open space where we

II
can descend not far from the Hague.'

'Holland  the Hague  is it all some
horrible dream ? ' and Violet began to laugh
hysterically. ' Why did you bring me, Mr
Desborough? It is all your fault ; men
always want women to do foolish things.'

Poor George, it was rather hard on him
to be thus falsely accused ; but he did not
attempt to vindicate himself, only sought
to soothe and tranquillise her. He had
promised to see her through this adventure,
he said, and cost what it might he would
keep his word  at least there should be no
scandal. But Violet's nerves having once
given way could not be controlled, and for
the rest of the dreadful journey she whimpered,
sobbed, and asked puerile questions
by turns ; perhaps George liked her better

thus than in her usual dashing, mirthful
mood ; at all events he was very tender
and gentle in his treatment of her. And
so minutes grew into hours, and a murky
darkness seemed to be stealing all around.

I am really frightened now,' whispered
Violet, almost clinging on to George. He
encouraged her by a hand pressure and a
few almost loving words. The balloon was
descending rapidly  the sea was crossed 
the danger was nearly passed, if only there
was sufficient light to discern the open space
to which Mr Garsden alluded. For half-an-hour
the suspense endured by the two
unpractised aeronauts seemed like the years
of a long protracted agony. At last it was
over  they were safe on terra firma, and
there was just enough light left in the sky
to see Violet's white face as she lay in a
dead faint in George's arms.

Alone  they two  in the open country somewhere
between the Hague and Rotterdam.

WHERE AM I ? '

HERE am I ? This is not monarchs.'
And Violet Tremayne
looked round wildly when she
found herself in a strange room  an honest-looking
Dutch woman leaning over her with
as much apprehension on her countenance as
though she feared her patient were already
dead. But the stamen of life was very strong
in Mrs Tremayne, stronger than her slight
frame denoted, and having pronounced these
words as one waking from a long dream, she
sprang from a bed on which she had found
herself lying, and stood on the floor confronting
her attendant. It was dark, that is to

say, the first streaks of early morning were
just peeping into the dImly-halted room,
when Violet awoke from the long heavy sleep,
which, under the combined influences of strong
air and fright, had begun with an unconsciousness
which had alarmed both her male
companions. She ran her fingers through
her crispy curling hair and pondered. The
situation was an anomalous one.

Ah ! she remembered it all now, and
George Desborough  the hero of this mad
adventure  where was he ?

She asked the question sharply of the
woman who stood looking at her with
a sort of stupefied air ; but no knowledge
of English had penetrated into the
good Dutch woman's mind, and when,
by slow degrees, she had sufficiently recovered
from the surprise Violet's sudden
resurrection had occasioned, she trotted out
of the room. In a few minutes she came
back accompanied by a tall thin scraggy

female in very light attire, with an old shawl
thrown round her shoulders, and her hair
scrambled up into a knot at the top of her
head. It was obvious she had just got upon
being summoned by the attendant, who
had been desired to tell her when Violet
should awake.

Mrs Tremayne had pulled back the curtains
and was looking out of the window ;
it was just sufficiently light for her to see
that she was in a somewhat lonely abode
probably a farm-house, a very flat unpicturesque
- looking country being round
her, interspersed with numberless small
canals ; but Violet was in no humour to
be impressed by either the beauty or the
ugliness of her surroundings  she was
thoroughly vexed at the position into which
her love of frolic had plunged her. She
turned sharply round and asked the newcomer
tartly, 

Can no one speak English or French '. '

I can your language a little,' answered
Madame Hooght, the proprietress of the
house in which Violet found herself.

That is all right ; then give me something
to eat, for I am starving, and tell Mr Des-borough
to make haste and let us start at
once

Your husband, madame, sleeps ! ' answered
the woman shortly.

Yes  in the churchyard at Haeres ! '
muttered Violet to herself; but she did not
attempt to rectify the statement, only turned
with avidity to some hot milk and farm-house
bread which her attendant of the night had
just brought into her room. Annoyed as
she was at the turn affairs had taken, yet
body as usual asserted its dominion over
mind, and she hailed the food with a welcome,
and ate with as much relish as if the fact of
her impromptu visit to Holland left nothing
to be desired in its circumstances. Having
finished her repast, she plunged her head into

a basin of fresh cold water, and then began
to twist into becoming positions her somewhat
rebellious locks  to the no small
surprise of Madame Hooght, who had never
before received into her frugal homestead a
visitor of Violet's type. During these operations
Violet rattled on, receiving, however,
but very doubtful answers to her remarks,
the fact being that Madame Hooght's knowledge
of English was too limited for her to
understand the half that was said. Having
brushed, with the assistance of Madame
Hooght, her pretty fawn-coloured autumn
dress, and arranged the red bows as only
such deft fingers as she possessed could have
freshened what, at first sight, seemed disordered
tangle, Violet began to wonder when
George would be forthcoming, and what was
the wisest step to take under the difficult circumstances
in which she had placed herself.
A little tap at the door, and the hard-featured
Dutch servant entered with a tiny note.

Breakfast is served in a lower room.
Was Mrs Tremayne rested ? Would she
come down ? '

Violet assented at once ; an interview with
her cavaliers seivente was exactly what she
wanted, and in a few minutes she tripped
into the homely farm-house parlour with as
much self-possession as though it had been
the great breakfast-room at Monarchs Castle.

Good morning, Mr Desborough. I hope
you slept well ? ' and she held out her hand
carelessly.

George, however, by no means reflected
the lady's buoyancy of greeting.

He held her hand in his for a minute,
and then said very gravely, 

I am so sorry  for you.'

Violet took the cue in a moment ; her
eyes dropped.

Ah yes ; but it is my own fault ; I must
suffer for selfishness, you know. Come and
have your breakfast, dear Mr Desborough ;

do not make yourself unhappy on my
account. What has become of Garsden ?
I thought I should have found him here.'

He Is looking after his balloon.'

Horrible Invention ballooning. I wish
I had never been curious about It,' said
Violet with a little shiver.

'Yes, Indeed,' and George looked dismally
Into an egg he had just cracked. ' I
am glad you did not catch cold. I was
afraid you would be quite 111 to-day.'

Oh, I am pretty well, thank goodness ;
but don't you think we had better be getting
home ? ' and Violet gave him a cup of coffee.

Yes, I suppose so ; though It Is very
pleasant here.'

It might be pleasant enough,' she answered,
' If It were not for a horribly evll-
tongued world, which Is sure to Interfere
with every happiness that Is not quite conventional.
I quite dread to arrive at monarchs.
What will the duke say ? '

You have a home of your own, have
you not ? ' observed George. * Why not go
there ? '

Oh yes, In London. But won't that
look exactly as if  Mr Desborough, I
will be guided entirely by you  you shall
advise. If I had listened to your advice in
the beginning, I should not have been in
this scrape now  get me out of it,' and she
pushed all the cups and plates on one side,
and doubling her two arms on the table, she
leaned on them and looked into his face.

There is a boat leaves Rotterdam for
Harwich at two o'clock this afternoon. We
shall reach London about six o'clock tomorrow
morning.'

Another night away ! ' and Violet hid her
face in her folded arms.

Shall I go over to England by myself,
and send some friend or your maid to fetch
you } ' suggested George.

No,' she said, springing up suddenly.

We have begun the adventure together 
let us finish it. I don't care much what the
world says ; there is such a thing as living
down an outcry, I suppose ? '

'Mrs Tremayne  Violet  we have met
so seldom that I am afraid you will think
me presuming, but this little adventure has
thrown us together, has it not ? Will you
be my wife ? '

Oh, Mr Desborough ! it is too bad to
ask me such a question now. If I say
** No," it will make it very awkward for us
to travel home together, and if I say '' Yes,"
I am afraid it will make it rather worse,'
and she laughed, more perhaps from excitement
than because she saw any fun in
the position of affairs.

I do not understand,' answered George
soberly ; ' as my wife, no one will dare make
any remark about this unfortunate little occurrence,
and you will at least be free from
the tongue of scandal'

If that Is your only reason  merely to
shield me from censure  I cannot Indeed
accept the sacrifice,' and Violet made him
a little curtsey.

My only reason ! how can you suspect
me of such a thing ? Have you not learnt
that I love you, sweet Violet ? In truth I
have done my best to make you understand.'

Ah ! ' she said, * Is this so ? ' and she
looked down with the pensive expression
to which she had treated him more than
once ; * It Is a pity, for what are we to do ? '

Tell me first that you reciprocate the
feeling just a little, and then I will tell you
what we shall do.'

'Well, I don't hate you,' she said laughing,
and holding out her hand to him. It
was quite Impossible for Violet to be sentimental
for more than two consecutive
minutes.

And you accept me as a lawful protector
? '

Well, faire de mieux  yes.'

You won't back out when you get to
England and are amongst your friends ? '
he asked wistfully, for he was really very
much smitten with Violet, and yet did not
quite understand her wilful ways and merry
badinage.

Good gracious! no. Why should I ? You
are better than most of the osier twigs  in
fact, I am not sure you are one at all.
Under my training you might even turn out
an elm or an oak ; but I'll only consent to
this little arrangement between us on one
condition.'

Name it. Whatever it is  I accede.'

Dear me, how accommodating you are
now. After a year of marriage won't the tables
be turned. Remember I am a widow, Mr
Desborough. I know all the weak places.'

Never mind, as long as past experience
does not prevent you from trying the experiment
again. What are the terms ? '

VOL. I. K

That until this day six months no one
is to know one word about the conversation
that has passed between us to-day.'

And wherefore ? '

To save my reputation of course. As
long as the world thinks we are mere ordinary
acquaintances, no one will trouble to
talk about us ; the moment they think weare
lovers there will be a fine tale. Don't
you see ? '

Well, not exactly,' answered George ;
surely as my wife you would be safe from
all slander ? '

Yes  then, but not now. I tell you no
one must know of this rapid engagement 
not even dear Julia or your mother. It must
grow  believe me it must grow. Caesar's wife
must not be suspected, they say, and I'm
afraid if we are not very careful Caesar's
france will come in for a very large share
of suspicion.'

Are  are we not to meet and see each

other ? This is a very severe verdict,
Violet.'

Of course we are, at the houses of
mutual friends, and the tiny acquaintance
sprung up in a balloon will ripen slowly
into a life-long love with which no divorce
court shall ever interfere. Oh ! it will
be so ridiculously respectable, whereas if
we were to go back now and proclaim
ourselves engaged  heaven, or the other
place, only knows what people would say.'

And in six months you really promise to
marry me ? '

Soon after six months. Yes. I suppose
so. You have won me by a cotp de main ;
and now, my lord, perhaps you will have
the goodness to woo me.'

That will be no unpleasing task,' said
George, kissing her hand.

Oh ! not now, we must arrive in England
first, and then you shall begin quite en rgle.
The boat does not go till two o'clock.

you say ; let us have a look at Rotterdam,
and see if we will choose Holland for our
honeymoon.'

In another half-hour they bade adieu to
Madame Hooght, who was still impressed
with the idea that they were man and wife,
and after a little conversation with Mr Garsden,
who was arranging his balloon preparatory
to starting off in it with the hope
of reaching England, Mrs Tremayne and
George Desborough set off for Rotterdam.
They arrived in the Hoogstras about eleven
o'clock, having blundered slowly along the
four miles which lay between them and the
town in a heavy ungainly conveyance belonging
to the proprietress of the farmhouse.


Let us see it all as we are here, and
leave fretting over circumstances till our
escapade has found us out,' suggested Violet.

So they sauntered along the Boobies,
Violet for the most part keeping up the

conversational ball, not exactly because she
felt thoroughly happy and at her ease, but
because she was anything but charmed at
the position In which she had placed herself,
and because, above everything, she did not
want George to make love to her. She
liked him quite well enough to marry him 
as an eldest son  but she felt she could
not have love-making added to the excitement
under which she was labouring at this
time. If any of his own home circle had
seen George following Mrs Tremayne about
Rotterdam with the sort of faithful servility
usually seen in a dog, they would scarcely
have believed their senses. Only a very
few weeks ago he had smiled derisively at
Matthew's love-lorn condition  could it be
possible that he himself was standing at the
very gate of a fool's paradise, and was going
to allow himself to be led about its bewildering
mazes by a woman ? No one who had
known George till this moment would credit

it ; the rarefied air up in the altitudes must
have affected his whole temperament.

And so they wandered about over the balance
bridges, up and down the queer canal-intersected
town, looked at Erasmus' statue in
the Groove Market ; went into the churches,
wondered, speculated, chatted about everything
they saw, till at last they found themselves
on the quay which stretches into the
Maas, and alongside of which was lying the
steamer which was to bear them to England.

Of the reception they would meet with
on their arrival, perhaps both of them felt a
little doubtful:  though neither liked to own
it to the other.

ANTE-MATRIMONIAL.

gHE rage for imitating in the needlework
of to-day the embroidery
of the middle ages, has penetrated
even into the remote northern counties, and
Lady Laura Bailey is sitting working at a
frame by the pretty oriel window which
has been thrown out to enlarge the sunny
morning-room at Swanover Cottage. Art
colours, designs from nature lie scattered
about  she has studied the whole subject in
all its details, patronised and pleaded for
every school of work in the kingdom, till
some of her friends have been more than a
little bored by her pertinacity.

Can it be that her zeal has cooled from
the very ardour with which it was at first
ignited, for she sits now very thoughtful,
one hand leaning idly on the frame, the
other toying with a lapful of silk and rebels.
Lady Laura, however, is not studying any
inartistic flaw which she thinks she has
discovered in the design ; it is evident that
she is dreaming, and no very pleasant dream
either, to judge from the pre-occupied expression
on her usually sweet, calm face.

Claire  the future of her darling Claire
is the picture she is trying to sketch in
her mind at that moment, but she cannot
succeed, bright as are the hues in which
she begins her painting. Like a dissolving
view they pass before she can even retain
the fair scene in her memory, and a grey
tinted misty foreground enshrouds her sunlit
horizon. Matthew has paid almost daily
visits to Swanover Cottage ever since that
walk he and Claire took through the wood

with no chaperone but Prig. He has never
breathed a word of his own mental difficulties,
or of his mother's objections ; but
Lady Laura is intuitively sensible that allis
not well. She has known Mrs Des-borough
too long, they have passed together
over too many rough bits in life's
journey, for her not to be able thoroughly
to read the case as it at present stands.
Her pride revolts at the idea of Claire
marrying a man whose family does not
receive her voluntarily ; but yet, for Claire,
she dreads any contradiction which may
bring about a rupture with Matthew. She
has already noticed that for the last few
days all has not been well with her little
girl ; that her bright smiles have vanished,
her joyous song notes become hushed.
She, too, has begun to read the signs, and
has not failed to observe that a cloud hangs
between her and her lover which she seems
powerless to dispel. During the rambles

which they occasionally take in the once
enchanted wood, he wanders on silently by
Claire's side, as it were brooding over some
private wrong ; yet no loving questioning on
her part can elicit a satisfactory reply as
to what ails him.

Not surprising then that the mother,
feeling rather than knowing of the existence
of trouble in her daughter's mind, should
let her fingers forget their cunning as her
thoughts wander into her child's misty future.

While she sits pondering there, a footstep
is heard on the soft gravel in front
of the cottage. She gathers up the errant
rebels, as though anxious to avoid the
fact of being caught dreaming. It is only
just in time ; another second, and the Rev.
Lawrence Shipwright is standing by the
window. Yet Lady Laura is not one of his
fold. Ravensholme is her parish church,
and she attends the Ravensholme services
regularly. She scarcely perhaps follows the

Rev. Luke Lently to the extreme outside
boundary of his belief ; but still she receives
more comfort from his teaching  it seems
something more staple for her womanly
clinging nature to rest on than that of Mr
Shipwright.

The Vicar of Fernwood-cum-Grasdale is,
however, no unwelcome visitor at Swanover
Cottage. Lady Laura fully appreciates him
as a good companion, though she cannot
divest herself of a sense of worldliness,
which invariably creeps over her for a while
after she has been indulging in a pleasant
conversation with Mr Shipwright. On this
especial morning she is more than usually
glad to see him ; she doubts not he is
fully conversant with the subject nearest her
heart, and who knows but that he may be
able to give her the key for which she
has been searching so hopelessly of late.
Pushing her embroidery frame into a corner,
she goes out into the little vestibule

to meet and shake hands with her visitor ;
the etiquette observed at Vantage Park and
Months Castle being seldom practised in
the smaller but perhaps more wholesome
atmosphere in which Lady Laura dwells.

The first greeting over, and Mr Sive-wright
seated in the cosy morning-room, he
looks round as though in some surprise.

And Claire  where is Claire ? '

Oh, she is very vvell. She is out 
gone through the wood to take some soup
to old Mrs Morris,' and Lady Laura felt
the colour rising uncomfortably to her cheeks.

Why had she, truthful and straightforward
as she always was, been induced by a sort
of instinctive reticence to withhold from
Mr Shipwright the fact that Claire had
gone out accompanied by Matthew ? Whatever
her reason, it was a very useless
equivocation, as perhaps a faint smile which
for a moment played round Mr Shipwright's
full lips denoted ; but Lady Laura was

scarcely clever enough, at all events in
that peculiar sort of cleverness, to read his
countenance, as Mrs Desborough would
nut have failed to do.

'It is very charming to have an only
child, and that child a daughter as sweet
as Claire,' he observed. * I always pity
people with . large families. All the pleasure
and interest of watching development
of character and noting its lights and shades
are lost, from want of time and opportunity,
to those parents who are compelled
to devote their attention to a crowd of
children.'

Yet one child is a terrible anxiety. The
mother who loses her one child is indeed to
be pitied, or supposing that one child should
make a false start or bad choice in life  '

Your child, my dear Lady Laura, is,
happily, a girl, and one endowed with
innocence, simplicity, and good sense. You
can scarcely be exposed to this latter trial.

If you had a son you might talk of responsibility
and anxiety.'

Oh, boys can make their own way in
the world,' said Lady Laura.

Ay, if they don't begin with that false
start to which you alluded just now. Everyone
who has sons has worry and annoyance
of that you may be very sure. Even our
friends the Desboroughs are not exempt*

How so  what has happened ? '

Well, Matthew's future career is, of
course, a great anxiety to his mother, and
I am not surprised at it, for I cannot at
all chalk out his after life.'

Lady Laura looked truly uncomfortable,
and began to ask what Mr Shipwright
meant ; but he pretended not to hear her,
and went on, 

Then there Is George  that little escapade
of his with Mrs Tremayne is not
very satisfactory. Now, I like George
Desborough far better than Matthew. I

think he is made of better stuff; still, I
must say he has been a fool in this instance.'


What  what has happened ? I have
heard nothing.'

Not the balloon story ?'

Oh, is that all ! I can't see that George
Desborough was to blame. Mrs Tremayne
insisted on going up. I am surprised that
the duchess tolerates that woman  she is
always giving rise to some story or another.
What time did they get back ? '

They never have got back,' laughed Mr
Shipwright. ' That is the comical part of
the situation.'

Good gracious ! but they may be killed.'

Oh dear, no ! they are not dead, only
missing. Have you not seen Matthew today
? '

No ; I have not.'

Lady Laura had been engaged in some
housekeeping affair when Matthew and

Claire started on their walk. Perhaps she
was glad to answer Mr Shipwright's query
in the negative, though the fact of its having
been put showed that he was by no means
ignorant of the existing state of affairs.

Ah ! I imagined you knew all about it,
or I should not have mentioned the subject.
Gossip is not a commodity in which
I usually care to traffic'

Mr Shipwright perhaps at the moment
forgot that a racy story, even if merging
on the confines of scandal, was not, as a rule,
an unacceptable pleasure to his reverence.

But now you have begun the conversation,
tell me what has happened.'

Well, the balloon was carried much
farther off than either of the aeronauts intended
to go, that is all. The adventure
may cost George the penalty of marrying
Mrs Tremayne  according to my view, a
terrible alternative. He is a foolish fellow
a very foolish fellow.'

Do you mean that marriage is always
a mistake, or only as regards Mrs Tree
? ' asked Lady Laura laughing.

In this instance, I mean personally, as
regards Mrs Tremayne, though I do not
think I am a strong believer in connubial
bliss. I never advocate young marriages
for men.'

Indeed ! Do you not think it often
steadies a young man ? '

'In a very few instances perhaps it
does so, but for the most part, after a
fool's paradise has existed for a year or
two, a man begins to see what a grievous
mistake he has made from the very
fact of not knowing his own mind. Both
George and Matthew Desborough are unmistakable
cases in point  Matthew especially.'

How so ? ' and Lady Laura looked a
little flustered. She particularly wished to
ascertain Mr Shipwright's opinion about
Matthew Desborough, but, at the same

VOL. I. L

time, she was quite ready to combat it if
it did not coincide entirely with her own ;
his answer consequently by no means
pleased her, for he smiled rather sneeringly.

Knowing Matthew Desborough as you
do, you surely do not give him credit for
possessing the capability of forming a judgment,
or even, could he do so, for having
the stability to maintain it'

That is severe censure, Mr Shipwright.
I am very fond of Matthew, his is a lovable,
kindly nature.'

Granted  and being so, the more easily
led. His mother and I have had much
serious talk about Matthew lately. I hope
the subject of his future life, as it presents
itself to our minds, will not fail to be seen
in the same light by you.'

You know  ' and Lady Laura hesitated.
Mr Shipwright at once helped her through
her difficulty.

I know everything about Matthew and

Claire's summer's day's love making,' he
said, ' they are both babies ; but we, my
dear lady, who have felt cold March winds
and wintry blasts, must look out for the
storms, the advent of which they, in their
ignorance and innocence, fail to anticipate.'

You have come as a deputy from Mrs
Desborough to express her disapprobation,
and to break off if possible all idea of this
match, I presume,' said Lady Laura rather
anxiously.

Had that been the case I should have
started by telling you so. Quite the contrary,
I have come to make an ally of
you, in order to promote the happiness
of both these young .people. For Claire's
sake, as well as his own  forgive me if
I speak plainly  it is imperative that
every effort should be made to strengthen
Matthew's weak, it must be owned, somewhat
vacillating character. He has failed
at Oxford so often that he cannot return

there ; yet, as a younger son, it Is necessary
that he should have a profession. His
health is now so far re-established that
there is no farther reason for idleness. It
is therefore proposed that he should be
placed with a tutor, in order to read hard
for the next few months.

I thought he was reading with Mr
Lently ? ' observed Lady Laura.

The curl of the Rev. Lawrence's finely
chiselled nostril was sufficient reply to
show at what a low estimate he held Mr
Lently's scholarship.

He must have regular discipline in
matters of study, and unblessed freedom
of thought ; that he can only obtain by
having a wider range given to his mental
faculties than they can possibly have among
their present cramped surroundings. The
only chance for Matthew is to leave him
for a time entirely unshackled by all
engagements. Let him have no church,

no restraints, no opinions for a while. At
the end of six months he will perhaps
have learned to sift the dogmas and doctrines
with which his mind is now filled,
and be capable of forming an honest
wholesome judgment.'

I suppose I am to infer that you wish
him to be equally free in matters connected
with the heart as in those bearing reference
to mind ? ' said Lady Laura.

Naturally. If Matthew is to go away
for the next six months to seek truth for
himself, he must do so quite unfettered, or
It is Impossible that he will ever find it.'

It Is a dangerous experiment,' observed
the lady thoughtfully.

It Is Matthew's only chance of being a
man Instead of a puppet.'

I do not presume to have your knowledge
of character, or Mrs Desborough's
cleverness ; but I am sorr)  very sorry
and Lady Laura sighed.

I cannot see the efficacy of the plan.
If Matthew were my son I should pause
for a long while, pray very fervently,
before I allowed him to run so frightful
a risk.'

The risk is in his idling here and having
his mind continually racked by conflicting
opinions with which he is incapable
of grappling, much less of classifying them.'

Does he know of this change in his life ?
Has he consented to make the trial ? '

Since he has quarrelled with Lently, he
is, I fancy, only too thankful to find a new
prop.'

Quarrelled with Mr Lently ? I had no
idea of this. What has the quarrel been
about } '

It seems that it is a matter of conscience
with Lently, that clergy should not marry.'

Ah ! ' and Lady Laura looked very careworn
and anxious. ' This then is the reason
that Matthew seems so out of spirits, while

Claire looks wonderingly at the change in
him;

It is impossible for Matthew either to
find happiness himself or to afford it to
Claire in the existing position of affairs.
Now, my dear Lady Laura, do you see
how imperative it is that Matthew should
learn to think and act for himself ? '

'Yes, yes. Of course he should do that
but still he wants guidance

He has been in leading strings too long.
Mr Wharton, a scholarly friend of mine, to
whom his father has decided on sending him,
will of course watch for stumbles on the
road to truth, but Matthew must learn to
traverse it alone. He goes up to town
next week, I believe.*

All this intelligence fell like a thunderbolt
on Lady Laura. As she said, she was
not clever, but she was a good, simple-hearted,
loving woman, whose faith in holy
things was strong, and whose way without

it would have been very blank and desolate.
Mrs Desborough and Mr Shipwright's bolder
opinions gave her no desire to entertain
them  the very self-reliance they imposed,
would have been irksome to her. According
to her idea, Matthew would be safer
and happier, living on in blind belief,
than having his eyes opened to broader,
wider views ; yet what could she do to
prevent the experiment his mother and her
spiritual director were bent on trying ? She
could but pray for the boy she loved well
enough to entrust with the future welfare
of her Claire. Her eyes filled with tears,
as, at this moment, she saw the two young
people coming back from their walk in the
wood, and she thought of the storm clouds
that were gradually rising over the sun of
their lives, but of which they were, as yet,
only beginning to feel the chilling approach.
The vicar followed the direction of her
glance, and smiled as he too saw the young

people coming towards the house. He did
not attempt to take a hasty departure, but
waited quietly till they came in, receiving
them with that unctuous paternal
patronage, which set them both quite at
their ease  only on Lady Laura's brow the
thoughtful pre-occupied expression failed to
subside.

CHEAP JACK.

HEY say  what do they say?
Who cares what they say ? *
Still for all that Mrs Tree
looks a trifle graver than is her
wont, and wonders for a moment whether she
can thoroughly afford to commit a conventional
barbarism ! Then she bursts out
laughing, as her sense of the comic becomes
thoroughly awakened, and the Babel
of tongues set wagging in scandalous chorus
at her expense seems to echo all around her.
Finally, she settles herself in an armchair
by the wood fire she had had lighted,
the evening being chilly, in the pretty

drawings-room in what she affects to call
her toy-house in Mayfair, and she proceeds
to think. Violet Tremayne is one of those
individuals not uncommonly found in society,
who act first and think afterwards : hence
the numberless scrapes in which she perpetually
finds herself involved, and the consequent
extravagant expenditure of wits
in order to rehabilitate her occasionally
dubious position.

Not even experience had taught Mrs
Tremayne prudence, and goodness knows
she had had a more violent tussle with
the ups and downs of life than is the
usual lot of women. Perhaps vicissitude
to her was like alcohol to the drunkard,
a stimulant without which existence
would be intolerable, for she never failed
to seek adventure, and more or less to
rejoice over the imbroglios and difficulties
into which her dangerous and somewhat
sporting pastimes led her. To her starting

point in life's highway she never alluded, 
evidently the road all about it was too
muddy for her to wish even to return thither.
She had no relations, she was wont to
observe, and if she had, they were people
she did not care to recognise. At seventeen
she had married Gerald Tremayne,
not because she loved him, but because by
doing so she had helped herself out of the
mud on to a very fair piece of dry ground ;
for Gerald Tremayne, though a gambler
and a rout, came of a good old stock, and
had, moreover, large expectations from a
maiden aunt, who gave him credit for an
amount of virtue and sanctity which all his
familiars knew to be non-existent. He
died, however, before his believing relative,
and as the good old lady did not by any
means include his rattling widow in the
belief she had in Gerald, she made a fresh
will, and left her entire property to a
fifteenth cousin.

How Mrs Tremayne ever managed to
keep up her tiny establishment in Mayfair
no one knew. Sometimes she spent long
months at Monarchs, but when she was at
home everything was perfectly done, and
the appointments almost luxurious. Some
said she played high, and that when she
was more than usually hospitable and extravagant,
a recent visit to Monaco had provided
the seeming abundance of money.

Be it as it may, Violet Tremayne has
scarcely ever been in a more impecunious
position than when she sits in front of the
fire on that particular evening, reviewing
her past escapade, with a letter just received
from George Desborough lying unopened
in her lap. She dares not go back
to Monarchs, for fear  not of the talk  no
amount of chatter would disturb her  she
would have an answer for every sally ; but
for fear of the ominous silence with which
she might be received.

She turns the letter over once or twice,
sees the Hurton post-mark, but does not
open it, only goes off into a dream once
more, and wonders whether the Cheap Jack
who was so prominently present on the
eventful morning of the balloon ascent has
made any observation anent her non-appearance.
Why should she think of Cheap Jack
at that moment  what affinity can he
possibly have with the perplexing issues
of her life ?

Strange  how even at the most serious
moments  moments of graver importance
than the present to Mrs Tremayne, that
capricious and uncontrollable power thought
should frequently wander to certain minute
frivolous incidents which will, impertinently
obtrude themselves on the consideration
of the more serious matter one ought to
have in mind.

At last having settled her skirts and her
ideas to her satisfaction, she runs a mother-of-pearl

paper knife daintily along the
envelope and draws out George's letter.

Dearest Violet '  she drops the missive
once more in her lap and recommences
the thinking process. What right has he
to accost her thus  does their compact
warrant it ?

Then comes the next query  Does she
love George Desborough ?

No, no,' she answers, with a decided
shake of her little head  her pulses beat no
higher at the mention of his name, her colour
neither comes nor goes as she sees his writing
on the sheet of note paper in front of her ;
but he is an eldest son  this time the settlements
must be quite en rdgle  Violet will
not again put her head into the noose without
having these arrangements fully carried
out. This fact being decided, she turns
once more to the missive, and her brow
lowers ominously as she reads, 

Mr Shipwright ! '  how dare he interfere

in her affairs ? Then guerre a outrance is
declared between them  it remains to be
proved which has the greater influence over
the duchess  a Httle pressure and the whole
thing will right itself. ' I believe I was a
fool not to go straight back to Monarchs
Castle, but it is of no use deceiving myself
I am just a little bit afraid of the duke ;'
and she jumps up and begins to walk about
the tiny room, as though her pent-up feelings
seek a wider range. 'And Julia has
not written one word  of course that is
the Rev. Lawrence's fault  really her grace
must be most terribly forgetful if she
imagines she can so easily disembarrass
herself of me. I'll wait two more days, and
then if she does not write or take some
notice, I'll send a telegram, which will, I
think, bring the colour into your aristocratic
cheeks, my grand, white skinned Julia. Yes,
there' is a double advantage going the pace,
for while it warms one's blood at the time,

it also gives one, later on, the power to
remind a comrade how near they were to
you in the race. They don't love me at
Monarchs, but they will have to put up
with me till I have either married George
Desborough, or some one more advantageous
and she stood before a mirror in
an old Venetian frame, and coquettishly
arranged her curls.

The visitor s bell startled her.
Who on earth can it be ? London is at
zero, and it is horribly late ! '

She looks at the old clock on the mantelpiece
 a quarter to nine. She thrusts
George Desborough's letter into her pocket
and takes up the third volume of a novel.
The button boy, who is Mrs Tremayne's
sole male attendant, throws open the door,
and presents a card on a silver salver.

Mr Varley. I don't know the name,
it must be some mistake,' says Violet, after a
moments pause, during which a very astute

VOL. I. M

observer might remark that her brow puckers
Into something very much Hke a frown.

What is he Hke ? '

Not a gentleman, though his clothes are
good,' answers the page, with that promptitude
for sorting gold from dross so peculiar
to the sharp Londoner.

Go and ask him his business, Tom,'
and during the short absence of the boy,
Violet fidgets restlessly about the room. It
is obvious she is not quite happy in her
mind about the requirements of this unknown
Mr Varley,

Bah ! he is only some horrible dun,' she
decides at last, as she throws herself once
more In her arm-chair, just as Tom comes
back with Mr Varley's message. It is in
the form of another card, on which is
written, 

Cheap Jack, from Hurons

Good gracious ! how odd,' exclaims
Violet. ' Show him up at once,' and then

to herself, while Tom goes to obey her
orders, ' How delightful ! just when I was
dull and wanted an adventure, too. I
wonder what he can possibly want.'

Cheap Jack came into the room by means
of three or four glissades, which served to
give his body a most obsequious curve.
He was a small active man, with sharp
features and a hook nose  in fact he was
so very much over-nosed that one almost
forgot that his face had any other characteristic,
though in reality his twinkling
eyes revealed latent cleverness. He was
evidently got up for the occasion, and
had expended much pomatum in plastering
his straight black hair close to his cocoanut
- shaped head. The blue and white
striped blouse, and blue velvet gold-embroidered
smoking-cap which he wore when
exercising the functions of his calling
were replaced by a much creased black
.frock-coat, buttoned up in the front, and

surmounted by a scarlet cravat tied in
an ingeniously intricate bow. He had left
his hat in the hall, but he carried in his
hand a box about a foot square, which he
held up towards Violet as he chasse-ed upto
her. She met him with a peal of
laughter, but it was so pleasant and cheery
that there was nothing to offend him in
the sound ; on the contrary, it seemed to
fall on his ear as a welcome, for he stopped
suddenly, and looked up smiling at the
laugher.

It was put up for you in a raffle
at Markham Fair, and won,' he said,
putting the box on a table close to Mrs
Tremayne.

What ? ' she asked, still laughing ; but
she looked at the box very much askance,
as though afraid it might contain some
explosive substance.

Mementoes of great deeds is due to
every heroine explained Mr Varley pompously,

with strong accents on all the wrong
syllables.

I don't in the least understand  you have
made some egregious mistake.'

Mistake, madam. I have been in the
cheap line too long to make many mistakes.
Open that there box, if you please. Don't
be afraid, it ain't nothing as 'full jump,'
for he could not help remarking a certain
amount of nervous trepidation in Violet's
manner.

With dainty manipulation, and standing
as far off from the box as she possibly
could, she cut the string, and then jerked
open the lid with the point of her knife.
Nothing but a mass of paper and shavings
lay before her.

I have opened the box, please take out
the paper,' she said, looking a little beseechingly
at Cheap Jack, and moving to a still
more respectful distance from the table.
He observed her with a smile, and having

removed a deep layer of shavings, displayed
a glass balloon of tiny dimensions. Violet
gave a little scream.

You nasty rude man, who sent you hereto
twit me ? Take away your horrid toy,
and never let me see your face again,'

Cheap Jack's countenance fell to zero.
This was by no means the reception on
which he had calculated when the admiration
Mrs Tremayne's daring exploit had
awakened in him prompted him to present
her with the fairy balloon which, chance
having placed it in his hands, he thought
was a fitting memento, as he called it, of a
great occasion. But how could Cheap Jack
know that Violet deeply regretted the adventure,
and would fain have its very remembrance
obliterated for ever from the
mind of man and woman ? How could he
tell that she was at that moment depressed
by the ominous stillness which, reigning
among her friends, made her dread the

o

bursting of a storm which should carry her
away from her place in society by its uprooting
violence.

They looked at each other for a few
seconds, these two anomalous subjects, and
each tried to take stock of the other's feelings.
From Mr Varley's pained, humiliated
expression Violet inferred that he was a
principal and not an agent, and by the
sudden jumping at a conclusion for which
she was celebrated, she resolved to use him
if possible to her advantage ; while he  well,
he was accustomed to snubs, yet he regretted
just a little bit that he had come  that,
carried away by his great admiration for
Mrs Tremayne, he had so far forgotten himself
as to be guilty of a piece of unwarrantable
presumption. When the short watch
they had both been keeping over each
other's features was over, Mr Varley began
to cover up his bit of glass work, while
Violet was the first to speak.

Stop a minute she said, ' let me look at
It just once again,'

He took it out of the box and held it up
in all its dainty beauty,

It's first rate workmanship  blown at the
best manufactory in England, every detail
perfect, even to cords.'

Ah ! I wish I had never seen a machine
like that before, Mr  ' and Violet looked
at the card lying on the table before she
ventured on the word, ' *' Varley." '

Wasn't your experience a pleasant one ?
I am sorry now, you was so brave,'

And I am to keep this lovely miniature
balloon as a trophy or memento, or whatever
you call It ? ' she said laughing, and taking it
into her own delicate fingers.

He bowed assent, looking perhaps more
surprised than pleased ; the sudden change
in her manner puzzled this man, who was
totally unaccustomed to the vagaries of great
ladles. As for anHhx 'devisee, it did not

occur to him that such a thing could exist
in this class of life, though he was fully and
entirely alive to the commerce of motive
and cause, which was very briskly proceeded
with in his own trading career.

Mrs Tremayne's next question after she
had delivered herself of a profuse amount
of thanks, produced no especial meaning
to his mind. Merely as something to say
did he regard the query as to when he
was likely to be in the neighbourhood of
Hurton.

Very soon,' he answered promptly ; ' there
is Meckleton Races next week, the course
is just a mile from Vantage Park, Squire
Desborough's place, you know.'

Violet bowed her head.

I wonder if you would charge yourself
with a commission for me when you go
back into those parts.'

Would I ? why, with all the pleasure in
the world.'

When can you make it convenient to
call here again ? '

Whenever your ladyship pleases to appoints
Violet had risen to ladyship, as Mr
Varley's good-humour increased.

To-morrow, rather earlier than this, say
six o'clock.'

He bowed his head and shuffled his feet
as though the carpet were red hot.

It is only a small parcel I want to send
to some one in that neighbourhood, and I
shall feel obliged if you will deliver it yourself,'
explained Violet, turning the glass
balloon round and round with admiring
scrutiny, and finally tying it with crimson
ribbon to a bracket near the fireplace, while
Mr Varley, having promised to deliver the
parcel, looked and wondered. Then she
rang for the button boy, and bade him
bring some glasses and sherry, and having
stood with surpassing fortitude the drinking
of her own health by her strange guest, she

at last succeeded in dismissing him in the
happiest frame of mind. He had quite forgotten
the snub with which the interview
had commenced, and went whistling down
the street, looking so universally delighted
with himself and the whole world as to
make the young and ragged sweeper at the
corner observe to a companion, 

That master had come out of yon house
uncommon snuffy.'

Violet laughed. She touched her new
toy and set it swinging, and then she stood
looking at it and laughed again ; finally,
having felt that George Desborough's letter
was safe in her pocket, she began to turnout
the contents of some drawers at the
side of a Davenport which had been pushed
into a corner, as being neither old enough
nor new enough for fashion's requirements
in the way of furniture.

'fsea*-

MRS GILES.

HE Rev. Luke Lently Is standing
at his study door  the usual look
of stereotyped asceticism seems
temporarily to have departed from his face,
on which lingers just half a smile. He Is
rubbing his thin hands slowly together and
listening. His companion is a lady long
past even the suspicion of loitering within
the very elastic boundary known as middle
age. She Is a dry shrivelled woman with
grizzly grey hair which lies In little tufts about
her forehead, surmounting a countenance, of
which the leading characteristic Is asperity.
Her clothes, though neat and tidy, have no
pretence of being fashionable ; on the contrary,

they are ludicrously the reverse, unless
very full short skirts, displaying sturdy feet,
cased In strong country-made leather boots,
may be considered fashionable. Yet this is
Mr Lently's pet parishioner  his factotum
the one Individual who shares In their fullest
degree his beliefs and opinions, and who
seeks moreover to assist him in carrying out
to the very letter all the multitudinous projects
by which he hopes and believes he
will coerce mankind into a full participation
in all his views.

Mrs Giles has been a widow for fifty
years  for the last twenty she has lived
what she herself calls ' on the confines of
the church,' that is, when translated Into
plain language, she has been slave to some
pet minister, and thus obtained that stimulus
in life which she failed to find in the monotony
of her childless companionless home.
For the first ten years she had served in
evangelical leading strings, then she met

Mr Lently, and becoming a convert to his
fervid teaching, she had declared herself a
zealous disciple ; and when the Rev. Luke
gave up a suburban curacy for the more
comfortable and remunerative position of
Vicar of Ravensholme, Mrs Giles took a
cottage in the parish and practised good
works under his fatherly supervision. With
Mrs Lently she had but little in common ;
her existence she designated as the one blot
on a good man's life, and her shortcomings
were regarded by the rigid practical Mrs
Giles with  regretfully be it spoken  a mere
modicum of Christian charity. Had she been
less severe In her strictures on poor Mr
Lently's failings ; had she elected to help and
advise the wife, instead of living in a state of
flattering subserviency to the husband, who
shall say how different might have been the
tone of domestic life at Ravensholme ; but
Mrs Giles' ideas on the subject of good works
did not drift in this direction ; after all, we

can only see good or evil according to the
light given us.

The Rev. Luke smiles as he listens to
Mrs Giles' conversation. It is of mundane
affairs. She Is administering a little of the
luscious jam without which it were impossible
to swallow the bitter life pills he daily-imposes
on himself with conscientious compulsion.
The doings at Monarchs Castle and
Vantage Park form the staple subject for
their talk on these occasions. Strange that
human nature, even when purified to the very
highest degree, must at times find a valve
for its superfluous frailty, and that In cases
where greater sins are banished, yet gossip
and scandal Invariably hold their ground.

The balloon ascent ! Yes, Violet Tremayne
was right  It was the universal topic, discoursed
of throughout the whole country ;
no two people met without throwing a stone
at the glass house in which she and George
Desborough had rashly located themselves ;

even Mrs Giles and Mr Lently gave way to
unkindly allusions and little jokes ; but then,
be it remembered, Mr Lently was never permitted
to cross the threshold of Monarchs
Castle, and felt that he was only received on
sufferance at Vantage Park. Moreover, he
had not afforded himself the luxury of treating
those opposed to him in matters of faith
with indifference, as Mr Sivewrlght did. He
never forgave a snub, though he frequently
exposed himself to the reception of one, not
having neglected to court more than one from
the Duke of Monarchs, to whom he was perfectly
aware that his particular tenets were
especially distasteful.

He smiled at the fancy of the airy equipage
bearing the dashing Mrs Tremayne
into the realms of space. It was a freak of
the elements which could not avoid awaking
a smile ; but the passing mirthful ebullition
died on a sudden to be replaced by a stern,
cold glance at Mrs Giles' next remark.



'And now Mr George Desborough will
have to marry the dainty lady. To finish the
pretty romance, there will be two Desborough
marriages, for they say Matthew is engaged
to Miss Bailey.'

God forbid ! ' ejaculated the Rev. Luke
fervidly. * I have placed my veto on the
unholy step.*

And has Matthew promised to be obedient
? Alas ! my dear pastor, I fear there
is more mischief going on in the fold than
you are aware of.'

Mrs Giles, in her love of gossip, could not
even resist giving information which she
knew would wound instead of amuse her
beloved vicar.

'How so, what fresh calamity has fallen on
my flock ? '

Only that you are soon to lose one of
them altogether.'

Indeed, what have you heard ?'

VOL. I. N

That Matthew is going to be sent to a
tutor in London.'

A wise measure  a very wise measure
! ' half soliloquised Lently, 'that is if
the choice has fallen on a just and faithful
man.'

Some years ago, when I was a much
younger woman than I am now, and consequently
more given to the vanities of the
world, I was living in the neighbourhood of
London ; next door to my dwelling there
resided in a state of semi-genteel poverty a
family of the name of Wharton. They held
their heads up pretty high, notwithstanding
their want of means, for they were born
among the aristocracy at least she was 
the husband was a literary man  spent
his time among old folios and philosophical
treatises. Mrs Wharton and the girls were
musical, however, and I have spent more
than one evening pleasantly enough in their
society.'

Why are you telling me this now ? ' interrupted
her companion.

You will see the point directly if you will
only have a due amount of patience, Mr
Lently. After I had known the family about
six months a son appeared, of whom till then
I had only heard. He had been abroad
finishing his education, in other words, cramming
his head with metaphysical German
nonsense, and losing what small amount of
religious faith he may ever have possessed.
I thought him a fine young fellow in those
days,  thanks to your teaching, I regard him
as a heathen now. Dear me ! I daresay he is
a man of fifty by this time. He was a very 
permit me the word  jolly sort of young man,
strong in his own opinions, eloquent in his
talk  almost converted me into the belief
that free thought was the only aim and
object of man. He was little more than a
boy then  he is a professor now, with no
end of letters strung after his name, and

he it Is who has been selected as Matthew's
tutor.'

A low moan of agony escaped from Mr
Lently's lips, his tight Roman collar evidently
choked him  and then he asked with
sudden energy, as though hope, half crushed
by Mrs Giles' intelligence, had sprung once
more into life.

But he, like yourself, has been converted,
has given up these pernicious opinions long
since ? '

She shook her head.

Though he is professedly a scholar,
he is grovelling in the pathways of
darkness,' she answered, and then they
both sighed in chorus, and Lently
asked, 

Who has done this evil thing ? '

Mr Wharton is an intimate friend of the
Vicar of Fernwood-cum-Grasdale/

Shipwright ! He will have much to
answer for. How a man dare live in open

defiance of all the canons of holy Church ashe
does, Is a mystery to me

How odd Matthew should not have told
you of the change in his plans.'

Matthew Is not wholly subjugated. He
is still restive of the yoke. He cannot give
himself up soul and body to authority. I
have yet much vacillation of purpose to fear
for Matthew. The Idea that he has thought
of entering on the matrimonial state fills my
mind with sadness.'

Gracious !' ejaculated Mrs Giles, on whose
ear at that moment fell discordant sounds of
nursery tribulation, and before she had time
to transfer her feelings into words, the
younger members of the Lently family ran
shrieking round the corner of the house,
utterly regardless of their father s frowns or
their mother's whining threats, which were
heard in the far distance feebly promising
a punishment she was powerless to inflict.
Mrs Giles, to whom the little Gently were

particularly antipathetic  in fact, she always
strove in her own mind to ignore the fact
that the pastor had any family and belongings
 immediately took her leave, walking
down the footway into the churchyard, which
she crossed, coming into the main road by a
little wicket just as Mr Shipwright was riding
lazily by on a sleek cob, which was the
envy of more than one middle-aged squire.
Certainly the Rev. Lawrence Shipwright
had the peculiar knack of invariably discovering
and possessing himself of the best
things in life. He raised his hat with an
unctuous bow to Mrs Giles, and went on his
way, she looking after him the while with very
vineyards glances. There was a sovereignty
of manner about Mr Shipwright, an indifference
to their opinions and their dictums, which
made all the opposite religious faction fear him.
No surer mode of holding a high position
in the eyes of others than to seem to have
an exalted place in your own esteem.

That Mr SIvewrlght acted on this axiom,
either purposely or by accident, there is Httle
doubt. Mrs Giles' way lay in the same direction
as that of the mounted divine, who was
going to Monarchs Castle. She followed
him for a few hundred yards, and then she
turned in at a little green gate. She stood
leaning against the gate looking after him ;
when he was quite out of sight she walked
slowly up a narrow path leading to a cottage,
of which the door stood open, and entering a
small rigidly furnished sitting-room sat down.
She looked round the room with a very self-satisfied
expression in her face  the religious
pictures which were here and there dotted on
the white walls reminded her of various phases
of feeling, under the dominion of which she
had hung them there  the bare floor with its
occasional rug, the high-backed cushionless
chairs, the coverless wooden tables, the curtailed
windows, even the mediaeval clock
serving for sole mantel-shelf ornamentation

all pointed to a life of asceticism in
which Mrs Giles gloried, a life of self-regulated,
self - inflicted conventual rule.
Whether for the love of God or for the love
of the Rev. Luke Lently she had chosen
this life, it had been difficult for Mrs Giles
herself to have defined, so inseparably did
she connect in her mind the zealous friend
whose teaching was so dear to her, with the
Deity they both served according to their
light. Yet Mrs Giles had not always been
what she now was  did she not herself
tell Mr Lently so but half-an-hour ago. Of
all the history of her past life, however, she
had not thought it necessary to inform him 
as it was enclosed in the almost impervious
wrapper of long long ago ; perhaps she had forgotten
what lay therein concealed. Either the
sight of the Rev. Lawrence Shipwright riding
along the road towards Monarchs had recalled
it, or perhaps it was the conversation
anent Mr Wharton which she had just had

with her pastor. Yet what possible connection
could or did exist between Mrs Giles'
very middle - class career and the previous
history of that particularly thorough - bred
scholar-like gentleman Mr Shipwright ?

Very certain it is that he never bestowed
a thought on Mrs Giles, or even mentioned
her name when she was alluded to in the
neighbourhood, simply connecting her existence
with that of Mr Lently, and smiling
at what he called ' a flagrant piece of pet
parson worship.'

Of course the friendships borne him by
the Duchess of Monarchs and Mrs Des-borough
were individual, between woman
and man, and had nothing whatever to do
with divine office.

If Mr Shipwright had ever seen Mrs
Giles in years gone by, he had entirely
forgotten the fact; yet she could have
told, had she chosen, more than one episode
of his early youth, when he and

young Wharton, after being at Oxford together,
had devoted a year to philosophy
in a German university, and had come back
to London to start on their career as men ;
Wharton simply signing himself philosopher,
while Lawrence Shipwright became a clerk
in holy orders, with the Vicarage of 
in prospect.

Mrs Giles sits thinking over all this, and
the tidy little village hand-maiden bringing in
the tea wonders why the mistress, usually so
exact In all the details of daily life, * saunders '
instead of taking off her bonnet and cape,
as she is wont to do the moment she enters
the house, instantly beginning some active
employment, either in connection with soul
or body. But even the sight of Patty with
the tea does not move Mrs Giles, and the
girl has placed it on the table and made
a good deal of clatter with plates and knives
before her mistress goes up the little staircase
to her own room ; and even when she

has reached it, instead of at once replacing
her poke bonnet by the white full bordered
cap she usually wears, she stands looking
out of the window. ' Matthew Desborough '
is the name that almost mechanically drops
from her lips ; then it is not Lawrence
Shipwright's past over which she is dreaming
? No  only as it bears any influence on
Matthew Desborough's present. Not that
Mrs Giles has any personal and deep interest
in that young man, except as regards
his relations with Mr Lently. Perhaps she
had rejoiced when she thought he was resolved
to waive the question of orders, and
was determined to marry Claire Bailey.
Not for the Church's sake, be it thoroughly
understood ; but Mrs Giles was a woman,
though an old one, and she was anxious to
keep her influence over her pastor fresh
and full. The age at which jealousy dies
in the feminine heart has never yet been
clearly defined.

CRACKLING ICE.

FEW seconds after the Vicar
of Fernwood-cum-Grasdale had
Hated his hat to Mrs Giles
he forgot the fact of her existence ; and
he and his sleek cob, alike enjoying the
beauty of a soft autumnal afternoon, journeyed
tranquilly along towards Monarchs
Castle, the vicar guessing as little as did
his equine companion how many ruminations
meeting him had produced in the
mind of the ' eccentric widow,' as he usually
designated her.

Arrived at his destination, and his cob
having been led round to the ducal stables,

he was at once ushered into the library,
where five o'clock tea had preceded his
Convent by a few minutes.

If a tete-tete talk with the duchess was
the object of his visit, he was destined to be
disappointed, for there was quite a little
coterie of privileged intimates sipping the
gossip-flavoured beverage, alike welcome in
the castle and the cabin.

He shook hands with the fair chatelaine, and
bowed to one or two guests but little known
to him, while perhaps a very keen observer
might have noticed just a tinge of disappointment
on his countenance ; scarcely, however,
because the duchess was surrounded by
friends. Mr Shipwright was perfectly aware
that it was the usual hour of meeting, and
even if he were desirous of a conversation
with the duchess, he was fully sensible
that under no circumstances is a private talk
more thoroughly and conventionally obtained
than in a crowd. He only found what he expected

then on entering the richly stored
library at Montarlls Castle, on the many
treasures of which the sun at that moment
was casting, as though lovingly. Its departing
rays through the small-pane mullloned
windows  with one exception. There was
a curly-haired brunette seated on a low chair
by the table ; she had thrown a large Gainsborough
hat at her feet, and was doing the
honours of the occasion for the duchess.

'You don't take sugar, I think, Mr Slve-
wright ? How are you ? ' she said flippantly
with a little nod, holding a large lump
daintily In the tiny old-fashioned tongs as
the vicar approached her.

Thank you ; no tea.'

Ah ! there was to be found the reason of
Mr Sivewrlght's disappointed look ; he did
not expect to see Violet Tremayne re-established,
at all events not so soon, In her old
familiar relations with the duchess. Furthermore,
he had not been consulted on the

matter, which was, at the least, not flattering ;
but he could have passed the seeming neglect
very lightly by, had not the fact of Mrs
Tremayne being there involved, according to
his views, such very grave issues. For a
moment or two the arrival of so important a
member of society as the Vicar of Fernwood
had silenced the busy talkers, all of whom
were ladles, the male guests at Monarchs not
having yet returned from shooting; but Mr
Sivewrlght's courteous affable manners soon
set every one chattering again even more
freely than before, and, taking a cup of tea
from Mrs Tremayne, he handed It to the
duchess. Their eyes met in one flash, and
she said very quietly, scarcely moving her
lips as she spoke, 

I could not help it ; ' then as if she feared
even that instantaneous exchange of confidences
might be perceived, she went on, 
Vi, dear, have you forgotten Mrs Bellingham
', She has had no tea.'

Meanwhile Mr Slvewrlght passed to the
farther end of the room, with his usual
urbanity, to devote himself to a rather pretty-looking
shy girl, who was sitting apart from
the others. She was only just out, and by
no means au courant with the dashing talk
of the day, having been carefully kept to
a school-room routine which admitted no
gleams of social light. In her heart she
scarcely thanked the vicar for his notice,
kind though It seemed, but she hardly knew
how, he led the conversation to some of her
pet books, and in a very few minutes she
was talking glibly, without blushing and
paling at every alternate moment. Yet,
could she but have known it, she had more
to fear from Mr Slvewrlght than from the
usual carpet knights whose platitudes awed
her and whose chaff struck terror into her
breast.

Mr Slvewrlght was studying human nature.
He was wondering how long it would be

before this frightened child would develop
into the consummate actress most of her
fashionable sisters had become ; and his eye
wandered from the graceful stately duchess,
who was his beau-ideal of womanhood, to the
little rosy beauty with whom he was talking,
and then across the room to the laughing
Violet, till finally he shrugged his shoulders
as though he had come to the conclusion
that women's ways were unguessable riddles,
imposed mercilessly by the gods on men.
At last, so utterly absent did he become,
owing to his mental contemplations, that the
little girl by his side did not fail to remark
it, and extreme shyness being usually the
result of a superabundance of pride, she
felt hurt at his sudden inattention to her
remarks, and starting up, sped briskly across
the room to where her mother was sitting,
and took shelter under her fostering wing.
Mr Shipwright smiled a little sadly ; he was
sorry he had scared the child from his side,

VOL. I. o

yet he could not resist being amused at the
amount of womanHness already developing
itself in that young nature  demanding absolute
attention and devotion as a right.
The vicar sat musing apart from the rest,
till Violet Tremayne's gay tones recalled him
to the circle round the tea-table, as in bantering
accents she exclaimed, 

Mr Shipwright invariably finds matter
wherewith to compose a sermon whenever
he comes to Monarchs ; let us have the text
of the next homily, reverend sir.'

It was an impertinent challenge under all
the circumstances, and Mr Shipwright regarded
it as such, and answered promptly, 

Loving goes by laps,
Some Cupid kills by arrows, some with traps.'

The ready answer occasioned a general
laugh, though none perhaps save the
duchess and Mrs Tremayne accepted the
point. To the latter it evidently went

straight home, and for a moment or two
paralysed the power of repartee in which
she was usually so strong ; she gave one
searching look at the vicar which revealed
all the deep fund of hatred of which her
heart was capable, and, without even being
a coward, Mr Shipwright might have quailed
before the animosity he had awakened ; but
he remained firm as granite, and gave the
lady look for look, till, recovering her momentary
weakness, she said so gaily and
adroitly as to make him almost like her for
her cleverness,

Indeed, this is delightful ; let us have a
rehearsal now  tell us all about it, Mr Sive-wright
 have you been shot or caught, and
by whom ? We thought him invulnerable,
did not we, duchess ? But, after all, he
would not be human if he were without his
Achilles' heel ? '

But the duchess, though appealed to, only
smiled somewhat sadly. She was not pleased

at the fact of being compelled to receive
Violet at Monarchs, not pleased with Mr
Shipwright for calling almost public attention
to recent events, and seriously displeased
with circumstances for having prevented
her from explaining matters fully to
him she had selected as director and adviser,
before this untoward meeting had
occurred. But Violet went on, 

Now, Mr Shipwright, the sermon, if you
please,' and she pushed a stately old-fashioned
chair towards him, on which she begged him
to be enthroned.

Mr Shipwright declined the seat with a
bow, and with mock gravity quietly placing
himself behind the high chair she had offered,
looked thoroughly en prone.

Amusement was depicted on every face,
save that of Violet, who looked defiant,
and the duchess's, who seemed painfully
anxious ; perhaps the vicar felt she might
have trusted him, for though his eye fell

on her lingeringly, he abated no jot of the
ceremonial with which he accepted the function
imposed on him by Violet ; but looking
from one to another at the knot of expectant
listeners, he began, 

Spontaneous affection and sheer coercion,
these are the two powerful motive
forces which actuate the amiable or loving
tendencies of man. Happy he or she, as
the case may be, on whom the gift of spontaneity
Is conferred. The lucky individual
has but to follow his good impulses
and trust faithfully to the blind god who
has bestowed them, that he will conduct
the suit he himself has instituted
to a happy termination with his usual kind
supervision. Far be It from us to cavil at or
animadvert on godlike agencies. When, too,
was Cupid ever known to play false ? '

Here the vicar was Interrupted by such
a chorus of giggles as to stop his interpretations
; but not for a moment losing

command over his own gravity, when they
had somewhat ceased he proceeded, 

It is, on the contrary, to those who have
fallen from their high estate in the love-god's
favour that we would address a word
of warning and advice. To those who,
receiving no impulsive natural affection, elect
to seek it at any cost, and erect a temple
to Hymen even on the most impossible
heights, amid rugged crags and on uncultivated
ground. To such individuals I would
paternally say " Beware. " A union unhallowed
by Cupid reverts with dismal misery
on him who sets the trap  for when was a
poor limed bird ever known to submit un-fluttering
to its entanglement ; rather does
it not take instant flight when the viscous
substance by which it has been made captive
loses its adhesive qualities. And no
glue, believe me, has yet been discovered
that is impervious to every vacillating tendency
of place and time. Stormy days will

arrive, tidal waves will overflow the seemingly
pleasant river banks ; sooner or later
the bird will free himself without Cupid
making one single effort to rivet the chain
he had no hand in forging. But to illustrate
the subject. An instance has lately
come to my knowledge which  '

Really, Mr Shipwright, I cannot see  '
It was the duchess who spoke, but Mrs
Tremayne stopped her.

Hush, Julia dear. Let him finish the
illustration by all means. Mr Shipwright 
the illustration. It will be especially interesting.'


In a fashionable foreign watering-place,
some ten years ago, there was a young girl
and a somewhat elderly man she called her
father. Theirs was a well-worn tale of
gambling, debt, and destitution

Mr Shipwright ! '

He paused and looked at Violet Tremayne
as she uttered his name in exclamation.

Did you know this girl, Mrs Tremayne ? '

I ? No. How should I ? But we
scarcely asked for a picture.'

Still it is a true one. Shall I finish the
sketch ? '

Yes,' said a chorus of voices, among
which the duchess and Mrs Tremayne were
alone silent.

He looked at her for a second very
pointedly ; then at the duchess, whose countenance
still evinced a considerable amount
of alarm ; finally he said, as if entirely giving
in,

I must apologise, ladies, for taking up
so much of your time and attention ; really
I don't know what excuse I have to offer.'

You have told us nothing, Mr Sive-wright
; but do  ' exclaimed a curious old
dame. Violet interrupted her.

Oh, he knows a set of horrible people ;
don't ask him any more,' and she got up
from the tea-table. * For my part, I think

women who set men-traps are fools ; It is
against them you were preaching, I believe.
There is not a man living that one would
not be much better without  your reverence
included.'

Everybody laughed a little falsely.

Mr Sivewrlght's discourse perplexed their
minds ; they could not quite see its object,
though that it had one, the white face of
the duchess too plainly testified. Violet
made a diversion, and putting on her hat,
said she was going on the terrace to look
at the sunset. She was soon followed by
the rest of the party, and for a brief space
the duchess and Mr Sivewrlght were left
alone.

How could you walk on crackling ice 
for what purpose ? ' she asked hurriedly.

At any cost Mrs Tremayne must no
longer be domiciled here. How could you
ask her to come back after that balloon
business ? I must speak to the duke.'

My dear friend, you will not  you must
not. If you are going to fail me, to whom
shall I turn for assistance ? I am powerless
to coerce Violet Tremayne. She mtcst be
here, and instead of helping me to stem
difficulties, you have made her your mortal
enemy. Oh, Mr Shipwright, advise me ;
what am I to do ? '

I do not understand.'

Mrs Tremayne holds a secret of mine ;
unless I keep her in the position of my
bosom friend, she will reveal it to my husband.'


Outwit her by telling him yourself,' said
the vicar promptly.

Oh, I dare not  I dare not. Have not
I limed an eagle, and I cannot bear to be
cast ignominiously from my eyrie. For
mercy's sake, out of friendship to me, leave
Violet's affairs alone, and let her arrange
them as she will  '

Let her marry George Desborough, you

mean ; considering my strong personal intimacy
with his family, it would scarcely bea
friendly action on my part ; knowing what
I do'

Mr Shipwright, I beseech you to be
silent for my sake,' and the duchess's velvety
hand was laid on the vicar's wrist. The
Rev. Lawrence Shipwright was but human ;
notwithstanding his sacred calling, could he
resist this woman's pleading ? He took her
hand in his own, with the air of a man to
whom it was no unusual occurrence, but the
merry troop from the terrace came laughing
into the room in total forgetfulness of
the riddle which had been propounded, so
the vicar could not speak. When some half-hour
later he went away, it was with a
graver more thoughtful expression of face
than when Mrs Giles had watched him
leisurely riding up the road.

-'>m:m

A QUEER BARGAIN.

,T is the morning succeeding the
unusually interrupted tea - chat,
when, dressed d la vivandiere in
blue and red flannel, Violet Tremayne is
standing alone on the terrace which overlooks
the gardens at Monarchs. She hides
her eyes with her hand and looks through
the trees, nearly bereft of foliage, as though
seeking to distinguish some object in the
far distance ; with an impatient gesture at
its non-appearance she paces rapidly up and
down, and then stops to look once more in
the same direction. After repeating this
manoeuvre two or three times, she runs

swiftly down the steps at the farther end
of the balcony, and crossing the wide lawn
without looking round, she speedily disappears
from the view of any one who may
have been watching her from the windows
of the house.

Mrs Tremayne's movements, ever eccentric
and erratic, do not as a rule create much
observation from those who are accustomed
to her habits. They have too frequently investigated
some seemingly mysterious doings
on her part, to be simply repaid by the
information that she had no especial object
for her behaviour, to trouble themselves
about her goings and comings. Some of
her friends had arrived at the conclusion
that she was just a little cracked ; while
the servants and dependants at Monarchs
decided that it was ' only Mrs Tremayne's
way,' and attached no importance to any unusual
circumstance in connection with her.
No one guessed that it was part of Violet's

plan of life ; she argued that a hundred well
acted mysteries, which are no mysteries at
all, enable the hundred and first, being a
reality, to escape without remark.

The occasion presents itself now, and
Violet has judged rightly.

There goes Mrs Tremayne down into
the wood,' the butler remarks to the valet ;
she'll come back at luncheon time with
those big pockets full of nuts, and try to persuade
every one she has had an adventure ; '
and so the subject is dropped, while Violet
still speeds on, never stopping for a second
till she is quite half-a-mile from the house.

This time she has a bond fide assignation ;
and with none other than Mr Varley, the
Cheap Jack of Hurton market-place. Violet
was too accustomed to utilise the crooked bits
and ends of life to let so available an oddity
as Mr Varley press himself as it were
into her service without retaining him. The
heart of man is prone to sudden and wayward

likings, and Cheap Jack had formed
one of these for Mrs Tremayne, when
he saw her for the first time starting
on her balloon journey with George Des-borough.


A queer fondness for a unit like me to
have for a lady born as he himself expressed
it ; but then he could not guess how
much of the gipsy there was in both their
natures, producing probably the affinity. It
was the first time he had seen Violet since
her return to Monarchs, though more than
one interview had taken place in London.

Well, Jack, how are you ? '

They had grown quite familiar  that was
obvious from Violet's greeting as she approached
the large elm close to which Mr
Varley was standing. He had left his gay
little equipage in the main road, with the
tiny tiger in charge, and himself habited in
his usual blue blouse and velvet cap was
awaiting the lady's arrival.

He pulled his cap off as he heard her
voice and made a deep salaam.

He did not seem surprised at her off-mindedness
 it was a way she had which
was so essentially a portion of herself that
few people presumed to cavil at it, and
assuredly the exception was not likely to be
her new acquaintance Mr Varley.

You executed my commission beautifully
she said, ' gave my little parcel to the duchess
her very own self.'

Yes, my lady, and a rare bit of luck it
was to meet her grace walking alone with
the dogs down near the pond yonder.'

Yes, I know  she told me ; and how did
she look when she opened the letter ? '

Rather steered like. I was really sorry
when I saw it wasn't a pleasant packet'

Poor Julia  poor Julia, but she'll get over
it, she'll have to bear annoyance like other
folk ; you and I don't escape, do we  eh,
Jack?'

Varley shuffled and looked shy, the flattering
way in which she seemed to place him
on an equality with herself quite overpowered
him.

Mrs Tremayne laughed, and asked him
what she owed him for all the trouble he
had taken ; but the pained expression of the
man's face stopped her before she had reached
quite the end of her sentence.

Nothing, my lady  nothing. I am quite
repaid by your having granted me the honour
of this interview.*

Good gracious ! Well, you are easily
satisfied. I'd come here every day in the
week if you would transact all my business
for me for that small payment.'

I am always to command if there is any
business to do and I am in these parts ;
what's more, I'd stop in these parts if I
thought as you wanted me.'

For the first time it occurred to Violet as
she looked at him, that she had inspired a

VOL. I. p

grande passion. She did not flinch from
the idea with repugnance, as it behoved
her position to have done ; alas ! no, she
put it down instantly on her list of conquests,
feeling a little flattered and very
largely amused. Monarchs was not unfrequently
dull to one who, like Violet, objected
to the perpetual strictness of high life  here
was a charming valve, by which she might
get rid of any amount of monotony : she
resolved at once to improve the occasion,
and sitting down on the bough of an old
tree which lay on the ground close to her,
she invited Mr Varley to give her some
account of the mode in which he passed
his life. Garrulity was his wonted forte,
though he would not have acknowledged
it : but on this occasion Cheap Jack was
a little serious, and consequently inclined
to be silent,  though to most men Violet
Tremayne sitting in a very degrade attitude
on the old tree would have been scarcely

an awe-striking picture. She was too impertinent
in her ways to make her lovers
very distant.

Well, you travel all over the country in
that trap, and you carry your wares underneath
it, and you have no troubles, no cares,
no anxieties ; how I envy you. Heigh ho !
If we could but change places.'

Cheap Jack raised his eyes for a moment
and looked at her with something of a flash ;
then he said with some bitterness, 

My life is hard enough at times  not
one for such as you to envy. When
times Is bad, its bad fare as the lines of
us gets, and when they're good 'taint every
public as Is open to receive us. Some
folk's money isn't as good as others in this
world.'

Oh, how delightful ! that's just what is so
charming  uncertainty. I've often thought
I should like to live in a gipsy's covered
cart and go about the country.'

When you do, may I be servant and
put you up to the tricks of the trade.'

Agreed.' And Violet laughed merrily as
she sat swinging herself backwards and forwards
on the old tree, delighting In the
storm she saw full well she was awaking
In this man's breast'

I suppose you know most of the people
about here ? ' she asked after a short pause.

Gentle and simple, my lady, for the most
part. But where's the neighbourhood that
Jack Varley don't know the folk. More
about their histories too sometimes than
they know themselves.'

I daresay, I daresay. In which case It
is better to be your friend than your foe,'
and Violet laughed a little nervously.

It ain't much as I says,' he answered.
'I'm a man of few words 'kept when I'm
forced professionally to puff my wares.
If I talked more I shouldn't hear so
much.'

'It is quite wonderful how you makeup
all those beautiful speeches about your
goods. I heard you once in Hurton marketplace,'
said Violet flatteringly.

Don't I look like it ? ' and he dropped
his voice almost to a whisper as he spoke.
Me ? Lor' bless ye, lady, I couldn't do it.
It's a blind man as lives in a court out of
St Paul's Churchyard in London as composes
they puffs. It's a trade as well as
another. I gets 'em into my head while I
am having my solitary dinner or driving
along the roads in my shay.'

I'll write you one,' cried Violet, * such a
puff; it will bring you In pounds. Oh!
what fun ; and in return  '

Whatever I can do for your ladyship
for all your favours, your ladyship is to
command,' and Mr Varley took to shuffling
his feet once more, as though this new mark
of Violet's esteem was quite too much for
his nervous susceptibilities.

Well, in return you shall do whatever I
bid you  always.'

He took off his velvet cap and bowed,
thus tacitly declaring his determination to do
her bidding.

It was a strange compact, and one from
which most women in Mrs Tremayne's position
would have flinched ; but to Violet a
love of excitement and out-of-the-way adventure
was so strangely mixed up with a
strong desire to keep her place in society,
that she looked upon the whole thing as a
rare joke. Balloon travelling had evidently
not given her a sufficient warning ; since she
was once more at Monarchs she imagined
she had got over that little difficulty, notwithstanding
Mr Shipwright's innuendoes.

Could she not utilise this man perhaps
to pay off some of the grudges she owed
the duchess's reverend friend ? Ay, there was
a question involving immense issues she
thought, as she got up from her rather

uncomfortable seat and held out her hand
to the astonished Cheap Jack, who merely
touched it with the tips of his fingers, so
unaccustomed was he to have anything so
fair and dainty presented to him.

I must go now, but I'll see you again
here next Monday. We shall be going to
London soon ; there is a marriage and some
festivities in prospect, to which all the monarchs
party is going.'

And so they parted. Cheap Jack going
rather thoughtfully in the direction of his
little cart, Mrs Tremayne tripping through
the wood singing the refrain of a light
French song, and looking as pleased over
her anomalous rencontre as though her new
admirer were a prince in disguise.

The sound of a gun being fired off close
to her made her start.

What ! shooting this covert. I thought
you were miles away,' she said as several
men, the duke and George Desborough

among them, came plunging through some
brushwood and stood before her.

It is kicks you did not have an eye put
out or your hand shot off,' said the duke.

Whoever expected to meet you here ? '

I never wish anybody to know where
they may expect to meet me,' she answered
laughing. * Life is far too short to be
arranged by rule and rote. How do you do,
Mr Desborough . When last we met 'twas
in a balloon.'

George coloured up  her cool effrontery
somewhat abashed him ; and the duke
scowled and went on  the mention of that
episode invariably made him angry  it was
entirely out of drawing ; that is, as the picture
of human life should be sketched
according to his views.

It is not my fault that we have not met,'
George whispered as the duke walked away.

Why do you so cruelly forbid me all sight
of you ? '

Perhaps an account of that hydra-headed
termagant  gossip  perhaps, because the less
you see of me the more you will pine for
my society.'

Oh, Mrs Tremayne, how cold and
untrue.'

Untrue ! Oh no, believe me, Mr Des-borough,
I know your sex better than
you do yourself, though you are one of
them.'

Only tell me that you care for me just a
little, and I will patiently attend your bidding
and wait the probationary time.'

Care for you ; It will take me all that
time to read my heart  six months, was it
not ? I am not so quick at mastering a
subject as you are.'

Ah, Violet  Violet, you are seeking to
deceive yourself and me. If you do not love
me, why are you here now ? '

Not to meet you  on my oath  though I
like you all the better for suggesting it ;

most men In your position would conceitedly
have thought that I wandered this way on
the chance of an Interview, while you have
been honest enough to charge me with It. I
will be equally plain-spoken with you  I
came on a totally different errand.'

To meet some one else ? '

Perhaps  ' she laughed gaily ; ' but seethe
duke and the others have gone on  they
are nearly out of sight ; you seem absolutely
bent on compromising me.'

And before he had time to utter another
word she ran off, trilling once more the
refrain of the old French song, and leaving
him with that pregnant word ' perhaps '
rankling in his mind

DOTES YET DOUBTS.'

!jii in her mother's room at Swanover
Cottage. She is watching the
fitful flames as they come and go in a wood
fire, which has been lighted for her especial
benefit  more as a companion than on
account of chilliness ; but from the circlets
round her eyes it is obvious that her
thoughts scarcely go with her glance, but
are dwelling on some dismal subject in
connection with her own trials in life.
Matthew has gone ! A presentiment of evil
came to Claire with the knowledge that
he was to be sent away, but the last farewells
have been said. He regards the

parting only as a brief cessation of their
daily walks ; not as a broken cord, but as an
elastic band which stretched at will returns
forthwith to Its former limit. Alas ! how
often do not even elastic bands Increase
In size by stretching, and sometimes snap
at a fragile touch. To Claire, for some
indefinable reason which she could not have
explained, even to her mother, It seemed as
though the cord-elastic  call It what you
will  had already snapped. She had seen
Matthew come and go during his many
Oxford vacations, and had fed her pets as
usual, visited her poor as she was wont 
now, she lay passively there and cared to
take interest In naught. True, she had not
loved Matthew in those days, or rather she
had not owned her love ; but did It not lie
hidden In her heart, however much she
might seek to Ignore its presence ?

Matthew had gone, to come back no
more. Oh, bodily in the flesh, he would

be Instinct with life, she had no apprehension
of his speedy dissolution ; but that he would
be hers her very own to care for and to
caress she doubted. Some phantom  some
grim shadowy phantom  seemed to stand
before her, as though presiding over the
destinies of the man she loved. Lady
Laura said but little  what could she say ?
She shared all too fully her daughter's views,
and dreaded even more than she did the
influence which she felt sure would be
brought to bear on Matthew in London.

She was sitting reading, or pretending to
read, in the window, while Claire with
swollen eyes and aching brow was contemplating
the flaming fuel. At last the girl
jumped up with a sudden energy.

Mamma, this is wrong and wicked.
Matthew would be quite angry if he saw
me so dispirited ; let us go out.'

The maternal book was closed on the
instant.

J

Yes, my love, the air will, I am sure, do
you good. Why you are so down-hearted
I can't think ' (in her heart she knew full
well). ' Matthew has only gone away for a
little while.'

He has gone for ever. Some one may
come back, but it will not be Matthew ;
and what is a shell without the kernel ? '

These are mere superstitious fancies,
child ; what has he said to make you
imagine these things ? '

Nothing, mother ; but don't you think
that the people among whom Matthew has
been sent will teach him more of philosophy
than love, and that after he has been
a few weeks in this new world which
Mr Shipwright has discovered for him, I
shall appear a poor little ignorant country
mouse, possessing no power to attract or
please him.'

Claire, if you have so mean an opinion
of Matthew Desborough's faith and self-reliance,

how Is It you love him, my
child ? '

Because the heart Is wayward, I suppose,
and will not be guided by the mind's conviction.
I love Matthew because I love him,
not altogether because I trust him. Ah me ! '

My daughter, my Claire, it is a fearful
thing that you are saying ; you love without
trust, without belief. It is the most dangerous
rock against which a woman can dash
her earthly happiness.'

I know it mother  know it, oh, so well.
Have I not fought against it, been scared
by Matthew's addresses, prayed, wept when
you knew nothing of my feelings ? But the
love was strongest, and I had to yield. If
I die of misery I can resist no more.'

But why should you doubt him, Claire.
He is good and kind and manly  above
all, possessed of a strong religious faith.
He is almost too much of an enthusiast
in fact.'

Ah, mother, his zeal is hot but his faith
is weak. Matthew must have a code to
which to trust for guidance and support.
Pray God it may always be the true one.'

Lady Laura looked at Claire in some surprise
; she had never before known that her
little daughter possessed such analytical discrimination
; true, Claire had always been a
quiet thoughtful child, and perhaps from the
very fact that she had habituated herself from
infancy to think much and talk but little of
her feelings, was she the more capable of
shaping them into words, now that under the
influence of a great excitement she felt the
necessity of revealing her inmost thoughts to
her mother.

Give sorrow words ; the grief that does not speak,
Whispers the o'er-fraught heart and bids it break.'

What reason have you to think that
Matthew will fall away from his faith, my
Claire ? '

Because he wants strength of purpose,

mother, and is easily led by the opinions of
those around him.'

Yet he is clever,' murmured rather than
said Lady Laura.

Too clever, perhaps,' answered poor
Claire dolefully ; * if he did not seek to know
too much, he would be more satisfied with
what he has already learned.'

You love Matthew, yet you do not respect
him. You regard him as weak and vacillating.
Oh, Claire, it is a miserable picture ;
strange too that Mr Shipwright should form
the same judgment.'

Has he'

But Lady Laura's question remained unasked.
Claire's head was turned away, lying
among the sofa cushions, and she was sobbing
as though her heart would break.

They will take him from me in London,'
she cried. * Mr Shipwright knows full well
the effect absence will have on Matthew.'

But Claire, listen to reason ; you have

VOL. I. Q

promised to be this man's wife ; he is pledged
to you by every law of honour. If a few
months' absence makes him break his word,
how do you think it would stand a life test,
my child ? Be brave, my little girl, true to
yourself  true to your womanhood. If Matthew
is unfaithful to his allegiance, call on
your pride for armour. It is a woman's
glorious panoply, my daughter, and woe
be to her who allows it to be trampled
under her feet ; for she loses both her self-respect
and the respect of her fellows.'

Claire sat up while her mother was talking,
and wiping the large drops from her eyes,
looked at her almost vacantly, as though the
weight of all this reasoning were too much
for her aching heart and head.

I will do my best,' she said after a short
pause, ' and, mother, you will help me, will
you not ? ' Lady Laura's arms were round her,
and the aching bewildered head was laid on the
truest heart that would ever beat for Claire.

Yet Lady Laura felt she must be * cruel
only to be kind.' Nursing Claire's sick fancies
was scarcely the way to cure them, so
she bade her daughter bathe her face in fresh
cold water, put on her hat and come out.

We will go and see some of our poor
pensioners,' she said ; ' by witnessing their,
sufferings, perhaps wee shall be enabled to
forget our own. We will not talk of Matthew
any more.'

The girl, accustomed to obey her mother's
slightest wishes, complied at once. In the
course of half-an-hour they were going the
tour of the cottages, Lady Laura talking on
every subject which she thought was likely
to interest Claire ; but it was almost hopeless,
the girl's white face and pre-occupied look
disheartened the mother, who already regretted
the day when the thunder-storm had
brought about that unexpected interview.
Coming back through the little wood they
met Mr Lently  Father Lently as he elected

to be called by his parishioners. He lifted
his large soft clerical wide-awake when he
saw them, perhaps feeling as much as they
did that it was an unfortunate meeting ; but
considering the parochial relations which
existed between them, there was no alternative
but to stop.

Lady Laura had had no conversation
with Mr Lently on the subject of Matthew
Desborough, but she knew, partly by intuition
and partly from hints Matthew himself
had dropped, that some of the recent
occurrences were in accordance with the
vicar's views of seemliness and well-doing.
Perhaps she scarcely wished to discuss the
subject with him, and had consequently kept
out of his way ; be it as it might, she held
her hand out to him with all cordiality  a
cordiality which was in no wise reciprocated
in the vicar's manner. He merely touched
her fingers lightly, as he said harshly, 

I have just been to Swanover. I wish

to have a little conversation vIth you about
our young friend Matthew Desborough,
over whom It seems you have of late been
gaining an undue amount of Influence.'

Some other time I shall be very happy,'
answered Lady Laura stiffly, making an
effort to save Claire from an unpleasant discussion.


Some other time, Lady Laura ; do you
not know that by procrastination a living
soul may be lost ? '

Full well do I know it,' she said warmly.
Yet I scarcely realise that any conversation
you and I may have about Matthew touches
on so grave a subject.'

Have you not been instrumental in sending
him to London, in order that, away from
my teaching, he may be more amenable to
your views ? '

The question is so injurious as to be
almost insulting,' and Lady Laura reddened,
as she drew herself up proudly.

He seemed somewhat astonished ; in the
character of the good, benevolent, amiable
Lady Laura, he had forgotten to look for the
substratum of pride which she, however,
knew full well how to lay bare at will. Before
he had time to make any remark, she
went on, 

You will kindly allow me to postpone
the discussion of this subject ; fix any
hour you like, and I will grant you an
interview.'

Lady Laura dictating terms and time to
that arch-autocrat, the Vicar of Ravensholme,
was so utterly paradoxical that, strange to
say, from its very novelty, it was blandly
received.

To-morrow after matins,' he said, as he
once more lifted his soft hat.

Lady Laura bowed and passed on,
followed by Claire, who looked utterly
bewildered.

Mr Lently had never even looked at her,
and to find herself thoroughly ignored by her
pastor was another drop of bitterness added
to the cup, which was filling all too completely
for poor Claire's powers of endurance.


Mamma, what does it mean ? Have I
done anything wicked ? ' she asked as soon
as Mr Lently was out of hearing.

You ?  no, my child. It means that you
and Matthew are being made the victims of
the dissensions which are rending our poor
dear English Church. Rival opinions are
fighting for Matthew  poor Matthew ! May
he have strength to bear the brunt of the
conflict ! '

Oh, mamma ! how very dreadful it all is !
What can I do ? '

Nothing, Claire, but pray and be patient ;
be true to your faith and to yourself, and if,
as God grant may not prove the case, you

have drawn a blank in the great lottery of
life, remember you will not be the first
woman who has suffered for her love's
sake.'

END OF VOL I.

COLSTON AND SON, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

OF THE

UN IVLR5ITY

or ILLINOIS

M5-84S

'-\

{~ll-

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

i
http://www.archive.org/details/sackclothbroadcl02midd j



SACKCLOTH AND BROADCLOTH.

A NO V E L.

BY

JEAN Middlemost,

AUTHOR OF WILD GEORGIE, SEALED BY A KISS, Innocence AT PLAY,
ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. II.

TINSLEY BROTHERS,

CATHERINE STREET, STRAND,

LONDON.

I 88 I.

\AU Rights re served. '\

Sackcloth and Broadcloth.

CHAPTER I.

LADY VALENTIN A.

A PA can never go to a ball 
out getting a headache, unless
he is home in time to hear his
own clock strike one.'

This interesting physical fact was enunciated
in her usual dead level way by Valentine,
only daughter of the fourteenth Earl
of Beaurepaire, as she sat armed cap-d-pie
against such cold as there was in the super-portal
gardener of their house in Belgrade
Square. Her remark was in response to
a half-serious, half-playful reproof she had

VOL. IL A

just received from the Duchess of month's,
for having left her ball  a fete de
noces given in honour of the duke's niece 
the previous evening. It was about two
o'clock in the afternoon, and the two
ladies were sitting together enjoying some
unusually bright gleams of November sunshine.


Lady Valentina, a distant relation of the
duke's, was of a very different world to that
in which Mrs Tremayne, the duchess's usual
associate, moved.

Till one happens to want, and consequently
to seek a specimen, the extreme
rarity of typical individuals is but seldom
realised.

To be the type of a class, the first requisite
is the absence of all strongly-marked personal
characteristics. By the same rule that
a mesmerist is never a good subject for
mesmerism, so a typical individual is constituted
but to reflect the general character

of his surroundings, and not to Influence
or Impress them with any part of his own
idiosyncrasy. Lady Valentina was a strong
case in point, though the large yet terribly
select world in which she moved, offers but
few typical specimens of distinguished men
or women.

In the most recherches assembly of, say
three hundred people, we venture to affirm
that it will always be difficult  often impossible
 to select three persons of each sex
who, seen singly, and In any unusual position,
in a bathing dress, or down a coal mine for
instance, would at once impress a casual observer
with their unconscious but indelible
air noble. Lady Valentina's associates were
all of what is vulgarly styled ' the first cream.'
All had much the same training, blood, and
opportunities as herself ; but the difference
lay in the fact that they for the most part
only possessed negatively, what existed in
her so to speak actively. They were not

in any way common or ill bred ; but she
was noticeably the reverse.

Two negatives make one affirmative,'
saith the grammar, an indefinite number of
negatives made up the strong affirmative
which rendered the noble Valentina a class-type
; the hauteur stamped upon her nature
and royal beauty being due chiefly to the
permanent banishment of every other expression.


Her speech was devoid of rise or fall ;
she was not clever, though she possessed
admirable sense ; she was not witty, not
accomplished in any just sense of the word,
not enthusiastic about anything in the universe,
not learned, not even ignorant.

This sketch of her characteristics would
scarcely denote her as remarkable were one
strong, almost startling individuality omitted
her marvellous, almost tremendous repose.
The Duchess of Monarchs \N2iS grande dame
to a degree that crushed the uninitiated ;

but all the lustre of her queenllness paled
before the more effortless unarmed at tranquillity
of the imperial Valentina.

I regret exceedingly Lord Beaurepaire's
fear of headache, since your early departure
last night prevented you from making fuller
acquaintance with my young protege'

Mr Desborough ? '

Yes, Matthew Desborough. George is
very amusing and quite nice, but he is not
altogether the sort of man to be patronised

Ah ! I do not know him except by sight
and name ; but your young friend seems very
pleasant. He is engaged to be married, is
he not ? '

Now who on earth told you that ? '

Mrs Tremayne.'

Violet Tremayne is a fool. If a man
looks at a girl twice, she always says they
are engaged.'

Oh, that is all ! ' and Lady Valentina
reclined yet more comfortably in her chair,

and gave her soft satin skirts a wider
expanse. There was a short pause, broken
by a remark from the duchess, uttered as
if she were half afraid of offending her
companion.

Report has linked your name with that
of Lord Casdetowers,' she said very daintily.
If there is any truth in It, why not have
told me  one of your oldest friends.'

Lord Castletowers ! ' and Lady Valentine's
eyebrows arched. * His grandmother
was a milliner.'

And must the blood be noble } ' asked the
duchess. ' Has love no levelling power ? '

Love ! ' and the word was spoken with
an expression of supreme contempt. ' I care
not for titles so the race be pure.'

As long as the aristocracies of rank and
wealth commingle, what matter ? ' The
duchess laughed forcedly  she herself had
brought money from cottonocracy into the
ducal house of Monarchs. ' Then Matthew

Desborough will be especially recommended
to you. His sixteen quarterings
are without a flaw  not noble, except
in some alliances, but traceable back
as far as the Norman kings ; there is
never a link missing in the genealogy of
the squires of Vantage, and Mrs Des-borough's
father was a Tenterden  a name
which is a host in itself ; her mother a
Scrivener, one of us, you know, while
her grandmother  *

My dear duchess, pray have mercy. I
am not going to pass a genealogical examination.
Your Mr Matthew Desborough is
charming  what can I say more ? and withal
good-looking ; he has but one fault  youth.'

That is a very trifling one, my dear
Valentina.'

Not altogether. He is so impetuous,
so zealous  in fact so young that he makes
me feel quite maternal.*

Borrow some of his redundancy of

colouring  its absence is the one want in
your character, if I may venture to say
what I think.'

You, duchess ; oh, yes, of course you
are privileged to speak as you please, still
I disagree with you. Nothing, according to
my opinion, is so detestable as strongly-marked
individual qualities. Did I unfortunately
possess them, I would devote my
life to uprooting them as though they were
upas trees.'

Yet vapidity is surely a worse poison
than originality,' persisted the duchess.
For my part, I would rather be called
clever than bon ton; but not being clever,
I try to faire valor" my position. I am
sure that the world would be very stupid
if everybody was  of us.'

Oh, duchess ! how can you hold such
heretical opinions. I once heard one of
papa's political friends say that refinement
is death to originality, and I instantly voted

him a boor, and took no farther trouble to
talk to him, though I was told he was
amiable and 2l parti'

Lord Beaurepaire Is very anxious you
should marry,' said the duchess ; ' he was
talking to me about it only a day or two
ago.'

A faint flush spread Itself over Lady
Valentina's proud face. She was eights
it was true, but she felt so certain
that having remained single till that
age was entirely her own doing, that she did
not choose to have an opposite view of the
case even hinted at, far less that the matter
should be discussed, as though a topic of
mere sale or barter, by her father and the
duchess.

When I find an individual who suits mein
every respect, perhaps Lord Beauregard's
wish will be gratified,' she said with a quiet
dignity that made the duchess smile.

Ideal men are rare. You may spend a

lifetime in the search, neglecting meanwhile
the practical exigencies of life.'

Exigencies, my dear duchess. Is marriage
an exigency ? *

In some cases  yes. You are an only
child. At Lord Beaurepaire's death his title
and estates will o to a distant cousin, with
whom I know you have but little sympathy.
Do you never think what your position maybe
then ? '

Perhaps. But my father is strong 
young for his age ; the time is distant,' and
there was just a little choke about Lady
Valentina's voice as she spoke ; her love for
Lord Beaurepaire was as yet the strongest
feeling of which her heart had been capable.

That is all true, my dear child, and sincerely
do I hope that Lord Beaurepaire may
live many, many years; still, I think it would
add very much to his longevity if he could
see you happily married.'

Has he commissioned you to tell me this ? 

No ; I am entirely taking the Initiative.
I have been so successful myself in the
matrimonial market, you see, that I should
like you to follow my example.'

Find another Duke of Montarlls,' and
Lady Valentina smiled aloud ; never would
she be guilty of so vulgar a recreation asa
laugh.

Now the duchess, for reasons of her own,
had planned in her head an alliance between
Lady Valentina and no more exalted an Individual
than Matthew Desborough. What
did Lady Valentina want with a duke ?
She was in a position to confer rank ; it
was quite unnecessary that she should receive
it. So partly to oblige her dear friend
Mrs Desborough, but much more at the
instigation of Mr Sivewrlght, she had undertaken
to do her best In arranging this marriage.
Poor Claire ; she was Ignorant of
the powerful engines that had been set at
work to separate her from Matthew. As

yet, however, but little harm was done.
Matthew had been more astonished and
awed than pleasurably impressed by Lady
Valentina's cold majestic bearing ; while she
had regarded him as a mere cipher  a handsome
boy, who looked well in a drawing-room,
and whom the great ladies would
consequence invite to their parties. The
duchess was quite sufficiently au contract
with the workings of life to be aware that
the bare mention of Matthew's name at this
juncture would at once frustrate all her
schemes ; so she merely answered Lady Valentina's
last remark by saying carelessly, 

Proud as I am of Monarchs, I scarcely
think him to be the only matrimonial prize.
We must use all our woman's acumen, my
dear Valentina, and see if we cannot sift
the good qualities from the bad ones among
our masculine acquaintances. You have already
acknowledged, In your allusion to the
duke, that I am not deficient In discernment.'

You can do as you like, but remember
I have not given my consent,' said Lady
Valentina stiffly.

The conversation was at this moment interrupted
by the advent of Lord Beaurepaire,
a grand specimen of blue blood, courteous
and charming ; in appearance and bearing
a very race-horse.

My dear child, you will take cold.
Duchess, is this wise ? Remember it is
November, though the sun does shine
feebly.'

'It is so refreshing to sit here after last
night's ball,' pleaded the duchess. ' You see
I did not go to bed this morning on the
stroke of one.'

No ; I am afraid we ran away rather
early. But I own to being fond of my
bed ; and as far as Valentina is concerned,
I think a lady should never leave a ballroom
less fresh than when she entered it.'

Indeed ! ' said the duchess archly, perhaps

she thought of the wild dance, the lone
nights devoted to Terpsichore she had
passed in those eventful years never alluded
to now  before she had entered the charmed
precincts of the aristocracy.

You agree with papa, I am sure,' put in
Lady Valentina. ' It does look horrid to
see a woman go home with her dress
chiffonn and torn, her hair cripples, her
flowers flattened.'

Of course I do ; but why is so dissipated
an alternative necessary. It is only the
romps of society who waste their clothes
and their appearance in so wanton a manner.
Violet Tremayne danced till four this morning,
and her toilette looked as if it had just
arrived from Paris.'

Mrs Tremayne is a singularly happy
instance of a woman who allows herself the
freedom of being a little fast, without overstepping
the boundaries of good taste and
decorum,' said Lord Beaurepaire warmly.

The duchess smiled ; perhaps she thought
how utterly those within the pale fail, as a
rule, to detect the adventuress, if the part be
acted with the faintest amount of cleverness
and dash, much less when played by so accomplished
a comedian as Violet Tremayne.
In fact, the duchess was very much astonished
at the manner in which Mrs Tremayne
was accepted, even feted, by very fastidious
people, especially by those arch exclusionists
the Beaurepaires. And who shall say
but that, in strict privacy, the duchess and
her friend did not ungratefully indulge in
many a laugh and joke at the expense of the
great world into which they had been so
amiably received ?

The arrival of Lord Beaurepaire had put
a stop for a time to the intimate conversation
of the two ladies ; and as a chill was
creeping over the unusually bright afternoon,
the duchess rose to take her departure, not
altogether dissatisfied with her first step

in the art of match-making, though
baby any other but herself would have
believed no ground whatever had been
gained.

Delightful woman the duchess, so graceful
and refined,' Lord Beaurepaire observed
to his daughter when they were alone.

His early retreat from the ball had evidently
put him in a good humour, for he
seemed particularly eulogistic of humanity
that afternoon, especially of the female portion.
Could it be that Violet Tremayne 
but no, she would never have dared.

The duchess has got a new protege, a
Mr Matthew Desborough,' said Lady Valentine
quietly  a boy ; his people live somewhere
near Monarchs.'

A very handsome youth. I saw him
last night, of course ; dear me, I knew his
mother well in fifty  ; but no, I won't go
into dates. We'll ask the boy to dinner,
Valentina ; it will only be kind.'

If you like, papa ; but very young men
are generally bores, they are so offensive
and overpowering.'

Do us good, dear ; we want a little freshness
and light sometimes, I am not sure
you and I, living for each other as much as
we do, have not become rather shadowy.
My Valentina must not become old before
her hair whitens,* and Lord Beaurepaire
smoothed his daughter's jet black hair, as
it was collect classically round her head without
a straggling lock to mark that she lived
in an age when fashion takes furze bushes
and birds' nests as models for ladies' coiffures.
Lady Valentine smiled under the paternal
caress, and gave her consent about inviting
Matthew ; perhaps he would bring a fusion
of young life into their circle, she thought,
and then she wondered what feeling young
was like  gush and abandon and impetuosity
had ever been unknown to Lady Valentina
 it was not that she suppressed them

VOL. II. B

for the sake of propriety, but that a wild
pulse-beat from any sudden cause would
have been impossible to her.

So Lord Beaurepaire wrote a kind note
of invitation to Matthew, telling him of his
early acquaintance with his mother, and the
second step was taken along the winding
path the Duchess of Monarchs had marked
out and planted with rose trees.

HARD ROADS.

Matthew had had a good deal of
experience in tutors, having been
so wayward a pupil as to necessitate
frequent change ; but he had never
before been placed under a preceptor of
Mr Wharton's type. In fact, life in Gower
Street, where Mr Wharton lived, was so
different from anything Matthew had ever
seen before, that at first he seemed as it
were paralysed. He was the only pupil residing
in the house, though several young
men of very free opinions came daily to
read hard classics with the learned Wharton
It will be suggested that Matthew had been

at Oxford  consequently he must have been
thrown into the society of men of every
denomination and grade of character ; but
Matthew had eschewed the companionship
of those who did not indulge in his own
peculiar tenets and views ; and they, forming
a set of their own, knew but little of the
ways and thoughts of those who elected to
pursue a more worldly course.

The ideas and remarks then which fell
quite naturally from the lips of his new associates,
filled Matthew's mind with terror,
and made him at first feel even more unhappy
than he had done during the last few
weeks while he had given himself up to the
torturing conflicts of a mind ill at ease. If
holy and reverend things had been scoffed
at, Matthew would have been less aghast ;
but to meet people who seriously and
honestly believed in their non-existence was
a new phase in human short-sightedness with
which he had never as yet been brought

into personal contact. All the young men
who read with Mr Wharton were energetic
students (he would keep no others) qualifying
themselves for what they trusted would prove
brilliant careers of learning, while with no
exception each one of them was searching
diligently for truth under a master who,
though he in no way sought to control their
opinions, yet proved in occasional discussions
that the temper of his own mind led
him into the broad fields of much self-operation.


Mr Wharton was a cheery little man with
a stentorian voice and bluff manners  the
very opposite of his friend Mr Shipwright,
whose high breeding was completely lost on
him ; in fact they did not seem to have any
common meeting ground, except that of distinguished
intellectual endowments. As you
looked at the rough ready style of the Gower
Street interior, you could not help wondering
how the luxury-loving Shipwright could tolerate

or recommend such a total absence of
the civilising amenities and good things of
life. Whereas Mr Shipwright's philosophy-gave
him epicurean tendencies, that of Mr
Wharton taught him to regard as wanton
every indulgence that was not an absolute
necessity. The living, though ample, was of
the plainest. Indifferently cooked, coarsely
served, and eaten hurriedly, because forsooth
the short day left no time to be bestowed on
consideration for the digestive organs. The
furniture of the house was shabby and scant,
carpets and fires being luxuries In which Mr
Wharton himself Indulged but very moderately,
though he was ready to provide them in
all generosity to his pupils, his own disregard
for comfortable details arising entirely from a
want of taste for them, not in the least from
a wish to air any outward exhibition of philosophical
austerity. One room in the house
seemed to have usurped for itself all the light ;
this was where old Mrs Wharton, the tutor's

mother, sat day by day by the chimney corner.
She was his sole surviving relation, and was
very feeble and infirm, but her pleasant cheery
old face shone out with humanising womanly
softness from among the ponderous fusty
tomes in which the house abounded  it gladdened
the philosopher's heart meanwhile, and
gave him an interest and a joy in life which
all his erudition and deep researches could
never have afforded.

To Matthew, old Mrs Wharton seemed
like an angel sent by God to help him to
endure ; true, she could not argue with him
poor aged body, she was long past that 
even had she excelled in it in her time ; but
Mrs Wharton had never aspired to being
more than a genial kindly woman, who left
cleverness to the men, and this she would
remain to the end. It was no infrequent
occurrence for Matthew to steal into Mrs
Wharton's little parlour and spend half-an-hour
chatting to the old lady, while he knelt

on the hearth-rug warming himself before
the fire ; then, and then only, did he seem to
forget for a brief space the turmoils of life,
and a strange picture was presented by this
very young man kneeling at the feet of the
octogenarian confidante, to whom, before he
had been in Gower Street many days, he had
told all the simple story of his love for pretty
Claire. This was scarcely perhaps what
either his mother or the Vicar of Fernwood
had intended in sending him to London ; yet
Mr Wharton did not interfere, he had sufficient
scrutiny to discover at first sight that Matthew
possessed one of these excitable impressionable
temperaments which, without
soothing womanly influence, would overstretch
itself, till guidance would be impossible
; he noticed that the boy was unhappy,
and therefore allowed him to go his own way
for a time without any interference from him.
The fact was, Mr Wharton was a little
puzzled by Matthew ; there were so many

contradictions in his nature, that when the
master thought he had discovered a tiny point
to work on, some new crotchet would arise
and upset all his calculations. There was no
want of cleverness about the youth, that, he
was compelled to avow ; he was quick and
sharp beyond the average, but had such a
total incapability for classifying his ideas as
to render a teacher perfectly hopeless. If he
would only give up all idea of entering a
learned profession, he might take a very
fair position in life as an agreeable accomplished
member of society ; but make his
way by his brains, except as far perhaps as
writing an occasional brilliant article, startling
the world with a thought or thoughts which
he would not have the logic to sustain,  this
was all Mr Wharton hoped for Matthew ;
though his opinions being as yet very nascent,
he had not judged it expedient to give them
even to his friend Shipwright until he should
have had more opportunity of maturing them.

As far as religious views went, Mr Wharton
had the honesty to decide that it were unwise
and unkind to tamper with Matthew's faith.

He has not the grasp of mind which
can find its level unaided ; moral philosophy-would
be wholly insufficient to satisfy him.
Men of his calibre invariably give themselves
up entirely either to some formulated faith,
or to the systematic pursuit of vice. His
family may thank their stars that his predilections
have taken a pious turn.

So reasoned this astute man of the world,
who for the last five-and-twenty years had
made developing youth the chief study of
his life, and fortunate it was for Matthew
that his arguments took this turn ; for the
misery and unhappiness he would have
endured, if subjected to a course of enforced
abnegation of his religious opinions, would
have been past all endurance.

As it was, the training at Mr Wharton's
was no useless one to Matthew. His tutor

was invariably Impressing on him the
necessity and the possibility of bringing
his Ideas under the yoke of work,  concentration
of mind on any given subject even
for an hour in the day being a difficulty
which Matthew had never as yet been able
to conquer. Now Mr Wharton, as he appeared
to the outside world and to his
pupils during the hours of recreation, was
a genial, easy-going, and at the same time
a highly intellectual man, whose conversation,
though rough and to the point, was always
replete with sarcastic humour, while nevertheless
it gave strong evidence of much
good-heartiness, which he seemed to be
making a perpetual effort to repress. In
truth, simply to converse with Mr Wharton
was no mean advantage, and one which
many a young neophyte in philosophy would
have accepted with avidity ; how far more
grateful then were the pupils with whom he
not only talked daily on all the multitudinous

subjects which his extended knowledge
embraced, but to whom he gave particular
instruction on the various topics to which
each one felt himself especially drawn ; indeed,
all his young friends appreciated this to the
fullest, save Matthew, who looked on Mr
Wharton's teaching as a hard, cold, lifeless
lesson.

The young zealot was too bigoted to
feel that there was any desirable object to
be attained in the pursuit of knowledge for
knowledge's sake ; he failed utterly to recognise
any aim in enlarging the mental
capabilities. The fields of philosophy were
to him as a vast graceless desert ; the history
of antiquity, with its classical allusions,
an utterly useless study, since it had no
Bible relations ; and though he was compelled
at times to listen to the conversation
going on in Gower Street between master
and pupils, it was always with a sort of
protest at his heart. But though they might

accept the privilege or not as they pleased
of conversing with him at other times, in
the study Mr Wharton gave the young men
under his charge no option, for a given
number of hours they must work resolutely
and determinedly  remembering that their
entire future career depended on their exertions
now  while he presided as autocrat,
slurring over no faults and severely dealing
with every inaccuracy, however slight.

Thus then, as far as his mother and Mr
Shipwright were concerned, things were
going well with Matthew. He was learning,
slowly it is true, to adopt habits of
thought, and he was certainly being trained
out of the Church, if that were a desirable
object ; for he was daily, nay hourly, becoming
more and more cognisant of the fact,
that it was futile in him to hope to be a
teacher of men, since it was obvious that
most of his fellows had much more knowledge
than he had. Poor Matthew, it would

indeed have proved bewildering to a stronger
mind than his, this sudden plunging into
a coterie of thinkers, who allowed themselves
to be actuated by reason alone ; but, added to
this, he was being initiated in the ways of
London society  another terra incognita 
under the auspices of Lord Beaurepaire and
Lady Valentina, at whose house he had
dined more than once since his arrival in
town, not to speak of two little dinners at
the Duchess of Monarchs, who seemed quite
to have taken Matthew under her sheltering
wing, and who evidently contemplated a
little match-making, wholly ignoring the
affair with Claire Bailey, doubtless at the
instigation of Mrs Desborough. From
every one with whom he came in contact,
he heard Mr Wharton's praises chanted, ' he
was so clever, so deeply read  Matthew
was most fortunate in being placed with so
able a man.' Thus ran the refrain, till
Matthew, being influenced to a certain extent

by the old axiom that what everybody says
must be true, began to accept Mr Wharton
as the Socrates every one proclaimed him
to be. Scarcely then, after the first week
or two had passed, could he deem his life
in Gower Street an unhappy one  it was
too full of wholesome occupation for him
to have much time to dwell on the dark
fancies and scrupulous quibbles of church
law and of faith, on which he had been for
so long prone to dwell. Each hour, each
section of an hour, there were presented to
him fresh phases for his mental calculation
of which he had never dreamed before,
rushing with his thoughts, turning them
from Lently and his school into, it is true,
a sort of chaos, but a chaos from which
Mr Wharton hoped he would attain a clearer,
more prosaic view in life.

Matthew's letters home at this juncture
were short and scarcely explanatory of his
feelings. He told of his doings in the world

of fashion, but little of his scholastic life,
because forsooth that life was to himself
an enigma which he was at present only
seeking somewhat vaguely to guess. To
Claire Bailey he had written but twice, and
on each occasion very succinctly. What
could she understand of the feelings which
were actuating him in his new life, and even
if she could, what right had he to risk her
clear undimmed faith, by exposing it to
any contact, however remote, with the new
phases of thought which had of late been
presented to his notice? Such was his argument,
whenever he sat down to write, so he
threw away his pen.

Excitement Matthew loved, and excitement
he found among the hard truths propounded,
though his fellow students, who
had been tramping for years the highways
of literature, would scarcely have suspected
the amount of feverish agitation their dry-adust
studies had aroused In his heart ;

but then they could not possibly guess that
what was substantial food to them, food
which from years of habit they had learned
thoroughly to digest, came to Matthew as
strange and unwholesome, even if he regarded
it as an alimentary substance at all.

He had been three weeks in Gower Street
three weeks as far as faith was concerned
spent in stumbling over huge blocks of
reasoning and logic. During the latter portion
of the time he had given up his attendance
at daily service, not because Mr Wharton's
hours of study interfered with the same,
but because he found that amid the new ideas
with which his mind was overstocked, there
was no place for religious fervour. If ever a
poor soul travailing in anguish needed a sympathising
voice to cheer it, an understanding
spirit to help it, Matthew's was that soul.
Among all the witnesses of his perplexities
there was not one who, holding out the right
hand of fellowship, could say, ' I, too, have

VOL. II. c

passed through the same ordeal of suffering.
I have felt your scruples, known your doubts,
and see how I at last have landed on firm
substantial ground.'

The chief evil lay in that INIatthew's religious
start had been made under difficulties,
seeing that he had no implicit belief in his
great high priest, Mr Lently. Had this, his
first instructor been more practical and less
effusive in his treatment of spiritual things,
he would have given his young highly imaginative
disciple a clearer Idea of duty, by
leading him into its habitual practice, instead
of tickling his senses by perpetual mystical
revelations.

Hard reading, self-application, restraint,
a high moral tone, all this Matthew would
doubtless learn at Mr Wharton's ; but the
sympathising human voice which should strike
a kindred chord in his mind  vacillating as it
was from the very fervour with which it was
filled  would not make itself heard in the

Govver Street household. Happy the day
for Matthew when it should be awakened,
and pray God that naught may occur to
still it, for, to quote an eighteenth century
essayist, 

When two beings naturally allied meet,
it may be regarded as the greatest blessing
that can befall them in this world, for this
similarity is so rare that, if overlooked in
one, it may never be found in another.*

A CONJUGAL TETE-astute.

R DESBOROUGH's private
room at Vantage Park is, as far
as untidiness goes, a replica of
Mr Lently's. He loves to pass his time
among endless papers and old books, sorting,
investigating, jotting down tangled points in
art and archaeology ; nor does he like his pet
companions to be touched by the ruthless
hand of a barbarian, and he wages open war
against feather brooms and dusters, never
allowing his papers to be arranged, except
about twice in the year, when, with Matthew's
assistance, they undergo a regular
sifting and straightening. He is deeply

engaged in the study of some old Syracuse
rites, when his researches are interrupted
by the entrance of his wife. He
looks astonished ; she never, as a rule,
invades his premises, having, as she
invariably shows by her manner a perfect
contempt for what she calls his toy
knowledge, her own erudition being
directed in a very different channel.

Is anything the matter, my dear Minnie
? ' he asks a little nervously as he
pushes a chair towards her, and watches
the almost set expression of her face.

It is provoking, Mr Desborough, that you
cannot remain quietly in your own province,
and leave me undisputed government in my
part of the domestic territory,' she says
rather doggedly, as she sits down in the
arm-chair by the fire, and draws closely
round her a large black shawl, in which she
invariably wraps herself when desperately
aggrieved.

I ? my dear Minnie. What have I done ?
Nothing that I am aware of. I always leave
you full sway,' and the squire of Vantage
looks rather frightened.

You went yesterday afternoon to call on
Lady Laura Bailey.'

Well, my love, I have called from time to
time on Lady Laura, ever since she came to
Swanover Cottage.'

I daresay you have, Mr Desborough, a
great deal too often ; but that is not the casein
point. You agreed that Matthew should
be sent to London, in order to facilitate the
breaking off of this silly engagement between
him and Claire, and you yourself keep the
flame alive by going there.'

I did not know you wished me to quarrel
with Lady Laura, my love.'

I wish you to quarrel with Lady Laura ?
Really you are too provoking. I don't care
whether you quarrel with her or not ; but I
think it is very ill-advised that you should

call there just now, exactly as if you, in opposition
to me, wished to encourage the thing
for Matthew.'

I can't see it,' said Mr Desborough
meekly ; * I did not make love to Claire.'

Good gracious ! I should hope not,
Richard. You must be mad to talk such
nonsense ; anyone would think that you
would have sufficient discernment to know
that your calling at Swanover just now
looks exactly as if you approved of the
whole thing, and that mine was the only
dissentient voice.'

Lady Laura is an old friend of mine. I
did not think of the children's love-making.
I am sure we never alluded to it.'

I daresay not ; you were probably too
much taken up with yourselves.'

Very unjust of Mrs Desborough was this
remark. She could form strong male friendships
for her own part, yet she grudged her
husband his innocent little amitids defence.

It is fortunate if we were,' he answered
with a smile, 'since it saved us from talking
on a forbidden subject. It occurs to me
now, however, that Lady Laura was rather
silent and preoccupied.'

Of course she has tact enough to see that
your calling on her just now was a gross
piece of masculine clumsiness. I should
really have thought, Mr Desborough, after
all the years you have been married to me,
that you would have had a nicer perception
of the fitness of things.'

*Yes,' he said very quietly, 'it is odd I
cannot see clearly at all times ; but then you
get so much more kvo for your perspicacity.'

It was always rather difficult to know when
Mr Desborough was in earnest, and when he
was poking sly fun at his wife.

What nonsense you do talk ; but it is
useless for me to say anything. If I had
told you this morning not to go to Swan-over,
you would only have argued the point

and gone all the same. Men are so obstinate.
I had a letter from Matthew this morning.'
Good news ? '

Socially, he seems to be very well placed,
if he only could get rid of those fanatical
opinions which are the bugbear to his advancement.
He has been dining at Lord
Beaurepaire's.'

Fine old fellow Beaurepaire. Kind of
him to ask Matthew. I should not think he
cared much for boys.'

Of course you disparage your own belongings,
Mr Desborough ; you always do.
Matthew is perfectly fit to hold his own in
any society. He is certainly not wanting
in cleverness, though he is not a favourite
of yours. I must beg that you will not insinuate
to Lord Beaurepaire that Matthew
is not eligible for his set. I have great
hopes from the introduction.'

My dear Minnie, am I likely to see Lord
Beaurepaire ? You are unusually severe in

your remarks this morning. What has
happened ? '

I have been excessively annoyed for some
days past ; anyone but yourself would have
remarked It,' and Mrs Desborough held
her handkerchief to her eyes for a minute, as
though there were tears In them she wished
to dry. ' We are living In the midst of a
cabal, my dear Richard.'

Good gracious ! my love. You don't
mean it ? No  '

It is true, nevertheless, and it makes me
very miserable.'

But what is it, Minnie ? I don't understand
In the least.'

The future of both our sons is a subject
of deep anxiety  deep, prayerful anxiety.'

Now, Mr Desborough had heard this fact
stated periodically for many years past ; the
only part of the declaration that was new to
him was the word cabal. He was curious
to ascertain what tangle in the events of

every-day life she had magnified into a
cabal ; but he knew, from past experience,
that to seem desirous of receiving information
was the surest way to prevent himself
from obtaining it, so he only said
quietly, 

They must qualify for their respective
positions in the world, as their forefathers
have had to do before them.'

Of course, Mr Desborough, that is all
the interest you take in the welfare of your
boys ; if all the adventuresses in Europe
were to fight for them, you would only smile.'

My dear Minnie, you surely do not
designate poor little Claire Bailey as an
adventuress ? '

Claire Bailey is a little fool. I am not
referring to her in the very least. But you
can think of nothing but Matthew, you quite
ignore poor George.'

She entirely forgot that, five minutes before,
she had accused him of slighting Matthew.

George beset by an adventuress ? Why,
he is becoming quite a hero of romance.
Ever since that Dutch journey of his it
has  '

Exactly, that is it ; for once you are
on the right track,' cried Mrs Desborough
eagerly, interrupting him. ' Ever since that
Dutch journey our poor George has not
been like the same man  since that horrid
little woman bewitched him, in fact'

You don't mean Mrs Tremayne ? Why,
only a few days ago you declared her to be
so very charming ! '

What a happy knack you have of reminding
one of mistakes,' she said angrily.

A mistake, was it ? So Mrs Tremayne
is a mistake ? '

It must be allowed that Mr Desborough's
manner and remarks were most irritating ;
but he knew so well that by the spur thus
slightly but perpetually administered would
he alone arrive at the gist of her story,

that he had no compunction at the infliction.


She is a vile, designing, good-for-nothing
little woman.'

Mr Desborough drew a long breath.

And the duchess ? ' he asked.

Oh, I suppose the duchess has been imposed
on like the rest. It is time her eyes
were opened.'

Perhaps you have been misinformed. It
is a serious thing to malign a woman's reputation.
It were wise to be careful, Minnie.'
And Mr Desborough began to turn his papers
over as though he regarded the whole affair
in the light of an old wife's tale, and would
fain be done with it. Mrs Desborough's
next remark, however, made him look round.

Mr Shipwright does not generally speak
about what he does not know for certain.'

Shipwright ? '

*Yes. He told me yesterday  in strict
secrecy, of course.'

Told you what ? '

That he beeves Mrs Tremayne's object
is to marry George.'

Is that all ? I suspect It is the object of
a good many women to marry George, since
he is the heir to a good estate,' said his
father laughing. ' I should not trouble myself
about that if I were you. George is
very capable of taking care of himself

Of course you have never noticed that
George has been quite hipped and low ever
since that balloon affair.'

No wonder, it was a stupid business. I
am not surprised he is ashamed of it  setting
the whole county talking for the sake of
such folly.'

Condemning your own flesh and blood
again as usual ; and that brazen minx who
induced him to go  you say nothing about her.'
I think they both behaved like silly
children,' answered ]mr Desborough ; 'farther
than that, there is not much to say.'

Do you wish George to marry Mrs
Tremayne?' asked Mrs Desborough very
petulantly.

The squire shrugged his shoulders.

I think it would be wiser if both George
and Matthew put off all thought of marrying
for the next ten years ; but Mrs Tremayne
is a nice lively little woman. I do not, however,
imagine he has any serious intentions.'

Nice merry little woman ! a thorough
man's verdict. I tell you she is an adventuress,
and is not fit to be in our society
at all.'

 Only last week you thought her a piece
of perfection, my love.'

You know, Richard, I have been quite
ddsillusionde about Mrs Tremayne ever since
the balloon business, and now I know that
she is thoroughly good for nothing. I am
utterly puzzled how to act. I don't dare
speak to the duchess, and yet for George's
sake  '

Mr Desborough left off sorting his papers,
wheeled his chair right round, and confronted
his wife.

My dear Minnie, you do not really
seriously mean that you attach any importance
to this gossip.'

Mr Shipwright does not usually indulge in
idle words,' she answered, pursing up her lips.

And he advises  '

He advises nothing  he only warns
against Mrs Tremayne's machinations.'

Well, she is in London, perhaps she will
stay there, and George is at Bicester. There
is no immediate danger.'

Oh, if you are going to take the thing inspirit,
I must call some one else into my
counsels. Consult Mr Shipwright, in fact,'
and Mrs Desborough got up and looked
magnificent.

Perhaps she only wanted an excuse to
abide by the Rev. Lawrence's judgment.
Conscience prompted that her husband was

the first person who ought to be appealed to
in family matters ; but of course if he did
not perceive that there was any cause for
alarm or action, she had done her duty in
warning him, and it was his fault if the
course she elected to follow was the result
of extraneous influence. And Mr Des-borough
was nothing loth to be left with
his old papers and researches. Perfect
peace was all he craved ; he was very idle
and procrastinating about practical matters.
It was not at all part of his system of life to
look a-head for troubles which might never
arrive, and in this light he viewed the supposed
imbroglio between George and Mrs
Tremayne.

Well, my dear, I daresay Shipwright will
be better able to advise in the matter than I
am. He is a safe man  will not let you get
into any trouble about character and all that
sort of thing. Do be careful, my love ; you
know there is nothing I hate like a county

VOL. II. D

spar, and the duke is sure to take it up if
you asperse Mrs Remaineth

duke ! ' and with a toss, signifying
the most supreme contempt, Mrs Des-borough
flounced out of the room, holding her
shawl very tightly round her neck as she
crossed the corridor which led from Mr Des-borough's
sitting-room to her own sanctum.
There she sat down, and dropping the high
tone she had assumed in her husband's presence
she looked very dismal and out of spirits.
Both her sons were away, which was a fact
in which Mrs Desborough did not rejoice.
She loved to hear the sound of male voices
in the house, and furthermore, about neither
of them did she feel particularly happy.

Probably she magnified the grievance from
the reason that to the heart of Mrs Des-borough
a grievance was dear  hers was a
nature that required a certain amount of
excitement to cherish it, and whether the
excitement came in a pleasurable or a questionable

form, it was equally welcome since
it gave her an object for movement.

Mr Shipwright, during a visit he had paid
her three or four days before, had casually
asked her if there were any flirtations afoot
between George and Mrs Tremayne, observing
as he did so that the widow was
slightly flighty. No more had the rev.
gentleman averred ; he was a safe man, as the
squire had remarked. He guessed, moreover,
in all probability how his meaning
would be enhanced, his words embroidered,
till out of nothing would grow the thing of
magnitude he perhaps desired to see. If
such were his intention, it had succeeded
beyond his desires, for in three days Mrs
Desborough had worked herself into a perfect
fever about the man-trap which had been
set for poor George by that good-for-nothing
little woman  a fever which Mr Desborough's
cooling draught had in no wise allayed.

Since that afternoon the vicar had not

 ,r.yy

iVBHHV- (\c

AO\

seen her, whether accidently or Intentionally
was best known to himself. But his absence
at this crisis was to be borne no longer ; If
she had not some one with whom she could
converse, and who would understand her,
Mrs Desborough felt she should succumb to
a violent attack of nerves, so she sent the
vicar a note requesting him to come to
her Immediately ; and then trying to assume
an air of composure she by no means felt,
she sat down In the corner of the sofa with
her never-falling knitting, and tried as a
duty to be patient. Mrs Desborough's confusion
of ideas on the subject of duty
rendered it rather difficult to obtain from
her any practical definition of its requirements.


EQUIPPED FOR CONQUEST.

iOMB the curls out into quite thin
bits of hair till they look grizzly
it is more becoming ; then
another rosebud on this side  that will do ;
now I am perfectly coffee. Felix himself
could not beat it. I must say, Amending,
you are the queen of lady's maids, you
shall have my pink silk dress before it is
quite in rags. You can go to the Bal de
opera in it next time you are in Paris.
Height ! I should not much mind going to
the Bal de Opera myself.'

You, madame ? Why you are going to
a much more recherches ball to-night.'

Recherches, Amandine, that I don't doubt ;
but not buoyant and gay  that is what I like.
There is no entrain about these lordly English
assemblies, and they bore me to distraction.'

Pourquoi y allez ? ' asked the Frenchwoman
sententiously.

Because it is distinguished and chic, and
perhaps  Well, never mind the perhaps,
go and get me a glass of champagne after
all this toilette labour, I'll eat no dinner,
ril rest for half-an-hour before I put on
my dress ; there is oceans of time.'

And Violet Tremayne  for who but she
among our dramatis persons would take life
thus, au grand galop  sat down in her pretty
blue satin dressing-gown with its lace furbelows,
and looked at the fire. Well might
she send her maid for champagne, in order
to give her a little fictitious courage, for
she felt very down-hearted as she thought
of how much to her individually depended
on the luck with which she should throw

the dice that night. She had played for
many a high stake In her time, and her hand
had never trembled nor her brain reeled ;
but she was about to throw to-night for
the highest prize as yet presented in her
life-lottery  even for Lord Beaurepaire himself.
And yet in the outside pocket of her
dainty robe her hand could touch an epistle
received but that morning from George Des-borough,
in which he rejoiced that * three
weary months of waiting were well-nigh over
only three more and he looked forward to
presenting her to his family as his promised
bride. Of course he should run up to town
for the Beaurepaire ball, when he hoped she
would give him all the round dances. Surely
the world had long since forgotten about
that balloon adventure

All the round dances,' Violet murmured
to herself with a smile. ' George has evidently
ceased to remember what the exigencies
of good society demand. All the round

dances  he must be reminded that is a
sort of thing that is only done  ' and she
laughed. ' Well, in the dear old merry
world, where people please themselves and
not their neighbours  George never belonged
to it, nor Matthew, nor Lord Beaurepaire for
the matter of that. I do like Bohemia best ;
there is no gainsaying the matter. Black
Vandyke clothes, a red tie and a Tyrolese
hat, dirt and all, for they don't waste much
on soap, those dear old witty Bohemians ;
but they are far above these quiet-mannered,
soberly-attired landowners. Yet one must
have money, and there is not a ten-pound
note in all Bohemia. The light-hearted
darlings, they would not know how to keep
one if they had it. No bottoms to Bohemian
pockets, everything goes straight
through. So it is hey for Lord Beauregard
 only George is a nuisance. Why
can he not stop at Bicester . I am sure
his hunters will get ill for want of exercise.

Just when I had persuaded the Beaurepaires
into giving this ball  to think of his turning
up three months before the time. Well,
I can only hope my woman's wit will not
desert me. That is right, Amandine, give
me some fizz, and stir up the fire. Life
wants encouragement when a swell's ball is
in prospect. Don't you think I shall look
rather like Flora to-night with those showers
of rosebuds all over that white tulle ? '

 Mais madame best parfait. No dress
chez mi lor, to-night, will surpass madame's.'

Not in costliness, I daresay. I wonder,
Amandine, whether it will ever get paid for ?'

For the pleasure to see madame look so
gentille, many a centuries would forget her
bill'

Oh, Amandine, you horrible little flatterer.
It really is a pretty dress though, and if it
does its work effectually to-night, Fll pay for it
next week, instead of giving you your wages.'

Comme madame sanuse d plaisanter.'

Well, you get enough out of my wardrobe
to keep a starving family. I can't
think how you dare expect money besides,
you avaricious little thing ; but all right,
I won't forget you. Drink some fizz to
keep your spirits up, and then a la toilette
dress me as you never dressed me before.'

Amandine was accustomed to Mrs Tree
noisy rattling ways, and probably
liked her all the better for them, for she
"vas very devoted to her mistress. She set to
work then in playful earnest, and at the end
of half-an-hour, thanks to Amandine's clever
knowledge of the numberless details necessary
to form an artistic whole, Violet Tremayne
was faultlessly equipped for conquest.

If only George would not come,' and
with these words she went downstairs and
got into the duchess's carriage, which had
been sent for her.

Arrived in Belgrave Square, she had
ample space to shake out her gauzy skirts

as she went up the staircase, for but few
guests had as yet arrived. At the door of
the ball-room she was met with cold dignity
by Lady Valentina. The regal - looking
daughter of the house did not altogether
approve of Mrs Tremayne  perhaps she had
a vague fear of mischief in the future as she
looked at her, perhaps she owed her just
as much of a grudge as a cold nature could
be excited into bestowing for having persuaded
Lord Beaurepaire into giving this
entertainment, for Lady Valentina's sake, as
she had suggested. That young lady by
no means echoed the desire for a dance ;
she hated the even current of her life to
be ruffled, * and a dance in London in
November was she argued, 'such an utter
anomaly, that their friends would think they
were bereft of reason. It was very well
for the Montarlises  there had been a wedding
as an excuse ; but why for no reason
go out of the natural course of events ? '

But if Lady Valentina's manner to Violet
was only frigidly civil, Lord Beaurepaire's
fully compensated for his daughter's absence
of warmth. He looked at her with admiration
in his gaze, assured her that she was
the queen of the fete, and in fact made so
much of her that the little woman's head ran
such a chance of being turned, that any
amount of wild vagaries might be expected
in the future. By the time the Duchess of
Monarchs had arrived, for whom the carriage
had returned after setting Violet
down, she was already in full flight as Lady
Beaurepaire, soaring in imagination above
the mere vulgar denizens of earth. She
looked round the room on the very chosen
society which formed Lady Valentina's
coterie, and impertinently wondered how
she should weed it. No easy matter, since
everyone was incontrovertibly 'hall-marked,'
as far as birth and position went.

'Disagreeable people; nasty wrinkled hags

in ddcollettd dresses and turbans. These are
the people who shall not come to my parties.
I can't afford to be uncivil to them on account
of their respectability now ; but then
oh, then  I may ask Cheap Jack to
dinner, and invite the whole of the Lion
Theatre to a banquet, and no one will
say, " How odd." That is the advantage
of marrying a swell'

There are a good many, I should think ;
but what is the especial one ? ' asked a masculine
voice behind her, for Violet had inadvertently
uttered the last part of this
sentence aloud.

That you can cut fools and snobs,' she
answered laughing. ' What a good thing
you broke in on my meditations. I had no
idea I was thinking aloud.'

It is my fault you were thinking at all.
This is my dance, I believe.'

Another minute and the gay little widow
was whirling round with a scion of nobility

richer in pedigree than brains, when on a
sudden she caught sight of Matthew Des-borough's
face, as he stood leaning against
the mantelpiece watching the giddy throng ;
of it, but not in it, to judge from the
thoughtfulness of his expression. Seeing
him recalled George, of whose very existence
Violet had been quite oblivious during
the last hour. She stopped her partner
near the fire-place, and began to look about
her.

George has not come yet, or he would
have ferreted me out by this time,'
she thought, and she held out her hand
to Matthew.

How do you do ? Any of your people
here to-niorht ? '

No,' said Matthew. ' George wrote that
he was coming, but I have not seen him.
Odd, as he is generally reliable about appointments,
and he begged me be sure and
meet him here.'

It isn't late,' said Violet ; ' he may come
yet.'

'Just twelve. I am sure he intended to
be here before this.'

Dining out probably,' answered Violet,
as she whisked away with her partner once
more, and after taking two or three turns,
stopped this time close to Lord Beaurepaire.
George was not coming, or at least was
unpardonably late ; he could not expect her
to wear the willow for the whole evening
on account of his non-appearance ; on the
contrary, she was not quite sure whether
she would speak civilly to him when he did
come. If he intended to treat her to
cavalier airs, he must learn that it was a
game two could play at. So had reasoned
Violet as she waltzed, and the bright smile
she gave Lord Beaurepaire when she stopped
was but putting her theory into practice.

Such a delightful ball. I do enjoy it so
much,' she said.

It gives me immense pleasure to see
you so happy,' and the courteous old nobleman's
voice fell almost to a whisper as he
uttered these viords, glancing meanwhile
across the room at his superb daughter, and
perhaps for the first time in his life feeling
that he should be glad if there were more
dash and entrain in her manner ; if she were
more like the lovely Violet in fact. The
music ceased, thus setting Violet to a certain
extent free from her partner, from
whom she intended to get thoroughly rid,
if it were possible, at once, so she began a
sentence.

I wanted so much to ask you, Lord
Beaurepaire  ' and then she looked round as
if there were a little secret involved in the
query. ' Never mind  another time. Perhaps
it will scarcely do just now  '

May I take you down to have some
refreshment ? '

Her partner made his bow. He had not

exactly heard Violet's sotto voce sentence,
but he saw there was some mystery between
Mrs Tremayne and her noble host, in which
he was not intended to participate, so he
wisely decided to leave them ; and Violet,
her little head proudly erect, went down
the staircase on Lord Beaurepaire's arm,
looking at every lady she met as though
she expected them to do her homage for
the proud position in which she felt herself
to be placed, and perhaps a little disappointed
that no one even looked surprised.
He took her into the dining-room, seated
her in a comfortable arm-chair in a corner,
and gave her an ice. Then he asked what
the mysterious matter was on which she
wished to consult him.

I want to know whether  ' and she
looked demurely down and played with
her spoon  ' I want to know whether you
and Lady Valentina would come to dinner
some evening in my little house

VOL. II. E

Lord Beaurepaire stood gazing at her
for a second or two without answering.
Nothing would give him greater pleasure.
But Valentina  he felt that Valentina would
decline to go. .

No, of course you will not come. It
was presumptuous of me to ask such a
thing,' cried Violet, starting up as she
marked the momentary pause. 'Don't think
of it again, please, or you will make me
quite uncomfortable at having committed
2l gaucherie.'

My dear lady, pray do not misconstrue
my meaning. I shall be only too delighted
to dine with you, and so I am sure will
Valentina. She must go if I desire it,' he
mentally added.

You are always so good and kind,'
murmured Violet ; ' but of course Lady
Valentina never goes to such small houses
as mine. We had better say no more
about it.'

Lord Beaurepaire felt that to allow this
was to argue Valentina a snob, and yet what
could he say. He was so certain that she
would rebel against his authority In the
matter of going to Mrs Tremayne, who, she
instinctively felt, was not one of them, and
should not therefore be received on equal
terms.

Are you not going to Monarchs with the
duchess ? ' he asked. ' She tells me they
are all going back the day after tomorrow.
She has kindly Invited Valentina and myself
to spend Christmas with them.'

Violet's eyes beamed with satisfaction.

How delightful. I am going down next
week  not with the duchess. I have a little
business I must attend to in London. Dear
Julia must do without me for a while ;
but of course I shall be there for Christmas.
Monarchs is a second home to me 
so kind of them  for mine is lonely enough.'

It scarcely need be lonely, save at your

own will,' answered Lord Beaurepaire, a little
pointedly Violet thought.

She did not venture on any remark, save
a half suppressed ' Ah ! ' and his lordship evidently
decided that he had said enough for the
present, for he took her plate, and then gave
her his arm to go back to the ball-room.
Arrived in the hall, they met the duchess
with Matthew Desborough, both hurrying
along, the duchess rather in front of her
companion, more as though they were rushing
to catch a train, than merely going
down to a ball buffet ; moreover, there
was a startled look on both their faces,
which made Lord Beaurepaire stop as he
noted it.

I am looking for the duke. Have you
seen him ? '

He is in the supper-room, I think ; but,
my dear duchess, what is the matter ? '

There has been an accident to the four
o'clock express on the Great Western.'

And '

George Desborough was to come up by
that train.'

Mrs Tremayne's hand trembled on Lord
Beaurepaire's arm.

What have you heard ? ' she asked
nervously.

Nothing ; but he is not here. I want
Monarchs to go with Matthew, and find out
if possible whether anything has happened
to him.'

Oh ! I hope  ' and then she stopped.
What did she hope ?

Lord Beaurepaire expressed a regret at
their anxiety, and a belief that all would be
well  he did not personally know George
Desborough, who had been invited as
Matthew's brother  and then they all went
into the supper-room together, where they
found the duke, who at once agreed to
accompany Matthew in his quest for George.

Mrs Tremayne touched the duchess on

the arm. ' Let us go home, Jura,' and she
looked ghastly white.

My gracious, child, you don't mean that
you  '

No, no, no, don't question me ; but It Is
a horrible thing, like a presage of evil, and
I feel upset.'

grim death.

George DESBOROUGH is
dead ! Killed in a railway accident
on his journey up from
Bicester to Lord Beaurepaire's ball

Such was the sad news that was repeated
and discussed at every breakfast-table
among the set who knew him, as the morning
papers were opened on the day succeeding
the ball. And who among those who had
assisted at the fete of the previous evening
did not feel at least shocked and startled,
even if George Desborough's sudden death
produced no deeper feeling ?

He was so bright, so genial, so full of

life and spirits, to be cut off thus in the
very morning of his days, was indeed a trial
to his relations. Matthew  why, of course,
Matthew would now be the heir. How
strangely things happen in human affairs.
Fancy Matthew the heir of Vantage. He
was not a bit like a squire ; never fired a
gun or rode to hounds in his life. George
would indeed be a loss to the whole county.'

Thus tattled the outside world, touching
but with light breath the awfulness of poor
George's unexpected summons Into eternity,
and then prattling over Matthew's succession
as though It were a mere question of
an old or new garment.

Violet Tremayne had gone home with
the duchess to watch till tidings should come
of the result of the duke's and Matthew's
quest. She never spoke or moved when
the message arrived that they had both
gone down the line, but that the report was
George was killed.

Poor, bright, merry George. Oh, Violet,
I am so sorry for Mrs Desborough,' said
the duchess very feelingly. ' I will go off to
Vantage by the first train in the morning ;
but Violet did not answer, she only sat
looking at the fire in the duchess's boudoir
where they both were, her ringlets, tangled
and curl-less, her dress crumpled, the rosebuds
crushed, a very different looking Violet
to the one who had started in the zenith of
her fascinations only a few hours ago.

If only George would not come.'
The words rang again and again in her
ears, as she sat there horror-stricken. It
seemed to her over-wrought mind as though
George had died for her, obeying her behests
with faithful scrupulousness.

I was very fond of George Desborough,'
went on the duchess ; ' he was always so
pleasant and ready to make himself useful.
Do you know, Violet, I had hoped you would
marry George.*

Still no answer from Mrs Tremayne, who
only shivered, and shut her eyes as she laid
her head against the side of the arm-chair
on which she was sitting.

My gracious, child ! how ill you look.
It cannot be that  '

And the duchess looked keenly at Violet,
as a new light seemed to dawn on her.

Don't question me, please ; do leave me
alone,' muttered Violet at last, the words
coming out very slowly from between her
blue pinched lips. She could have answered
then as truthfully as when she questioned
herself a few weeks ago,  ' Did she love
George Desborough ? No, no, no.' But
her conscience was upbraiding her for her
treatment of him in act and thought, and
who so severe a taskmaster as one's own
conscience ? Violet had never shown herself
capable of feeling an honest, lasting
love ; but she was vividly impressionable,
and the sense of startled horror which was

upon her now, was almost more than she
could endure. She did not wish to discuss
it, only desired to sit in a sort of stony
silence, contemplating the ghastly picture of
George Desborough, as she seemed to see
him, lying mangled amid the mixed masses
of incongruous odds and ends ejected from
that fatal train. Who but one possessing a
heart of stone could have thought of George,
as she was forcibly reminded of him, tenderly
caring for her every weakness during that
foolhardy balloon ascent, and not have regretted
his hapless fate ? Thus Violet was
more taken aback by what had happened
to George, than she had ever been in all
her life before. The duchess was indeed
astonished  she herself was full of sincere
regrets ; but for Violet's horrified look she
could in no way account. Full of mistakes
and egregious folly as was Violet
Tremayne's life, would not the unfeigned
sorrow she had shown over George Des-borough's

untimely end score one for her
to the good when the reckoning came ?

Since Violet refused to speak, the duchess
walked away Into her dressing-room. There
she took off her evening finery, put on a
comfortable flannel wrapper, and sent the
maid to bed, with orders to come early and
pack up a few things, as she meant to be
off to Montarlls, and from thence to Vantage.
Then she wondered when the duke would
be back ; thought how cold and miserable he
would be, and more than half regretted she
had let him go. It was very awful about
poor George ; but then of course the duke
came first to her. How it befel that Violet,
who usually shook away every supposition
of feeling, should take his death, horrible
though It was, so fearfully to heart, she
could not Imagine. Yet when she went
back Into the boudoir, there sat Violet In
the same attitude, looking such a chiffonde
wreck of pleasure, and such a dashed spiritless

beauty, as a painter might have taken for
the reversed picture of some bright carousal.

My dear Violet, this is maudlin and
foolish ; brighten up for goodness' sake, and
let us chat, or I shall have the horrors.
What are you thinking of ? '

Violet, thus appealed to, roused herself
with a tremendous effort.

I don't know ; it is all so dreadful. I
was so jolly to-night, and George  ' she
left off as suddenly as she had begun, and
ended her sentence in such a frantic fit of
laughter as quite to startle the duchess,
who rang the bell furiously to recall the maid.

Violet was in strong hysterics.

Poor girl ; she has danced herself nearly
to death. And then these ghastly tidings ! '
explained the duchess, as she helped to take
off her finery, though secretly she imagined
there must be some deeper reason for Mrs
Tremayne's unaccountable display of feeling.
In a few minutes they had undressed

her, and, having given her a calming potion,
persuaded her to go to bed ; but all through
the small grey hours she lay as one stupefied,
by her occasional sobs showing that,
although she was quieted by the draught,
sleep refused to visit her excited brain.
The duchess watched In utter astonishment
till daylight came, and with the sounds of
busy life once more awakening the echoes,
another message arrived from the duke.
They had seen poor George, and all was
over ; he should arrive with Matthew in an
hour or two. God grant his telegram would
reach Mrs Desborough before she saw the
papers.'

Yes, this was the one thought that filled
Matthew's heart with dread, as he stood beside
his dead brother. His mother  what
would his mother say ? He instinctively
felt that George was her favourite son ; that
she had learned to lean on his strong supporting
character, while Matthew's vacillating

morbid tendencies only filled her mind with
anxiety. He knew it all too well, and he
trembled at the knowledge, fearing the responsibility
of being an only child, as only
one of Matthew's temperament would fear
it. That he would inherit the broad acres
of Vantage Park flashed across his mind
like an evil dream, and the vision increased
his terror tenfold.

What did he want with gold and possessions
and dependants  as it was it was
impossible to him to control satisfactorily his
own actions ; as an individual of greater
magnitude, would not the difficulty be
enhanced beyond endurance. But he refused
to give way to these thoughts as yet ;
the one picture his mind dwelt on was that
of his broken-hearted mother, wailing in
inconsolable lamentations over the fate of
her first-born.

And so Matthew came back to London to
await the arrival of his father, or instructions

how he was to act, and to see the duke and
duchess start for Monarchs, on their kind mission
to soothe if possible Mrs Desborough's
sufferings.

Then Lord Beaurepaire came and carried
Matthew off to Belgrave Square ; he could
not stay all alone in the duke's house, and
to eo back to his tutor's, under the circumstances,
was not to be heard of. Thus, in the
course of a few short hours, a heavy stroke
had fallen, and the issues of a good many
lives had changed.

Violet heard that Lord Beaurepaire was in
the house, and the intelligence roused her for
the first time. She could not see him, she
was too generally upset ; but she got up and
dressed herself, Amandine having arrived
with a morning toilette, and she resolved to
return to her little house and wait there
quietly till this horrible tragedy should have
played itself out, and a less mournful series
of events have begun its reign. She looked

so white and ghastly when she said 'goodbye,'
that the duchess scarcely liked leaving
her alone, and tried to persuade her to
accompany her, but Violet shook her head.

I am much better quiet and alone. I do
not feel well. My nerves have had a horrible
shock.'

It was the first time she had ever refused
an invitation to Monarchs, and the duchess
was amazed accordingly. The fact was,
Violet felt she could not stand questioning
eyes and lips  that if she would guard
her secret she must remain alone with it.
Above all people, she felt she dare not risk
a meeting with Mr Shipwright, which she
could not avoid if she went into the country
at that moment.

The weary days of mourning slowly
dragged on. Neither the squire nor Mrs
Desborough came to town, for poor George
was to be buried in Fernwood churchyard
they would wait at Vantage to receive the

VOL. II. F

dead body of the son who only a few weeks
ago had left them so full of life and vigour.
Matthew was to accompany it, and begin
from henceforth his new career of only child
and heir. But * homme propose Dieu dispose!
Before the sad time arrived Matthew,
whose constitution had but little vigour and
strength, was stricken down by illness, and
when the day came for George's funeral he
was lying unconscious at Lord Beauregard's,
while every precaution was being taken to
guard him from all sounds of outward life
and turmoil. Not that Matthew's state was
exactly a critical one,  he had always been
more or less delicate, and the exciting episode
of the last few days had so shattered
him that it would take some time to rally
from the evil effects. In no house could
Matthew have fallen better than In that of
the kindly old peer, who had offered him
a temporary home, while Lady Valentine's
efforts to make herself useful, and the extraordinary

amount of sympathy she had shown
throughout all the trying circumstances, were
the wonder of every one who happened to
have the opportunity of observing them.
Lady Valentine sympathetic ! Who would
have given her credit for the capability  
certainly not the duchess ; yet had she remained
In London she could not have
helped noticing how the great lady was set
aside, and the woman shone forth, as Lady
Valentine seemed to take a pleasure In performing
kindly offices for Matthew. Especially
when, the worst symptoms of his malady
being past, the doctors expressed their
opinion that the patient required nothing
but amusement judiciously administered, In
order to produce convalescence. Then did
Lady Valentine redouble her efforts, so as
to make the little drawing-room which had
been given up to the Invalid shine with
light and brightness, herself casting off much
of her habitual coldness, as she brought Into

play those powers of conversation in which
she was by no means wanting, talking,
when she chose to talk very far above the
average, owing to the strict course of reading
to which she daily subjected herself. Lady
Valentina's life was one of rule and rote,
governed by a system which extended itself
to her mind, and thus rendered her much
clearer and more logical in her arguments
and definitions than any woman whom Matthew
had yet met, even including his mother,
who had till then been Matthew's beau-ideal
of feminine cleverness.

As he lay on the sofa listening to Valentine's
talk, he for a while forgot all the
vicissitudes through which he had lately
passed, all the trouble and difficulty through
which he had yet to struggle. This was
exactly what she desired. To strengthen his
mind by amusing It, and thus render it
capable of warfare, was the noble Valentina's
object.

She devoted herself ceaselessly to Matthew.
Strange that, during their many tte-
d'tetes, Matthew never once alluded to Claire
Bailey, and yet she had formed the sole
subject of his conversation whenever he had
been alone with old Mrs Wharton. Perhaps
he thought this new companion with whom
chance had so persistently thrown him fora
while, was of too cold a nature to listen
patiently to a love tale, or perhaps he
thought it an insult to a young and beautiful
woman to entertain her with an account of
the worship in which he had prostrated himself
at the shrine of another beauty. Be his
reason known, or probably unknown to himself
 for Matthew's actions were seldom the
result of motive  Claire Bailey's name was
never mentioned.

Two weeks of very pleasant, calming days
passed away, when suddenly, as he lay awake
one night, the feeling came strongly upon
him that he must go to Vantage, to begin

forthwith the duties that fate had sent him

to perform. Claire too  he had been very

remiss to Claire  two tender loving letters

lay unanswered in his pocket ; but then he

had been too ill to write, and even Claire

could scarcely expect letters at such a time ;

but now he was strong again, he must bid

farewell to the reposeful paradise In which

he had felt such a sense of safety of late,

and must embark once more on the sea of

duty. From wakefulness his state passed to

restlessness, and tossing about for hours

magnifying every trouble, every vexation,

every detail. By morning Matthew's cheeks

were flushed with fever, and when he joined

Lord Beaurepaire and Lady Valentina at

breakfast, which, for the first time since his

illness, he had insisted on doing, they were

both startled at his appearance, neither of

them being able to understand this sudden

and seemingly motiveless excitement ; but

then neither Lady Valentina nor her father

were subject to spasmodic fits of exaggerated
scruples  they pursued a very even
honourable path ; both possessed much decision
of character, and but seldom experienced
a difficulty in deciding between right
and wrong  how then could they easily enter
into and comprehend the perplexities which
at times drove Matthew into extremes of
depression or exaltation.

I ought to go and see my mother, happy
as I am here it is my duty ; don't you think
so, Lord Beaurepaire ? ' Matthew blurted out
before either of his friends had had time
to ask him what had happened.

No, my dear boy,' answered his lordship
very kindly, ' your first duty is to get well.
Your father and mother are coming to town
tomorrow. I have just had a letter. The
duke has lent them his house. A change is
thought advisable for Mrs Desborough, and
she will be able to see that we are taking
proper care of you.'

Oh ! Lord Beaurepaire, how kind and
good every one is,' and a sort of moisture
came about Matthew's eyes, which stoics
might have called effeminate.

Never mind kindness and goodness now.
It is a lovely morning, Valentina is going to
take you for a drive in the victoria. Don't
think about anything, save enjoying it as
much as you can.'

And so Matthew's path was smoothed for
him once more ; he had only to make himself
as happy as he could, and for a little
longer time Claire Bailey must wait.

SEEKING CONSOLATION.

Omnes eodem cogimur ; omnium
Versatur urn series socius
Sors extra, et nos in sternum
Exsilium imposture cymbal

Shipwright muttering these
lines to himself in a suppressed
dirge-like voice, walked slowly
on the day following George Desborough's
funeral across that portion of Vantage Park
which divided the house from the vicarage.
Scarcely a fortnight ago Mrs Desborough
had sent for him in hot haste to hold counsel
about the trap they both believed Mrs Tree
to have set for poor George, and now
he was slowly nearing the house in the hope

of pouring some comfort In among the
mother's sorrow, even he, with his ready-speech,
feeling perhaps that words would
come haltingly. Philosopher though he was,
Mr Shipwright was gravely Impressed by
George's sudden and fearful death.

He had loved the bright, buoyant youth
with whom he had so often sat in friendly
parlance over a bottle of good old port in the
vicarage dining-room. He believed in George,
and appreciated the true metal from which
he gave him credit for being moulded, while
he could not help fearing that Matthew's
character presented decided symptoms of
alloy. Mr Shipwright detested weakness 
he had not therefore weighed with sufficient
care the consideration that weakness in Matthew
was a commendable virtue, since the
very conscientious scrupulosity it produced,
though troublesome to his companions, was
yet calculated to lead him into the highest
walks of rectitude and truth. That Matthew

was henceforth to be heir of Vantage,
Mr SIvewriorht regarded as a serious misfortune,
and perhaps in adding up the sum
total of his regrets over the premature death
of poor George, he even reckoned it as the
heaviest. To talk of this to Mrs Desborough
was, however, scarcely consistent with the
mission on which he was bent ; no easy one,
be it remembered. He could generally and
sincerely grieve with her over her loss, but
dare he enter on spiritual subjects, and touch
on any belief of what exists in that impenetrable,
the mystic life ? Nay, in their many
conversations had not Mr Shipwright and
Mrs Desborough allowed their natural intellects
too free scope, practised too persistently
the art of sophistry for any words of his to
touch the well-spring of religious feeling now,
as far as Mrs Desborough was concerned ?
He might grow eloquent from oft-quoted
sources to others of his flock, but would Mrs
Desborough, with whom he had so frequently

discussed the pros and the cons of vital subjects,
believe in him, however eloquent the
lecture he gave her on the comfort of revealed
religion ?

As Mr Shipwright wended his way through
Vantage Park, was there no regret about the
forbidden ground he had trod with his old
friend, and which would seal his lips against
saying many things that might have afforded
her comfort now ? He had not seen Mrs
Desborough since the news of George's death
had come ; but that morning a little perfumed
note, with a deep black border, had reached
him. * Try to come to me about four it said,
with neither head nor tail to it, as though the
writer was in no mood for adjuncts or superfluities
 this straw in the wind being an
index to Mrs Desborough's feelings at the
moment. Nothing like the tragedies of life
for bringing our true selves to the surface.
There was more than one dark chapter in
the past career of the mistress of Vantage

Park, which li.ul hvxw over and over attain
laity bare by lliis williiiL;" [x'liitciU to lu.'r somewhat
unwillliit;- confessor, for Mr Sivcvvriht
was well i"iiL;li as iiUolci'ant of the j)i"a(:Li(:(: of
confession in the boudoir as he was in th(!
confessional. Nevertheless, then; wen; not
wanting" tini(!S when, in thu; healthy breeze; of
prosperity and worldly excitement, Mrs I )(;s-
borough more than half recoiled from th(;
remembrance; of having;' b(;(;n so spiritually
lavish to her beloved director, and th(|-e were
even moments when, being;' pi(|ii('d by or
provok(;(l with him for somelhiiif about h(;r
Grace of Monarchs, or ev(;n lesser matters,
she would r(;iL(r(;t th(;m ouli-iiht.

I>ut if thu; strongest of us an; apron(; at
times t(j yearn lor son; one; on whom to lean
when utterly weary and (l(;j(;ct(;d, it will
scarcely b(; conc(;ive.{l that Mrs I)esborou;,di,
who, if a clever, was d(;ci(le(lly a weak woman,
nced(;d a far less touch of sorrow than that
under which she now staggered to necessitate;

that she should support all the weary weights
on that firm prop, the Vicar of Fernwood.

To a doubting, wind-tossed nature, there
is nothing: so restful as a confidante who Is
free alike from doubts and scruples. Mrs
Desborouh knew that Mr SIvewrIo;ht had
arrived at Immutable conclusions on the great
questions of life, death, the soul's eternity,
and the like, and that beyond that point it
was as useless as it was vexatious for us
finite beings to pry.

Intellectually, he was therefore to all
appearance, strong, and without doubt, he
was consistent ; but she scarcely knew the
weakness before which he trembled at the
coming tte--tte, and that the danger he
feared arose from simple goodness of heart.
Apart from any individual feeling for his still
fair friend, he knew himself to be habitually
constitutionally he called It  tender-hearted
to a fault. Intellect may occasionally get
the better of our worst and fiercest passions.

but it has little chance against the nobler
emotions.

Men of Lawrence Shipwright's calibre
have had so many bitter experiences of
having been run away with by their heart,
long before they begin to go down life's
hill, that as they grow older they are perpetually
on the look-out for surprises, and
the first suspicion of one instantly produces
an impulse of self-preservation, and hence
it is that we are not Infrequently astonished
by little outbursts on the part of those whom
we know to be most tender-hearted, which,
taken in the abstract, fall little short of sheer
brutality.

Having slowly walked over to the great
house, been announced, and heard the
boudoir door closed by the retreating footman,
Mr SIvewrlght took both Mrs Des-borough's
hands in his own as she rose to
meet him, and seeing her falter in her steps,
paternally put one arm round her, and led

her to a seat. Neither had a clear throat
nor dry eyes, and some minutes elapsed
before either attempted to speak. Mrs
Desborough it was who did so the first.

I have been wanting so to see you, but I
did not feel  I could not muster up courage
to send even for you till to-day.'

I know  I know,' he said nervously, and
without a particle of his usual self-contained
manner  so gallant and at the same time
so dignified. Whatever there was of dross
in the affection that existed between these
two, grief purified it for the time being at
any rate.

I wanted you so much to ask you  to
speak of poor darling George's  of whether
we could not have some special prayers said
for his soul. It seems so awful to be hurried
into eternity without a moment to prepare.'

Poor woman ! she was terribly in earnest,
and meant admirably of course, yet there
was something in itself comically incongruous

In this highly intellectual woman,
who had never before regarded religion in
any other light than as one of her occasional
luxuries, now in the simplest way turning
to it in her sore need, much as she would
have sought the aid of an architect for a
tumble-down house, or a celebrated physician
for some bodily ailment from which she
was suffering. Mr Shipwright had known
her too long and too intimately to be much
surprised at anything she could say or do ;
but even he had never seen her before in
so seriously religious a mood  awakened in
the spirit, to use a technical phrase. Somehow
it had the effect of drying his tears ; he
moved a little uneasily on his chair and said 

Praying for the dead is a practice both
poetical and picturesque, no doubt ; but, my
dear friend, it Is founded on the Romish
dogma of purgatory, which the Church of
England holds to be a heresy.'

It suited Mrs Desborough to-day that

VOL. II. G

there should be a purgatory. She wanted
one to put her dead son into in imagination,
and she vdiS froisse that in applying to a
professional dealer in such articles he should
not at once supply it ; she had a confused
idea that hell was only for murderers, and
those sort of people, you know ; or perhaps
for just a few criminals of position who had
been very wicked indeed, the Borgia and
Judas, and perhaps Richard the Third. Yet
probably, even she did not imagine that her
gay eldest son had been leading exactly the
sort of life to enable him to enter unchallenged
at the narrow gate. She had been
reading up a little on the subject, so she
answered pluckily, 

But it says in Maccabees, that it is a
holy and a wholesome thought to pray for
the dead, that they may be loosed from
their sins.'

I will not enter upon the subject at
present with you,' he replied, ' because I feel

convinced such a course would not bring you
comfort or peace ; but I have debated the
point often, both with Romanists and Ritualists
 take my advice, I pray you. Let it
suffice you that the Anglican Church, your
Church, has always held that the dogma of
purgatory is not supported by the Bible.'

But friend, friend, never mind the church
of this or that, but tell me, on your honour,
do you feel quite sure on the matter .* '

Absolutely.'

And you believe  '

I give you my honour, I feel absolutely
sure there is no purgatory.'

How dreadful ! '

Not at all, my dear lady, to my mind it
would be far more dreadful if there were.'

Oh, but my son ! my poor thoughtless
boy ! ' and she bent down and gave way to a
burst of tears and grief. * It is so awful for
you and me to be sitting in this comfortable
room, and to think that perhaps poor George,

just because he did like most other spirited
young men about society, to think that he
should be lost for ever is quite too horrible
and she sobbed as if her heart must break.
Her friend was terribly pained to see her
suffer so, but he hoped the torrents of tears
he saw flowing might relieve her physically
as well as mentally. He placed his hand on
hers and said, 

Be reasonable. You believe in God, do
you not ? '

I do, I do.'

Well, you cannot do that and doubt of
His infinite mercy and goodness.'

But,' she objected, ' how can anything
impure enter heaven.'

It is useless for you and me to discuss
what we neither of us can know anything
about ; but you will never persuade me that
God can look on for all eternity and see one
of His creatures broiling and grilling, much
less a fine good-hearted fellow like George,

who, as the saying is, would not have hurt
a fly.'

Then you really do not believe in hell ? *
she said, looking up suddenly, quite radiant,

I do not believe in a place of eternal
torments  no.'

But is not that heresy ? '

It has of late years been decided not.
Many of our bishops hold that no soul can
be entirely lost'

But the scripture  '

It is very doubtful what the precise
meaning of the word really is. Christ
descended into a part of hell called Limbo.
This gives rise to countless suggestions as
to the meaning of hell, none of them favourable
to its being a place of excruciating and
never-ending torture. But, dear friend, you
know well my strong objection to controversy,
nor do I think the pursuit of it now
will prove consolatory to you. Try and
divert your mind from painful subjects

until time shall have somewhat assuaged
your grief.'

But Mrs Desborough was in a very
religious mood, and would think and talk
of nothing but this and kindred topics.
She was beginning to ask herself at this
point of the conversation whether she would
not send for Mr Lently, and for a few
moments, so keen was she on the matter,
that she had already begun to think how
she could dismiss the more polished divine,
when all at once it struck her that as much
depended upon the speaker as on the words
spoken by a spiritual comforter, and that
it avails little to have the right thing said,
so long as it is not uttered by the right
man. There were times when she was
afraid to think how little Mr Shipwright
really in his heart believed of revelation
and the great truths of Christianity, while
his realistic brother was, as it were, a burning
ball of faith. No one who knew Lently

could fail to do him the justice to believe
in his honesty. ' But alas ! ' and as this
clinching argument rose to her mind, all
thought of sending for him passed away
from it. ' I can trust his honesty as though
I could read him through ; but where, oh
where is his judgment ?'

It was here that Shipwright shone out
so unapproachable in the comparison. The
most unlikely thing grew probable the
moment he said it, for he invariably carried
the conviction to another mind, not only
that he believed, but that he had not
arrived at any convictions whatever without
having submitted them to the crucial analysis
of his exceptional intellect ; but then he but
seldom could be induced, either in the pulpit
or out of it, to enlighten any one as to the
nature of his tenets. He was, in matters
of faith, a mere channel ; no one had ever
heard him say ' I believe this or that,' except
as he was obliged to do so in the Church's

formula. It was accordingly often remarked
that the subjects of his sermons were almost
without exception, the human (or as they are
sometimes called the Pagan) virtues and
their contrary sins ; passing events, political
or otherwise ; scientific discoveries, or what
may be termed the purely historical aspect
of the Christian truth.

Mrs Desborough was quite aware of all
this, for often, in their confidential talks,
had she made the vicar's face darken as
she would try to explore the attractive
unknown country of her friend's conscience,
either by direct questioning or by pretending
to take free - thinking views herself.
Always, however, she came out second best
from her daring encounters of feminine
against clerical wit. The Rev. Lawrence
was sure, either by a well turned jest oran
abrupt change of subject, to extricate
himself from the dilemma, if dilemma it
were, without affording his interlocutory a

scintilla of the knowledge she so rashly
sought.

To-day, writhing under the selfishness of
grief, she felt particularly reckless, and was
determined if possible to discover what Mr
Shipwright  being the polished heathen his
enemies whispered him to be  what he might
have to set up, In the stead of all he
mentally, though secretly, demolished. Listlessly,
then, throwing herself back in her
seat, she said, 

If you do away with everlasting punishment
 for my part, it implies doing away
equally with eternal reward. It is contrary
to a sense of justice to retain one without
the other, and that would lead one straight
to believing nothing at all. I was reading
Nicholas, which, by-the-bye, is the only religious
book that does not bore me, and he
says :  '' Homme se sentant eternal, tout
ce qui finit n'est rien pour lui." This is
sense indeed. The notion of a heaven or a

hell, say of a thousand years and no more,
or any other limited period, is not only
illogical, but positively comic'

Of course, any precise period of time
named as a portion of eternity is absurd,'
said the vicar.

It is the only way we have of expressing
our thoughts on these points. How can a
mortal define Eternity but as Time going
on for ever ? '

And yet I can conceive, but only
vaguely, that it may be nothing of the
sort.'

Well, I confess I cannot ; but then,' she
added, with just a shade of sarcasm and
irritability in her voice, ' I cannot be expected
to be so clever as you are.'

The churchman's habitual treatment of
little thrusts like these was the rather
cruel one of ignoring them.

Time, space,' he went on musingly,
there is something, to my mind, intrinsically

finite about both, whether considered
as terms or ideas.'

The simplest way is to believe in nothing
at all.' This remark Mrs Desborough threw
out merely as a feeler. He replied, 

It is simple.'

It is what I am being hurried into,' said
the lady.

I most devoutly hope not,' was the
clergyman's prompt answer.

Why should you care ? '

'If for no better reason, because I consider
a woman without religion the most
uninteresting object in creation.'

It is vulgar,' she said, softening at what
she thought a proof of his interest in her.

I think you will never grow uninteresting,'
and he gave her a bright smile. * I am
sure you will never be vulgar.' And after
this compliment the conversation between
the vicar and Mrs Desborough, as far as religious
matters were concerned, proceeded

no farther ; but turning on Matthew, his
present position as eldest son, and various
other family details, it dawdled on, watered
by many tears on the part of the lady,
till the dressing-bell warned them of the
approaching dinner hour. For though a
seeming mockery, even with the shadow of
death still lying on the house, the usual
conventional observances had not been
interrupted.

AUTOLYCUS.

Lawn as white as driven snow ;

Cyprus black as e'er was crow ;

Gloves as sweet as damask roses ;

Masks for faces, and for noses ;

Bugle bracelet, necklace amber,

Perfume for a lady's chamber.

Golden quoifs and stomachers

For my lads to give their dears ;

Pins, and poking sticks of steel,

What maids lack from head to heel.

Come buy of me, come ; come buy, come buy ;

Buy, lads, or else your lasses cry. Come buy.'

UTOLYCUS may chant his ware-catalogue
at pleasure ; she for
whom and from whom he had
the Shakespearian verse, hears not his ditty.
Ay, the duke and duchess are at Monarchs
Castle, but Violet Tremayne is still in

London, looking her prettiest, playing her
sweetest, to attract If possible his sexagenarian
lordship. The maids and grooms
at Monarchs have come out in a little crowd
into the stable-yard, called together by Mr
Varley's song. Who does not know Cheap
Jack through all that country side ? and
from every one he receives a hearty welcome.
True, poor folks sometimes spend
more money on the knick-knacks he offers
for sale than they can well afford ; but then
Jack has such a pleasing way of wheedling
the money out of their pockets, that they
cannot altogether resist It. Even the duke,
passing through the yard by chance, stands
for a moment to listen, and tosses a half-crown
to the country favourite as he passes
on and leaves the coast clear for his dependants
to amuse themselves. Cheap Jack
pattered his nonsense, offered silver chains
at the low sum of sixpence, gold rings with
large diamonds for one shilling  in fact,

gimcracks for any given sum, from a sovereign
to a penny ; but it was clear his
heart was not in his work. He talked and
looked and talked again ; then he took to
flirting with a buxom bright-eyed wench,
on the old principle that by the maid you
feet at the mistress.

It isn't overworked you are at Monarchs,
my dear, to judge by your good looks. Is
there no company staying at the castle ? '

Not a guest for this fortnight past. The
duke and duchess are quite alone  not even
a strange tabby cat about the place.'

'What! not even Mrs  Mrs  '

Mrs Tremayne } Oh, she's in London.
She's never been well since poor young Mr
Desborough was killed. It's my belief she
was spoony on him.'

Cheap Jack looked very blank. Mossy's
information was evidently more extended
than he had bargained for. As he did
not answer, she went on, 

Sackcloth and Broadcloth.

He was a pretty gentleman. I was
dreadfully sorry when I heard he was
killed. The maid says as Mrs Tremayne
was in a faint for hours, and never stopped
sobbing all the night through.'
' Isn't she coming back here ?' asked Mr
Varley at last.

I dunno. I haven't heard nothing.'
He began to pack up his wares, and, summoning
his tiger from the * shay,' handed
packet after packet to him ; the zest was
all gone out of his gay prattle, and Mossy's
shining well - soaped face had no farther
charm. Having put away all his goods,
rather carelessly for him, Varley being asa
rule a neat-handed man, he started the
shay with orders that it was to jog
quietly down the road and wait for him,
as he would follow on foot. He chucked
the lively Mossy under the chin, promised
her a blue ribbon the next time he came
that way, and then walked leisurely down

the footpath towards the back lodge. His
hands were thrust in the pockets of his
blouse, his cap was considerably on one
side, and he was whistling  no surer sign
of premeditation in a man.

He was ruminating on the subject of Mrs
Tremayne ; picturing her in his mind's eye,
and wishing she were not so attractive,
since her beauty was for him a snare ; then,
with a sudden intention to shake off if possible
the fancy, he took off his cap and ran
his fingers through his hair.

If she be not fair to me,
What care I how fair she be

was the substance of his meditation. It was
a philosophic one, but it was disturbed by
a friendly voice.

Hullo, Jack, my friend. I have not seen
you for many a day.'

The speaker was the Rev. Lawrence
Shipwright, who at this moment overtook
Cheap Jack in his walk. Mr Varley took

VOL. II. H

his fingers out of his hair when he saw
him, and he did not attempt to replace his
cap. He, Hke the rest of the people round,
was impressed by the magnitude of Mr
Shipwright's office and position ; no one,
perhaps, regarding him more in the light
of a clerical potentate than did Varley,
although he himself possessed but a very
faint scintilla of religious inspiration. He,
however, made it his never - failing practice
to be obsequious to magnates.

I hope your reverence is well,' he said,
shambling from leg to \<g, much as he had
done during his first visit to Violet.

Very well, thank you, Jack. You never
pay the vicarage a visit.'

Bless your reverence, it's too grand the
vicarage is for me. Your reverence's housekeeper
looks on me as a *' ne'er do weel,"
and flouts me in the face with my lies, as
she calls them. The lasses and boys up
at Monarchs are quite different.'

Oh, that is the reception you meet with
from Mrs Green, is it ? Well, she is counted
a wise woman in her generation, and you
can't say you don't impose on the public ;
eh. Jack ? But never mind, stroll down
to the vicarage with me now, and we will
see if we cannot put things on a more
friendly footing.'

South-west wind often blows up a squall,'
muttered Jack to himself as he followed
the Rev. Lawrence, insisting on walking
just one step behind him, to that gentleman's
no small discomfort ; his object being
to hold amiable converse with Cheap Jack.
For what purpose was a riddle, which perhaps
Mr Shipwright intended to solve when
he had enticed his humble companion into
the snug study at Fernwood-cum-Grasdale,
for certes, he talked of nothing but generalities
en rotate ; succeeding, however, thereby
in setting Cheap Jack entirely at his ease,
which was probably part of the vicar's plan.

Being quite a mile and a-half from Montarlls
to Fernwood, even by short cuts across
the fields, there was time for much discourse,
and there were no Interruptions, save an occasionally
' Rheumatics better, Mrs Jukes ?
You should make the youngsters do that
hard work, Timothy,' as the vicar passed a
well-known parishioner, till they had nearly
reached their destination, when, going
through a gate leading into the main road,
they came suddenly on the Rev. Luke
Lently.

Ah, Lently, how are you ? ' Mr Sive-wright
called out familiarly, a free mode
of speech which Lently particularly resented,
always being on the qui vive to keep up the
dignity which Mr Shipwright attained without
any effort at all.

Mr Lently put his hand to his soft hat
with some gravity.

Seen the Baileys lately ? Little Claire
was looking rather peepy when last I called.'

I have not had that honour

Mr Lently was very short in his manner.
It was obvious that he was exactly in that
frame of mind into which a quarrel fits
easily, but the Rev. Lawrence, on the contrary,
was in the blandest of humours ; and
since it takes two people to wrangle, there
was not much chance of a dispute arising
out of this unexpected meeting. If Mr
Lently had considered for a moment, he
might have remembered that his clerical
brother and rival had never been known
to involve himself in any contentious argument
: as soon as the laws of high breeding
were in danger of being violated, he ever
retired gracefully from the field. The mention
of the Baileys* name was especially
riling to Mr Lently, since now that George
Desborough was dead there was little chance
that Matthew would take orders, and Mr
Lently would, under these circumstances,
have especially chosen Claire, one of his

own flock, as future mistress of Vantage.
He could but regret how completely the
circumstances had been unpropitious to him,
even impelling him into that interview with
Lady Laura on the day subsequent to
meeting her and Claire in the wood, which
had been so stormy as to be necessarily
final. For all these disagreeable and contretemps
he felt perhaps a little unjustly
inclined to thank Mr Shipwright, never
giving that gentleman his due in acknowledging
him to be a much better diplomat
than himself, but hating him for his success
hating him, that is, with a sort of spiritual
hatred, which always had the Lord for its
witness.

Mr Shipwright crossed the road with
Cheap Jack, and went in at another gate
on the opposite side, leading directly into
his own glebe. Having closed it behind
him, he called out once more, 

Lently, half a moment. I nearly forgot

something I have been wishing to say to
you for weeks.'

The Rev. Luke, who by this time had
got some yards down the road, and was
chewing the cud of his displeasure as he
went, turned round, though it is scarcely
likely he would have done so could he have
known the question his reverend brother
was about to propound.

That meeting that is to take place on
Tuesday for discussing the advantages that
would be derived from forming an association
to convert certain parishioners into
scripture readers. Are you going to it ? '

Most decidedly not,' was Mr Lently's
brief but emphatic answer.

Oh, you don't care for interference or
help from neighbours. But it is only the
funds that are to be general ; we are to
find the readers among ourselves.'

But Mr Lently only flourished his hand
in token of a dissent too deep for words, and

walked on. While Mr Shipwright, a smile
on his face the while, turned to his companion
with the most perfect courtesy.

Excuse me, Jack ; but these little parish
details must be attended to. By Jove ! the
geese have strayed into the garden ; here's
another interruption. Where on earth is the
boy ? Here, boy, boy.'

Had the geese played havoc with every
vegetable and shrub in the vicarial garden, the
lordly Shipwright would have taken no more
active measures than that of shouting, and
the boy's head appearing over the top of a
hedge, he made the entire business over to
him, with orders that he was to see all the
gaps secured, and then, always accompanied
by Mr Varley, he went into the vicarage.

Mrs Green's surprise, when she saw her
master with this man, knew no bounds ; but
she invariably made a point of seeing with the
vicar's eyes, so henceforth she would contrive
to regard Cheap Jack as a respectable

member of society, with whom honest folk
should sit and chat, since, not five minutes
later, Mr Varley was sitting in the vicar's
study, a decanter of old brown sherry between
them, and some of Mrs Green's snow
cakes lying on a plate before the hawker of
cheap wares. The object of Mr Shipwright
in thus inviting Varley into these intimate and
friendly relations still remained unrevealed.
From his behaviour it was almost evident
that the vicar  while he, from some private
motive, chatted pleasantly with Cheap Jack 
did not in the meantime intend that usually
astute individual to imagine he had any
ulterior reason beyond the condescension
which it behoves a Christian teacher to
evince towards all his poorer brethren.

They talked on a variety of social subjects.
Varley's knowledge of neighbourhoods and
people was, as we are aware, large, and
under the vicars potent wine he unfolded
and grew communicative. George Des-borough

s fearful and sudden death was not
omitted. Then Varley, taking a long pull at
his glass, asked boldly, 

Was the young squire sweethearts with
the lady at the castle, your reverence ? '

Mr Shipwright looked keenly for a moment
at the questioner from under his heavy
eyebrows ; the man's face expressed no sign,
save that conveyed by a deep flush.

What do you know of this lady ? ' he
asked after a second.

Little enough  save from talk,' answered
the other, too loyal by nature to betray
Violet's meetings with himself.

Talk involves a good many falsehoods,
my friend ; we should, all of us, beware of
idle words. What you have heard of Mrs
Tremayne and Mr George Desborough is
very idle, I should imagine.'

The flush deepened on Varley's face ; but,
if the vicar noted it, he did not appear to do
so  only turned away from the subject, as

though it did not interest him, and said in a
very off-hand way, 

Your life must have been somewhat of a
chequered one Eh, Jack ? I have a curiosity
to learn a few of its vicissitudes. How came
you to take to your present trade ? '

Jack's tongue had been untied by good
liquor ; he lay comfortably back in his armchair,
took up the right side of his blouse,
and tucked it carefully into the left side of a
leather belt he wore, crossed his legs, and
began what was evidently about to prove a
yarn.

LITTLE PEARL.

ELL, your reverence, though its
a good many years since I was
a boy, and though perhaps you
wouldn't believe it, yet I had a bit of
education in those days ; but, bless ye, it's
so long ago, and I've passed through such a
world of contrariness since that, I've almost
forgotten all the learning I ever picked up.
My father was a sort of a gentleman in
his way  at least, he was above his class,
and went with those who knew him by the
name of '' Gentleman Varley." It wasn't a
paying title, since it made him lazy ; but
ril do my best towards giving you a description

of my home life. Maybe you know
Marston-on-Willows ; if you never was there,
it's a place worth looking at, if you should
chance that way. It's not because it was my
native town that I speak of it, but on
account of its own interest.'

I have heard of the place,' said the vicar,
and heard that it has a peculiarity all its
own  so you were born at Marston-on Willows,
Mr Varley ? '

That's it, sir, and I'll make so bold as
to tell you about what Marston's like. It
has long straight streets, with gabled roofs
and small casement windows to the houses,
and black and white tiles let in all over
the fronts of them, and every house has
its motto or sign writ somewhere on the
lintel. Ours was 

Happiness wedded virtue,"

They was funny little rooms in the old
house, a tall man couldn't stand upright ina

many of them, in the attic where I slept
you might touch the ceiling as you lay a
bed ; but then you had only got to open
your eyes wide enough to see the loveliest
landscape as God ever made on this beautiful
earth. Talk o' panoramas and dramas,
them as swells in big cities goes to look at
there never was a one of them to come upto
that natural picture, as my window did
peep hole to, and yet I didn't valley it, then
got tired of looking at it, I suppose  though
it varied pretty much too as times and seasons
changed. It was prettiest of all when
the sun was shining on the river as it twined
in and out among the willows, every now
and then coming out like a great sparkling
diamond, then hiding itself again right away
from view under the rushes that gives a bit
of trade to Marston, and makes it a sort
of basket town. They are tolerably well
known about the country is Marston baskets ;
never a visitor came as didn't buy one, and

that was what we made our living by. Our
shop, which wasn't a big one, was the
great emporium for Marston baskets ; it was
crammed to the roof with them, of every size
and shape, though it was mostly fancy small
ones as we sold. Father was salesman ; it
was a genteel trade, as suited his dainty
gentleman habits  especially when ladies
came to buy, then wouldn't he show his
white teeth and his white hands as though
he was a born actor. Mother, she was a
hard-working, driving body, with an uneven
temper and a sharp tongue. That she had
her worries and her draw-backs I know now,
as I look back on things with a bit of world-learnt
knowledge ; but young blood can't
always put up with rowing and complaining,
least-wise mine wouldn't. I looked on mother
as a shrew, and one fine day I made up my
mind, all on a sudden-like, to be a man all
at once, and have no more scolding or
blows, for it came to that sometimes.

* There was a show came to Marston,
down in the meadow, four great carts and
ever so many horses, with a lot of boys and
girls and men and women, in tinsel and
fine clothes, with their faces all chalked and
pinked and blacked, till they looked real
beautiful as I thought then. I spent hours
a looking at them, and didn't seem to remember
the cuffing I should get on my
return home for the time I had wasted
away from my baskets. It was a rare one
though, when it came ; but instead of curing
me it made me worse. I bolted off back to
the vans, and sitting down at the back of
one of them, I sulked and sobbed dry tearless
sobs for a while. I was a good big boy,
too big to mind a woman's hand, though it
was a heavy one ; but my self-love was
wounded, and that's harder to bear thana
bruised skin. The master of the caravan
saw me sitting there at last, and came
to me.

" What's up with you, lad ? " he asked Ina
cheery tone.

He was a Httle fat man, who wore tights,
and a short green velvet frock, all greasy
and mangy when you was close to it, but
real beautiful he looked on the stage when
the dip candles was lighted up, and he had
a wreath of gold leaves round his head, tied
with dingy coloured ribbon meant for white.
He was Achilles or Agamemnon or some
such swell.

" Well," says this hero to me. '* Darn
It, don't sit whimpering there, my lad ; but
come and give us a hand inside."

Inside that wonderful show ! there was
luck to be sure ; so I up and followed him,
and soon forgot my cuffs and my troubles
in that there wonderful place.'

Here Mr Varley left off his story to chuckle
quietly to himself, and then he remarked in
an utterly different tone to the one in which
he had been narrating his experiences, 

VOL. II. I

Strange, sir, isn't it, what different impressions
is produced at the different ages
of man ? I thought that there caravan a
paradise then. Now I know it was a very
hell.'

Well, you joined it, of course,' broke in
Mr Shipwright, a little impatiently for him.

Ay, sir, and what is more, spent five
years going about the country doing every
kind of mountebank trick they put me to.
Making a goodish bit of money too, at
times, though not much of it found its
way into my pocket. " More kicks than
halfpence," was the motto of the establishment
; but somehow I put up with ill-usage
there, though I wouldn't do it from my
poor old mother, whose heart was well-nigh
broken by my desertion and evil ways.'

What, then, was the especial attraction
that kept you for five years with these
people ?' asked Mr Shipwright.

Ah, that's it, sir ; and perhaps it will

surprise your reverence when I tell you it
was a child

A female child of course put in the
vicar smiling.

Mr Varley bowed his head In acquiescence.

She was a pretty little thing was Pearl.
She had bright blue eyes and curling dark
hair, and such rosy healthy cheeks  at
least when she first joined us  for hardwork
and poor fare soon made little Pearl
want the rouge pot. She was eight years
old when she first joined us, and where she
came from I couldn't make out. But one
morning when I got up there was Pearl,
in a black frock, outside the van opposite
the one I had been sleeping in, sitting upon
the step in a bewildered sort of way.

' Mother has gone to heaven," was the
only answer she made, when asked where
she hailed from, a fact which her black frock
seemed to speak up to. The loss of her
mother did not, however, seem to make

Pearl very sad, for she munched a piece of
apple some one had given her, between
sundry repeating of this fact, in various
shapes. Hadn't she a temper, my little
beauty, my little beauty Pearl. She was
the wilfulness 3'Oung filly as ever took to
scampering over male hearts ; and she left
the prints of her tiny feet on mine, and no
mistake. Ain't sure but they are there yet.'

Mr Shipwright smiled, and pushed the
sherry a little nearer his guest.

So you stayed five years with the itinerant
players in order to be near little Pearl.'

She wanted some one to get her out of
scrapes, you see, sir, and to help her a bit
when the master gave her high flights to
perform. Pearl's wasn't an easy life, for
she was so clever, he wouldn't believe she
couldn't do anything. She could read and
write, too, which was more than the most
of the children could do ; and sing, law
bless ye, when she opened her mouth to

sing It was like all the larks a-rippling at
once. I often wonder if she was happy 
she didn't look it always ; but she never
complained, and she was always cheery,
even under difficulties ; but then no girl
ever had such a courageous way of looking
straight at life as had little Pearl. Bless me,
shouldn't I like to see little Pearl again ? '

What became of her ', ' asked the vicar,
and there was a sort of twinkle in his eye
as he put the question.

She disappeared in a flash like, same as
she come ; and the curtain as went down
that day on the first act in my life was a
black one.'

Did you never see her again, or ascertain
where she had gone ? '

Never. I asked the master what had
become of her, but he only said, " An opening
had been found for her as was likely
to give her a start in life." She never said
"good-bye," nor writ *' good-bye," nor appeared

again in any way ; and yet I was a
good Jack to her. Do you know, sir, I
often think little Pearl must be dead.'
The vicar shook his head.

Do you know anything about her, sir ?
You look as if you did.'

My friend, what should I know of your
Pearl ? But to imagine a woman is dead,
solely because she neglects to follow up a
youthful flirtation, is a little unworthy of your
supposed knowledge of the world. Eh,
Jack ? '

Well, I don't know, sir ; but I was good
to Pearl, I was. Why, I have been thrashed
often when I had done nothing, solely to
shield her from the blame. Many's the
time I have gone without my meals to give
them to her.'

Do you think you should know her if
you met her now ? '

Know Pearl ? among: ten thousand
beauties I'd pick out Pearl. I goes to

every theater and shilling caravan as I
comes across ; but it's never the likes of
her as I sees in any of them. There's only
one person as I have ever met as brings
little Pearl back to my mind when I looks
at her,' and Mr Varley's voice sank almost
to a whisper during the last part of this
sentence.

And she Is  '

Mrs Tremayne/ he answered in the
same low tone ; ' her as went up in the
balloon so plucky like.'

Mrs Tremayne ! Have you ever told
her this ? '

Lor' bless your reverence, I shouldn't
dare. She is a free-spoken lady enough,
and mighty civil and even tongued, but
I'm expecting as it ain't many liberties as
she'd take without rising.*

In that perhaps also she resembles your
little Pearl, who, you say, had a temper.'

Maybe, maybe, your reverence. There's

an uncommon likeness, but most folks has
their doubles in this life, so they says.
Well, as J was telling you, Pearl left the
caravan, and I wasn't long in following' her
example. A sort of home-sickness came over
me after Pearl went, so I skedaddled without
leave one fine day, and made my appearance
in Marston without announcing my
arrival. In five years everything had gone
topsy-turvy ; father was dead, and mother
had worn out all her spirit, and had turned
from a scold into a whimpering old woman.
I stayed at home a bit and put things
straight for her, but Marston life was wearisome
after sr years of vagabondising ; besides,
I had to look for Pearl, so I took a
few pounds father had left me, 'cause I was the
scapegrace of the family, I suppose, and setup
in my present line o' business. I'd seen
a many cheap Jacks when I was with the
mummers, and it had always seemed a
merry, money - making profession, and it

0/

hasn't proved contrary, except that though
I've got a bit of money in the bank, I
haven't found the Httle beauty as I thought
to share it with

Have you ever talked of Pearl to Mrs
Tremayne ? '

I never speaks of her, your reverence.
This is the first time her name has crossed
my lips these ten years. It's that there
wine as has done it to-day.'

I'm glad you have spoken, my friend, and
if I can help you in your search, command
me.'

Lor', sir, I ain't a-searchin' now. She's
took up her line by this, has Pearl, either
above or below the sod. She don't want
me, or she'd have found me, for she knows
as Jack is faithful ; but I am weary in' your
reverence with this long account, and its
getting late. I must be off to Hurton and
look after my cart and goods.'

I am never wearied. Jack, by listening to

the story of a fellow-creature's life. Weare
all benefited by hearing of the trials and
difficulties of others, my friend. Remember
you have always an ally and a patient
hearer at Fern wood Vicarage. If you ever
find Pearl you will let me know. Eh ? '

Ay, ay, sir, that I will ; but it won't be
on this side of the crave.'

Not so sure of that, Jack ; not so sure
of that.'

And with a hand - shake they parted.
Jack walked off in the now gathering darkness
towards Hurton, going over once again
the story of his youth as he strolled on,
and wondering why the Vicar of Fernwood
should interest himself in the doings of such
as he.

'Taint his usual habit to put himself out-of-the-way
for the sheep as doesn't step
kindly inside the fold,' he decided, as he
turned into the gate of the inn, where he
expected to find his cart and tiger.

The vicar meanwhile stretched his feet
out lazily on the hearth rug, the fading daylight
just being sufficient to show the smile
that was wreathing Itself about his lips.

Pearl he muttered softly, * so every life
has its pearl, even Cheap Jack's.'

FAREWELL SWEET DREAM.

L A I R E and her mother are
sitting at breakfast about three
weeks after George Desborough's
death. It is a bitterly cold morning, the
snow is lying a foot deep in the garden,
and a gloomy, foggy atmosphere makes all
external objects seem drear, nor is there
much more cheerfulness in the breakfast-room
at Swanover Cottage. Claire's whiteface
does not exhibit one symptom of joy,
and Lady Laura's heart beats, oh, so throbbingly,
as she looks at her child.

There has been a long silence, during
which they have both seemed afraid that each

should read the other's private thoughts ; at
last, however, Claire said very softly and
gently,

I shall write to Matthew to-day, mother,
and give him back his promise.'

Lady Laura did not answer, save by an
almost Inarticulate ' Ah.' She, too, felt that
as long as Matthew was a younger son, the
objections to the marriage were removable,
notwithstanding Mr Lently's strictures and
Mrs Desborough's spite ; but now he was
heir of Vantage they were increased tenfold.

You approve, dearest mother, do you
not?'

Lady Laura looked at Claire for a minute,
as though her child's happiness alone could
influence her ; but then she said, 

Yes, Claire, I suppose it is the only
course to be pursued. If Matthew  '

He must be free and unblessed,' interrupted
the girl, a hot flush coming suddenly
across the blanched face ; * there must be no

ifs. I should be more unhappy as Matthew's
wife by compulsion than  ' and she stopped.

School herself as she would, the great
love of her life would hold a sway not easily
to be set on one side, even at the promptings
of honour. She went on again, however,
after a short pause, boldly enough.

Whatever my feelings, they must be
counted for nothing now. Matthew is ina
new position. For at least a year I will
listen to no word of engagement between
us. He must feel his way in this fresh life,
learn what he can, and what he cannot give
up. Mother, it is very hard to bear, but it
must be done, honour and pride demand it.
You will help me, will you not ? '

Claire's griefs, great or small, ever since
her baby days, were invariably accompanied
by an appeal for maternal succour.

My child, of course I will, but look up,
my Claire, such devotion and honesty must
have their reward  you will be happy yet.'

But the girl only shook her head with
a faint smile.

A few hours later, and Claire's simple
letter was written to Matthew, and the
post-bag that went that day from Swan-over
was a heavy one, if the weight of
post-bags may be judged by the amount of
heart that goes in the letters.

Of course Matthew will disdain this
sacrifice,' Lady Laura thought, ' though it
was only right and fitting that Claire should
offer it.'

But for once Lady Laura judged falsely.
Two days later Matthew's answer came. He
accepted a temporary suspension of their
engagement, ' not,' as he said, ' for any want
of his old ardent love for Claire, but merely
as a soother to the feelings of others, till they
should have learnt in fact that he meant to
be self-reliant, and resolved in all things
now, more than ever, to have his own way.'

Then he finished his missive with protestations

of affection and devotion, which
were almost rhapsodical In their extravagance;
but which, nevertheless, failed to blind
Claire to the fact that he was free, as her
heart whispered, free from her  for ever.

She laid the letter in her mother's lap  a
cold stony look on her face, a stare in her large
eyes. She neither spoke nor wept  speech
and tears for the time seemed utterly to
have deserted her.

What could Lady Laura say ? with that
letter so unlike what she had expected
lying before her, she dare not whisper
words of hope for the future  in kindness
to her child, she felt It were wiser to face
the truth now. She would get over her
disappointment, she trusted, as many a
young heart has had to do before ; she did
not stop to calculate the amount of freshness
and brightness and trusting love that
getting over such a disappointment demands,
all she considered at that moment was,

how she could help to mitigate the blow
which had come, none the less heavily from
having been foreseen.

She drew her daughter's head down on
her shoulder as she still sat with Matthew's
letter before her.

You have done your duty, my child ;
may that at least be some small comfort
in your trial, and now let us try and make
the best of what is left us.'

The best, mother. What is the best ?
The best has gone,' and Claire's words
sounded like the echo of some far-off moan.

Life and youth and health, Claire, do
they count for nothing in the summing up
of our earthly relations. Listen, my love,
I have arranged a plan which we will put
into operation with all due speed. We will
not sit here and bewail, that were but ill
in accordance with the pride we have already
shown. We will go off to the sunny south
and see if we cannot bring the colour back

VOL. II. K

to those pale cheeks, for the look of your
face makes your mother's heart very sad, my
child, and it will not add to your happiness
to make me miserable too. Eh, Claire ? '

No, mother ; but I can't be gay. You
must forgive  ' and poor Claire broke down,
and finished her sentence in a sob. This
was what Lady Laura hoped for ; tears at
seventeen are the natural result of intense
grief, and Lady Laura trusted that, by dint
of them, in time the grief would wear itself
away, and that bright days would ensue. If
she only could get Claire to take an interest
in going abroad, the first step would be
gained ; but that could scarcely be expected
yet. True, she went about the house making
the necessary preparations with some show
of interest; but every now and then she would
pause in her work, and stand with a distant
look in her eyes, as though indulging in some
thought which carried her far away. All
communication with Matthew had not wholly

ream.



ceased ; probably from the sheer satisfaction
of feeling himself to be free, he had written
Claire more letters during the ten days after
she had suggested their engagement should
be broken off, than he had done during all
the time he had been in London. She
read them through with a perplexed lookin
her eyes, they seemed so bereft of life
and spirit ; and Lady Laura, as she watched
her without venturing on any remark, rejoiced
that she had arranged a plan for
continental travel, since thus she hoped the
faint link which still bound them together
would break of itself without compulsion.

For Lady Laura saw that Claire's only
chance of happiness now was to be at once
and for ever free from Matthew  there must
be no half measures, no halting between
two opinions. Claire wrote to Matthew
sometimes kind sisterly letters  full of interest
and good advice, if scarcely as loving
as they erst were ; for some reason, which

was not defined even to herself, she did not
tell him she was leaving England ; perhaps
she dreaded lest, on discovering that this
separation was more tangible than when
only the distance between London and
Swanover lay between them, he might seek
in hot haste to renew the old love ; or perhaps
she did not wish to add one more drop
to that cup of bitterness, which she knew
full well he was drinking over George's
death. Be it what It might, save for gentle
sympathy, she was silent, and on a cold
December morning, before the country
neighbours should begin to talk of Christmas
festivities, Claire and her mother, with one
faithful old attendant, set out for Dover,
bound for the sunny south, which Lady
Laura had not visited since she was a child,
and which to Claire was an unknown land.
Yet she evinced no girlish curiosity  poor
Claire, it was as though the well-spring
of expectation had suddenly been dried up.

From Dover she wrote a farewell note to
Matthew, telling him she was going abroad
for a few months, and then with the fragments
of the snapt cord coiled about her heart, she
followed her mother on board the steamer.

What Matthew's feelings were when he
received that letter it were impossible to
describe, since he scarcely knew himself;
but perhaps relief was supreme. Claire was
right ; mixing with the great London world
had made him see things from a different
aspect, and, moreover, he was still dwelling
in Lord Beaurepaire's house, under the fascinating
influence of Lady Valentina. His
father and mother had come to London ; but,
notwithstanding her great grief, which perhaps
was the only genuine thing her life had
yet produced, Mrs Desborough was not so
utterly lost to all sense of worldly aggrandisement
as to desire Matthew to quit the
Beaurepaire's house in order to dwell under
the same roof with herself. Strange the

amount of snobbism that not infrequently
develops itself in the characters of those
who, by birth and position, are themselves
qualified to be among the leaders of society.
Mrs Desborough was prepared to cringe to
the duchess and to Lord Beaurepaire, while
at the same time she gave herself little airs
of superior wisdom, which showed at once
that though she regarded them as social
deities, she was not exactly inclined to cede
the place as a clever woman. How much
more overpowering would have been her
deferential treatment of Lady Valentina, had
not her behaviour been tempered by sorrow,
it were difficult to decide ; as it was, redundant
gratitude was the special quality in
which she elected to excel  gratitude for all
the kindness shown to her beloved Matthew ;
and probably it was as useful as any other in
bringing about the intimate relations which
she desired to see existent between the two
families.

There was something about Mrs Des-borough
which was especially attractive to
Lady Valentina. In the first place she recognised
at once her intellectual superiority 
perhaps the adulation she personally received
had some share in her keen-sightedness ;
then she regarded her as a thorough gentlewoman,
untainted by any of the tricks of
slang and bye-play which mar so many of
those who inherit even high descent, but
which were particularly distasteful to Lady
Valentina.

True, Mrs Desborough might be just
slightly a bore with her hyper-prudery and
ultra-particularity of detail, but then was not
that infinitely preferable to women of Mrs
Tremayne's type ? ' quoth the Lady Valentina
to herself during her solitary meditations.
Since George's death, Mrs Desborough's
sentiments about Violet Tremayne had
greatly modified ; as she could not injure
him by marrying him, perhaps she liked her

all the better for having thought about him ;
and that Mrs Desborough had been attracted
by Violet Tremayne's ways on their first
introduction there is little doubt.

The day. after her arrival in town, Violet had
called-in just the little half-mourning garments
which etiquette demands out of compliment.
She had been admitted from a sort of mistake,
owing to her usual at home-redness in the
ducal house, and once having succeeded in
seeing Mrs Desborough, it were strange if
her re-establishment in favour had not from
that moment been complete. Her manners
were so winning, so endearing, that they
went straight to the bereaved mother's heart,
and she felt that were her son restored to
her, she could almost give him to this
charming little woman. That Mrs Des-borough,
keen reader of character though
she was, would always be more attracted by
Violet than by Lady Valentina, there is no
doubt, and yet the one was noble-minded.

grand, and altogether worthy ; while the
other  well, she was Bohemian and intriguing
in the very extreme. The Rev.
Lawrence Sivewriorht was not far wrono;- in
the estimate he had drawn of Mrs Tree
character, though he might morally
receive his 'quietus with a bare bodkin,'
before he proceeded much farther with his
strictures on the subject, that is, if he allowed
the lady herself to become an courant with
them.

Mrs Desborough had not been two days
in London before she discovered how decidedly
antipathetic were Violet and Lady
Valentina, and, wise woman as she was,
she was carefully silent to the latter on the
subject of the daily visits Mrs Tremayne
paid her, and which each day she felt more
and more that she should miss, if by any
fortuitous circumstance they should be discontinued.
And whilst his daughter complacently
hugged the belief that, since the

night of the fatal ball, Mrs Tremayne
and her father had not seen each other,
they meanwhile not infrequently met in
Mrs Desborough's drawing-room, and so
pointedly attentive was the old earl, that
Mrs Desborough began after a while to see
through the smoked glass they had at first
held up before her ; merely judging, however,
with much discretionary prudence, that Mrs
Tremayne must be the piece of perfection
she deemed her, since Lord Beaurepaire, renowned
the most difficult of men, accorded
her so high a place in his esteem. Thus
within a month of George Desborough's
death, before the tears shed to his memory
had been dried up, two new friendships  for
they were scarcely love-knots, at least not
yet  had arisen among those whom he
estimated as his own particular belongings.

But he had gone to his rest  they might
for him, henceforth, mate as they listed ;
while poor little Claire Bailey, exiled in a

foreign land, had of her own free will given
an open field to the rival of whom she
scarcely suspected the existence. So, in that
ever-changing kaleidoscope society, do new
pictures and amalgamation daily present
themselves to the vigilant observer.

A GUIDING STAR.

ijj#0 you think I ought to go back
to Mr Wharton's ? I will be
guided entirely by you. Give me
your opinion as what I ought to do says
Matthew Desborough, as he is lounging on
the sofa in Lady Valentina's boudoir, still
allowed, on account of his recent indisposition,
an amount of liberty which no other
male had ever previously been permitted in
the presence of the stately Valentina.

She is sitting in a chaise longue by the fire
looking very regal in a tight - fitting black
velvet dress, with a large ruffle of creamy lace
about her neck. She drops the book she had

been reading steadily for more than half-an-hour,
and looks at Matthew as though,
even during the last three weeks of intimate
acquaintance with him, she has scarcely yet
become accustomed to these sudden appeals.
If she had been watching him instead of
reading her book, she would have been
aware that he meantime had never turned
a page, while the working of his expressive
face would have told her that in his mind
at that moment there was subject matter
for whole volumes. But Lady Valentina
was not in the habit of noting signs ; to
her matter-of-fact nature they had but little
meaning. Matthew had gone through a
perfect mental tempest, while she had steadily
perused the rather dull pages of some travels
in Persia, and she had known nothing of it.
Now, however, that she was addressed, she
took the matter in hand practically, and at
once, as was her wont ; her first remark
being a question, 

What do your father and mother wish ? '

My father is so knocked down by my
poor brother's death that he gives no
opinion ; of course he does not think I
am worthy to fill his place, and he is right.
Oh ! Lady Valentina, if it were not that
my mind is so ill at ease, my faith so
shaken, I should often wish that I were
lying beside poor George ; or, better still,
were lying there instead of him.'

Hush ! Mr Desborough ; pray do not
talk in that strain. A shaken faith ! Why
should your faith be shaken } You come
of an old family who have been firm churchmen
for years. Fanaticism and heresy, my
dear friend, are invariably the result of
disease ; as you grow stronger, you will
lose these vague wavering.'

Conservative alike in religion and politics.
Church and State were the golden words
inscribed on Lady Valentina's life banner.

That is what every one tells me  that

I am ill, weak alike in mind and body,' said
Matthew querulously. * And yet, only this
morning, my mother was urging me to walk
alone  to take counsel of no man, but
follow the unblessed dictates of my own
feelings.'

Well,' answered Lady Valentina, ' let
us see how we can work out Mrs Des-borough's
plan. Let us jot down the
points at issue, with their pros and cons ;
and, having considered the latter carefully,
accept or reject them according to their
weight. Are you agreeable to abide by
this arrangement } '

To have a fixed line of action marked
out for me, would be the commencement
of a new epoch of happiness.'

Exactly. Now, the first question is.
Shall I return to Mr Wharton's to improve
my mind, and render myself more fit to
become a responsible member of the constitution
? Against going back,  coercion

is a nuisance, and nursing the quirks of my
own brain a pastime in which convalescence
invariably delights.'

Oh, Lady Valentina ! you are making fun
of the whole concern.'

Fun ? ' and Lady Valentina looked intensely
surprised ; it was the first time in
her whole life that she had ever been accused
deliberately of committing so heinous
an offence.

Fun ? ' she repeated, * there must surely
be a visible line somewhere between commonsense
and fun.'

*You are treating me a little bit like a
school-boy,' said Matthew, turning away
with a flushed face. ' And I have been
out of leading strings some time.'

It strikes me you gave them to me to
hold. I am sorry I misunderstood you,'
and she took up her book as though proposing
to return once more to the perusal
of the Persian travels.

But Matthew had no intention of giving
up the discussion so readily. He loved
argument, but then he liked it to move round
a circle. A beginning and an end were
definite existences with which he could not
grapple ; thus Lady Valentina's practical
answers to the first questions he had set
her tormented him, but he went on, as If
desirous to pursue the subject, 

You see, If I go back to Wharton's, I
shall hear the perpetual discussion of subjects
bearing on logic, metaphysics, philosophy,
and all that catalogue ; and if I
do not go back  '

You will still live In the world and hear
those subjects frequently discussed, without
having gone through the course of study
which will enable you to understand them

Lady Valentine, does It ever occur to you
to believe in any of these new ideas ? ' and Matthew
sat down on a footstool at Lady Valentine's
feet, and looked up at her earnestly.

VOL. II. L

I am a Beaurepaire,' she answered
proudly, 'hence a churchman.'

Matthew twisted himself round, fronting
the fire, his arms embracing his knees, ashe
sat looking at it with a glowing face, and
eyes that shone like the stars in heaven.

I wonder what Shipwright really seriously
believes,' he said after a short pause.

In the constitution,' she answered, ' or he
is not an Englishman.'

It had been Matthew's lot of late to meet
people holding varied creeds, both religious
and political ; but no one had yet crossed his
path who took his stand-point of faith on
exactly the same ground as did Lady Valentine.
She believed rigidly, firmly, zealously,
because disbelief would have been a flaw in
the requirements society demands from the
noble daughter of a noble house. To read
controversial books, or dispute in any way
the faith of her ancestors, would never have
occurred to her for an instant. She went to

church regularly on Sunday mornings and on
the chief red letter days, she subscribed to
several public charities, made Christmas gifts
and Easter offerings, led a strictly moral and
truthful life, but knew naught of spirituality
or mysticism. * High and dry,' on the old
established last century model  such was
Lady Valentina's creed ; for the first time,
perhaps it was likely to prove advantageous
to another mind, since the steady machinery
which actuated her was exactly the regulative
power which was wanting to Matthew. Possibly
he felt that her strong unshaken faith
would act as a prop to his over-scrupulous
inquiries, and he was therefore inclined to be
honestly guided by the opinions of another.

Lady Valentina was firm as granite  there
was nothing of the shuttlecock about her  at
least so Matthew decided in his mind ashe
sat at her feet and looked at the fire. He
never asked himself whether the drawing
towards her, which he undeniably felt, was

entirely mental, or whether physical attributes
had their share therein. Or perhaps it was
gratitude for kindly nursing which was filling
him with strong regard and making him feel a
longing that this regal-looking passive woman
should take the reins of his life-chariot In her
firm fair hands, and guide those unreliable
steeds, Scruple and Self-reproach, as he could
never succeed In guiding them himself. Bethe
exact definition of his feelings what It
might, It was to her his thoughts wandered
as they passed quickly away from the contemplation
of Mr SIvewrlght's belief, and Lady
Valentine's finely balanced equilibrium received
a fresh shock as he asked, very
unexpectedly, dashing away with his usual
impetuosity from the last subject under
discussion, 

Lady Valentina, did you ever see anyone
like me before ? Do you think my
quirks and difficulties perfectly unamenable
to discipline ? *

She looked at him for a moment in some
surprise, then she folded her arms on the
velvet skirt, and, leaning on them, brought
her head down more on a level with his ashe
sat below her.

I think you are a very troublesome boy,'
she said smiling ; ' but troublesome children
are often cured by coercion.'

Now Matthew did not exactly relish the
idea of being treated as a child by Valentina
still he did not attempt to resent it, but said
in very low tones, 

Coercion from you ; yes, I could bear it
very patiently. Punish me as much as you
will, I shall never complain.' Lady Valentine
blushed.

Unparalleled coincidence ! Why should
these words of Matthew's call up a blush
on a pale cold cheek, on which till now
the colour had never deepened for any
speech or thought.

I do not wish to punish you,' she said, * I

would far rather  ' and she stopped for a
second, ' see you happy.'

Ah ! much of my prospective happiness
lies in your hands. You have the power to
make or mar my future.'

Had he quite forgotten Claire Bailey already,
or did he only mean that the agency
of the Intellectual affinity which bound him
to Valentine would make his happiness. It is
a question which at that moment he would
have been utterly incapable of answering.

The glow on her face deepened, but she
rose quickly so that he should not remark
it.

This conversation is not good for an invalid,'
she said a little hurriedly, ' you ought
to be out walking in the sunshine.'

Matthew sprang to his feet.

Already am I to be punished by being
sent away. Oh, Lady Valentine, one moment
before you begin to subject me to a system.
Promise sometimes to temper your treatment

with mercy, and occasionally to be kind and
good, and  loving.'

The last word made Lady Valentine wince,
but she did not treat it as an impertinence,
as might have been supposed ; she only said
quite playfully, 

What a silly boy you are ; one would
think I was a perfect Tartar.'

Instead of the kindest and most adorable
woman in the universe. Oh, Lady Valentine
! how should I ever have got through
all this trying time without you ? You have
been my good genius ; only tell me how I
can in some degree show my gratitude and
requite you, however infinitesimally, for all
you have done for me.'

Really, Mr Desborough, you will be
quite ill if you excite yourself in this way ;
if you want to please me, do be a little
amenable to reason.'

Yes. I have promised, and you have the
right to hold me to my word

'You don't mean really that you expect
me to arrange your life for you ? I am not
clever enough to  not capable  besides, what
will Mrs Desborough think ? '

Oh, my mother is not likely to interfere
with my affairs when she knows they are
in such safe hands.'

It is impossible, Mr Desborough ; you do
not know what you are asking.'

When I was ill in body, physically incapable
of acting for myself, you nursed me,
fed me, looked after me ; do you regard
the mind as inferior to the body that you
refuse to bestow on it a portion of the
tender treatment the body has received ? '
and Matthew followed her to the window,
where she had taken refuge from a conversation
which visibly alarmed and moved
her.

Why have you selected me for this
office ? To be the body's nurse is
womanly ; but to tutor and teach requires

an amount of intellect and learning which
I do not possess.'

'Intellect and learning, avaunt!' cried
Matthew excitedly. * I have been lectured
enough by so-called clever people ; henceforth
I will choose my own mentor, and, if
I mistake not, you have already accepted
the office. So, Lady Valentina, I will bear
no refusal patiently  ' for she held out her
hand as though objecting.

Tut, tut, Mr Desborough. I shall be
failing in my duty as body's nurse if I
allow this conversation to go on.'

Promise then  '

She looked at him without speaking, as
she pondered over the immense responsibility
which this promise involved ; he,
meanwhile, paced the room with feverish
agitation. No movement on his part could
have been more successful in gaining her
speedy consent to his wishes ; for she feared
the effect her refusal might have on his

excitable temperament, and, stopping him,
she just touched his sleeve with her jewelled
hand.

I will do the best I can for you  you
most irrational of men.'

He caught her hand and kissed it fervently,
while the woman's pale face was
once more all aglow as she snatched it
from him, and bade him go out and leave
her to her reflections for an hour or so.
Lady Valentina's reflections, as a rule, were
of a very orderly sequent nature, but, on
this occasion they entirely deserted the
beaten track, and declined in toto to be
made subservient to will. This rash excitable,
impassioned boy was a perfect
anomaly in her life. She did not wholly
understand him  how could she, since his
nature was so utterly and entirely opposite
to her own  and yet she had undertaken
to help him through the tangled mazes of
some tolerably thick brushwood. If she

were successful, and they found themselves
together on a broad firm path, what then ?
Practical Lady Valentina could not solve
the problem, so she sat down and resumed
once more the reading of the Persian
travels ; but during the last half-hour a
sad flagging in interest had supervened,
and ere many minutes the book was thrown
on one side, to be taken up no more for
that day it least. And Lady Valentina sat
very pas lively for a long while ; probably
she was mapping out Matthew Des-borough's
future, a task many of his intimates
would have judged that she was
likely to perform but very completely,
since, from each of the several chapters
into which she divided it, Claire Bailey
was singularly absent.

SCHEMING.

Once Matthew has gone back to
Mr Wharton's, I do not see any
reason for prolonging our visit
to London,' Mrs Desborough was explaining
to Mrs Tremayne, as they sat together
in friendly chat in the duchess's drawing-room,
Mrs Desborough's pro tern.

But the change is so good for you,'
pleaded Violet, to whom Mrs Desborough's
return to Vantage Park was anything but
agreeable. For where then would be the
daily meetings with Lord Beaurepaire ?

Mr Desborough misses his country avocations,
his books, and his pet papers. I

must consider him ; he has not looked the
same man since  since  that awful accident.'

The difference between the squire of Vantage
and his wife lay in that he never spoke
of poor George's dreadful death ; while she
talked of it volubly and incessantly.

Yes, of course. I wonder you don't persuade
him to send for his papers and stay in
town for a little. Can't he get books at the
British Museum, or some of those places ?'

Violet's literary knowledge was of the
vaguest.

Oh, I daresay, yes, certainly ; and it
would be delightful to be near you  you
have cheered me up as no one else could
have done ; but you will come and stay at
Vantage, so we need not be separated.'

Mrs Tremayne shook her head.

Circumstances keep me in London just
at present, a little troublesome law business,
or I suppose Julia would have insisted on
my accompanying her back to Monarchs.

I am glad, however, since during the last
few weeks it has enabled me to be of use
to you.'

I am sure I don't know what I should
have done without you, dear,' and Mrs Des-borough,
with a sudden gush of affection,
kissed Mrs Tremayne effusively.

Then you will stay just a week more. I
am sure Mr Desborough does not dislike being
in London half as much as you imagine, and
we can't lose you yet, can we. Lord Beauregard
? ' and she held out her hand to the
peer, who was announced at that moment.

Lose Mrs Desborough, no indeed. Where
does she talk of going ? '

Back to be mummified at Vantage.
Such a mistake, when she is not in the
best of spirits.'

You are all very good, too good,' and
Mrs Desborough's black bordered handkerchief
touched her eyelashes.

Matthew left us this morning,' went on

his lordship, thinking to avert her thoughts
by interesting her in her surviving son, ' he
was really looking quite brisk. He is a dear
boy, and I have grown very fond of him,
so has Valentina, who rarely takes to anyone
; but she lectures Matthew, and arranges
everything for him in a way it is quite
wonderful to behold.'

I am sure I am most grateful to you
both. Matthew, as you say, is a dear boy,
his loving affectionate nature will fully repay
any sacrifices made for him. Ah ! I was
blessed in both my sons, pray God this one
may be spared to me. Do you approve of
Mr Wharton as a tutor for Matthew, Lord
Beaurepaire ? '

As tutors go, yes. But since Matthew,
under the different circumstances in which
he is now placed, will probably not take
orders, it seems to me his best tutor would
be the world. He has no fault save that
he knows too little of life.'

And that is scarcely a grievous one ;
but you are right, Matthew is almost too
good.'

Not too good, Mrs Desborough, but too
scrupulous. We must see if amongst us we
cannot rub the edge off some of his scruples ;
for a little while, however, I daresay he will
do very well at Wharton's.'

Mrs Tremayne got up and shook her
skirts and her curls  this conversation bored
her  she had not come there to listen to a
panegyric on Matthew, who, even though he
had become an elder son, was to her a totally
uninteresting object.

I must go,' she said, examining with attention
a vase on the mantel-shelf as she spoke.
She had not the slightest intention of going ;
but it was one of her habits to be perpetually
on the move, ever seemingly oppressed by
an amount of business she had to get through,
-''1 of which could very conveniently have
been postponed sine die ; but then the general

fuss that encircled Mrs Tremayne would have
been non-existent, and she would have lost
half her identity.

Going ! ' exclaimed both Lord Beauregard
and Mrs Desborough as in one breath.
It was very evident that Mrs Tremayne had
made herself very necessary to both of them
during the last few days.

I have so much to do.'

What can you have to do, I wonder 1 '
asked his lordship.

Well, I have to order a dress at Elise's
for her Grace of Monarchs. I have to go
and scold the cleaner for sending home my
new lace curtains all in holes. I have to goto
one or two house agents to see if I can
let my house till the end of next season.
Height ! what it is to be poor ! And I have
to go and get an estimate for doing a certain
amount of whitewashing and papering
to the same. If that is not a catalogue of
necessity's obligations, I don't know what is.'

VOL. II. M

My dear child, you need not go to-day
about the house  tomorrow will do quite
as well,' suggested Mrs Desborough.

But it was towards Lord Beaurepaire that
Violet looked to see the effect of her speech,
most of which was pure fiction. There was
a curious expression on his face, to say the
least of it, and it angered well for the future,
she thought. In fact she did not doubt but
the business would have been settled long
ago, save for Lady Valentina's palpable disapproval.
True, they had met but seldom
since the ball, and then only by chance at
Mrs Desborough's ; yet Violet felt it were
easier to go on a pilgrimage to the frigid
zone, than to attempt to make any way
among the icebergs which debarred her from
all entrance into Lady Valentina's good
graces.

But to return to the present position.

Lord Beaurepaire, having recovered from
the shock the idea of losing Mrs Tree

society in London for the whole of
the next season had given him, said rather
pointedly, 

Pray do not be in a hurry to do so rash
a thing. There is no saying what may
happen between this and the season ; wait,
at least, till after Christmas.'

Nothing is at all likely to happen cried
Violet. ' I have no rich relations to die,
and I am so overhauled that it swallows
all my income  in fact, I am thinking of
sitting on my doorstep with my mouth open
like a bird waiting to be fed.'

Both her friends laughed, and Violet,
having obtained what she wanted  namely
the whole attention  went on chattering.

Something I must do to live. The stage
would suit me best, only I am afraid to my
appeal, " Walk up, walk up, ladies and
gentlemen," all my friends would immediately
walk down and leave me shivering
outside the pale of society.'

Do you think you would have the
nerve to act in public ? ' asked Mrs Des-borough.


Nerve ! good gracious ! That is just what
I have in abundance. At twelve years old I
could jump through a hoop with anybody.'

Jump through a hoop ! Did you ever
try ? ' and Mrs Desborough's voice was so
reprovingly astonished that Mrs Tremayne
coloured up.

What have I not tried ? ' she answered.
I was once a sad tom-boy ; but poverty
stops most things, even vices. No ; I don't
think I'll take to the stage, it is too naughty.
Fish is a wonderfully money-making trade,
that is what I will go In for and she began
to wander about the room, singing ' Caller
Herein' ! ' in that clear rich voice of hers,
so as thoroughly to entrance both her
hearers.

In fact, Mrs Tremayne was in the full
swing of triumph, when a most unexpected

and unwelcome visitor was announced ; more
unwelcome than could even have been Lady
Valentina herself. It was none other than
the Rev. Lawrence Shipwright, whom everyone
had supposed to be safe in the bosom
of his flock at Fernwood. He could scarcely
believe his ears when he first heard such
festal strains proceeding from a room which,
judging from his last interview with Mrs
Desborough, he believed must be the abode
of mourning, nor in fact his eyes when,
having crossed the threshold, he saw Mrs
Tremayne. Was it not enough that he
had to contend with the presence of this
lady at Monarchs Caste ? Little did he
expect to find her on equally intimate terms
with his older and more sagacious ally, Mrs
Desborough. Having shaken hands with
his old friend, who was really glad to see
him, though she assumed the most afflicted
manner the moment he appeared, he
turned to Violet, and the look they gave

each other showed plainly that under the
civility with which they managed to get
through a greeting, there was a well-spring
of ill-feeling which, on one side or the other,
must some day bubble up. But Lord Beau-prepare
had to be introduced to the clergyman,
and in the hearty meeting of the two
men, known to each other so well by repute,
the existent animosity between Violet
and Mr Shipwright passed unnoticed.

I am only in town for two days. I
came up on some personal business  nothing
of importance. More, perhaps, to get rid
of a little country mould,' was the vicar's
answer to Mrs Desborough's questioning.

How is the squire ? '

Very dejected  very sadly dejected. Weare
both of us terribly broken down.'

The Rev. Lawrence wondered whether
'Caller Herring!' would have a beneficial
effect on the squire ; but save by a smile
which Mrs Desborough's despondent mien

did not seem to occasion, he gave no sign,
only asked, 

And Matthew  how is Matthew ?'
Ask Lord Beaurepaire ; he knows the
best and latest news of Matthew

Always Matthew,' murmured Mrs Tree
to herself, as she walked away to a
distant .window and stood playing with the
blind tassel. ' Always Matthew. How sick
I am of his quirks and his fancies. I wish
well, I wish the stately Valentina would
marry him. By St Hymen, that is a lordly
idea ! I'll see if I can't promote it. It
would get rid of her at all events. I wish I
could marry the parson to somebody. If it
were to the angel of destruction, I should not
much care ; but I'll be even with him somehow,'
and having given vent to her feelings
in this little stage-aside, she strolled back
to the fireplace, where the two gentlemen
were still discussing Matthew's prospects con
amove, Mrs Tremayne to a certain extent

was right ; it had become a sort of troublesome
habit with all his friends to discuss
Matthew's affairs exhaustively, possibly because
he himself set them the example by
so constantly seeking counsel from everyone.


Mrs Tremayne sat down by Mrs Des-borough.


I really am going now she said, * you
must have so much to talk over with Mr
Shipwright that you can't want me, or
Lord Beaurepaire either. Are you walking
? Can I put you down anywhere ? ' she
went on, turning to him. ' I am going towards
St James' Street'

Mrs Tremayne was too much bored by
Mr Shipwright's advent to extend her visit,
but she had no intention of leaving Lord
Beaurepaire behind her to hear any disadvantageous
remarks which she thought
very possibly might be made.

Thank you very much. I am going to

the Carlton. I shall be delighted if you will
set me down

You have been missed in the north ; but
who does not miss Mrs Tremayne ? ' said Mr
Shipwright as they shook hands, ' though it
is amusing  really amusing.'

Who ? what ?' asked Violet in some
trepidation, though curious to know what
he meant.

Oh, only a very odd man I was talking
to the other day, who has taken quite a fancy
to you  sees some likeness to an old love he
tells me.'

Who on earth is it ? *

I fancy you know him very well ; his
name is Varley.'

Cheap Jack ! Yes, he is a great friend of
mine.'

My dear Violet ! ' interposed Mrs Des-borough
a little reprovingly.

Of course I don't mean exactly a friend ;
only I patronise him ; he amuses me.'

While he evidently has an immense admiration
for you  says you resemble some
Pearl he once knew in his early youth.'

Mrs Tremayne grew white enough to
merit the soubriquet, but she said with a very
off-hand manner, 

I don't know anything about his recollections,
only he is a funny little man who
makes me laugh, so I toss him a half-crown
occasionally.'

Next time you see him ask him about
Pearl. He told me the whole story.'

Oh, I never encourage those sort of
people in telling stories ; they are, as a rule,
far too prolix.'

Yes, he might be so, it is very probable.
Good-bye, Mrs Tremayne, I daresay we shall
meet soon at Monarchs.'

Good-bye, Mr Shipwright.'

I never saw Shipwright before ; he
seems a highly cultivated delightful man,
very unlike the usual run of country

parsons,' said Lord Beaurepaire, when they
were seated side by side in the widow's
brougham.

Don't trust him, Lord Beaurepaire. He
is a sort of man who will say anything.
He is clever and polished enough and
all that ; but he would not mind swearing
away a woman's reputation.'

The basest sin a man can commit. I
hope you are labouring under a mistake.'

Well, Mr Shipwright always will have
what he calls the truth, and whatever flaw
there might be in any one's character, he
would expose it, probably exaggerate it, for
the sake of his beloved truth.'

Ah, that is rather another reading ; but I
perceive he is no favourite of yours.'

I hate him,' replied Violet very decidedly.

Lord Beaurepaire laughed as he remarked,
that ' it was always desirable to hear of
hating, since it made its opposite so much
more worth having.'

Violet smiled, and looked up at him with
a little blush ; but, somewhat to her disappointment,
his conversation did not become
more personal. In fact it had not ascended
above mere platitudes when they arrived at
the Carlton, and save that he did just
squeeze the tips of her fingers as he expressed
a hope that he should meet her next
day at Mrs Desborough's, she would have
been inclined to think that the chase was
a useless one. As it was, she went on
her way ruminating and uttering invectives
against Lady Valentina and Mr Shipwright
by turns.

The first must be married to Matthew ;
the second must be silenced  but how .' '

And then she fell into a train of thought
about that ' Pearl ' story.

What could Cheap Jack have been saying
? What could he know ? She was like a
Pearl he had once known ? She would have
to go back to Monarchs and find out several

things  but Lord Beaurepaire ! Why, Mrs
Desborough must ask the Beaurepaires to
Vantage, it was only the right thing todo
after their kindness to Matthew. The
mourning  oh, that did not matter, since they
had been through the whole thing ; of course
that was the plan. She was doubtless
quite as desirous about Matthew's marriage
with Valentina, as it behoved an anxious
mother to be. Quel parti ! Yes, yes, there
lay a map of the next few weeks in a nutshell'


TEA AT THE VICARAGE.

HE bell at Ravensholme Church Is
ringing for evensong  service on
week days in the winter is at four
o'clock. The Rev. Luke Lently, in his cassock,
passes quickly across the narrow path
which leads directly from his study to the
back door of the church. Having put on
his surplice and gone into his stall on the
right side of the chancel, he glances his eye
over the congregation. Mrs Giles is well
in front, the school mistress in her usual
seat. Two old women from the alms-house
are a few seats behind her, a nursing sister
to whom Mrs Giles is strongly antagonistic,

in the shade by the wall. Yes, the whole
week-day congregation is there ; nay more,
as far he can see by the dimly burning
candles, there is another and an unusual
worshipper ; but recognition is impossible.
He begins to repeat the service with rapid
indistinctness, nor does he make any farther
attempt to discover who the stranger is till
he advances to the eagle to read the first
lesson ; he can, however, only discern that it
is a lady who has seated herself at the
farther end of the church behind the
sister.

Mrs Giles will be able to tell him who
she is,' he decides at last, and proceeds with
the service, giving the matter no farther
consideration. Half-past-four ! it is all over,
and the vicar is standing on the church step,
waiting to see the last candle carefully put
out by a very little boy, who acts as acolyte,
sacristan, and sweeper by turns.

How do you do, Mr Lently 1 '

In the short early December afternoon it
is nearly dark.

The vicar removes his soft hat by the
crown in deference to the tone of the
speaker's voice, for he cannot see who
addresses him till she comes up quite close.

Mrs Tremayne ! '

And the sudden appearance of Beelzebub
himself could scarcely have surprised him
more than that of Violet at a week-day
service, or in fact at Ravensholme Church
at all ; for so antipathetic were Mr Lently s
practices to the duke's ideas, that although
Monarchs Castle was in Ravensholme parish,
the entire household invariably attended
divine service at Fernwood.

You seem surprised was Violet's answer
to the vicar s exclamation ; ' but why
should I not come to Ravensholme ? It is
a prettier church than Fernwood, I think ;
at all events there is some aesthetic display,
that's the right term, isn't it ? Mr Shipwright

is so hard and intellectual, so I thought I
would come and pay you a visit.'

I am sure I am delighted to see you. I
trust you will return very often, and that  '

Don't begin to preach, Mr Lently ; I am
horribly wilful. If you don't let me have my
own way, I shall not come at all.'

The vicar smiled at her bluntness, which
was rather an unusual element in the life of
obsequious respect that he commanded, and
for that very reason perhaps attractive.

You haven't got a large congregation, I
must say. I wonder if Shipwright would have
more people if he set up these daily services.'

At the name of his rival Mr Lently's brow
lowered, but he did not venture on an
answer, only observed that the evening was
rather cold.

Cold, I should think it is cold in this
biting east wind ! If I come into the vicarage,
will Mrs Lently give me some tea
before I walk back to Monarchs ! '

VOL. II. N

Tea ! oh yes, certainly ; ' but there was
an uneasy expression on the priestly countenance.


He made it an especial rule to keep his
penitents carefully apart from his domestic
circle, Into which even Mrs Giles but rarely
penetrated, but this new truth-seeker seemed
determined to break through every rule.

Tea at the vicarage  the chances were that
there would be no milk, perhaps no tea in
the house, or even It was possible not a whole
cup to drink out of thus soliloquised the
vicar, and then he looked round for Mrs Giles.

Mrs Giles, would you mind going on to
the house and telling my wife that Mrs
Tremayne Is coming to tea. In the meantime
I should like to show you my Venetian
reredos and a frontal which has just been
worked for the church by one who bestows
all her time in such offerings.*

This latter part of the sentence was, of
course, addressed to Violet ; the small boy

was recalled, a few candles were lighted,
and Mr Lently spent at least a quarter of
an hour in the exhibition of some of his
treasures in art ; rather to Violet's surprise,
be it said, for, unaccustomed to stray into
ritualistic territory, she had scarcely calculated
on finding so many pretty things
in a village church, and lover of beauty as
she was, Mr Lently rose in her estimation
accordingly. At last however the exhibition
was over, and chatting pleasantly on
matters in connection with it, they went up
the little path to the vicar's study, passing
through which they gained the interior of
the house, from whence proceeded, as usual,
the screams of many children.

I did not know you had a number of
children ! ' remarked Violet when she heard
the cries. * How many ? '

Five,' he answered with a sigh.

The usual clerical quiver full,' she answered
flippantly, with utter disregard for his

feelings ; but how could she know that he
regarded them as five separate sins.

He opened the dining-room door. Mrs
Lently had tortured herself into her best
Sunday silk dress in anticipation of the guest
announced by Mrs Giles, but she could not
find any cuffs, or had none clean, so her arms
hung bare out of full old-fashioned sleeves.
Her collar was rumpled, while the bow of the
ribbon she had tied hastily round her neck
had slipped considerably on one side  as
for her hair, well, even in days when
untidy coifi'ures are reckoned fashionable,
hers would scarcely pass muster. The
tea had not yet made its appearance, and
the fire, which had evidently been out,
was feebly trying to burn up, and emitted
every now and then an unpleasant little
gust of smoke. A lamp which reeked of
paraffin stood on the table, casting a sort
of impertinent glare on the general discomfort
of the room and on Mrs Giles'

features, as she sat looking on in grave
disapproval.

Very glad to make your acquaintance, Mrs
Lently,' said Violet, and she took the vicars's
chubby hand in hers, feeling as if she rather
liked the fat moon-like face, weak and
characterless though it was. ' Is this your
youngest child ? He is a nice curly-headed
fellow.'

This to Master Bobbie, who presented a
physiognomy so besmeared with jam that it
would have been impossible for the most
zealous devotee at the shrine of childhood
to have kissed him.

So kind of you to give me some tea.'
Not that there were any signs of that repast,
but Violet sat down, and while they were
waiting for it an inquiring thought passed
simultaneously through the other three brains
as to what had brought her there.

I only came back from London yesterday,'
she went on after a short rather uncomfortable

pause, Mr Lently having become absolutely
silent since he had joined his family.
I travelled up with the Desboroughs. Such
a large party  so pleasant. The Beau-repaired
have come to stay at Vantage for a
few weeks. Very good of them, for poor Mrs
Desborough is sadly out of spirits, and as for
the squire, I never saw any one so utterly
broken.'

And Mr Matthew ? ' asked Mrs Lently.

Oh ! he is still in London. I daresay he
will soon come home.'

I am very fond of Mr Matthew. He is
always so good to the children. I am sorry
he went away. He  ' Mrs Lently said, but
she was interrupted by her husband.

It was the most evil day that ever dawned
for Matthew.*

Mr Shipwright may be thanked for it,'
observed Violet knowingly, * We all of us
have a good deal to thank Mr Shipwright
for. Eh, Mr Lently ? '

I owe him nothing,' was the Vicar of
Ravensholme's dignified answer.

Not for one single mauvais tour  then all
I can say is, you have much to be grateful
for  but here comes the tea luckily, for I
must make haste home, it is growing dark.'

It will give me great pleasure to accompany
you as far as the gate at Monarchs.'

The offer came from Mrs Giles, to whom
Violet turned with a beaming smile. She
was an oddity, and Violet delighted in oddities.

That she had had some project in her head
when she walked out of the beaten track in
order to attend service at Ravensholme, and
have tea at the vicarage, there is little doubt,
though what it was had not transpired.
While she sat there she made up her mind
to come again ; everything was a novelty 
down to the thick hunches of bread and
butter which came in with the tea  and, asa
novelty, priceless. She was quite resolved
to make herself thoroughly agreeable, and

she ate and drank and praised everything ina
way that won both the women's hearts at
once. Mr Lently alone laboured under a
vague sort of feeling that she was poking fun ;
but then he alone of the party knew how different
the appointments in the houses of the
great were from those of his ill-regulated home.
Vainly he strove to silence his wife's tongue
as she chatted on about Bobbie's cough and
Jacky's broken head, and how the kitchen
chimney smoked, because Mary would not
manage it properly, till at last he worked
himself to a perfect acme of impatience, and
saying he must go to his night school, left
Violet to the tender mercies of the women.
They must make the best of it as long
as he was not there to hear,' he said to himself
as he passed into his study, and very
speedily, in the zeal of parochial work, forgot
for a while the petty annoyances and discomforts
of his daily life, which, though small
in each detail, yet as a whole 

Might shake the saintship of an anchorite.'

In a very minutes Violet rose to depart.
She had succeeded to a certain extent in her
project  she had gained a footing in Ravens-holme
Vicarage. She bade Mrs Lently
quite an affectionate farewell, promising to
come again very soon, and then she and
Mrs Giles set out for a dark walk up the
hill to Monarchs. She had not said 'nay'
to the curious old widow's offer, not because
she was in the least afraid of being out in
the dark alone, but because she wanted topick
the widow's brains about what was
going on in the neighbourhood generally.
It had occurred to Violet that possessing
the enemy she did in Mr Shipwright, it
would be as well to gain all the information
she could about his practices and habits, so
as to use them to her own advantage as
diplomacy should suggest, and where so
likely to become well informed on these
points as in the rivals camp ? *

You have lived in this neighbourhood
for some time, I think ? ' she asked Mrs
Giles before she had proceeded far.

Since Mr Lently came to Ravensholme.'

Oh, that is only two years ; but I suppose
you know everybody ? '

In the village ? Oh yes. I do a good
deal of work under the vicar. Nothing will
give me greater pleasure than to dispense
any charities you may be inclined to bestow.'

Violet laughed.

You know the old saying about charity
beginning at home. I very often have not
two gold pieces to chink together ; in fact I
live a good deal on charity myself.'

My dear madam ! '

It is quite true. If it were not for my
friends I should be in the workhouse.'

Mrs Giles, who had been admiring her
pretty furs and well-fitting gown, thought
she must be slightly demented when she
made this announcement.

You don't know anything about the
system of tick that goes on in a certain world
so much the better for you.*

Indeed, no. We condemn it in the
village as most reprehensible, and have
almost succeeded in eradicating it.'

Quite right. I wish I could eradicate it,
by having the ready coin ; but that is neither
here nor there  tell me something of the
workings of your parish. I know more
about Shipwright s place.'

But Violet scarcely expected the tirade her
question called forth. The list of mother's
meetings, night schools, day schools, services,
instructions, meditations, that Mrs Giles
gave as following in a perpetual routine
in the parish, fairly took her breath
away.

And how many inhabitants ? ' she asked.

About one hundred and fifty  all
counted.'

Well, I pity them. All I can say is, if I

had such a surfeit of good things, I should
become bad for variety.'

Mrs Giles leapt half across the road, as
though a viper had struck her with its sting.

Oh, I daresay you think I am very
wicked  so I am ; but what can one do
if one has not the vocation to be brood.'

'Pray for grace,' said the widow devoutly.
I am really sorry for you, lady ; you will
pardon me saying it, but if you have had no
ministrations but those of Mr Shipwright,
it is not to be expected that light can have
dawned on your dreary darkness.'

He is an able scholar and an eloquent
preacher,' answered Violet in her flippant
way ; * one must give the devil his due.'

Sermons are the snare of the godly,' was
Mrs Giles' reply.

'Did you ever hear Mr Shipwright preach?'
God forbid ! '

Mercy, you don't mean to say that you
hate him too ? '

I should be sorry to harbour a feeling
of hatred for any one. Personally, Mr Sive-wright
is indifferent to me ; but I hold him
in high reprobation for the lukewarm effort
he is making in the Church's cause. As a
young man, too, he was so bright and full of
promise.'

You knew him in his youth ? Before he
took orders ? '

'Yes.'

Gracious ! how interesting, and he was 

Clever always, spiritual never.'

'Just so, and a little bit wild, like other
young men, I have no doubt.'

He has never married,' said the widow
shortly.

It never occurs to me that he is a marrying
man ; but do you know any reason why
he has omitted to fulfil this great social duty?'

I can put two and two together as well
as another,' said Mrs Giles. ' I daresay if
I were to rake my memory I could find a

few scraps which might be made to fit in
so as to form a background to Fernwood
Parsonage ; but it is not fitting that one
devoted to good works, as I am now, should
spend my time in idle words and idle
reports.'

Of course not,' answered Violet hypocritically,
* It would be very wrong ; besides,
Mr Shipwright might not like it.  You'll tell
me every word before you are a week
older, you stupid old woman,' was her
mental determination.

For the matter of that, I should not study
what he likes ; but we must each one work
for our own soul, lady, and scandal is a
grievous offence.'

I did hear once that Mr Shipwright hasa
wife hidden away somewhere,' said Violet,
firing a stray shot.

Oh ! that's nonsense ; that isn't the story.
He is not such a fool as to have committed
himself in that way  it is something quite

different. But here we are at the Httle
wicket leading to the MontarHs stables.
You'll be quite safe now, and I shall be
late for Compline, if I don't go back.'

I'll come and see you soon,' Violet
called after her.

Oh ! visiting is idle work ; it's seldom
you'll find me disengaged,' the widow
grumbled as she sped down the hill.

Mrs Tremayne walked slowly on, grumbling
too after her fashion.

Stupid old idiot ! why can't she speak ?
I must hear that story, if I die for it. I
shall have to invent a rack of some sort
for this silent woman. Gracious, Jack ! is
that you ? You made me start, coming so
suddenly from under those trees in the
gloaming ! '

HIGH PRESSURE.

Once Mr Sivewrlght had told Mrs
Tremayne when they met in Mrs
Desborough's drawing-room in
London of Cheap Jack's reminiscences and
personal liking for herself, her meetings with
her low-born admirer had lost all their zest ;
if he were going to make himself obnoxious
by his remarks, the sooner she dropped his
acquaintance the better, she conjectured.
This unexpected meeting in the semi-darkness
was then by no means pleasing to her.

I can't stop now,' she said hurriedly ; ' the
duke will look like three days' rainy weather
if he hears I have been wandering after dark.

May I see you safely to the house ? '

No ; we are close to the stables, and it
would look horrid.'

I want to tell you something  something
very particular pleaded Varley.

What can you have to tell me ? Whatever
it is it can't be very important, and it
must keep.'

If you knew the hours I have spent in
making up my mind to speak, you would
not object to listen.'

It was obvious that this man was likely
to prove troublesome if he were encouraged.
She had been a fool for the sake of mere
amusement to have put herself in the position
to receive his impertinent familiarities ;
but then she always was doing these stupid
heedless things,' were the thoughts that
passed rapidly through Violet's mind, while
she said rather tartly, 

Because I have talked to you when I
was in the humour, is no reason why you

VOL. II. o

should detain me when I am not in the
humour.'

No, madam, certainly not,' and Cheap
Jack took off his hat and stood with it in
his hand, looking at Violet very abjectly ;
though fortunately she could not see him
in the dark, or she would certainly have
burst out laughing. ' But still if I might
only tell you the story of little Pearl that
I have spent my life in trying to find.'

Violet gave an hysterical giggle as she
said, striving to be facetious, 

A good many people spend their time
looking for pearls ; but very few oysters
yield them.'

I did find my Pearl once, only I lost it
again,' persisted Varley.

Who are you ? ' asked Mrs Tremayne,
all of a sudden changing her manner into
one of interest, ' and who is Pearl ? Tell
me in two words, for I can't stop.'

My Pearl was a little beauty who danced

in a travelling show, and I was leading man
in the same august company.'

You ! ' then she went on hurriedly.
Good gracious ! why do you tell me all
this nonsense ? What do you suppose I
care about your dancing dolls and ambling
monkeys ? '

I tell you because you are so like what
my little Pearl would have been if she ever
had had the chance of becoming a fine
lady.'

'Marley!'

I wasn't called Mr Varley in those days,'
he said quietly, * simply Jack  Jack Lee. I
didn't think I was warranted in giving my
father's name, and he gentleman Varley ina
brisk trade.'

And having told me this, what next ? '
asked Violet.

Nothing, lady, only thank you for listening.
If you knew how much you remind me of
little Pearl, you'd know what a kindness it is

every time you are condescending enough tolet
me have five minutes' talk with you.'

Violet laughed very excitedly, and then she
half held out her hand to the Cheap Jack,
but she speedily put it back again into the
little muff she was carrying. In the dark he
saw nothing of the movement.

Well, 1 7nust go now,' she said, ' on account
of the duke. I'll meet you tomorrow at the
old place in the wood if you like, and then you
can tell me all the history of this said Pearl.'

Thank you, thank you, from the bottom
of my heart ; thank you,' said the man so
warmly as quite to astonish Violet, in whose
nature, always employed in calculating the
amount of gain to be derived from the various
issues of life, warm-heartiness had never
dreamed of seeking a place.

Yet she was very pensive for a few
seconds, when, having nodded a cheery
farewell to her humble acquaintance, ' she
strolled quite slowly towards a side entrance

into the castle, by which means she hoped
her late absence would pass unquestioned.
So far she was successful ; she passed up
sundry back staircases till she reached her
own room, and did not meet even an inquisitive
servant. In a very few minutes
she had tossed off her walking costume
and was seated in a pretty dressing-gown
by her own fire. The future lay tolerably
bright before her. Lord Beaurepaire
seemed an easy prey, and would doubtless
put his head at once into her silken noose, if
only Lady Valentina were married.

She did not even anticipate opposition from
Mr Shipwright.

He'll be so glad to get me out of here and
have dear Julia all to himself that he won't
interfere this time. George Desborough was
quite a different matter  how funny it all is,
I wonder which of the two Mr Shipwright
likes the best, Julia or Mrs Desborough. He
seems to be equally aux petit soins with both.

Oh ! how I hate that man. If old Mrs Giles
can tell me a good story about him, I verily
believe I'll kiss her, though she has a very
repellant moustache, and is, I suspect, far
too great a saint to wash herself,' then she
broke off in her soliloquy for a few minutes
and sat very still.

Little Pearl and Jack Lee,' she muttered
at last, ' that is a queer story ; but then Varley
is an odd man. Can it be possible that among
the lower classes there are such things as constancy
and devotion  it is very certain they
don't exist among the upper ten  so he has
not forgotten his little Pearl, strange, most
passing strange,' and Mrs Tremayne ran her
fingers through her short crisp curls and
looked well pleased at the idea of having discovered
a constant man, perhaps because the
strong qualities necessary to develop such a
character were totally unknown to herself.
Her ruminations however were broken off
at this juncture by a low tap at the door. To

the ' Come in,' rather grudgingly given, it
opened, and the duchess put her head in
and looked round.

Oh ! it is you, Julia. Come and sit by
the fire.'

Why have you not been in to tea ? '
asked the duchess, as she walked into the
room.

Lazy, I suppose. It is awfully cosy here.'
Awfully cosy  my dear Violet, when will

you be cured of slang.'

Never. It is as much part of me as my
hair or my eyes.'

Nonsense, we can all cure ourselves of
our faults ; but tell me, where have you been
wandering to ? I heard of you at Mr
Lently's.'

Already, news does fly fast in this northern
district.'

Why did you go there ? '

Why does one generally go to church,
unless for religious purposes.'

Bah ! you should not do it. You will only
annoy Mr Sivewrlght and the duke.'

Of which, pray, does your grace stand in
the greater awe ? '

I don't know ; they are both rather formidable,'
and her grace sat down ; ' but tell me,
Vi, why did you go to Ravensholme ', '

Fancy asking me why I do anything ;
because the whim of the moment dictated
it, I suppose. I thought I should like to see
in what Lently differed from Shipwright ;
perhaps I wanted to decide which were
preferable  a priestly confessor or a divine
autocrat.'

What nonsense you do talk.'

Granted ; but somehow my nonsense
generally has an undertaker of sense in the
form of a motive, which is more than can
be said for most people.'

I wish I understood your motives.'

It would not do you any good. Her
Grace of Monarchs will preserve her position

much more immaculately, if she does not condescend
to understand the motives of canaille
like me.'

Tell me, Violet, did you love George
Desborough ? '

What can it matter since he is dead.'
But I want particularly to know.'
Ask his mother what she thinks. Really
she is a joke, that woman, she possess me
and muche me as if I were the bereft widow
of the dear deceased, whereas, if she had had
the remotest inkling in his lifetime that I
might one day become his wife, no epithet
would have been sufficiently opprobrious for
her to hurl at my inoffensive head.'

Mrs Desborough allows herself to be
swayed by sentiment to an overwhelming
extent, there is no doubt of it'

Yes, when the road is safe. She would
soon banish the sentiment if she saw any
danger from its whimsical flights. Oh, she
can be as matter-of-fact as I am when

she likes. If I were a woman of feeling, I
should get up a protracted howl on that
little puppet Claire Bailey's behalf.'

Hush, nonsense ; don't you Interfere. Of
course Matthew is to marry Lady Valentina.'

Oh, don't alarm yourself, it suits my
book exactly, only I don't quite see your
manoeuvre.'

I like match-making,' said the duchess,
stretching herself with a half yawn, ' it gives
one importance. To tell you the truth, I had
set my heart on your marrying poor George.'

And, failing George, what say you to Lord
Beaurepaire ? ' and Violet burst out laughing
at the duchess's look of utter bewilderment.

Never. You, Violet Tremayne, dare not
fly as high as that.'

'You, Julia Benson, quondam  but we will
not enter into the quondam, you are now
Julia, Duchess of Montarlls. Wherein lies
the difference between us ? You have
'' struck He." Why should not I '> '

I don't know ; but the Beaurepalres are
so proud, if they knew.'

'Just so; but they must not know, and
it rests with you to keep them in the
dark;

I have an idea that Mr Shipwright
suspects,' and the duchess looked very pale
and perturbed.

Exactly, he is a regular ferret ; but if
you can't manage him you must sadly have
forsaken your old cunning.'

I had hoped all that sort of thing was. at
an end, and that henceforth I should live in
peace.'

So you will, when I am Countess of
Beaurepaire.'

Tell me what you wish me to do ? '
I don't care what you do as long as
you make Shipwright hold his tongue. It
can't matter to him whether I marry Lord
Beaurepaire or whether I don't. Lady Valentina
is not one of his penitents, by chance.

Tell him I am quite determined to make
my own position in life, that I am sick of
dependence, and that, if I am smashed, everyone
else shall be smashed too. We are all
walking on ice, with a thaw hanging about.
I even suspect I am on the track of a good
story about his reverence.'

'Now, I know what took you to Ravens-holme.'


Then you have discovered that I amin
earnest. Know too that I have another
powerful ally in Mr John Varley, alias
Cheap Jack.'

My dear Violet, how can you take up
with those low people ? '

In order to become Lady Beaurepaire,
I have already told you.'

But what can this Cheap Jack have to do
with it ? '

Oh, he'll give a hand in the general
smash, he is much more ///with me than you,
any of you, think. Now Julia, look here,

nonsense apart  you must silence Shipwright
forthwith  talk over Lady Valentina  in
fact plane away all the bits of rough wood.'

And in return ? '

*0h, is it a case of give and take ? Well,
in return you shall have a certain bundle of
letters, which are at this moment hidden in
my house in London, and you shall live
happy ever after, the irreproachable, grand,
good Duchess of Monarchs.'

If it were only possible,' she murmured,
passing her white jewelled hand slowly
across her brow. ' I will do my best ; but
it seems so unlikely that you  shall I be
doing my duty if I move in this matter ? '

'The letters,' exclaimed the other, 'surely
they are worth a few silent lies. You really
have grown too Sivewrightish and scrupulous
 it is as well to sweep away the past
before you set up for so much sanctity in
the present.'

Sanctity ! oh, Violet, do not mock me. If

I could only feel I was standing on firm
earth, and without that horrible precipice
which is ever yawning in front of me.'

You always magnified small excitements
into big terrors, my dear Julia ; but once
in the possession of these letters, how safe
you will feel. We shall run our team so
much more easily when we are both ladies
of society.'

The duchess gave a low moan. She must
have been unusually dyspeptic that evening,
or perhaps she had been having a conversation
with Mr Shipwright, for she evidently
did not see clearly the way to arriving at
that peaceful happy future, of which Violet
had just been displaying the map. Mr
Shipwright had told her that lying was a
grievous offence, of which no one possessing
a scintilla of honour or moral rectitude would
permit themselves to be guilty ; and yet she
was fully aware that Violet would coerce
her into telling any amount of lies if once

she saw fit to put the pressure on, and the
duchess hated intrigue and scandal, and their
concomitant worries, just as much as Violet
loved and lived by them. They both sat
silently for a few minutes, then Violet burst
out laughing.

You miserable looking object. One
would think I had bled you nearly to death,
whereas I have not asked for a farthing, only
a little sisterly help. Though how I am to
get money to pay for my trousseau I don't
know, and I shouldn't like to let Lord
Beaurepaire do it.'

Oh, that can be easily arranged,' answered
the duchess. ' If it were only that ;
but you married to Lord Beaurepaire ! It
seems so incongruous  you, a horrible little
nobody, while he  '

Is de sang pur et noble  you are not very
flattering ; but never mind, if there were nota
few mes alliances among the aristocracy,
they would all be drivelling idiots.'

I wonder what I am to say about you
when asked of your antecedents ? '

Anything you like, except the truth,
which will not be difficult, since I don't think
you know it.'

I know quite enough

Yes; but not all. Now it is settled, isn't
it ? for I am getting bored with the subject ;
let us talk of something else. Here, you
may read those if you like,' and Violet
tossed into her lap a small packet of letters,
being those she had received from George
Desborough since the balloon ascent.

While the duchess read them she stood
before the looking-glass, combing out and
arranging her curly locks, humming while
she did so a gay street organ ditty. The
impression created in Violet's mind by poor
George's dreadful accident was only of
twenty-four hours' duration, and had long
since become a thing of the past.

Hot, ain't they ? ' she said, as the duchess

finished reading the last one. * What would
the dear mother say if she saw them ? '

The duchess eave a little shudder as she
returned them.

You are too heartless for anything,'
she muttered.

No, Julia, pardon me, the remark is
unjust. I was horribly shocked by George
Desborough's death,, but as I never loved
him, I cannot be expected to go on pining
for ever.'

And do you wish to insinuate that you
do love Lord Beaurepaire ? '

She turned round, looked at the duchess,
and nodded her head.

Nonsense, Violet, it is quite impossible.
He is sixty, while George Desborough
was  '

" Is human love the growth of human will?"

Strange as you may think it, I care
more for Lord Beaurepaire than for any
man I have ever seen. We love by con-vol.

II. p

trust, they say. I suppose It is the grand
old oak character there is about him
which contrasts with my unsubstantial
nature.'

'Well, I am surprised. If I thought you
really loved him, it would of course make
it easier for me to give my assistance. But
Lord Beaurepaire is too good and noble
to be made your plaything and to be thrown
on one side the moment you have grasped
his coronet.'

A nice opinion you have of me, but I
believe I have deserved it, only in this
instance I am true.'

Then to the fullest extent you may
command me.'

Mrs Tremayne sat down once more by
the fire, and they talked over ways and
means till the dressing-bell rang, and the
duchess went off to her own apartments,
leaving Violet with a more pensive, softer
expression haunting her pretty face than

was wont to linger among its dimples.
Could it be that the gay madcap was caught
in reality at last, and was not acting a part
in order to make an ally of her Grace of
Monarchs.

A RENDEZVOUS.

RS TREMAYNE had spoken
truly when she told the duchess
that she cared for Lord Beauregard,
much though her grace was inclined
to disbelieve the statement. For the first
time in her life Violet had been caught ; as
she herself said, the immeasurable distance
which seemed to lie between her and Lord
Beaurepaire had probably, in the first place,
awakened that tender regard for him which
is, as a rule, fostered by contraries. She
had begun by striving to win him merely
for position's sake, but since her return to
Monarchs she had grown terribly cognisant

of the fact that to fail in becoming Lady
Beaurepaire would bring her many a more
uncomfortable half-hour than mere disappointment
could produce. She dressed for
dinner very silently and thoughtfully after
the duchess left, making Amandine wonder
what had happened to dash her mistress's
high spirits.

I'll wear my black lace frock, and a red
rose or two,' she said at last, seeing the
maid had laid a gorgeous blue satin on the
bed.

Mais machines que best triste le noir!

I feel depressed to-night ; besides, there
is no one to dinner except Mr Shipwright.'

So Violet went down looking very subdued,
even a little pale, whether by art or
nature did not transpire. It was evidently
her intention to assume a quiet subdued sort
of manner, still the wonted flash came fora
moment into her eyes when she shook
hands with the vicar. Actress though she

was, she could not so entirely conceal her
feelings as not to let the lurking hate peep
out. She was very civil, however ; it washer
intention to be civil if she gained her
point, spitefully revengeful if she missed it.
The dinner was a pleasant one, pleasant
than might have been expected with two
such antagonistic elements as Violet and the
vicar sitting face to face, and the duchess
living in a constant dread of what the next
word might entail. But the enemies had evidently
declared a temporary truce ; Violet,
to suit her purposes, Mr Shipwright because
he deemed it bad taste to be otherwise
than perfectly polite to guests he met at
the duke's table.

For a while the conversation was very
general, then after the servants had left
the room it crept on to more intimate
and neighbourly matters, naturally touching
more or less on the Desboroughs ; although
George had been dead nearly six weeks,

yet they were still objects of interest to
each of the little party assembled In the
duke's dining-room. In fact Mr Sive-wright
had never ceased to lament over
George's death, or to regret that Matthew
would probably one day inherit the fine
old estate of Vantage.

And I doubt if it will be long,' he added,
for the squire does not seem to recover
either his tone or his spirits.'

He is fond of Matthew, though,' remarked
the duke.

Naturally. Indeed, I am not sure that
Matthew was not his favourite son ; but
he was so proud of George, believed so
fully in his grand, noble disposition, and
told me only a few weeks back that he
meant at once to give over the chief management
of the estate to George. "It will
keep him out of the mischief idleness produces,
and give him an interest in his
future property," he said.*

Yes, George was cut out for a county
gentleman, while Matthew scarcely knows
arable land from pasture,' remarked the
duke.

He must learn,' said the duchess. ' I
am not going to have Matthew so utterly
run down. He is a dear boy, and very
handsome ; all the ladies like him. Of
course he will not take orders now.'

I should imagine not ; but Matthew
never consults me on his affairs, so I can
tell you but little,' and then as though the
subject of Matthew's future bored him
from the very frequency with which it was
discussed, he changed it by remarking, 

The Beaurepaires are expected at Vantage
tomorrow.'

We shall all be glad to have them there,'
said the duchess. ' I am particularly fond of
Lady Valentina. Do you like her, Mr
Shipwright ? '

I have not the honour of being acquainted

with her. I met Lord Beaurepaire when I
was last in London, but did not see his
daughter.'

I think you will acknowledge her to bea
very agreeable addition to our circle. I,
for my part, think it would be charming if
she became a permanent member of it.'

How so ? '

'Why, by marrying Matthew, of course.'

The vicar's eyebrows arched, and he gave
a little bow, but did not trust himself to
answer ; he either thought a great deal or
not at all on the subject, it were difficult to
judge which.

Then there was a tiny pause, broken by
Mrs Tremayne's inquiring as to whether
Mr Shipwright had heard of or from the
Baileys.

Hard though she might try, she could not
succeed in keeping out of troubled waters.

They are Mr Lently's parishioners,' was
the rather evasive answer.

This house is in Mr Lently's parish, is
it not ? ' she asked, with a sort of innocent
ingenue manner.

Partly,' answered the duke ; * the west
side of the house is in the parish of Fern-wood.'


And I sleep in the east,' went on Violet,
so I am in Mr Lently's parish. I ought to
go to Ravensholme Church, ought not I, Mr
Shipwright ? '

I have no doubt Mr Lently would be
delighted to have you to swell the list of
his daily attendants.'

Really, and you so lightly give up the
care of my soul, just when I was beginning
to think you had made an impression.'

The duchess rose, Violet's badinage sincerely
alarmed her, and she resolved to put
an end to it, even though rising at that
moment entailed the seeming gaucherie of
an interruption.

Once in the hall, she said hurriedly, 

Positively, Vi, if you wish to succeed in
your project, you must leave off twitting
Mr Shipwright.'

He is such a lovely soft pincushion, the
pins' points all go in so easily.'

Nonsense ! now do go and sing, and let
us have no more intriouino and double
entendres to-night.*

By the time the gentlemen came into the
drawing-room, Violet's fresh sweet voice was
trilling away its nightingale notes, now lending
a pathos  of which but few would have
believed her capable  to some ballad of
Moore's, now dashing with petulant spirit
into a lively French ckansonnette, of which
perhaps it was fortunate that she alone in
the quartette knew the exact meaning.

Out of an art, a man may be so trivial you
would mistake him for an imbecile, at best a
grown infant. Put him into his art, and how
high he soars above you,' is a quotation from
a great writer; it contains the key to much of

Violet Tremayne's success. Many who censured
her usual flighty giddy behaviour, among
them the duke, entirely forgot the volumes
of disapprobation which could be writ against
her, as soon as she called on them to follow
her into the realms of song.

The evening passed without any more
unsafe passages ; the duke listened entranced
to Violet's music, while the duchess carried
on a whispered tete-astute with her clerical
friend, whose savage breast music had no
powers to soothe.

Won the priest, eh ? ' asked Violet of the
duchess, as an hour or two later they stood
alone for a moment on the staircase.

Don't call Mr Shipwright a priest ; he
hates it.'

Well, casuist, sophist. I don't care what
he calls himself as long as he does not
attempt to tell the truth about me. But it
rests with you. Good-night.'

She speedily dismissed Amandine, who

was waiting in the room, and became
quite a pensive Violet. She took out a bundle
of old letters from under the tray in her
dressing-case, well worn, yellow-looking missives,
and read them over carefully, and with
as grave a face and sober a mien as though
there really was an under-current of sentiment
flowing quietly beneath the more noisy
gurgling stream of her life. Perhaps it was
so ; few natures present all their aspects to
the world's gaze, and some people seem to
take special pains In keeping their better
qualities carefully concealed.

Violet dug a good many fossils out of the
dead past that night, for the ' iron tongue of
midnight had long since tolled twelve,' before
covering them once again with a thin layer
of earth, she got Into bed, and after a while
fell sleep.

It was the custom at Monarchs Castle for
the ladies to have breakfast in their rooms,
and no one was expected to appear or to

have their whereabouts inquired into so long
as they presented themselves at the two
o'clock luncheon. Mrs Tremayne woke about
half-past nine, shook away with an effort the
sense of weariness that still haunted her
eyelids, looked at the fire which Amandine
had stirred into a cheerful blaze, got up and
refreshed herself with a warm bath  little
Sybarite that she was, she would not have
got into cold water for the world  then in a
warm silk-quilted dressing-gown she sat by
the fire and sipped her chocolate with an
enjoyment which testified that luxury was
the chief desideratum of her life.

Half-past ten ! Good gracious ! how late
it is ! Here, Amandine, quick, my grey
flannel dress. I am going out.'

In a very few minutes her toilette was
accomplished, for Violet was no dawdler, and
then she sped down the staircases by which she
had entered on the previous evening, and went
eut at the side door. She did not go near

Ravensholme, however, but bore off to the
right towards the Httle wood which lay down
in the hollow just out of sight of the many
windows of the castle, and where she had
met ' Cheap Jack ' a few weeks back, before
such an unexpected fresh chapter had commenced
in her life. Jack Varley had apparently
more belief in a fine lady's promise than
have most men, for he was at the trysting-place
before her, and pulling off his velvet
cap as she approached, he stood looking at
her abjectly.

Well, Jack,' she said, trying to be off-hand.
I have come, you see, though I daresay you
did not expect me.'

Indeed I did, or I should not be here.'

Ah, well. Tell me quickly all the tale
of little Pearl. I must not be absent long.
They will be expecting me back at the
castle.'

Without waiting for farther bidding, Jack
told her, only more succinctly, all the story he

had on a previous occasion related to Mr
Slvewrlght. Mrs Tremayne sat meantime in
her usual careless manner swinging on the
bough of an adjacent tree, occasionally
nodding her head or exclaiming as the
narrative called forth her approbation or
the contrary.

 So you were very fond of little Pearl.
Dear me, how odd that you should remember
her all these years ? '

I'd give my entire travelling paraphernalia,
merchandise and all, if I could only
know that she's alive and well ! ' he said
heartily.

And if you met this said Pearl, would
you be very good to her and help her, and
do what you could to serve her ? '

I'd give her my life, lady. I cannot say
more.'

Bless the man, there is no one in the
world I belong to who would promise so
much. And you say I am like this Pearl.'

More like than any one I have ever seen
in all my wanderings.'

I wonder if that is flattering ? ' said Violet
with a laugh.

I thought her very beautiful,' was the
simple answer.

She looked at him for a moment with a
flush on her face, then she held out her hand.

Suppose I were to tell you that I am
Pearl, her own self ? '

You ! Oh, lady, don't mock me,' and
there were tears in Jack Varley's eyes, and
such a gulp in his throat as he tried to
speak steadily, that even Violet did not dare
to laugh. She only said, very gravely and
soberly, 

It is quite true. I am Pearl, the Pearl for
whom it seems you have been looking so
long,' then, with her usual volatility, she
changed her tone into a light bantering one,
now you have found me, what do you mean
to do with me ? '

VOL. II. Q .

I hoped when I found Pearl never to be
parted from her again ; but such a great
lady as you are cannot be Pearl

I tell you I am Pearl, and if you'll sit
down and be rational for five minutes,
instead of looking like a gaping madman,
I'll tell you all about it. My mother, well,
I don't think I ever had one. Anyhow, she
was dead and gone before I can remember.
No one ever told me anything about her,
and my father could not be troubled with me.
I daresay I was a little vixen, so he put me
out to nurse, and then went abroad and forgot
to pay for me, and the dear sweet woman
who had charge of me handed me over to
her brother, who was the master of the
travelling caravan, in order that my talents
might be utilised for my keep. At last it
occurred to my worthy parent that he might
as well see what I was like. He had had a
lucky stroke at the gaming tables, so he
sent the arrears to the woman who had

charge of me, and demanded the presence of
his daughter. I suppose my aspect was
agreeable to him, for he took me with him
the next time he went abroad, and sent me
to a French school. It's a queer story isn't
it ? but its a true one. And so you are
Jack.'

Do you remember me . '

Remember you '. I should think I do.
Why, life would have been unbearable in
that travelling establishment if it had not
been for you.'

And yet you did not know me again.'

Indeed no. How should I ? Why, you
were only a stripling then, and I was such
a mite. I only remember there was a Jack
who was very kind ; but look you. Jack, you
must not tell this story all about. What
would people think if they knew that
Violet Tremayne had once been little Pearl
dancing at an itinerant show.'

Am I then never to see you, now I have

found you ? ' and Mr Varley's countenance
saddened notably.

Why, of course sometimes. You see me
now, don't you ? '

But can't we be always together ? '

Always together ? No, that would be
quite impossible, you see good luck or
bad luck, which ever it is, has made
me hunt with a different pack from
yours.'

We began life with the same hounds ! '
suggested Jack.

No, we didn't. I only came into your
country for a while by accident.'

I wish accident would bring you back
now. To think I have found you again
only to lose you directly ! It is too bad.
Now I've always thought when I met
little Pearl, what a pleasure it would be
to drive her about in my yellow shay,
and show her sonsy face at all the fair
meetings.'

It can't be, my honest friend, it cannot
be. Granted, it would be enormous fun ;
but there are reasons,' and as she thought
of Lord Beaurepaire her face grew pale.

Then I wish, lady, the dream about finding
Pearl had never become true.'

That is all nonsense, Jack. I shall be
able to help you in many ways, and you'll
help me ; having a secret, too, will be a bond
of unity between us.'

I hate secrets,' cried Jack. * I like
plain straightforward sailing. I never was
ashamed of nothing in my life, and to
think I've found Pearl only to hear that
she is ashamed of me.'

I am not ashamed of you. Jack. How can
you say so ? If I had not loved those dear
old childish days, I should not have owned
that I am Pearl ; so be reasonable, old comrade,
and we will do the best we can for
each other.'

But Varley shook his head.

I don't want to have nothing to do with
Pearl on these terms. All or nothing,
says I.'

What rubbish. Do you mean you would
rather never see me again, because if so, I'll
say *' good-bye " this very minute. Though
I must say, Jack, for the sake of *' auld
lang syne," I should like to see you sometimes.*


Little Pearl, little Pearl ! ' he murmured,
a fine lady in a big castle. It's a poor
ending to a man's life-dream.'

You shouldn't have dreams, Jack ; you
should be practical like me. Now look here,
for I must go, they will miss me at the
house, let us agree to meet here once a
week while I'm at Monarchs, and talk over
our respective prospects seriously.'

I don't care for meeting once a week,'
he said doggedly.

Oh do, Jack,' and she looked at him so
pleadingly that he turned away not to let her

see how much her tone affected him. ' Do,
Jack, to please poor Httle Pearl.'

All right then, if you wish it, this day
week, we'll see after.'

That's right. Good-bye, dear old Jack.
I must go, or the whole house will be ina
commotion. Good-bye.' She took his
hand, which he did not attempt to offer,
and then she ran off, muttering to herself, 

I believe I was a fool to tell him ; but
human weakness is human weakness, and I
was very fond of Jack.'

He meanwhile stood gazing after her till
she was quite out of sight.

TOO MUCH LIGHT.

HE feelings with which Matthew
entered once more on what he
called the drudgery work In Gower
Street were very different from those In
which he had left It. It was not that his
position of eldest son weighed on him
heavily, It had never occurred to him that
for that reason he was to give up the great
business of mental instruction ; still he
could not help regarding the future from a
different aspect to that from which he had
hitherto viewed it. Every one by common
consent seemed to decide that of course he
would not take orders now, that the duties

which would fall on him as heir of Vantage
were quite incompatible with those the
Church demands of her priests. And truth
being told, Matthew felt considerably relieved
at not being compelled to exercise
his free will in the matter. Circumstances,
though dark in themselves, had freed him
from a very disagreeable dilemma, in which
conscientious scruples on the one hand and
obstinacy on the other were arrayed in fierce
combat. One feature in his fresh term of
residence in Gower Street was that he never
now paid intimate and friendly visits to old
Mrs Wharton, though she still sat as ready
to listen to his confidences as of old in her
place by the parlour fire. She regretted
in her kindly old heart the sad accident
which, causing his brother's death, had
so dried up the fount of spontaneity in
Matthew, that he no longer cared to seek
for sympathy. It never occurred to her to
guess that an estrangement existed between

him and Claire Bailey, and that, though he
would have told her he loved Claire still, yet
the marvellous energy which he had devoted
to work since his return  an energy which
had not a little surprised Mr Wharton,  was
entirely due to another woman's influence.

To please Lady Valentina he had resolved
to trample on his chimeras, and become as
far as he could a practical man of the
world. But how could he own this to Mrs
Wharton ?

Nothing, Matthew was beginning to discover,
was so irksome as a confidante,
when the confidence does not possess a
realistic form, and his mind at this moment
was too full of shifting scenes to suffer
much prying into ; he could not bear to be
questioned about old acknowledgments or
exclaimed at for making fresh ones.

So he settled down to work at Mr
Wharton's very assiduously, hoping thereby
to silence many voices which were whispering

within. He had elected to return
to his tutor's at once, and spend his Christmas
in London ' to economise time,' he said ;
but it was in a great measure, perhaps, because
a meeting with Mr Lently would have
been far more seriously distasteful to him
than even the fireside explanation with
Mrs Wharton, which he so persistently
avoided.

Henceforth he would have no counsellor
but Lady Valentina. She understood his
thick-coming fancies ' better than any human
being, and in answer to the closely written
pages of note-paper which he constantly sent
her, there invariably came a soothing well-advised
missive. So far it was well, and
Matthew could not have chosen better, save
for little Claire who was fretting her heart
out in foreign exile ; but of this he knew not,
or pretended not to know. She had gone
abroad because it pleased her, he supposed,
and having gone, could scarcely expect him

to follow. Was he going to marry Claire ?
He presumed so, her image it was that
held a very conspicuous place in future
plans ; still somehow Lady Valentina always
seemed to be towering over it. At all
events he would not think of marriage at
all for the present, but devote himself to
study for  well, for Lady Valentina's sake.

And Matthew set his shoulder so vigorously
to the wheel, that Mr Wharton was
beginning to think he had miscalculated his
mental powers, and that he was capable of
greater things than he had at first believed.
He had yet to discover to what an extent
Matthew was wanting in stability, and that
it was in this rather than in quickness that
he was deficient. Two or three weeks
devoted to hard classics, and the books
bored him ; a little longer to logic, and the
craving for knowledge was satiated, for, * to
be logical you must be irreligious,' was
Matthews argument  'after all, what did it

all tend to  what more could a man want in
life than faith ? ' then he sat down and wrote
an extensive exposition of his views to Lady
Valentina. Having done this, he set himself
to a new study, namely, the discovery, if
possible, of his tutor's religious opinions, for
whom he had conceived during the last few
weeks feelings of deep interest, even if they
did not amount to affection  for Matthew
was not only compelled to acknowledge Mr
Wharton's vast mental superiority, but also
to recognise the many amiable and endearing
qualities with which his nature was
replete.

Invariably the first question that arose in
Matthew's pious mind, whenever he found
his roomy heart tenanted by a new friend,
was whether that friend's spiritual state was
a happy one. He was naturally a doctor of
souls, and though wanting the sanction of
ordination to enable him to practice ex officio,
it was his bent and his delight to treat stray

cases en amateur. The delicacy then which
Mr Wharton showed in avoiding the discussion
of religious matters with the young
zealot  one of those refinements so common
in rough intellectual men, proceeding as they
do from mind and principle and not from
breeding  could not for very long stave off
the explanation which one of the parties
concerned was bent upon seeking. Sunday
was the only day when anything like leisure
ventured to smile on the busy Whartonian
household, and between the two services,
which Matthew still punctually attended 
though he had given up the week-day ones
he proposed to his master the frivolity of
a walk. Thus on a bright frosty afternoon
they found themselves in deep confabulation
in Kensington Gardens. Matthew was
querying in his somewhat undecided way
which ritualistic church he should attend for
evening service, when he asked abruptly, 
Do you never go to church, Mr Wharton?'

I hope the fact does not shock you very
much ? ' was the tutor's answer.

That depends on why you keep
away.'

Exactly ; very sensibly put, and deserving
a straightforward answer. The only
object I could possibly have in going would
be to avoid shocking the few people who
trouble their heads about the matter, and as
it would, more or less, compel me to act a
lie, I think I am better away.'

I am afraid I understand you only too
well ; but I trust you are too good, too
noble a man not to change in all these
respects in time.'

I wonder If you know how full of awe
and solemnity your tone and face have
become,' remarked Mr Wharton with a
smile. * As a mark of friendly interest this
is not lost on me, believe me ; but as for
changing  well, I am not bigoted enough
in my philosophy to say anything for certain

; still, I believe very few things to be
more unlikely.'

I take the Liberty of praying for you
night and morning,' said Matthew fervently.

Well, that can do me no harm.'

But do you never pray ? Pardon me,

of course you do. It is impertinent of me

to ask the question.'

There is no danger of my thinking you
impertinent ; only, for your own faith's sake,
it were as well perhaps that you should
not pry too closely into the secrets of
another's mind who does not think as
you do.'

My faith must be a halting one, and I
were indeed unfit for the holy office to
which I hoped one day to be called, if I can
be tainted by every heresy,' said Matthew
zealously. ' Please tell me what you really
believe.'

Has it never occurred to you that prayer
must be difficult for those whose ideas of God

are not as limitless as yours are, who merely
regard God as the whole good and noble
part of the universe, a being who mayor
may not have a conscious entity, who mayor
may not be infinite in His attributes ?'

The tears rose into Matthew's eyes, and
for a second or two he did not speak ; then
he said energetically, 

I would rather be one of those innocent
ducks, paddling away its brief existence innocuously
on that placid water, than have
the awful responsibility of humanity unenlightened
by Christian grace

My dear young friend, provided we are
all sincere, provided we all seek the truth
honestly, and act up to our respective ideas
of right, surely that must be the main
point ? '

If we do  ay, there is the tremendous
point ; but I fear there is no such
thing as a man with advantages and training
who arrives honestly at this. Oh, don't

VOL. II. R

mistake me ; in all other matters he maybe
sincerity itself: to be trusted with life
and honour, so were many of the heathen,
still there must be a cankerous plague-spot
somewhere. The devil  nay, do not smile 
the devil has blinded him.'

Granting you your devil, why should hebe
allowed to blind him ? '

There is no commoner punishment for
sin. Either in his early believing days, for
probably he was taught Hke other people,
he fell into what he well knew to be mortal
sin, or what is perhaps more likely, he
has glided into the heinous offence of setting
up his pride of intellect against the
Almighty.'

Surely you admit the right of an
intellectually endowed being to use his
reason ? '

Only so far, in religious matters, as to
assure himself of what every child and
every philosopher must alike see and acknowledge

 that regarding things infinite
and supernatural, grace is the only road to
wisdom ; for your boasted logic itself is the
first to prove that the natural and finite, of
which order are our minds, cannot possibly
deal with them.'

Mr Wharton looked at Matthew for a
second or two with a very scrutinising glance ;
he marked the flushed cheek, the bright
speaking eye by which the young devotee
showed how much his heart was in his
words, and then, being an honourable, sincere
man, he stopped short in his walk, and,
laying his hand on his young friend's arm,
he said very gravely, 

My dear Matthew, as tutor and pupil,
we must pursue this subject no farther.
You have been confided to me by your
friends in order that your secular studies
should receive my best attention. With
religious matters I doubt if I have any
right to tamper. Keep your faith, my

boy, since it gives you peace, and don't
let John Wharton have it upon his conscience
that he taught you a philosophy
which may, probably will, utterly fail to fill
its place.'

But since you doubt the truth of this
philosophy, why do you practise it ? ' said
Matthew, who was not easily silenced when
once set a-going on matters of faith.'

That entails the very discussion which
I wish to avoid.'

You treat me as if I were a child, by
declining to argue with me,' exclaimed the
young man, with some irritation. * Is this
your vaunted liberty of opinion ? '

You forget that to me you are as a
child. I am your tutor, set up in authority
over you. My honour forbids that I should
say anything that might have the effect of
subverting your faith. Now let us talk of
other matters, while we make for a metropolitan
station and take an underground

train to Gower Street, or we shall be
late.'

Matthew's good breeding prevented him
from pursuing the subject as he would dearly
have liked to do, but he repeated the word
honour to himself in various tones. It
seemed marvellous to him that a man should
care so much for his honour and so little
for his God. The rest of the walk that day-was
comparatively silent ; none of the points
of interest which Mr Wharton loved to discuss
with his pupils on history, classics, etc.,
were likely to fall otherwise than flat, after
the grander system which had been brought
before their minds, and then so summarily
discarded.

Only one month out of the six Matthew
had arranged with Lady Valentina that he
would spend in self-improvement had passed
and his zest was already gone.

Mr Wharton had been quite wise in
stopping argument \i he wished to have

any farther hold on his pupil's mental power
only unfortunately he had allowed the
discussion to go too far. Matthew had ascertained
positively what he had only previously
suspected  that Mr Wharton did
not believe in revealed religion, and from
that moment, though he would have given
his life to save his tutor's soul, he had
no farther confidence In him as a master,
and moreover was beset by many scruples
as to whether he were acting in accordance
with his conceived views of right and wrong
in remaining any longer as a pupil under so
unholy a teacher.

A letter to Lady Valentina was of course
the unfailing result of much worry and
anxiety, and perhaps Matthew could scarcely
have credited the amount of perplexity in
which its perusal involved her. Lady Valentine's
range, though she had naturally
a clear brain and had read largely, was a
limited one, the fact being that her brain

had never had its working powers fully tested,
and her reading had been of the most desultory
character. The ideas then propounded
by Matthew as being those of his tutor were
entirely new to Lady Valentina, who had
never looked outside her old-fashioned
Church of England doctrines. ' Of course
she knew there were Dissenters, but they
were generally found only among the lower
classes, while of men with philosophical
views, she had naturally heard  Kant,
Hegel, Comte, and the like ; but to meet
one of them in every-day life  oh ! that
was scarcely to be stood. Poor Matthew,
no wonder he was unhappy if such were his
associates ; but then his own religious feelings
were so very fine drawn, that there might
perhaps be some slight exaggeration. What
should she do ? If she advised him to try
a little longer, he would only perhaps think
she was wanting in proper principle,' and so,
after nearly as much time spent in reflection

on the subject as Matthew himself had
passed, she, being at Vantage Park when
she received her letter, resolved to consult
that very polished and delightful man the
Vicar of Fernwood.

CHAPTER I.

ON THE RIVIERA.
And drags at each remove a lengthening chain.'

Such, allegorically, was Claire
Bailey's state, as, after accompanying
her mother from place
to place on the continent, they finally settled
down for a while at Mentone, the last station
on that renowned line of outworks against
'Pallida Mors,' known as the Riviera.
Claire's father had died at an early age
from consumption ; this Lady Laura bore
ever in mind as she watched through the
different stages of her child's depression, and

VOL. III. a

noted the ravages sorrow was making on her
fresh young face.

That Claire was fretting incessantly there
was little doubt, the more so, perhaps,
because she but rarely alluded to the cause
of her distress ; and it will easily be
conceived that, if the child was suffering
acutely, the mother suffered even more;
also, that by far the deepest throes these
two unselfish natures were enduring, were
caused by the silent but only too apparent
sorrow of each other. Had Lady Laura
been a father or a brother, she would probably
have railed furiously against Matthew,
perhaps even, as actually happened in a
celebrated instance not many years ago,
might she have driven up to his paternal
seat in a four-in-hand, surrounded by influential
friends, and demanded, in tones as
stern as they were courteous, explanation
and satisfaction. But patient, refined, high-minded
Lady Laura was only a woman ; what

could she do in her anguish, her just anger,
her despair, but live on, pray, and be patient.
Letters from home came but seldom,
and when they did come, the tidings
they brought were scarcely inspiriting.
Matthew had written more than once, but
Lady Laura noted the flush on Claire's face
as she opened his missives, and how it
became overcast as she finished reading
them, and she felt seriously inclined to forbid
the correspondence, only perhaps she
was a little afraid of what effect another
violent and sudden wrench might have on
her child. It was a strange whim, which,
possessing itself of Matthew's mind at this
time, made him write pages on pages about
Lady Valentina to Claire, while to the
former he had never once spoken of
his little self-exiled love. Perhaps when
Claire left England she still retained a
lingering hope that all was not positively
and for ever at an end between her and

Matthew ; but now the image of the stately
Valentina, as he describes her, with her
queenly beauty, her composure and her
sterling sense, helping him through all
the difficult bits of life, seems ever to
stand conspicuously between them. And
as she pictures her rival, the last faint
scintilla of hope dies out of Claire's heart.
That Matthew deserves censure for Claire's
sufferings there is little doubt ; still he is
not as much to blame as Lady Laura
supposes.

Although Valentina, with her fascination
of manner ; fascinating, that is, to Matthew 
since she possesses the very strength of will
in which he himself is wanting  has come
between them, yet he has never entirely withdrawn
his allegiance to Claire. He considers
himself as much bound to her now as on
the day when, mounted on Prig, he led her
across the meadow to Swanover, and asked
her mother's consent to their union. He is

merely doing as many another man has
done before him  he is playing with two
hearts. Whether honour will win or lose in
the struggle remains to be proved, the issue
depending on a great extent on how much
sincere honest loyalty Matthew's developing
character will evince. In extenuation, too, of
his seemingly heartless conduct, be it remembered
he has no idea of the amount
of pain Claire is enduring. She had herself
suggested a cancelling of their engagement.
She had gone abroad without even telling
him of her intention ; for all he knew she
was enjoying herself excessively, for her
letters, ever uncomplaining, were always
kind and cheerful. Had any mutual friend
hinted to Matthew that pretty Claire, down
on the Riviera, was fretting her life away, on
his account, the human kindness with which
his nature abounded, if no stronger feeling,
would have taken him at once to Mentone
to learn the truth for himself. But no word

came to him save from her own pen, so, condemning
her a little in his heart for coldness
and want of regard for his feelings,
he dawdled by Lady Valentina's side, and
left the affair with Claire to ripen or die
out, according as the time and place of
their next meeting should influence the
atmosphere of their hearts.

Meanwhile everything that could be done
to distract her mind was put into practice
by her anxious mother, even at the risk of
burdening her conscience and of shocking
Mr Lently, should he happen to learn what
was passing, for Claire had been taken to
pass a few fleeting hours watching the play
at Monte Carlo. Even that haunt of tempestuous
pleasure, with its eager uproarious
throng, failed however to afford her excitement.


She wandered about the 'gilded halls,'
and felt a little heartsick at the pictures of
life there represented ; she would ask her

mother not to bring her again  she thought
surely it were better to be moped and sad
than to take part in such a scene as that.
Then she turned to the window and stood
leaning against it, gazing dreamily on fair
nature as she lay around clad in loveliest
sheen, as though striving, by her beauty,
to lure away the crowd within the rooms
from the fascinations of her powerful rival 
the green table. Had they all been of
Claire's mind the feat had not been difficult,
but ' Messieurs faites voice jeu] ' Le jeu est
fait' ' Rien ne va plus', 'Sept', l Noir' ' impaired
et impasse] went on incessantly around
her as she stood and looked into the world
beyond ; while Lady Laura, half amused, half
saddened by the scene, was loitering a few
yards off.

Miss Bailey ! ' exclaimed a voice close to
Claire, as though in a tone of wonder at her
presence there.

She turned instantly, then held out her

hand to a young man, who had more than
once been her partner at dances in the
neighbourhood of Swanover.

You here ? I had no idea,' he almost
stammered.

Claire coloured up ; his words seemed to
imply a reproach, while in reality he was
vexed at being himself caught following to
its fullest bent the pleasures offered by
the goddess Play Young Leverton had a
great respect for the Baileys, and he
scarcely wanted them to know that he had
lost large sums that he could ill afford,
which they inevitably would do from some
of the chatterers at Monte Carlo.

Claire's answer somewhat reassured him,
however.

We have only come over from Mentone
for an hour or two. I have been ill, and
mamma thought the place would amuse me,
but it does not.'

1 Doesn't amuse you ? How odd ! Why,

this room represents life in more varied
phases than any other in Europe.'

Very likely ; but to look at the people
here makes me, oh, so miserable ! I hope
you have not come to play, Mr Leverton ? '

I only arrived about four days ago,'
he answered, falling back once again into
stammering. ' I was at home this day last
week.'

Tell me, how is everything looking roundabout
Swanover ? Ravensholme, and all
the poor people, I wonder how they are ? '

Yes, Claire's heart was at Swanover, and
Lady Laura, who from where she was
standing heard this conversation, began to
think so.

Mr Leverton was scarcely the sort of man
to be able to give her a detailed account of
the ailments and requirements of all the
Ravensholme cottagers. He tried, however,
as well as he could, to furnish her with some
home news.

1 The Desboroughs have come back from
London

Ah, yes ; the mention of that name did
interest Claire, for her colour heightened ashe
spoke.

1 Lord Beaurepaire and his daughter have
accompanied them,' he went on. ' I have
met Lady Valentina driving about with
Mrs Desborough once or twice ; such a
beautiful, distinguished - looking girl. . Do
you know her, Miss Bailey ? '

An almost inarticulate 'No' fell from
Claire's white lips.

1 Oh, you will admire her so much, and
every one says she is as nice as she is
handsome. I am quite in love with her ;
but it is no use, for I am afraid some one
else is in the field before me. Some one
you know too, Miss Bailey.'

Claire did not speak, and Lady Laura did
not come to the rescue, because, never having
heard anything about Matthew's friendship

with Lady Valentina, she did not note the
danger signals, or guess what trouble these
careless remarks were bringing to her child.

Young Leverton went on ; he was only
too glad to find what he supposed to be a
neutral topic for conversation, so as to keep
off any allusion to gambling.

Of course the Desboroughs would like
the match, they are so terribly addicted to
swells  at least Mrs Desborough is, and
everybody about seems to regard it as a
settled thing.'

Fortunately this last speech was too much
to the point for Lady Laura any longer to
mistake Mr Leverton's meaning. She held
out her hand to the young man, who had
not noticed her standing partly concealed by
a curtain as she did.

How do you do, Mr Leverton ? Full of
gossip from the home county ? I am glad
to hear of old friends, but I think at this
moment I am more especially anxious for

some descriptive account of the new faces
by which we are surrounded. This room
is a book that sorely wants an index. Can
you supply it ? '

Now Mr Leverton was one of those men
who hate to be supposed not to know everything
and everybody who either legitimately
or illegitimately has made any mark in the
world. Of course he knew the biographies
and genealogies of at least half of the there
assembled crowd, and he began forthwith to
tell her how the fat pompous man over there
was a general, who had married beneath him
that pretty-looking woman without one  h '
in her whole vocabulary ; then he proceeded
to relate how M  was the lover of

Madame ; how the wife of Sir Lewis

J  had come there with the husband of
Lady C  , till Lady Laura would fain have
closed her ears against the horrible tale of
fashionable depravity, and at any other time
would have silenced him with authority, only

anything was better than the discussion of
Matthew Desborough and English news.
Finding therefore a pleased ready listener
as he thought in Lady Laura, whom till that
moment Mr Leverton had believed to bea
little strait-laced, he drew such a vivid
sketch of Monaco life and manners that
the mother, ever thinking of her child,
looked round to see what effect this initiation
into the details of fast ways and habits
might have on her ; but Claire was mentally
far away in a dreamland of her own,
where Matthew, not Mr Leverton, was
playing the prominent part. She scarcely
heard that he was speaking, much less did
she take in the subject of his discourse.
She did not heed him, or would have shown
her disapproval, for nothing could be more
repulsive to Claire's mind than a minute,
almost eulogistic description of the lax condition
of public morals, as it existed in the
atmosphere around. To Lady Laura the

account was nauseating in its effect ; though
she condemned gambling as a vice, she was
little prepared to acknowledge the deep substratum
of iniquity which lay beneath the
seemingly decent manners of the assembled
throng. If only half Mr Leverton's account
were true, this was scarcely a scene into
which she ought to have conducted a pure"
English girl, even with the strong incentive
that Lady Laura had, and she felt
almost inclined to make a formal excuse to
Mr Leverton for her daughter's presence.
But discretion overcame the desire to speak,
especially as when she looked round and
saw more than one girl walking about the
rooms whose social position was quite the
equal of Claire's. Alas for the laxity of an
age in which the moral tone has so much
degenerated !

Lady Laura waited for a pause in the
young man's scandalous reminiscences, then
she touched Claire gently on the arm.

4 We must go, my child, or we shall scarcely
feet back to Mentone in time for dinner. If
those dull quarters have any attraction for
you, Mr Leverton, we shall be delighted to
see you. I do not think we shall return
here.'

This was all gentle Lady Laura said in
disapprobation. A better example was set
by action than by speech, she was wont to
aver. And they bade Mr Leverton goodbye,
and wandered through the gardens,
making rather a circuit to reach the carriage
in which they had driven from Mentone.

'A foolish babbling boy,' was Lady Laura
stricture on Leverton, as she walked beside
Claire, ' he has told me stories about half the
people in the room  he knows far too much
to be accurate in his knowledge ; in fact,
God grant he may not be so.'

Claire did not answer, the only gossip she
had heard from Mr Leverton had Matthew's
letters to verify it ; thus, how could she

flatter herself that it was untrue ? Had he
not written pages about Lady Valentina ?
What then more likely than, now that he
had a large fortune to offer, he should make
this great lady his wife. Poor little Claire
was very humble about her own attributes, and
she was quite ready to believe that she was
very inferior in every way to Lady Valens
tina. It was only natural, she thought, that
Matthew should be impressed by this great
beauty, since every one agreed she was so
handsome and so good and nice ; but still
it was very very hard to bear, and the
thought of her rival made her very unhappy,
notwithstanding the excuse of perfection
with which Claire tried to invest her.

All the way back to Mentone Claire was
quite silent, and Lady Laura wished they had
never one to Monte Carlo, or at all events

o

had not met Mr Leverton there. Arrived
at the hotel, there was a letter from Matthew 7
lying on the table. It contained only a few,



a very few lines, simply stating the fact that
he was going home shortly to Vantage. His
reasons for throwing up his work so abruptly
he did not give her ; it would not have
occurred to Matthew to treat Claire to the
long dissertations about Wharton's philosophy
he had inflicted on Valentina. What,
then, could she suppose but that he was
going to Vantage solely for Valentina's sake,
and with an ' Ah! ' that to Lady Laura's quick
ear was pregnant with meaning, she thrust
the letter into her pocket and walked away
to change her dress for dinner.

VOL. III.

PAIRING.

,T was the first spring day. The
party from Monarchs Castle had
driven over to luncheon at Vantage,
where of course they met the never-failing
Mr Shipwright.

It is not to be supposed that Mrs Des-borough,
because she occasionally assembled
her friends round her, grieved for and talked
of her son George any the less ; quite the
contrary, only hers was not the sort of
nature that could pine in solitude. No, her
sorrow required an audience to stimulate it ;
but about all things Mrs Desborough, in
society's world and in the private recesses

of her own apartment, was a very different
individual.

After luncheon a walk had been suggested
by Violet, and seconded by Lord Beauregard.
No one else seemed particularly
inclined to sally forth, till it occurred to
Lady Valentina that it were as well perhaps
that she should accompany them, in
order to chaperone her father, and then Mr
Shipwright offered to make one of the
party. So they sallied forth, leaving Mrs
Desborough to pour her sorrows into the
duchess's sympathetic ear, while the squire
dawdled through the afternoon by himself
in his own room, where, however, his studies
made by no means the valuable progress
they used to do before the death of his
elder son. For hours he would sit among
his papers without looking at them, his
thoughts far away. He was fretting out his
heart in solitude, and yet his wife invariably
gave him credit for caring more for his fusty

researches than for the passing away of a
whole line of Desboroughs. How apt are
quiet undemonstrative natures to be wholly
misunderstood !

An opportunity to begin a conversation
with Mr Shipwright about Matthew was
just what Lady Valentina had been seeking
for the last two days. During this walk
surely an auspicious moment would offer
itself, and so it did, for Mr Shipwright was
almost as anxious to sound Lady Valentina
on the subject of her feelings for Matthew as
the young lady was to extract from him his
opinions anent Matthew's longer residence
in the Whartonian household.

As far as playing chaperone to Lord
Beaurepaire went, Lady Valentina soon discovered
that she might as well have remained
indoors ; he and Mrs Tremayne
paired off forthwith, walking a great deal
faster than would have suited the style of
the queenly Valentina, who was thus left

nolens volens in the charge of the Rev.
Lawrence, in whom she had a far more
ardent admirer than she in the very least
suspected. She knew that Mr Shipwright
was the mundane friend as well as the
spiritual director of both the duchess and
Mrs Desborough, and that when those ladies
were together it was with some difficulty
that he contrived to divide his attention so
equally as to give dissatisfaction to neither.
She also knew that Mr Shipwright objected
strongly to Mrs Tremayne. For this very
reason, perhaps, she herself had first conceived
a regard for him ; but what she did
not know was, that the Vicar of 
had more than once
thought that to render that same vicarage
quite Utopian, was wanting the presence
of such a superb aristocratic beauty as was
the Lady Valentina. True, for many years
Mr Shipwright had deemed that it would
be ill in accordance with his highly philosophical

tendencies to shackle their freedom
by putting his neck into the matrimonial
noose ; but the acquaintance he had lately
formed with Lady Valentina had made him
to a great extent forego his ideas on the
subject. Only there was Matthew ; he was
not quite sure about the reciprocal feelings
of these two young people, and the Rev.
Lawrence Shipwright was keenly alive to
the fact that his entering the lists as the
rival of Matthew Desborough would be
essentially ridiculous. It was not because
he believed his chance of success to be inferior
to Matthew's that he took this view
of the case, but simply because he thought
a passage at arms between him and this boy
would be absurd.

They sauntered on slowly together for
some time, talking pleasantly and intellectually.
Mr Shipwright, be it observed, was
partial to the society of intellectual women,
the duchess, perhaps, being the only one

of his ' very dear friends ' in whom physical
attractions were the sole fascination. Lady
Valentina was not clever in the strict sense
of the word ; her brain was incapable of
producing a single original idea ; but she
was well read, and remembering what she
had read, was always prepared to reproduce
it at the right moment. Thus she presented
a very good imitation of a blue stocking ;
moreover, she never condescended to talk
nonsense.

At last, when they had passed the vicarage
house, gone across the glebe, through
a wood there was to the left, walked about
two miles in fact, always keeping Lord
Beaurepaire and Mrs Tremayne more or
less in view, Lady Valentina began the
subject she had been seeking to introduce
ever since they started from Vantage. It
came up quite naturally at this juncture.
They had been discussing the political position
of Europe, and had somehow strayed

into a conversation on its relations with prophecy,
of which Lady Valentina had been
reading in some recently published pamphlet.
It was a relation which Mr Shipwright
scouted, and he refuted the argument adduced
with so much energy and cleverness,
that Lady Valentina exclaimed, 

1 How charming it is to hear you talk !
So strange that in London I do not know
a single clergyman intimately, so have no
one to put me right in matters of difficulty.
I often do wish I had some master-mind
to consult.'

The Rev. Lawrence smiled benignly; perhaps
he took this speech of Valentina's for
encouragement. She went on, 

I have had it in my head for the last
two days to ask you about something, Mr
Shipwright. I wonder if you would mind ? '

1 In anything that I can be of service to
you, Lady Valentina, pray command meal
ways.'

It is a matter of conscience she said,
looking rather shy and speaking very low,
as she proceeded to state her case to the
divine whose opinion she craved, while
Mr Shipwright looked consciously grateful
for the choice which had fallen on him.
Although no confessor by name or practice,
nothing afforded him more gratification than
to be selected as the confidential possessor
of the catalogue raison of a woman's
shortcomings.

1 Say on, dear lady, and be assured of my
secrecy and discretion.'

'Well, you know, Mr Shipwright, I have
been brought up from babyhood in good
old-fashioned Church of England principles.
Ritualism perplexes me, while Heterodoxy, as
it presents itself in the so-called philosophical
opinions of the day, seems so contrary to
everything one has been taught to believe,
that it quite frightens me.'

'Why go out of the good old-established

path to investigate either creed ? ' asked Mr
Shipwright, while he looked just a little bit
disappointed. Probably he had expected a
different confession.

1 One cannot always close one's ears to
every call,' answered Lady Valentina, ' especially
when the voice that asks counsel of
you is that of a friend.'

1 No, truly. But unless I know the precise
facts of the case, I cannot give an opinion.'

Confidentially, then, it is about Matthew
Desborough I want to speak to you,' and
Lady Valentina blushed, while Mr Shipwright
but no, he did not change countenance, he
only looked as though he would fain read
her through and through.

Matthew Desborough ! when would Matthew
Desborough's affairs cease to be the
main topic of discussion among his friends,
he wondered ; but he concealed from Lady
Valentina the knowledge that this subject
had begun to bore him.

1 Poor Matthew ! ' he said, after a second's
pause. ' Has he been getting into fresh
difficulties. I am afraid he is of too sensitive
a nature to make much way against
the troubles and temptations of life.'

1 That is just it. Matthew is scrupulous
and conscientious to a fault  not that I think
it a fault  there must be something so grand,
so honest, so saint-like in a character that is
in constant fear of acting disloyally both to
God and man ; but knowing as we do what
Matthew feels about all these things, don't
you think we ought to help him as much as
we can out of difficulties, instead of urging
him into them ? '

Who has been urging him into difficulties
? '

1 I am afraid you and I are not exempt.'

1 How so?'

4 Well, you know, Mr Shipwright, that
since poor George Desborough's death
Matthew has been a great deal with us,

and both my father and I take the very liveliest
interest in him  in fact one cannot
help doing so, he is so very amiable and confiding.
I think, too, he sets some store
on our  that is, on my opinion.'

Mr Shipwright smiled, but did not speak,
but he thought he saw Lady Valentina
rapidly disappearing from the imaginary
place she had held for a brief space in
Fernwood Vicarage. She went on, 

'A short time ago I advised Matthew to
return to Mr Wharton's for a few months,
so as to fit himself by study and argument
the better to hold his position in life. I
have, however, since had cause to waver in
my judgment.'

And your reasons are ? '

1 That I don't believe Mr Wharton to bea
Christian.'

Ah ! What has that to do with
Matthew's secular studies ? '

1 Mr Shipwright, I am surprised. I thought

that you, as a clergyman, would be shocked
and horrified.'

The Rev. Lawrence scarcely liked to feel
that he had lost way with Lady Valentina,
so he shifted his ground somewhat, and
said rather sternly for him, 

1 Lady Valentina, I may speak to you,
candidly may I not, as to a woman possessing
much common sense ? '

She bowed her head and accepted the
compliment.

1 There has been far too much talk and
fuss made over Matthew. He has been
coddled and all his fancies listened to, till he
has become a mental malade imaginaire.
Why on earth should he not rough it with
other young men ? Now that he is heir of
Vantage, the question of orders is, I presume,
set at rest for ever. Let him go 'then
where he can learn the greatest amount
about life in the shortest possible time.
Books will not teach him the things he

ought to know, or transform him from a sick
hermit into a hale squire.'

You are rather severe, Mr Shipwright,'
she remarked, for no one perhaps had
ever heard so much acerbity in the Rev.
Lawrence's tones before.

The case merits it he answered ; 'they
are the truest friends to Matthew who do
not pamper him.'

Pamper him ! had she been pampering
him, she wondered, and they walked along
for some little distance together without
speaking ; each was holding a mirror in
order to reflect feeling, both rather unsuccessfully,
as feelings seldom allow themselves
to be clearly and distinctly reflected. When
next they spoke, the subject of Matthew,
which evidently irritated Mr Shipwright as
much as a man of his placid temperament
could be irritated, was waived, and he said
in his usual bland unctuous voice, 

A lovely bit of landscape just here ; it is

worthy of Constable. I hope you appreciate
the art that represents nature faithfully,
Lady Valentina ? '

She did not paint herself, but was an
ardent admirer of fine pictures, had been in
many of the great continental galleries, and
so they fell to discussing the varied features
of the several European schools, Mr Sive-wright
interesting as well as surprising Lady
Valentina not a little by his knowledge
and remarks, during which Matthew's fierce
struggles with life were alike forgotten by
them both, till at last this discussion was
interrupted by their coming abruptly on the
other couple, who, not knowing the country
as well as Mr Shipwright did, had followed a
path which they supposed would take them
back to Vantage, but which had circuitously
led them back to its commencement.

It mattered but little whether a conversation
on art were continued or arrested, it
could be resumed at any moment; but the

topic Lord Beaurepaire and the pretty widow-had
been discussing was evidently of a much
more delicate nature. The old earl looked
earnest and devoted, while on Violet's face
there was a deep flush. She sprang towards
Lady Valentina when she saw her, thereby
disengaging her hand from that of Lord
Beaurepaire, and hoping that the little
manoeuvre might pass unperceived. She
looked at Mr Shipwright : by the cynical
curl of his lip she knew that nothing had
escaped him. Had the duchess gained
his silence. That was all she hoped ?

We have been wondering where you
had strolled to, Mrs Tremayne ? We
scarcely expected to find our lost Pearl at
this corner.'

A paleness, as of death, spread itself over
Violet's face, so much so that Lady Valentine,
though disliking her most intensely, yet
felt her womanly kindness aroused as she
looked at her, for she said with less hauteur

than she usually displayed when addressing
Mrs Tremayne.

1 You seem tired. Shall we sit on the
trunk of this old tree for a few minutes ?
The air is so balmy we can scarcely take
cold.'

A very few minutes' rest, and the gentlemen
suggested that a chill might come if
they stayed longer, and having delegated to
Mr Shipwright the office of pioneer, the little
party set off for Vantage by a short route.
The pairing, however, for that day was at
an end. Lady Valentina and Mrs Tree
walked together, the two men a few
paces in front. Either Violet did not care
to trust the Rev. Lawrence alone with Lady
Valentina after what he had just said, or
she was a little ashamed of the very flagrant
flirtation in which she had been surprised,
for she remained close to Lady Valentina's
side, making herself so agreeable and fascinating
all the while, that by the time they
vol. in. c

had reached Vantage Lady Valentina had
almost forgotten her prejudices against Mrs
Tremayne. True, she was a little preoccupied
about her own affairs. Her conversation
with Mr Shipwright, as far as Matthew
was concerned, had proved unsuccessful ; she
must advise on her own responsibility, and
when she went to her room to rest for an
hour before dinner, she employed her time
in writing a long letter to Matthew, which,
though it was kind and full of sense, yet
was scarcely as practical as Lady Valentine's
opinions usually were. The fact being
that she was almost as perplexed on this
matter as was Matthew himself. In a few
days perhaps a light would break in order to
show them which way they should walk,
she hoped ; that is if she watched for it,
which she was fully resolved to do. Then
she sat looking at the letter as it lay sealed
ready for the letter-bag in front of her.

Why trust to the result of a few days

waiting and the light that might never come,'
was the next bit of true womanly reasoning,
so she opened the letter, not to read
it, but in order to add a postscript.

1 Surely a little country air would do you
good ? Why do you not come home for a
time and discuss the matter with your own
people ? '

Was this suggestion of Lady Valentina's
made in all good faith, or was it not rather
the result of an almost unacknowledged craving
to see Matthew once again ? Even in
strong natures like Lady Valentina's, how
impossible it is at all times to analyse the
heart's emotions.

LOVE TURNED TO HATE.

Emotion of my life radiant
star of my old age  if Valentina
were only married.'
Muttering these fragments to himself, Mr
John Varley, alias Cheap Jack, walks slowly
along the road till he reaches the gate leading
into the Fernwood glebe, through which
he had passed with Mr Shipwright about ten
days ago. He perches himself on the top
bar, and his elbows on his knees, his head
on his hands, he betakes himself to thinking.
He has not selected the most comfortable
of seats ; but then the fact of his early habits
having been acrobatic perhaps accounts for

his indifference on the subject. The yellow
shay ' and the infinitesimal tiger are in the
courtyard of the Hurton Commercial Inn ;
they have been there for days, while Varley
himself, entirely neglecting the pursuit of his
calling, wanders in a desultory manner about
the country in the hope of meeting the lost
Pearl he has resound in such a strange setting.
Poor Jack ! the dream of his life had been
to find this girl again, but while his position
in the world naturally threw him into the
society of rough coarse companions, whose
coarseness and roughness from very use he
failed to remark, still among them an instinctive
reticence forbade the mention of
Pearl, and kept concealed from vulgar gaze
the latent poetry of his nature, of which
not one of Cheap Jack's associates would
for a moment have guessed the existence.
He had spoken truly when he told Violet
that he would rather not have resound his
Pearl than have found her where he did.

The gorgeous gems of society by which she
was surrounded, if they were not envied by
Cheap Jack for their lustre, were hated
because they shed a portion of it over his
more modest jewel, raising her almost to an
equal place with themselves in the dazzling
bouquet of precious stones. He hated the
Duke and Duchess of Monarchs, the Des-boroughs
of Vantage, for robbing him of his
treasure ; above all, he hated that courteous
grand old peer whom he had heard pouring
burning loving words into Violet's ear
as he was loitering about the Vantage woods,
in the hope perchance of seeing her again.

As Jack Varley, in his blouse and velvet
cap, sat doubled up on the top bar of
the gate, he was a comic picture ; still the
feelings that raged within the somewhat
ludicrous exterior, savoured more of tragedy
than comedy.

Strong passions had been aroused, passions
which had probably been lying dormant in

Jack Varley's heart for years ; love had, as
in a flash, been matured to its full strength,
to be over-ruled only by a more intense
emotion  jealousy  and we know

i One master passion in the breast
Like Aaron's serpent swallows up the rest'

The basket maker's impetuous son had had
but little education  least of all, had he been
taught the great lesson of self-control ; more
or less contact with the world had instructed
him to keep his feelings in subjection, and, as
far as trifling matters went, the lessons received
later in life had proved satisfactory ;
but now that a crushing mass of strong feeling
had overtaken him, he cast all his small
stock of tuition to the winds, and gave
himself up entirely to be led wherever the
raging bitterness of his feelings pleased to
direct. Could Violet have seen him, as he
sat there on the gate, she might have quailed
before the aspect of the man she flattered
herself would obey any word or wish of hers,

however faintly expressed. If she were indeed
his, his Pearl, the one gem in that
tinselled life-diadem, which was all fate had
bestowed on him, she might have held such
sway ; but to see her fair beauty deck the
coronet of that 'oily-mouthed aristocrat'  no.
He would never be her slave unless he washer
master too. That was the determination
at which Jack Varley arrived while he sat
brooding on the top of the parsonage gate.
At last he jumped off his perch and stood
leaning against the post. Shielding his eyes
with his hand, he looked up and down the
road. Glimmering twilight was overtaking
the sunny beauty of the short day. He
could see nothing, hear nothing.

1 Yet they must pass along this way to
Monarchs,' was his muttered remark.

He was waiting for Pearl. His better
genius prompted him to walk with rapid
strides to Hurton, start off with his 'shay'
and his tiger at dawn on a honor commercial

circuit in the adjacent counties, and be heard
of in the neighbourhood of Monarchs no
more  at least not for many months ; but
the prompting was silenced angrily, and Jack
Varley stood on in the gathering darkness,
waiting till the Monarchs carriage should
pass by that way. At last his patience was
rewarded, if reward it were to endure the
heart agony which overcame him as the
ducal equipage stopped not ten yards from
where he stood unseen in the gloom which
had by this time deepened into night. He
moved away from the post against which he
had been leaning, and dropped back so as
to be sheltered by the adjoining hedge.

Mr Shipwright having been driven thus
far on his way, got out of the carriage, and
bade the two ladies ' Good evening.'

1 Don't forget tomorrow ; dinner at a
quarter to eight. We shall be quite a
delightful party. I am so glad the Beare
have persuaded dear Mrs Desborough

to accompany them ; moping will do her no
good, and of course we shall ask no one
but our own little set.'

So kind of you, duchess, so considerate,'
and Mr Shipwright lifted his hat as he turned
to pass into his own domain.

1 Good-bye, Mr Shipwright. I hope the
spring flowers you gathered in the wood
to-day will shed their fragrance over your
study to-night.'

The duchess laid her hand on Mrs Tree
as though imploring her to be
silent ; while the vicar said archly, 

The wood violets are scarcely yet in
bloom ; that floweret still wants hot-house
forcing.'

I assure you I found a handful,' she cried
gaily, as the carriage drove off. She felt so
sure of Lord Beaurepaire that she thought
she could afford to bandy words with the
vicar, than which nothing amused her more,
because, knowing herself to be an expert,

there was a charm in a skirmish with one
who usually contrived that she should come
off second best in the tussle.

Mr Shipwright opened the gate and passed
into the field beyond. For a moment he
thought he heard some one moving, and
stopped to listen, but deciding that the
sound existed solely in his imagination, he
went on towards the house.

During that moment Cheap Jack had felt
half inclined to detain the vicar, and once
more make him his confidant ; but the idea
that ' his reverence ' would only, as he was
in duty bound, try to make things square,
prevented him, and he remained quietly
hiding in the hedge till the vicar's footfalls
had quite died away in the distance. Then
he crept slowly forth and took the road for
Hurton, walking rather as a man who has
no purpose in life, than the active, businesslike
trader he had been but a short time
since.

There was nothing Varley could have told
Mr Shipwright that he did not already know.
He had felt thoroughly convinced of Violet
Tremayne's identity with Pearl long before
the knowledge had dawned upon her old
adorer. Up to this time the vicar, except
by occasional stray shots at the lady herself,
had kept his convictions to himself
He did not consider it was exactly befitting
a man of his dignity to seek to untie the
many knots in which society loved to tangle
itself, unless, indeed, one of gordian proportions
should be presented to him. He
made it his practice, however, on all occasions
to be au courant with every detail in
the lives of those with whom he came in
daily contact, reserving the right of conducting
the private affairs of his congregation
and their relations, whenever circumstances
induced him to consider that his assistance
would tend to his own importance or advantage.
No greater autocrat than this

moral teacher who abjured the title of
priest.

When he reached his luxurious study, in
which a wood fire was burning brightly, andover
which a shaded reading lamp was shedding
its subdued light, he sat down in his
arm-chair and stretched himself as he looked
round. Opposite to him was a vacant chair.
For a moment he thought how well Lady
Valentina would fill it ; then followed a dread
of woman's invasion among the Lares and
Penates which had grown dear to the
bachelor's heart ; and Mr Shipwright smiled
complacently to himself as the little drama, .in
which Matthew, Claire Bailey, Lady Valentine,
and all the other dramatis personae took
part, seemed to be enacted before his eyes.
Only when his mind's eye fell on Violet
Tremayne his brow darkened. To Mr
Shipwright, who believed thoroughly in the
fitness of things, it seemed quite out of
keeping that she should marry Lord Beau-repair

; though with the justness on which,
even as though he had been a judge, he
prided himself, he would certainly have decreed
that it would be equally incongruous
for her to give up the position she had
made for herself in society, and throw in her
fortunes with those of Cheap Jack Varley.
The itinerant hawker was right in his conjectures
that a conversation with his reverence
would not help matters.

1 He'd only try to salve him over with fine
words, so as to keep him quiet ; ' and as he
wended his way towards Hurton, the feelings
raging in his heart grew more and more bitter,
and Mrs Tremayne, if she did not play her
cards carefully and cleverly, ran a chance of
being worsted in the game of life by her old
acquaintance and playmate. Love turned to
hate. What so dangerous for a woman,
especially when the change occurs in a heart
unaccustomed to submit to control.

Violet, meanwhile, was gushingly relating

to the duchess, as they drove to Monarchs,
how Lord Beaurepaire had nearly come ' to
the scratch,' as she scantily called it ; and
how that tiresome vicar invariably put his
head into her path at the ' very most inconvenient
moments.' The duchess lay back
in her corner of the carriage, and smiled
at the relation. She never tried to stop
the hardihood of Violet's talk when they
were alone ; perhaps hoping that by letting
her have her free scope in private, she
would be more amenable to reason when
listeners were present.

1 But old Shipwright didn't sneer or look
odious.' She finished her account stating, 
1 I suppose you have been speaking to him,
Julia ? '

1 No, indeed, I have not. To say truly, I
have not had the courage. I began the subject
the other evening while you were singing
to the duke, but he either did not, or would
not, see that the confidence  confession, if

you like  was a grave one. Perhaps he
thought the occasion unfitting ; none has
arisen since.'

1 Then, for goodness' sake make one.
Send for him tomorrow morning. Endless
mischief may happen if you defer it.'

But what can I say ? What excuse can
I make ? '

Let me see. Flowers  that is such a
sweetly innocent subject. I am sure those
camellias in the conservatory look most
sickly, and Perkins does not understand
them one bit. Mr Shipwright, you know,
is a horticulturist of the first order.'

Oh, Violet, there is nothing the matter
with the camellias.'

But there shall be by the morning.'

Oh, pray don't tamper with the flowers ;
the duke will be so angry.'

1 To avert his anger, Mr Shipwright must
be sent for to resuscitate the poor faded
darlings,' and Violet laughed heartily.

To her crooked nature this little subterfuge
and plot gave much greater satisfaction than
any straightforward action would have done.
The duchess, however, was by no means so
happy at the idea. Of a placid temperament,
she loved repose ; scheming was her
particular aversion. If this marriage of
Violet's with Lord Beaurepaire would only
enable her to float lazily along the stream
of life, how grateful would she be ! Violet,
with her incessant demands for service, and
her threats, was an incubus under the weight
of which the poor duchess laboured painfully.

1 I suppose you must do as you like,' she
said, in a tragically resigned tone, which,
however, only had the effect of evoking a
peal of merry laughter from her companion.

You poor dear old frightened Julia,
only one little effort more, and we will both
sail along the world's bubbling stream in
such safe barges that our most determined
foes will find it difficult to upset us.'

VOL. III. d

'Ah!'

The duchess had evidently less belief in
the future than had her sanguine friend,
and she felt in no mood for gushing over
prospective happiness.

4 If Violet were only dead,' was her secret
wish.

But a bete noire never dies, and this perhaps
the duchess thought as she looked out
of the carriage window into the darkness,
and declined entirely to reciprocate the affectionate
embrace with which Mrs Tremayne's
last words had been accompanied. A few
minutes more and they drove up to the
great door at Monarchs.

Violet sprang out.

I must stretch myself. I am cramped to
death by sitting so long and instead of going
into the house, she disappeared down a sidewalk
leading to the gardens.

No one took any notice. The servants
were used to her unconventional ways, and

the duchess was powerless to stop her, though
there was a very preoccupied look in her face
as she went to find the duke and give him an
account of her adventures, as she was wont
to do after an absence of a few hours.

1 What will he say when he is informed in
the morning, that all the camellias are dying,
and why cannot Mr Shipwright be brought
to Monarchs without this tiresome plot ?'

Why, indeed, but because Violet enjoys the
fun of it, and never thinks of following a
direct route when an indirect one is in the
least likely to produce an adventure.

The duke's indignation with Perkins,
Mr Shipwright's suggestions, the duchess's
anxiety of countenance, will all contribute
to Violet's amusement, and amusement she
must have. Even with so important an
issue as the happiness of her future life at
stake, she cannot forego her passion for
gratifying a love of frolic at the expense
of the feelings of other people.

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY

nc ftn*"Vf

THE EAVES OF Hanover

HE parti carry at Vantage Park
are dawdling over the ten o'clock
breakfast ; Lord Beaurepaire and
Mr Desborough having entangled themselves,
and even the ladies, in rather a warm discussion,
the subject being the relative positions
of the Vicars of Fernwood and Ravensholme.
From his charm of manner and scholarly
attainments, Mr Shipwright, as a man, carries
off the palm with Lord Beaurepaire, as he
does with every one ; but the earl's old-fashioned
religious prejudices have meantime
been shocked by some of Mr Sive-wright's
very broad tenets. Neither Lord

Beaurepaire nor his daughter had by any
degree reached the climax of excitement to
which religious inquiry  in these days when
every one is determined to sift out truth for
himself  had led many of their intimates.
Yet during the last few weeks they had both
of them more or less joined in the quest.
Matthew had been the first to awaken Valentine's
mind to the fact that there were many
points to be considered and weighed, which
had never entered into the humdrum prosaic
routine of her steady-going, high and dry
belief. Perhaps, too, the zealous youth who
had come to them as a sort of messenger from
another realm had, to a certain degree, inoculated
Lord Beaurepaire with some of his
opinions ; for if Matthew had scarcely enough
weight to convert the old peer to his views,
he had at all events set both him and his
daughter thinking, a process which life at
Vantage by no means stinted in its growth.
Daily did they hear the opinions and doings

of the two adjacent clergymen discussed, as it
befell, too, in the Vantage household, without
wrath. The squire was a gentle Christian-tempered
man, who never reviled his neighbour,
but always sought to sift the wheat
from the tares in every character.

Mr Lently's exaggeration in matters of
detail he regarded as the unhappy consequence
of over zeal. Truth being told, perhaps the
squire inclined more to Lently than to Sive-wright
; but Fernwood was his parish church,
and as a landowner and county magistrate,
he did not think he should be justified in
forsaking it. If you had pressed the
squire very closely, you would probably have
discovered that he deplored the want of
spirituality in Mr Shipwright, while at the
same time he appreciated to the fullest his
truthfulness and sincerity. As for Mrs Des-borough,
there is little doubt that she would
have plunged as determinedly as Matthew
did into the vortex of ritualism, if the man

Lawrence Shipwright had not stood between
her and the priest, Luke Lently.

Cast suddenly into the midst of these conflicting
emotions, is it strange that Lady
Valentina's mind should be rent by new ideas,
or that at times she should hold her aching
brow and feel inclined to exclaim, ' No pleasure
is comparable to the standing upon the
vantage ground of truth, a hill not to be
commanded, and where the air is always clear
and serene, and to see the errors and wanderings
and mists and tempests in this vale
below.' But this happy state of affairs was
not to be for her, at least not yet ; so rich
an inheritance as the possession of a settled
conviction is seldom attained, save after
stemming a strong current of trial and difficulty.
She had been listening for the last
hour to a detailed account of how Mr Lently
had set going every possible piece of religious
machinery in his parish, and she
had secretly revered him for his zeal, even

though she could not help agreeing with her
father that too much fervour was injurious
to a good cause.

If one could only strike the balance between
these two vicars, what a model man
you would have. Eh, Desborough ? ' his
lordship had remarked ; but Lady Valentina
gave the squire no time to answer. Quoting
readily from the Revelations, she said,

1 " I know thy works, that thou art neither
hot nor cold. I would thou wert cold or
hot." '

Lady Valentina is right,' exclaimed Mrs
Desborough, ' there is no evil so great as
lukewarmness. Violent opinions, one way
or the other, wake us from sleep and set
us thinking.'

Just so, just so, if the clergy were all
Gently,' answered his lordship, ' that would
be the thing for the masses ; such doctrine
as Shipwright preaches is very much like
giving strong meat to babes.'

Yet every one has not the faith to grasp
Mr Lently's ideal.'

1 Alas, no ! and I doubt if Mr Shipwright's
ministering would promote its cultivation.'

No one can accuse Mr Shipwright of
trying to tamper with an existing faith ; he
is too honourable and right-minded,' said
Mrs Desborough rather pointedly.

Well, well, I fail to see the merit of that
non-interference. Either Shipwright must
think his opinions right, or he must think
them wrong  they cannot be both. If he
considers them right, and that he is justified
in holding them, then surely he should be
desirous that the whole world should have
the benefit of his teaching.'

1 All minds are not constituted alike,' said
Mrs Desborough, as though in extenuation.

Religion can scarcely be treated - as a
piece of india-rubber, and made to fit our
minds. On the contrary, our minds must
be made to fit it,' by which it may be inferred

that Lord Beaurepaire's leaning was
decidedly for Lently ; not individually, since
his acquaintance with him was very slight,
but for his teaching, which had perhaps lost
some of its austerity by being filtered
through Matthew's gentle nature. How the
same opinions lose or gain in love, according
to the spirit of him who teaches !

A prolonged argument about the various
creeds which suited different temperaments
was, however, arrested ; a loud barking of
dogs in the stable-yard, and then the sound
of wheels rumbling up the carriage drive,
suggested a general move to the window,
as visitors at that hour of the morning
did not frequently arrive at Vantage.

1 Who can it be ? Oh, it is only a hired fly ;
some one on business with Mr Desborough,
no doubt,' and the lady of the house walked
away as though a little impatient at the
spurious interest which had been awakened.
But the exclamation of ' Matthew ! ' uttered

by Lord Beaurepaire, made her return once
more to the 'post of observation.'

Yes, there he was, looking handsomer
than ever, his bright eyes beaming ashe
waved his hand in recognition to the
little party standing at the dining - room
window. He had taken Lady Valentina at
her word, and started off at once on the
receipt of her letter, travelling all night in
his impetuous way ; and the flush on her
face as she beheld him bore ample testimony
that the arrival was no unwelcome
one. Both his father and mother were too
pleased to see him to ask why he was
there. That no evil tidings had brought
him was obvious from the complacent look
on his face, in the expression of which
there was a joyousness it but seldom bore,
produced probably by his delight at. seeing
Valentina again. While some fresh
breakfast was being prepared for him, his
mother, however, could not resist asking him

why he had come back to them so very
unexpectedly.

I was getting very tired of London, and
was wearying to see the old place again,'
was, however, the only answer she received.

It did not tell her much, though it proved
that Matthew's heart was at Vantage. Since
Lord Beaurepaire had become interested in
the rival doctrines which were flourishing in
the parishes of Fernwood and Ravensholme,
and had heard them discussed ad nazpseam,
as had been the case during the last ten
days, he had arrived at a full understanding
of why Matthew Desborough's opinions
were wanting in firmness. Love and faith
his warm heart demanded, these he sought
and thought he had found in Lently's creed,
only to have them trampled on as mere
fallacies by the sterner more realistic doctrines
preached in the parish church. It
was a severe trial and an unfair one. Lord
Beaurepaire could not help feeling this

rending of a young aspiring nature between
two such conflicting elements ; and as he
walked up and down the room, while
Matthew ate his breakfast, the ladies
chatted, and the squire stood by the fire,
silently watching the boy he was henceforth
to regard as his heir, Lord Beaurepaire
revolved more facts in his mind in connection
with Matthew's life and character than
had ever occurred to any of his relations,
astute woman though his mother was.

He fully understood why it was difficult fora
nature, whose key-note was love, to grapple
with the various and knotty points of doctrine
which were so frequently the topic of discussion
in his home. Doubtless much, very
much, of the weakness apparent in Matthew's
character was to be ascribed to education.
Could Lently and Shipwright, the two ruling
spirits of the religious neighbourhood, have
been induced to a certain degree to give
in, and meet half way on neutral ground,

Matthew's career would probably have been
totally different. No one who saw him now,
as he sat talking and eating by turns, a
fresh colour in his cheeks, a bright light
in his large eyes, could do otherwise than
admire, perhaps love him ; while to a thinking
mind would come perchance the reflection
that all that was most regrettable about
Matthew was scarcely his fault. He was
the victim of a desperate struggle, with
too malleable a nature not to be more
or less impressed by the opinions of each
faction.

So engrossed was Lord Beaurepaire by
the contemplation of this subject, that everyone
had left the dining-room, and he still
found himself walking up and down in deep
meditation over Matthew's affairs. Possibly
his lordship suspected the link that Cupid
was surreptitiously forging between Matthew
and Valentina, and in many ways it gave
him satisfaction, for he loved the boy and

respected his zeal, while he perhaps deplored
that it was always directed quite in
the same channel. Finding himself alone,
Lord Beaurepaire betook himself to his own
room, several subjects at this issue required
careful thought, added to which he was more
or less of a studious man. Instead of electing
to pass the morning in isolation from his
fellows, had he wandered about the grounds
and noted Matthew's movements, he might
perhaps have changed his opinions somewhat,
that is as regards Valentina.

No sooner had Matthew escaped from the
society of his mother and Valentina, and
considering that he had travelled by express
to the north on purpose to be with them, he
did so with much speed, than he went out on a
solitary ramble. Either by instinct or design
his footsteps led him to Swanover Cottage.
It looked deserted enough, with its closed
shutters and dreary stillness, yet Matthew
wandered round and round, as though expecting

at each instant that light, life, and
happiness would be awakened there. He himself
had been instrumental in their silence.
Why should he wish, even almost expect, that
they would come back for him as he longed ?
He sat down on a bench, where in the
last soft autumn-tide he had often sat
with Claire, and fell to thinking. He loved
Claire ; yes, of that there was little doubt,
her pure sweet spirit never seemed to leave
the atmosphere wherein he dwelt ; but was
not his love for her rather that of man for
angels. Was she not as a kind, gentle,
sympathising guardian spirit, who smiled
when he was seeking after righteousness,
sorrowed when the lower demons tempted
him to sin ; such love as this would never fill
the void in his life, whereas Valentina  ah !
what he felt for Valentina was an absorbing
passion ; while she, no, there was little of
the guardian angel about her. As a woman
she strengthened him in his weakness, helped

him in his difficulties, and loved him, because
love for the first time awakened in her heart,
she did not seek to silence its cry. She
loved him ! How did Matthew know that
Valentina loved him ? Simply by circumstantial
evidence, still this very evidence, at
times gave him more pain than pleasure;
for how could he lay his allegiance unswervingly
at Lady Valentina's feet, when honour
told him that he had already placed it at the
disposal of another ? Poor Matthew ! verily
his life of late had become an almost resolvable
problem. As he sat on the bench
among the leafless trees in the little wood
near Swanover Cottage, all the buoyancy his
features had displayed on his arrival from
London in the morning had quite departed.
He had been really glad to see Valentina
again, so glad that he had escaped from her
presence almost as soon as he had gained it,
in order to obtain an hour of self-communing
; all the while mentally censuring
vol. in. E

himself for his apparent neglect. Could she
have seen him, as he lounged among the
shades of the departed Claire, how many
hours would have elapsed before Lady Valentine's
trunks would have been packed, and
she herself on her way to Belgrave Square ?
Still she could scarcely be called injured in
Matthew's heart tussle. Poor Claire, living
on the expectation of a chance word from
or about him, was the real victim.

What should he do ? was the question
he asked himself repeatedly as he lay
there pondering. Notwithstanding his new
heirship, and all the responsibilities it involved,
should he take orders and foreswear
the sex ? Not according to IVJr Shipwright
but Lently  should he go to Lently ?

Then came the tremendous question,
was he prepared to abide by Mr
Lently's decision, whatever that decision
might be ?

He objects strongly to my marriage with

Claire, and, after all, that ought really to bethe
consummation. Poor little Claire, she
loves me very much ; but I doubt if she
thinks I am good enough for her. She
ought to marry a real saint. She would be
much more unhappy about my uncertain
faith than ever Valentina would be. Ah
me, I wish we had not met that day in the
thunder shower, then all this difficult questioning
would have been spared me. If I
referred the matter to my mother, I know
she would decide for Valentina ; but poor
little darling Claire, I would not make her
unhappy for the world ! She gave me up,
yes ; but I refused to accept the offer, and
I am as much pledged to Claire as though
we had been man and wife this twelvemonth.


1 There will be an immense amount of home
contradiction ; but that must be overcome.
If a man feels he is in the right, naturally
he can withstand a good deal. Perhaps it

would be as well to tell Lady Valentina at
once of my engagement to Claire, and so put
the matter, as far as she is concerned, beyond
any farther doubt.'

Thus, under the eaves of Swanover, all
the truth and chivalry in Matthew's nature
were aroused, and even at the sacrifice of his
own present inclinations he determined to
act loyally. Strange and wayward freak of
purpose that had made him decide for
Claire, two hours after travelling a long cold
journey in order to see and consult with
Valentina !

1 If a man only does what is right, he is
sure to be happy ! ' he murmured half aloud
as he at last got up and strolled off through
the wood, still farther from Vantage.

Strong determination seemed on a sudden
to have come to Matthew, inspired, may be,
by the silent shades of Claire forsaken
home, for he walked very decidedly through
the wood, across the road, and over the stile

6 9

to the field which led direct to Ravens-holme,
with the vicar of which village
he had had no communication since the day
they parted in anger on the subject of
his pending marriage.

BOUDOIR CONFESSION.

H ETHER really or fictitiously, the
duchess, on the morning following
her visit to Vantage, found herself
considerably indisposed. Indisposed, that is
to say, after the fashion of fine ladies who
lie artistically dressed in a peignoir of rich
silk trimmed with costly lace on a boudoir
sofa, and are only too pleased to receive
visits from their intimate friends, male or
female.

The Duchess of Monarchs did not as a
habit indulge in this luxury, still she was
sufficiently imbued with the spirit of the
times to permit herself the use of a now

prevailing custom, when the exigencies of her
imposed role demanded it.

It was such an easy way out of all the fuss
there would be about those flowers, for of
course the duke would brine Mr Shipwright
to discuss their state with her, since she had
made an effort to ask him to come and look
at them, and naturally he would soon leave
them for a chat. The duke was too busy a
man to waste much time in his wife's boudoir,
and then no occasion more fitting for the
premeditated tete-tete.

As the duchess had arranged in her mind,
so, with the active Violet's co-operation, it
befell ; she, meanwhile speeding off to pay
her promised visit to Ravensholme, so as to
be quite lost to view during the interview
between the duchess and Mr Shipwright,
from which she expected so much.

The Vicar of Fernwood was very human
and very keenly alive to the power of physical
beauty, it was surely therefore somewhat

of a trial to find himself alone with the fair
Julia in her snug boudoir, with its damask-covered
walls, its heavy scent-laden atmosphere,
and, above all, its beautiful mistress
looking more superbly lovely than usual in
her pink satin flowing robes. Perhaps Julia,
duchess, had calculated on this when she
planned the situation. The duchess were no-true
woman had she not been perfectly aware
that Mr Shipwright admired her, and to-day
at least she was determined to make the
fullest use of her knowledge.

The faded camellias had been discussed
before the duke. Perkins, that stupid Perkins
had not only let the fires go out, but had left a
bit of window open, he must have been drunk.
Mr Shipwright suggested various scientific
modes by which frost-touched plants might
be revived, while the duchess vainly sought to
appear interested about a subject which bored
her to extinction, till the duke left to give some
orders  then she turned to her clerical friend.

1 Pray let us talk of something else. I am
quite tired of valves and pipes and flues. It
is very tiresome no doubt, but the duke must
order some fresh camellia plants. It is no
use fussing.'

There was a querulousness in her tone,
which she evidently intended her pastor to
notice.

Your grace does not seem well this
morning. What is the matter, duchess ? '

Everything is the matter. I am worried
to death, and there is no one can help me
but you.'

1 I ? then you need no longer be worried 
spiritual matters eh ? Since that last trip to
Italy your scruples have grown. It is curious
what a power aesthetics have over women.
Lently was a wise man when he chose that
line. If it were not for the duke, it is* my
belief even you would follow him.'

aesthetic, Mr Shipwright, they have little
to do with the question. It is the consolation

of having something strong to lean on that
takes one into that branch of the church
which offers it. Every one is not strong
enough to bear their own burden.'

For a moment Mr Shipwright thought of
his conversation with Mrs Desborough after
George's death ; no doubt there was much
truth in the duchess's observations, and perhaps
he felt it was a mercy there was a
haven provided for the weak. He did not,
however, feel disposed to drive the duchess
into Mr Lently's arms, so he said very
courteously, 

1 Let me hold yours for a few min-uses and
see if I cannot reduce its weight.'

Mr Shipwright proposing himself as confessor
!

There was a topic for discussion among his
opponents, did they but know it. Strange
how in its details every prescribed faith,
though widely different in external appearance,
is akin.

1 Violet Remaineth

duchess uttered this name very softly,
and then she was silent. Mr Shipwright,
however, being no dullard, understood at once
the sort of annoyance from which she was
suffering. He pulled his chair a little nearer
to her grace's sofa, and said with much more
than his usual energy, 

1 Exactly, that is the very subject on which
I should like an exhaustive talk with you.
You know my opinion of Mrs Tremayne, we
need not discuss that again ; but tell me,
why is it necessary that she should be so
much at Monarchs ? '

The duchess smiled very faintly.

Perhaps she may not be so much here in
future if  '

1 If she marries Lord Beaurepaire, eh? My
dear duchess, surely you cannot believe such
a thing to be possible. She herself naturally
would fly at the highest game ; but you  you
cannot know much of Mrs Tremayne's previous

history if you think it will bear Beauregard
scrutiny.'

I know all about it ; alas, more  much
more than you do ; but I am bound to further
this marriage, and I look to you to help me.'

To me  God forbid ! I have ever regarded
class mixture as a gross and unpardonable
mistake.'

The duchess's white face grew even paler
than usual, though she said with a smile, 

Oh, Mr Shipwright, you are as exacting
as Lady Valentina. Do not be so severe
on those who are not happy enough to lay
claim to the pride of birth.'

She tried to be jocular, but it was evident
that the effort was almost too much for her.

Do you really mean, duchess, that you
do not perceive the evils that must arise
from a marriage where the contracting parties
are not of the same social status ? '

1 Perceive them ? Oh yes, I perceive them
all too well.'

And such a weary look came over her
grace's face as she spoke, that Mr Shipwright
paused in the diatribe he was about to commence
against breaking down caste barriers,
and suddenly changed his tone.

Tell me,' he said, ' what can I do for you
in the matter of Mrs Tremayne ? She is a
friend, I fear, who savours somewhat of a foe.'

1 If you cannot help to arrange this marriage
with Lord Beaurepaire,' answered the duchess,
you can, at least, promise to be neutral.'

1 Which means, if I am asked as to Mrs
Tremayne's antecedents, I need not know
that she was once Cheap Jack's little Pearl'

The duchess sprang up.

Oh, Mr Shipwright, is it possible that you
know so much and yet do not know all.
Why, I myself was not aware of this. I knew
of course the story of Pearl, but she never told
me that its hero had appeared on the scene.'

You see then, duchess, how very difficult is
the task you would impose on yourself and me.'

Difficult or easy, it must be accomplished
or'

I Or  what is the alternative ? '

I I must bear the brunt of failure.'

Supposing that Mrs Tremayne climbs to
the lofty position to which she aspires, how
do you propose to assure yourself the benefits
arising from success ? '

1 She has promised to return me a packet
of letters which  '

The duchess stopped and passed her handover
her face as though to shield it from the
scrutinising glances of her pastor.

1 Oh, I cannot tell you ; and yet, without
knowing the whole truth, how can I expect
you to help and guide me.'

Curiosity was perhaps the strongest feeling
that influenced Mr Shipwright at the
moment, though he replied with every appearance
of mere professional interest, 

My dear duchess, pray look on me asa
mere doctor of souls. Tell me your

troubles as you would tell your bodily ailments
to your physician.'

1 The one is much easier than the other,'
she answered, as she fell back among her
cushions, looking very ghastly.

My acquaintance with Violet Tremayne
is not a thing of yesterday. We have passed
through many an ordeal together  before
she married Mr Tremayne, before I ever
saw the duke.'

She spoke in such a low tone as to
necessitate Mr Shipwright's drawing his chair
yet nearer to her ; and even then he could
scarcely hear what she said. She stopped
for a second as though breath failed her,
and then she went on speaking very rapidly,
but still almost inaudibly, 

1 We were girls together, thrown much into
each other's society abroad, where my mother's
health obliged us to stay. Violet was always
what you see her now. A desperate throw to
her was a mere pastime, whether at the gaming

tables or at the game of life ; but to say that
Violet impelled me is no extenuation of my fault.

Again the duchess stopped ; this time Mr
Shipwright took her hand and pressed it
warmly. This speechless sympathy inspired
her with fresh courage, and she went on. 

An officer in the Sardinian army he 
well, he flirted with us both ; but Violet was
soon to marry Mr Tremayne. I was the victim,
that is, he wrote me letters, made assignations,
which  well  I kept them, and  '

Mr Shipwright still held the duchess's hand,
which she allowed to remain passively in his.
Perhaps the contact inspired her .with confidence.
He, however, had not derived
much information from her somewhat disjointed
account ; and feeling that she wanted
some encouragement, with another gentle
pressure he said softly, 

And this Sardinian it is who is your
bete noire. Surely, my dear duchess, it were
not difficult to remove the incubus ? '

1 He was married,' she went on, speaking
almost inarticulately ;  our meetings  our
correspondence  were at last known to his
wife; the scandal  my shame, shall I ever
forget them ? '

But it is long ago, and buried, let us
hope, as all unhappy memories should be, ina
silent past

1 A silent past  Mr Shipwright, if you have
found it possible to render the past silent,
help me now to silence Violet Tremayne,'
and the duchess, as she grew excited, raised
her voice to its natural tone, and released
her hand from the vicar's lingering touch.

She holds you in her power by  '

1 She has my letters, which she asked back
from him at my request, and then kept to
serve her own purposes.'

1 Could Mrs Tremayne be otherwise than
disloyal ? But, tell me, how can her retention
of the letters injure you now ? '

The duke, if he knew it would  oh,

VOL. III. f

Mr Shipwright, why will you make me
own all my sin ? He told me before our
marriage that he would never forgive any
frivolity of conduct in his wife either before
or after marriage. I told him I had nothing
with which to reproach myself ; and the lie
has never forgotten to haunt me since the
day it was uttered.'

Ah, duchess, falsehood is a viper that,
when warmed in a bosom, invariably stings
sooner or later

But, Mr Shipwright, now, surely now, I
have had enough of suffering. You will
help me to cure the pain now. Mrs Tree
must be removed. I cannot bear this
constant infliction any longer. Those letters,
I must have them returned. Oh, God ! if
you knew what I have suffered, surely 
surely I have expiated my fault ? Let her
marry Lord Beaurepaire, I implore, I entreat
 oh, if I could only get back my
letters and be free ! '

A flush had come over her face as she
talked, giving just the ray of warmth and
life in which it was normally wanting. Mr
Shipwright, who had on more than one
occasion acknowledged the power which the
duchess's personal attractions had over him,
was at this moment more thoroughly her
slave than he had ever been before. That
she should be cast from her high estate fora
fault of which it was evident she had
repented in sackcloth and ashes, he resolved
should not occur as long as he could stretch
forth his strong right hand to prevent it.
If electing himself the duchess's champion
had but entailed the crushing of Mrs Tree
he would have liked the office better ;
as it was, however, he must use the weapons
of diplomacy instead of those of warfare, and
always having a regard for his own dignity
and honesty, assure to the duchess, if possible,
the solidity of position she so craved.

However much carried away by admiration,

Mr Shipwright was by no means the
sort of man to forget even for a moment
the high standard of rectitude and honour
to which he deemed it imperative that every
man should attain who had any regard for
his own self-respect, or the consideration of
his fellows. Lying and deceit were in Mr
Shipwright's eyes the gravest sins. How
difficult then would it be for him to gain
the duchess's cause by acting in concert with
Violet Tremayne's views.

1 My dear duchess and once again Mr
Shipwright took her grace's hand and pressed
it this time between both his own, ' the
letters shall be returned to you. I promise
it, whether Mrs Tremayne does or does
not marry Lord Beaurepaire.'

But you will not oppose the marriage ? '
and the tone of the duchess's voice showed
how really afraid of Violet she was.

I will be silent,' he answered with some
dignity ; ' making or marring marriages is,

after all, scarcely in accordance with my
office ; but there is nothing derogatory in
the majesty of silence.'

This was all Violet asked ; thus far then
the duchess deemed her point was gained.
Mrs Tremayne must herself fabricate the
delicate webs by which Lord Beaurepaire
was to be surrounded.

You are kind, most kind she said.
1 Dear Mr Shipwright, to have you for anally
is indeed a comfort and support.'

You feel  you know you can trust me
utterly.'

So the bond of a compact was sealed
between them, and Mr Shipwright left
Monarchs Castle that day with a pleasant
smile wreathing about his lips. As the
sleek cob trotted along the road past
Ravensholme Church, its master was. muttering
softly to himself, 

1 Est et fidele tota silentio
Mercies.'

THE VICAR UNBENDS.

JRfjpO fight Mr Lently at every issue,
if he should say anything in
disparagement of Claire, . was
Matthew's determination, as he turned in at
the gate leading to Ravensholme Vicarage,
and sauntered up the path which divided it
from the house. The children had spied
him from an upper window, and swooping
down the stairs, received him at the door
with deafening acclaim. So uproarious was
their delight at seeing Matthew again, that
Mr Lently came out of the study to inquire
the cause of this more than usual outcry, and
even his ascetic features could not forego a

smile when he saw the heir of Vantage
being nearly overpowered by the tempestuous
welcomes of his offspring. At the
same moment two heads looked out from
the drawing-room, and Mrs Lently and Mrs
Tremayne, who for the last half-hour had
been closeted in gossiping conclave, now
appeared on the scene. The vicar's face
resumed its usual sternness when he saw
them, the presence of his wife generally
serving as an irritant, and her present
companionship with her visitor from monarchs
Castle being especially distasteful to
him. He shook hands very stiffly with
Violet Tremayne, desired his wife rather
sternly to send the children to the nursery,
and then withdrew into his study, accompanied
by Matthew.

For a second or two there was an awkward
pause. Both men remembered that their last
parting had been in anger, while the vicar
was keenly alive to the fact of the vast change

in Matthew's circumstances, a change which
the young man himself in no wise thought
of as he found himself once more with his
old director. He only recollected that he
had been obstinately determined, that he
had come now to discuss the subject once
again, and that he must be on his guard
not to let his own vacillation become
apparent to his priestly mentor.

1 So, Matthew, I scarcely expected to see
you in these parts just now. I heard you
were studying philosophy so energetically
that you could not be dissuaded from your
reading.'

Matthew coloured up at this attack, and
said very rapidly, 

No, no, it is not true. I don't think I
shall go back to Mr Wharton any more.'

To discuss the merits and demerits of
philosophy with Mr Lently was, he felt,
utterly impossible.

1 I presume that now you consider the

study of polemics unnecessary ? ' said Mr
Lently with some emphasis on the now.  It
is a merciful interposition of Providence on
your behalf, Matthew, if your theological
training were to be placed in Wharton's
hands

1 I shall not take orders said Matthew
very shortly.

Of course not  of course not. Unless
the Church is required to provide a living it
is seldom appealed to

That is a hard verdict, Mr Lently. It
would be scarcely possible to combine the
duties of priest and squire ; and some day
I shall be called .to fulfil those of the latter.
I have no choice left me. I doubt too if I
should have taken orders, even had my poor
brother lived.'

'Indeed! and what changed the views of
the young and ardent disciple, from whom
our party hoped so much ? '

You yourself,' said Matthew, talking very

hurriedly ; ' ever since our last conversation
I have been fighting against an ever-increasing
conviction that I was unfit for the priestly
office. I could not forego the pleasures of a
domestic life. I could not live as  as Mr
Shipwright does, for example.'

Mr Shipwright ! ' and there was a sneer
in Mr Lently's voice as he pronounced his
reverend brothers name, into which he did
not frequently allow himself to be trapped.

He saw some surprise expressed on Matthew's
face, and he instantly changed his tone.

Of course  of course you will marry, it is
now only right that you should do so.
Claire, out of place in the priest's celibate,
retreat, will prove a charming Lady Bountiful
at Vantage Park.'

1 Claire ! ' and Matthew stopped. Naturally
Mr Lently spoke of Claire. How could
he know aught of that other love that had
been disputing with her the possession of
his heart of late. Should he tell him all his

troubles, make a full confession, as he had
been wont to do, before a feeling of coldness
had sprung up between them ? Nay, it was
impossible. How could Lently know aught
of the various gradations in passion which
different women were capable of inspiring ?
Claire's name, falling so readily from his
lips, had somewhat startled Matthew, who,
although he had come to Ravensholme prepared
to defend his position as regarded her,
did not exactly expect to find that position at
once taken for granted as an established fact.
l-J Whom, if not Claire, do you intend to be
your wife?' asked Mr Lently. 'It is true
I have heard reports of your devotion to
another lady ; but I, who have known you
from boyhood, have not done you the injustice
to believe them.'

Matthew winced, and heartily wished himself
out of the vicar's presence. The view
Mr Lently evidently took of the exigencies
of his life differed essentially from what he

had expected. To argue a point from all
its bearings was an amusement in which
Matthew especially delighted; but if he looked
for a passage at arms he was doomed to disappointment
on this occasion. Mr Lently
had expressed himself so strongly against his
marriage with Claire during their last interview,
that Matthew quite expected him to
take up the cudgels for Valentina now, since
every one in a worldly sense must readily
have admitted that she would be the preferable
mistress of Vantage ; he had not reckoned
for Lently not being a man of the world.

'I know what you mean,' he. answered,
speaking very rapidly. ' Yes, Lady Valentina
is a great friend of mine, has been
very good to me ; but there has been as yet
no word of marriage between us

As yet, Matthew  surely as long as
Claire lives such a thing can never be in
contemplation. Honour and justice alike
forbid it.'

1 1 thought you wished it to be broken off
I mean my engagement to Claire,' said
Matthew a little nervously.

'No promise to any woman should be
binding when a man is called to the priesthood,'
was the stern answer ; 'as a layman
you are bound to Claire ; surely it cannot be
possible that you are halting between two
opinions.'

No,' answered Matthew, perhaps not
quite truthfully. 4 I intend to marry Claire,
but I fancy my mother wishes me to propose
to Lady Valentina. I shall be harassed
by much opposition at home.'

1 You must pray for strength to withstand
it. Look upon this Lady Valentina as a
temptress, a beautiful temptress, and cast her
allurements from you.'

Matthew could not forego a smile as. he
watched the vicar's enthusiastic ardour, and
thought of Valentina, the cold, proud Valentina,
her anger and her dismay, had she

heard herself thus alluded to. It was only
meet that he should defend her, he thought,
as he said promptly, 

There is no danger from her  she is
more likely to refuse than to accept me.
But Claire, Mr Lently, has she, do you
think, been quite kind in going away so
silently, but seldom even writing a line tome
in all my troubles and difficulties ? '

Is it so ?' asked Lently; 'then I honour
the child for her delicacy of character and
regard for holy things.'

I do not understand.'

She had, I hope, been taught .her duty
under my poor ministry, and she would not
stand between you and yours.'

1 Duty ! ' exclaimed Matthew impetuously ;
there can be no true love in a woman who
takes " duty only " for her motto.'

1 Matthew, is this the result of all my
patient teaching ? Have I spent hours in
prayer for you ; offered up even sacrifices

in your behalf, to hear such sentiments from
your lips ? Oh, my poor young brother,
I fear me you have fallen into evil ways.
Pray God it may be granted to a pure,
loving spirit like Claire's to regain you from
the dreary waste.'

Matthew got up a little irritated by what
he deemed Mr Lently's impertinent and
undue interference in his love affairs.  He
would marry whom he chose  by Jove he
would,' he muttered sotto voce. It was the
nearest approach to an oath that had ever
passed Matthew's lips in his life, and fortunately
his director did not hear it, though he
saw the angry frown on his brow and the
flash in his large bright eyes. He shook his
head sadly, to Mr Lently it was as if a
lamb had been lost from the fold he loved
so well. He held out his hand however with
a kindly gesture, and said soothingly, 

Do not let us part in anger this time
also, my dear Matthew. If I have said anything

to vex you, remember it is the deep
interest I take in your welfare which makes
me truthful. It is for you to decide on the
arrangements of your future life ; but let me
implore you to be true to yourself and to
your faith ; believe, my son, that my prayers
will ever follow you in the future as they
have done in the past

It was seldom that Mr Lently spoke so
temperately. When under the influence of a
strong excitement, as he was at this moment,
he usually allowed himself to be carried away
by his emotions, and thus frequently injured
the cause he had so much at heart, preventing
many who might otherwise have
believed in him, from perceiving the real
good there was in the man concealed beneath
an outward coating of what was apt
to sound like cant. Matthew, knowing full
well the avalanche of anathemas he was
accustomed to hurl on those who differed
from him in opinion or doctrine, appreciated

to the fullest his present mild rebuke ; and,
seizing his proffered hand, he shook it warmly.

I will be true he said with much suppressed
feeling, ' true to myself and  Claire.'

So the voice that had been whispering to
Matthew from under the eaves of Swanover,
spoke yet more loudly at Ravenshoime.

He left Mr Lently's study by the door leading
out of the house ; nor sought any farther
communication that day with Mrs Lently
and her children, much to the disappointment
of the latter, who were all waiting impatiently
till the private interview with their
father should have ended ; but Matthew felt
that he must be alone for a time. He must
let the various conflicting emotions which
were raging in his mind have their full sway,
and perhaps when they had partially spent
themselves, he would be able to guide 'his
feelings into a definite channel with some
capability of determining whether inclination
and honour had any chance of walking side

VOL. III. G

by side. He strayed into a little copse lying
on the outskirts of the Vantage property
which on previous occasions had not unfrequently
been chosen as a spot where he could
ruminate without observation or interruption.
It was strange that impetuosity and vacillation
should both hold a prominent place in
Matthew's nature. The first ever made him
act on the spur of the moment ; the second
made him reflect and wonder whether, in so
doing, he had acted wisely. The reflective
spirit held the chief sway over him at this
present time, and it pronounced for Claire.
Still he could not bring himself to give up all
thoughts of Valentina without a struggle, and
after all there was no occasion to do anything
rashly.

Surely it were well to be just a little
guided by circumstances,' he muttered to
himself, as he at last rose from the recumbent
position under a large tree into which
he had thrown himself the better to think out

his subject ; ' for, after all, Claire has not
treated me well,' and he began to saunter
slowly towards the house, where Valentina
had been long wondering over his absence,
though she was far too proud to appear otherwise
than perfectly composed and indifferent.
She was standing at the window though, ashe
came leisurely across the lawn.

He did not see her, but she noted full well
the jaded careworn look about his expressive
face which, to her watchful mind, told at
once of fierce mental tribulation and inward
strife.

What could she do to help him ? ' washer
first thought. Strange that if the
troubled state of his feelings had brought
him home, he should have avoided rather
than sought advice and consolation from her.
But the luncheon bell had rung some minutes.
Valentina could not, without a breach of good
manners, do otherwise than bring her conjectures
and hesitations to a speedy conclusion,

and go down into the dining-room, where
she had no doubt of meeting Matthew. In
this, however, she was doomed to disappointment.
Matthew had gone straight to his
room on entering the house, leaving word
that, as he had breakfasted so late, he wanted
no luncheon ; and Lady Valentina was condemned
to dawdle through what seemed to
her a very tedious repast, enlivened by
long prosaic statements from Mrs Des-borough
anent a morning's work to which
she had been devoting herself in the parish 
for the two ladies were en tete-tete, Lord
Beaurepaire had gone for a falkland the
squire never appeared at luncheon. Then
followed the usual afternoon drive, taking
Valentina still farther away from all chance
of meeting Matthew ; and never before had
it occurred to her to think Mrs Desborough's
conversation so heavy as she did that day.
Back at last, however, at Vantage, Matthew
was standing on the door-step to receive

them, looking so beaming and full of smiles
as to bewilder Valentina and make her heart
beat when she saw him. Could it be that
Matthew had really made up his mind as to
a definite course of action during the last few
hours. Time alone would prove.

A SNOWDROP,

SfRS DESBOROUGH said it was

cold and disagreeable, the early
spring day with its English accompaniment
of east wind did not suit her,
and she passed on quickly into the house. It
was not quite certain whether the drive in the
fresh air had produced a shivering sensation,
or whether she deemed it expedient to leave
Matthew and Valentina together for a brief
space, for most assuredly Mrs Desborough
was as anxious to promote this marriage as
she had been desirous to break off the engagement
with Claire Bailey. The carriage
drove slowly round to the stables, the footman

disappeared through an inner door with the
wraps, but the two young people still stood
on the door-step, contemplating the sunset
behind the high trees in the park. Those
succulent masses of cloud, as they stretched,
tinted with ruby and amber, across the
horizon, had many a time before in one or
another of their varied forms suggested a
topic when conversation halted ; and their
beauty was as good as any other subject now
to loosen the tongues of this couple, who for
some reason had, from being fast friends with
endless objects of mutual interest to discuss,
become on a sudden silent and shy.

If we go through the wood up the little
hill yonder, we shall be able to look down on
the sun. Will you come, or are you afraid
of the damp ? ' Matthew said, after they
had contemplated for a few minutes the
roseate clouds receding from the tree tops.

Oh no, I am not delicate, and I should
like a walk very much.'

So they started together, Mrs Desborough,
who saw them from the library window, smiling
complacently to herself as they passed
out of sight. They walked rapidly away to
the top of the hill to which Matthew had
alluded, and no word of individual interest
had been spoken. For aught their conversation
conveyed, they might have been the
merest chance acquaintances, and yet both
their hearts were full of thought for each
other. Valentina was the first to break the
spell which seemed to be hanging over them.

It has been a sad coming home for you,
I fear, Mr Desborough ? I did not know
it would have affected you so much, or I
should not have written to induce it  forgive
me,' she said, when the sun having almost
disappeared, she became emboldened in the
deepening shadows.

1 Sad, yes, it has been sad  worse perhaps
than sad ; but how do you know ? '

How do I know ? Have I seen so

much of you of late, and not learned to
read your mental barometer.'

1 Yet I am not easy to understand or
read ; at least so my friends tell me.'

1 The motives which occasion rapid fluctuations
are, I agree at times, quite resolvable
; but still I always know when storms
are about, and am very pleased when I
can note that your glass stands at set
fair.'

1 Is it at set fair now ? '

'No, Mr Desborough, it is not. Changeable,
I should think, would be the correct
definition of your present phase.'

He looked at her with some curiosity, but
he did not speak for a few seconds, then he
said abruptly, 

1 I went to see Lently this morning.'

1 Indeed ! Did anything take place during
the interview to annoy or excite you ? '

1 He urges me to marry  says that now
I am an eldest son I ought to take a responsibility

with which as a priest I had no
right to encumber myself.'

The hot blood rushed into Lady Valentina's
face ; it was her turn to be silent. Once
having made up his mind to broach this
subject with Lady Valentina, it was so like
Matthew to rush into it headlong. Having
done so, he stopped short, waiting perhaps
for her to help him ; but, if so, he waited
in vain, and was obliged to ask pointedly, 

Have you no opinion to offer ? '

I should not dream of giving one on such
a matter,' she said decidedly.

And why not ? I thought you had
undertaken the care of me in all things

1 Marriage is a serious affair ; it is one
with which other people should not meddle.
I have no right  no wish

Lady Valentina spoke hurriedly  a little
incoherently.

Serious, yes, but not more serious than
religion, and you have often given me

your views about that,' and there was justa
twinkle of amusement in Matthew's large
eyes as he looked at her.

She detected it at once, and drew herself
up with a degree of stiffness that would
have chilled the most ardent swain.

Let us talk of something else. Excuse
my indifference ; but I never can interest
myself in a marriage.'

How odd ! I thought all women did ; but
then you are not like other women, Lady
Valentina. I own I always place you on
a pinnacle far, far above them.'

She gave an almost inarticulate, 'Ah!'
Down at its base, lying among the dust,
were. a more enviable position than to be
placed on a height and worshipped, not
loved. Matthew, however, formed no guess
as to what was passing in her mind. He
merely conjectured that she accepted the
compliment somewhat coldly ; that she was,
in fact, of a frigid unimpressionable nature.

How often in life is pride mistaken for
coldness ?

As far as Lady Valentina was concerned,
there was no harm done, he concluded ; in
fact had he asked her to marry him, he
would probably have met with a flat refusal,
and Matthew felt not a little piqued at the
surmise. Did she deem him insignificant
and incapable of inspiring love, he wondered,
or was it that she was indifferent to all
masculine homage ?

And then the thought came into his mind
that to win Lady Valentina's affections would
indeed be a triumph ; but the idea passed
almost as soon as it came, for to win them
only to cast them away lightly, were an
ignoble act ; and had he not made up his
mind that his honour was pledged to Claire
Bailey  and yet ?

I am disappointed  very much disappointed
 that you will not interest yourself
in my future,' he said a little pointedly.

1 I don't know what you mean. Have
I not always done so ? Tell me, what are
your views about pursuing your studies at
Mr Wharton's ? '

I have left there  for good.'

1 Indeed ! You are most startling in your
assertions to-day, Mr Desborough. One
would think  '

1 That I had never been vacillating and
undecided, that is just it. I have turned
over a new leaf. In future I intend to
make up my mind at once.'

And abide by it ? ' she asked, with just
the very least inclination to a smile.

1 And abide by it. You shall not say my
barometer is set at " Changeable " any more
in fact, Lady Valentina, you will not know
me.'

1 No, I shall not know you, so it seems
she echoed dreamily.

He looked at her in surprise, it was not
usual .for her to be so absent and indifferent.

but he could assign no reason for it, and
coming to the conclusion that the conversation
flagged rather unpleasantly, he suggested
that as it was growing dusk they
had perhaps better begin to wend their
steps homewards ; so they turned towards
the house, and she rushed into another topic
with an irrelevancy which had hitherto been
Matthew's especial province, and asked, 

Have you ever given your attention to
any particular school in painting ? Are you
inclined to admire the arrangements, symphonies,
and harmonies in colour, about
which one hears so much ? '

What a sudden digression,' Matthew said,
by way of answer.

Yes. I daresay it seems so. I forgot
we had not spoken of it before. It
is a bad habit of mine to allude to what
is in my thoughts, and I have been thinking
a good deal about art since I had a
discussion about it with Mr Shipwright.'

Oh ! Shipwright. He knows everything.'


Yes, he seems to be very well read
and scholarly. He is a great favourite at
Vantage. Do you like him, Mr Des-borough
? '

1 Yes  and no. I think he is a scrupulously
conscientious man ; but I object to
the tenets he holds. And you ? '

Oh ! I am rather perplexed. I never
heard religion so much discussed in my life
as I have done during the last few weeks.
So many new views have been thrown on
it, which never occurred to me, pursuing as
I did the " even tenor of my ways."

1 I hope the opening of a new vista has
served to increase your faith,' said Matthew
zealously. ' Faith  faith  belief is all we
need.'

Or truth,' suggested Lady Valentina.
'It is useless to take a thing on faith,
unless you believe it to be the truth.'

You have indeed been having some
conversations with Shipwright lately,' said
Matthew with a sigh.

1 It wanted no Mr Shipwright to tell me
that I must find out for myself before I can
agree to believe.'

Have you forgotten St Thomas ? Beware,
lest the lesson bestowed on your
doubting heart be a far more severe one
than his was.'

I did not say my heart doubted,' she
almost cried, for she felt anguish-torn, notwithstanding
her coldness of manner and
regality of mien. ' But when one is beset
on every side by conflicting opinions ; when
those you esteem the most do not retain
the same views for two consecutive days,
what is there to believe in ? Certainly
neither man's faith nor human honour.'

Never during their entire acquaintance had
Matthew seen Lady Valentina thus excited,
and he was thoroughly startled and astonished

1 1 do not understand,' he said. ' What
has happened since you have been at Vantage
to try you thus ? '

But Lady Valentina's ebullition of feeling
had been but momentary ; before he had
finished speaking she had already recovered,
and was again her usually placid self.

1 Oh, it is nothing,' she said, ' only I am
rather tired of polemical discussions, and
not feeling very well to-day, the mention
of them makes me irritable.'

1 Not well ! Oh, I am so sorry, and I
have dragged you out to walk with me in
the damp ! How selfish I am ! Tell me
what I can do ? '

1 Nothing  it is merely the east wind.
I am always strong,' and there was an
amount of self-reliance in the latter part
of her sentence which had the effect of
chilling Matthew, as perhaps she had intended
that it should do, not being particularly
pleased with his conduct since his

VOL. III. II

arrival at home. He walked beside her
in silence for a few minutes. What was it
that had set up a barrier between him and
Lady Valentina ? he wondered. At any cost
it must be broken down, and he was just
about to ask her if he individually had done
anything to annoy or vex her, when the
third person, who so unfailingly appears at
the most inconvenient moments of real life,
stepped in, in the person of Mrs Tremayne,
and changed the whole current of their
talk. Matthew felt a little provoked at
meeting her, but his annoyance was as
nothing to that which Violet experienced
when she almost stumbled against them
in the semi-darkness. She never missed
her point, however, whatever the emergency.


1 Oh, I am late,' she said ; ' is it not horrible
to be out alone at this hour ? But I did not
expect to meet you two.'

Lady Valentina coloured up with anger.

The term  you two ' jarred ; she regarded
it as an impertinence.

1 1 presume you have been detained ? ' she
said very stiffly.

And it is three miles to Monarchs,' put
in Matthew.

1 Don't remind me of it, Mr Desborough,
please, I am such a silly thing ; I can never
think of time when I am amused, and Mrs
Giles is so very amusing

Mrs Giles ! '

Yes, would you believe it ? I have been
all day at Ravensholme ; ever since I met
you this morning, part of the time at the
vicarage, the rest with Mrs Giles.'

But this is not the way from Ravensholme
to Monarchs!'

Is it not ? Well, no, not the straight way
exactly ; but the sunset was so lovely I
made a little detour, and then the darkness
came on so fast. Oh dear ! '

If Matthew and Lady Valentina had inspected

the adjoining copse with observant
eyes, they would have noted that Violet
was not so utterly alone as she would have
them believe. Cheap Jack was tracking
her steps like a shadow, and did not intend
to lose sight of her till she was safe inside
the gate leading into the stable-yard at
Monarchs.

1 You had better come back with us to
the house ; my mother will I am sure be
delighted to see you, and I can drive you
home later in the pony carriage.'

Lady Valentina looked dignified, and
preserved a rigid silence ; but then of
course it was not her place to invite.
There was a crackling as of sticks in the
wood, which made them all look round ;
but no one was visible, only Violet said
hurriedly, 

1 Oh, no thank you. I would not for
worlds. The duchess would think I was
lost, and what would the duke say ? In

some houses it is imperative that one shall
appear prettily dressed for dinner.'

Mrs Tremayne invariably held up the
duke as the Cerberus who mounted guard
over her actions ; the truth being that he
troubled himself very little about her, providing
she kept her erratic goings and comings
within a certain boundary of decorum ;
but then it looked so well to have a ducal
guardian.

1 Pray do not let us keep you,' said Lady
Valentina, holding out her hand, and by the
frigidity of her manner, at once showing that
she at all events had no desire for Violet's
company at Vantage. In fact so marked
was it, that Violet, who loved contradiction,
was instantly seized with a desire to accept
Matthew's invitation, only at that moment the
crackling once more made itself heard in the
bushes ; so, with a short ' Good-bye ' she sped
swiftly on, as though she had but one object
in life  to reach Monarchs before the last

faint glimmer of light should have left the
sky.

Jolly little woman. I often wish I had
her spirits and her independence,' observed
Matthew as soon as she was gone.

1 You admire her ? You are cosmopolitan
in your tastes, Mr Desborough.'

1 Yes, I suppose I do admire her in a way.
There is no objection, is there ? One does
not want all the flowers in one's garden to
be of the same hue.'

4 Of course not ; but I did not know till
now that you had a garden,' and the fashionable
sunflower drew herself up as though
she scouted the impertinent weariness of the
unblushing peony.

5 Has not every man a garden ? ' asked
Matthew with a laugh ; ' some large, some
small. You did not imagine that a snowdrop
was the only flower on which I had
ever gazed or ever had an affection for,
prize its merits though I may.'

1 A snowdrop ; what could Matthew mean
by a snowdrop ? ' asked Lady Valentina off
herself. The appellation was scarcely one
he would bestow on her. But she did not
ask him, only said as lightly as she could, 

Oh, all you men are alike, I am afraid,
and equally severe on us poor women if
we venture to admire half-a-dozen different
flowers.'

They were close to the house by this
time, and there was no time for farther
conversation.

On reaching it Lady Valentina went straight
up to her room. She murmured ' A snowdrop
' more than once as she smoothed her
hair, and made ready to join Mrs Desborough
in the library, but each time that the pure
white flower seemed to lift its head from its
modest hiding-place, she felt more and more
dissatisfied with her afternoon's walk and
Matthew's coming home.

If Lady Valentina's mind in her solitary

moments was filled with conflicting emotions,
Lord Beaurepaire, smoking an ante-prandial
cigar in the shrubbery near the house, was
not less the victim of many misgivings. Returning
from the long walk on which he had
started in the earlier part of the day, he
too had seen Violet Tremayne, himself unseen,
and the sight had scarcely been as
pleasing as it usually was.

She was sitting on the top of a high gate,
her feet on the second bar, her elbows on
her knees, her face resting on her hands,
looking very fixedly at a man in a striped
blouse, with whom she was talking earnestly.
As the last rays of the setting sun fell on
the scene, it was a pretty one, at least so
an indifferent person would have thought.
Violet, with her red skirt, velvet jacket, and
black wide-awake pushed back off her forehead,
looked decidedly picturesque ; while
Jack Varley, with his striped blouse and
green velvet cap, seemed a fitting mat

But Lord Beaurepaire shuddered ; he failed
to note artistic effects, at all events in this
instance. All the sensitiveness and refinement,
all the ideas of decorum that there
were in this thorough gentleman of the old
school, recoiled before the sight of Mrs
Tremayne, whom he had condescended to
admire, talking to a low vagabond, whose
business it was to travel about the country
with a pedlars cart.

An ocular demonstration accomplished at
a glance what volumes of disparaging words
from Lady Valentina's lips would have failed
to effect.

HONOUR OR DISHONOUR.

R Shipwright, on reaching
Fernwood Vicarage after his interview
with the duchess, gave his
cob over to the youth who filled the situation
of factotum, and then with his hat well-set
on his brows, his hands crossed behind
his back, he went for a saunter across the
glebe into the little wood beyond. For the
first time in his life the Rev. Lawrence
had been asked to take a part in a real
living intrigue, and he scarcely accepted the
invitation con amove. To stand at a little
distance and watch a play fed his cynical
tastes, and amused him vastly ; but active

co-operation was rather to be dreaded, unless
he felt certain he could enact his role with
dignity and success. Nothing Mr Sive-wright
feared so much in social affairs as
failure. More than once he repeated the
old Horatian line, telling of the reward of
faithful silence ; but faithful silence would
scarcely bring the duchess back her letters,
and had he not promised on his honour that
she should have them ? Let Mrs Tremayne
marry Lord Beaurepaire ! What was it to
him ? But even then he must beard the
lioness in her den ; id est, the widow in her
boudoir, and demand the letters. Let Mrs
Tremayne marry Lord Beaurepaire !  a frown
contracted the vicar's brow. Perhaps he
suddenly thought of Valentina ; but he did
not encourage her presence in his mind.

They, Lady Valentina and her father,
would doubtless return to London very soon,
and, after all, why shouldn't Mrs Tremayne
marry the old lord ? ' he asked again of

himself rather tartly. At all events he
elected not to interfere, but to wait and
watch till the moment came when the
duchess's letters must be demanded.

1 Tout vient a celui qui salt attended he
muttered as, having made the circuit of the
wood, he strolled back to the vicarage to
see what Mrs Green would give him for
luncheon. Here he found a note from
Vantage. Matthew had returned home that
very morning, and Mrs Desborough said
would he come to dinner and meet him.
So here was a fresh entanglement, and
the vicar's frown came back as he considered
it.

1 Left Wharton's and returned so suddenly.
Wherefore ? ' and he twisted Mrs Des-borough's
note round and round ; but she,
generally so diffuse in her statements, gave
no reason for this unexpected arrival. He
must wait till the evening to learn reasons ;
and  somewhat unusual phase in his character

the vicar felt irritably impatient at the delay.
It was scarcely becoming a true philosopher
to give way to peevishness and annoyance
over so small a cause, he, however, decided,
with a smile at his own want of
temper ; so he made a careful luncheon,
with a due regard to the dinner at Vantage
that was to follow, and then, having smoked
a fragrant Havana, he betook himself to his
books, and in their charmed society was
soon lost to all consideration of how the
machinery of human life which was working
at full steam all around him, did or did
not affect him individually. At last the
waning daylight reminded him that it was
time to dress and start, if he meant to reach
Vantage by dinner time ; and thus about an
hour after Matthew and Lady Valentina had
parted on the threshold of the great hall
door, Mr Shipwright came round the base
of the little hill, through the copse, past the
very spot where they had met Violet Tree

As he emerged from it, and stood
on the edge of the large field which lay
between him and the house, the moon suddenly
appeared from behind a cloud, and in
its light the vicar saw distinctly the shadow
of a man leaning against a tree at some
little distance. Mr Shipwright was no coward,
and was, moreover, too accustomed to walk
about at night to be prone to imagination
on the subject of ghosts or robbers ; yet he
started when his eye fell on this moon-illumined
figure.

1 Robin or Job, which of you is it there ?'
he called in his most authoritative voice,
supposing it might be one of the stable
helpers at Vantage.

'Neither, your reverence,' and the figure
moved towards the vicar.

Cheap Jack ! Why, what on earth are
you doing prowling about the squire's fields
after dark ? Do you know you might be
had up for trespass ? '

1 Trespass, your reverence. I ain't trespassing
no more than you. '

And there was a sullenness about Varley's
answer which rather surprised Mr Sive-wright,
to whom the man had always been
most deferential, and made him wonder if
Varley had been drinking.

 Come, come, Varley, don't talk like that, *
it is unbecoming.'

Oh ! I'm sick of manners and swells and
humbug,' he said doggedly. ' 'Ain't no
mortal use to pretend to be what you
ain't, that's my opinion.'

Just so, Varley, quite right. Sailing,
under false colours is most reprehensible.
But to whom are you alluding ; not to
yourself, I hope ? '

1 Me  no, I'm straightforward enough. It
is her that I am speaking of.'

'Her?' and there was a decidedly astonished
inflexion in Mr Shipwright's
voice.

1 Yes, she ain't true to no one, least of all
to herself.'

'But I do not know who you mean by
her!

Why, Pearl. Mrs Tremayne that is ? '

Oh, then you acknowledge the identity ;
and I suppose you cannot get the lady to
agree to it ? '

1 'Ain't that, your reverence, she knows
she's Pearl, and she's owned it ; but she
won't tackle to, and be " hail fellow well
met," with her old pal. She is all for lords
and ladies, and folks that wasn't a bit in
her world when she was a child.'

My good friend, Varley, if you were
standing on the top rung of a ladder, do
you think you would be fool enough to
throw yourself off at the risk of breaking
your neck ? '

Yes, if I thought I could save a fellow-being
from pain, who was standing gasping
at the bottom.'

1 Then you are one in a thousand, and I
give you honour ; but you must not expect
to find sentiments like these in every breast.'

Perhaps not, leastwise, they are not in her's.'

The stable clock at Vantage struck half-past
seven.

I shall be late for dinner. I must go.
I am sorry, as I should like to have a talk
with you. Come to the vicarage tomorrow
early, about nine o'clock, and let us discuss
the subject freely.'

Varley agreed, and the vicar passed on.

Here was another troublesome and ill-fitting
link to be added to the chain of
circumstances which was encircling the little
intimate society in which he daily dwelt,
thought the Rev. Lawrence, as he rapidly
crossed the park and rang the door bell.
He had not shaken hands warmly with the
lady of the house, somewhat frigidly with
Lady Valentina, said a few kindly words to
the squire, and patted Matthew familiarly

VOL. III. 1

on the shoulder, before he became aware
that in this household, as at Monarchs, the
component parts did not fit. He had known
Matthew intimately since his babyhood, it
were strange if he had not detected in him
symptoms of restlessness, which were only
too apparent. The fact was that though he
had thoroughly made up his mind in the
earlier part of the day that no one should
separate him from Claire, yet the walk with
Valentina had served once more to unsettle
Matthew's feelings ; her coolness and her
dignity in fact serving to render him more desperately
in love with her for the time, than he
had ever previously imagined himself to be.
When dishonour talks very big about
honour, and urges the latter, not only as
its justification, but as its compelling agent,
we are perhaps in more danger than at any
other time of forming unto ourselves a false
conscience. If ever open confession be good
for the soul, it is assuredly at such a juncture.

i/U

Matthew was quite man enough to see his
peril. He had gone to Lently, but whatever
liorht his interview with that zealous

o

divine had cast upon his soul had become
blurred and insufficient, now that his feelings
were intensified a hundredfold by his
peripatetic conference with Valentina. It is
doubtful whether any possible turn of events
could have formed his passion for her to
so white a heat as had that quiet afternoon
ramble, during which apparently little
or nothing had happened. Yet of such
stuff are we. Sensational occurrences, perils
braved together, furious jealousy, all these,
while they serve to intensify love, not unfrequently
bring with them an amount of
excitement which helps us to bear whatever
they inflict. Had his idol responded differently
to his innuendoes  to his probings and
soundings, shall we say ? Had she, as was
most improbable certainly, overcome by her
disappointment at finding herself so far from

the goal she fondly hoped she had all
but reached, as well as by her real love
for this man, the first she had ever cared
about at all  had she broken through her
native pride, and, only half-invited, confessed
her passion and her unhappiness, she must
infallibly have lost ground with Matthew,
however sweet and welcome to his ears
such an avowal might have been at the
moment. He would have caught her to
his heart of course, and in the first rush
of his boisterous feelings he would have
doubtless told her she was the breath of
his life, the one earthly hope of his soul,
and much more in like strain ; but a moment
later all the dreary falseness of his position
would have reared up like an avenging
demon against him. * Now that this woman
was in his arms, what was he to do with
her ? ' would have been the inevitable question.
In the first place, in the abstract, a
woman in such a position is almost invariably

as depreciated, ipso facto, as the trout
that is landed, or the fox after a kill,
suspense ever giving a keener relish than
success to the true sportsman.

Most unreasonably Matthew jumped to the
conclusion that the simple self-respect, the
ordinary dignity which Valentina had shown
during their colloquy were proof that she
either regarded him with indifference, or that
he had at least greatly overrated whatever
little feeling she might entertain in his favour
very few minutes, even the time while he
dressed for dinner, sufficed to bring the two
leading heads of his cogitations into definite
shape. First, he told himself that he worshipped
Valentina as woman had never been
worshipped before. Next, in order to be
quite unshackled, he would put himself at
once in his friend Shipwright's hands as
to honour and duty, with regard to his
right to marry her. This, as appeared to
him now, was a minor point, and as such

though why we hardly know, sure to be
triumphantly decided in his favour.

In this frame of mind he joined the circle
assembled for dinner, of whom Mr Sive-wright
was one, and as any definite plan of
action is a relief after perplexity, Matthew
got through the first part of the evening
comfortably and creditably enough, nor do
the sayings and doings of the party call for
any special notice or record. At eleven
o'clock the Vicar of Fernwood took his
courteous leave, and Matthew of course
volunteered to walk home with him. Mr
Shipwright had not proceeded a hundred
yards before he perceived that his young
friend took in none of the sense, if he heard
the words of his remarks, and as it was
not a case of any ceremony between them,
he said cheerily, 

Come, Matthew, you have something to
say to me, out with it, and lose no time
to the form.'

1 You are quite right, I have something
very particular to say, but I am not sure
you are right as to the unimportance of the
form. A thing depends so much upon the
way you put it.'

It may do so to a crowd, or still more to
a jury, but so long as you state the whole
case  I flatter myself  I shall come to much
the same conclusion, which ever end of the
story you begin at.'

1 Well, here goes then, but I tell you that
the issue is life or death to me, and that, be
your dictum what it may, I shall abide by it.'

Perhaps Matthew took this very decided
tone from an unacknowledged feeling that it
was enough for Mr Lently to have come
to one conclusion for a man so exactly the
contrary of him, as was his present padre, to
arrive at an opposite one. He went on, 

The case is simply this. If a man finds
himself in love with one woman, and has an
old, but a still nominally binding engagement

to another, ought he to  which is the more
manly and honourable  in short  but why
should I deal in abstract statements, the case,
as you have already guessed, is mine, my
very own.'

1 Naturally,' said the vicar very quietly.

Well, you know what a mere boy I was
in feeling and experience, when I engaged
myself to Claire Bailey. Not but what I
think the world of her now as a sister, love
her dearly as a sister, that is all. How was
I to know,' he went on impetuously, ' the
vast, the unspeakable difference between the
mild interest, the tranquil affection with which
my untried heart regarded her, and the soul-absorbing,
the raging love of which I only
now discover that I am capable ? '

There, as ever, it will be noted that candour
was Matthew's strong point. He seemed
made for the confessional. As much cannot
be said for his hearer. Truly a father confessor
should be not only unmarried but

unmanageable  dead to the things of this
world. The willing penitent, in this instance,
little suspected into how unwilling an ear he
was pouring forth his tale. Yet it was not
in Shipwright to flinch. He felt sorely vexed
at this fresh weight in the scale against his
chance of winning the fair lady of Beauregard
; but he had too well founded a reliance
upon his honesty to feel any embarrassment
on the score of his own interest swaying in
either direction the advice he should deem it
his duty to give. We say in either direction,
because instances are not rare among the
devout, and our friend Lently was probably
one of these, who would be violently prejudiced
in favour of any decision which,
humanly speaking, was very distasteful to
them. Not so with Mr Shipwright. There
is such a thing as arriving at a fairly correct
idea of one's own strong and weak points,
spite of all that may be urged on the score
of self-deception, and the Vicar of Fernwood

was perfectly aware that he was incorruptible
honest, whatever weaknesses, and they were
not few or slight, he might dally with in other
directions. But to return.

After taking a few moments to digest the
young man's ardent speech, he said, 

Am I to understand that you deem i L
your duty, subject to my opinion, to write to
Miss Bailey, and say that since you proposed
to, and were accepted by her, you have met
another woman who has inspired you with a
far stronger feeling, and that therefore Miss
Bailey must consider the engagement at an
end.'

That is not the way in which  '

1 Never mind the manner, that is mere
detail. That is in substance the matter of
what you would say. After all, the important
point for your first love,' here Matthew
winced, ' is whether you love and mean to
marry her, or whether you do not. I can quite
understand that the way you put it appears

to you of great consequence, but it is a
supremely small matter to her.'

There is nothing so repulsive to one about
to commit an act of cruelty, as to have the
masquerading fleece of the lamb in which he
has mentally enveloped his wolf to his own
conscience, unceremoniously torn aside. It
was with growing - irritation of tone that
Matthew replied, 

Tell me, is not this irrefutable logic ?
The question is one of injury to Claire
Of two evils, I am bound to choose the
lesser. Shall I go to her, acting a part I no
longer feel ? Lie to her, by saying my
affection is unchanged, and perjure myself
at the altar of God by swearing I love
her, while another woman fills all my heart ?
Doom her, in short, to a life of misery ? For
what man, not naturally a hypocrite, could
make a wife happy for long in such a fools
paradise ? Or shall I not rather say honestly
and like a man, if it were necessary for

your happiness to lay my head on the block,
I give you my honour I would do so without
hesitation ; but as to our engagement, I
cannot honourably fulfil it. When I asked
you to be mine I was a mere boy, knowing
nothing of life or of my own heart. I have
awakened as from a pleasant trance. As
much for your sake as for mine, I tell you
my affection for you  which nothing shall
ever diminish  has changed its nature. I
love you as a brother, but that is all ! Which
of these courses, my dear friend, is most in
accordance with an enlightened rectitude,
with manliness, honour, and common sense?'

The vicar took his arm ere he replied,
and pressed it affectionately.

I give you my word that I believe you
speak in all sincerity  that you have yourself
no serious doubt on the matter. I wish,
with all my heart, that I or any competent
judge could agree with you.'

And you do not ? '

1 Alas ! it is not a matter of opinion ; but
one of those patent cases in which all experienced
men of honour must agree. All
that you have just called logic, is nothing
but specious, clever, plausible sophistry,
believe me. Oh, you may rely that did
I see but a loophole for doubt, I would
advise a consultation, like a good physician
in a case of any uncertainty.'

Matthew was about to let his temper
burst forth, but cui bono came timely to
his aid ; and, with an effort, he said very
calmly, 

1 Explain.'

Nothing easier. It is an immutable law
that no outward rule of honour can be broken
on the plea of inward motives. To infringe
this would be to subvert all honour. Once
allow you to act as you propose, and there
is an end to all truth and faith in the most
solemn engagement.'

The evident truth of this remark chilled

poor overheated Matthew to the bones.
His friend went on, 

Every contemptible male jilt, every trifler
with the fresh and sacred affections of the
purest girl, might take shelter under your
pleas and go unscathed.'

I  I  own that had not struck me,'
groaned the young man.

You talk of hypocrisy ; but have you
never heard that there are cases where it
is not merely allowable, but where we have
no choice ; cases where, if we are not hypocrites,
we are heartless villains ? '

You mean ? '

Take a parent who has an overweening
partiality for one child, almost an antipathy
for the other ; is he not bound nobly to
play the hypocrite. A month, a year after
marriage, one of a late happy pair, knowing
not why or wherefore, is seized by an unreasonable
but very real loathing for the
other. Oh, we meet such instances oftener

than you dream of. Would a candid sincerity
be a very noble quality under such
conditions as these ? Take again the frequent
cases where we must act a part in
order to keep a secret we are pledged not
to betray. No, the one, the only possible
guide, must be to take somewhat the same
view of a betrothal as of marriage itself,
both are too often entered upon without due
deliberation ; but as that is no excuse for
divorce, after the ceremony of marriage, so
neither does it offer a valid plea for escape
before.'

1 Do you mean to tell me that there is
no exception ? '

1 None, none to an engagement honourably
formed. None where, as I said before,
inward causes can alone be urged in favour
of escape. If some mature man-hunter,
widow or spinster, a garrison hack, say, as
they are called, were to take advantage of
being cooped up in a country house with

some splendid boy-match, and entrap him
into an engagement, who could blame the,
friends of the poor youth for advising him
to plead their authority to free himself from
her meshes ? '

Yes, as you say, that is not an exception,
because not really a case in point. I
will tell Claire Bailey all, and throw myself
upon her mercy.'

A pause  a long pause.

Well, Shipwright, why don't you speak ? '

I have knocked down so much, that I
detest to go on. It ought to be needless
too. I was waiting for you to perform the
rest of the operation of unbending.'

Oh, a truce to imagery ; why can I not
give Claire her choice ? Old proverbs are
safe things violent non fit injuria'

i Because, my friend, it is no choice at all.
Must I point out to you that if it is unwarrantable
to break off the marriage, any
step, no matter what, that must inevitably

have the same result, must be equally unworthy.'


But surely she might  '

1 No, she might not. What girl with one
spark of pride, of dignity, could hesitate
an instant ? Then how far less poor Claire
Bailey, who is the soul of delicacy and
honour ? ' and the vicar's voice changed in
the darkness which concealed the tears that
rushed to his eyes.

1 Matthew, Matthew,' he went on, ' it is
always doubtful how a man will act under
his first great temptation. He is as the
soldier for the first time under fire. Do
not interrupt me  the most that can be
said in any of our favours is that we have
hitherto been worthy men. I hope for the
best; but hear me. Know, at least, what
you are about to do, if you trample conscience
under the feet of passion. If you
insult your betrothed bride by a mock option,
there is in my mind no shade of uncertainty

VOL. III. k

as to the result. I would to God there were.
Know, that as sure as you show her your
heart as it now is, from that hour she will
droop and die, and you will be her murderer.'

Matthew's face worked as that of one ina
fit, and he tried in vain to speak.

If I said one word short of that, I should
be a mock counsellor and a mock friend.
Good-night.'

And Matthew was alone.

The vicar had that rare but terrible
quality, it was impossible not to be impressed
by what he said.

A BREAKFAST TALK.

Breakfast at Fernwood Vicarage
was a meal that was thoroughly
understood. There was no such
thing as dishes getting cold while the tea
or coffee brewed. Mr Shipwright's establishment
was a small one, it is true ; but
partly perhaps for that very reason he was
better waited on than he would have been
had* it been mounted on a grander scale.
All his little dishes came up in single file
hot and savoury, not even a muffin was
allowed to stand a moment on the table
to get leathery. Perfection in everything
was the high standard to which the vicar

aspired, and he believed it to be as essential
in cookery as in code.

The morning following his long talk with
Matthew he came downstairs about nine, and
found according, to orders, places laid for two ;
but the expected guest had not yet arrived.
The vicar rubbed his hands, stirred up the
fire, looked round the room pleasantly ; it
was evident he bore pleasurably in mind
the conversation which had been held with
Matthew on the previous evening, and
which sleep, as far as the vicar was concerned,
had not rendered less seemingly
satisfactory. That Matthew would not
marry Lady Valentina he believed ; but
that she would bestow her smiles and her
queenly person on himself, he was by no
means so certain ; however, sufficient had
happened since yesterday to render it quite
antagonistic to his views that an alliance
should take place between Lord Beauregard
and Mrs Tremayne. To have Violet

for a step-mamma-in-law was a ridiculous
anomaly, at which the Rev. Lawrence could
not even smile ; and yet he had pledged
his word to preserve the duchess's name
from being uttered by the tongue of scandal,
and to get her letters returned to her.
Truly Mr Shipwright, as he stands at the
window, thinking while he is waiting, is
becoming as ingenious a plotter as the
pretty Violet herself. The click of the
gate latch as it falls back into its place
makes him look up. Mr John Varley, in
the same Sunday suit he had worn when
he first went to see Mrs Tremayne in
London, is coming up the gravel walk. The
vicar signs to him to open the door for
himself, and to come straight in ; then he
rings for breakfast. Well is it he does
not hear Mrs Green's remarks in the
kitchen about the kind of loose folk the
master has taken up with, and how she
never knew before that ' breakfasting with

vagrants and ne'er-do-weels was any guarantee
as they'd get into heaven.' She did
not lessen her culinary efforts, however, inconsequence,
and for her garrulity Mr Sive-wright
did not care one jot.

1 How are you, Varley ? It is better talking
here than under the trees in the moonlight.
Green will give us some breakfast
directly,' and the Rev. Lawrence shook his
humble friend very warmly by the hand,
and pushed a chair towards him.

1 Thank your reverence ; you are very
kind,' and Varley looked so bashful and
unlike what he had been on the previous
evening that Mr Shipwright felt more convinced
than ever that he must then have
been drinking ; even he failed to ascribe
any eccentricities there were about this
man to the power of the passion that was
working within him.

Yes, Varley was viewing life from a
different point this morning. He had got

up cheerier ; the vicar was inclined to
prove his friend, he thought, and Varley
was the sort of man who appreciated friendship,
especially when bestowed by one so
incomparably his superior ; besides, the
genial aspect of the room influenced him.
When does not geniality of surroundings
and manner produce a salutary effect ?
They fell to with their knives and forks,
chatting of mere desultory subjects the
while ; it was Mr Shipwright's object to
put Cheap Jack quite at his ease.

1 Is this the way swells breakfast everyday
? ' asked the latter, when fish and broil
having been despatched, a steaming savoury
omelette made its appearance. ' 'Cause if
it is, I ain't astonished as she wishes to
bide where she is.'

The vicar smiled ; he was aware, that
Violet frequently developed strong gipsy
tendencies. As yet he could not quite
picture her sitting complacently under a

hedge eating bread and bacon with a clasp-knife,
which he made no doubt was Jack
Varley's usual prandial habit. He did not
wish, however, to irritate by any seeming
amusement, so he said very gravely, 

Have you asked Mrs Tremayne to leave
her sphere of life and join you in yours ? '

Her sphere of life ! that's it, your
reverence. What's her sphere of life ?
How is she a bit better than me ? She's
out of her sphere now, she is, and. how
she has ever got hoisted I can't think.'

1 I always thought that her father was a
gentleman. I even think that you yourself
told me so.'

I never knew what he was then  I do
now. He was a black leg sharper ! '

Exactly. I do not dispute his want of
principle. But what was his birth ? '

Well, it's queer, your reverence, ain't
it ; but since I last talked to you I've
fallen in with my old master in the travelling

menagerie, and he's told me a power
of things. It seems that he and Pearls
father was pals once.'

Indeed.'

1 Ay. Simmons was his name.'

1 Simmons,' repeated Mr Shipwright, condescending
to something very like a sneer.

That's it, sir. He was apprenticed when
he was a boy to a clock-maker, and, from
what I hear, was a skilled workman ; could
make all the bits of machinery as is used
for winding up musical toys ; but he wasn't
steady, couldn't bear confinement to hours,
so as soon as he was out of his apprenticeship
he was off, to live by his wits one day,
his hands another, and how he could a third.'

1 Dear me, dear me, I had no idea said
the vicar, but he was delighted nevertheless.

It is true, sir, every word of it, and, as
the old master was saying, it's odd, ain't it,
how a man like that manages to shove along
.and elevate himself, where a steady-going respectable

mechanic would be looked down
on ? '

Don't believe it, Varley  don't believe it ;
a man like the one you describe, gets no
respect, he even drags his family into the
mud with which he has surrounded himself.'

But Varley shook his head.

It's mud that don't stick to look dirty
then,' he answered ; ' why, Pearl is as puffed
up like as any lady in the land.'

1 Hers is a very doubtful position very
doubtful, I should say,' said the vicar meaningly.


'What, with that swell duchess for a
friend ? ' asked Jack, ' though that's a rummy
story too, that is.'

Mr Shipwright pulled his chair a little nearer
the table, and felt thankful that he had had
the wisdom to ask Jack Varley to breakfast.

You know who the duchess was, of
course ; you know her father was cotton,
and had had a sight of money ? '

1 Yes, yes, yes,' repeated the vicar, to
whom the allusion was just a little distasteful.

1 Well, it's my experience of life, your
reverence  you'll excuse me for saying so,
that if a man means to grow blooming rich, he
mustn't mind an occasional hands-turn with
the dirt. Old Benson was of this opinion,
and Mr Simmons, that is Pearl's father, was
one of his agents, employed by him to keep
his weather eye open, and do any stroke of
business for which Benson was too much of
a gentleman. Under these circumstances
the two girls naturally were " pals," and
I must say it speaks well for the duchess
her being civil to Pearl, now that she is
such a big grand lady

The Duchess of Monarchs is goodness
and kindness itself,' said Mr Shipwright
rather pompously.

He felt truly relieved that Mr Varley,
who seemed to have been collecting information
lately, knew nothing of that other

story which formed so important a link
between the two women.

Then there is that lord as is always after
Pearl. I don't like him one bit, blessed if
I do.'

How do you mean you do not like him ? '
and Mr Shipwright became much more
stiff and upright than he usually was with
inferiors. If Varley had any disagreeable
revelations to make about the Beaurepaires,
he was prepared to resent them to the
fullest ; but Varley had no such intention,
he only asked very simply, 

1 Is he going to marry Pearl, your reverence
? '

1 No, no, certainly not ; such a thing were
quite impossible.'

Then it is a pity he philanders about with
her as he does,' he said sternly, veering
round at once, and taking up the cudgels
for Violet Tremayne, as soon as he was
informed that his lordship had no intentions ;

in his heart, however, only too thankful
for the knowledge.

'It is, I imagine, her own affair if she
chooses to encourage a little flirtation,' said
the vicar, still on the defensive.

1 For years I thought as I wasn't sent
into the world for any other purpose but to
look after that girl.'

Still she seems thoroughly capable of
taking care of herself.'

John Varley groaned  did he not know
it full well.

Mr Shipwright pushed a silver stand
containing ajar of honey towards Jack, and
throwing himself back in his chair, crossed
his legs with an air of physical and mental
repletion which was quite cheering to
behold.

Varley's next question, however, after
having for a minute been so engrossed in
thought as to ignore the offer of the honey,
made the vicar rouse himself.

1 What would you advise me to do, your
reverence ? '

1 How so  what do you mean ? In what
way, what should you do ? '

Well, I can't bear it much longer. She
don't treat me even with the same respect
as she would a dog. She ups with me today,
and downs with me tomorrow, till I'm
a-nigh off my head through her perversity;
so I thought I'd just make so bold as to ask
your reverence what you would do if you
were in my place ? '

I should go away if it were not pleasant
to remain,' said the vicar drily.

4 That's common sense advice with a
vengeance,' cried Jack ; ' but what if you
had not the courage ?'

'My good friend, such a word as "coward "
should be expunged from every Englishman's
vocabulary.'

But what good will going away do ? '
pleaded Jack. ' I shan't be any better off as

I see. It is my belief she'll marry that lord
she means to, whatever you say to the
contrary  and I shall be left out in the cold,
whether I go or stay.'

'I would almost pledge my word that
Mrs Tremayne will not marry Lord Beauregard
 it is a most improbable thing. Look
here, Varley, you take my advice, start on
one of your tours for  say a fortnight ; at the
end of that time come and breakfast with
me again. I think you will find that during
that period a good many things have
happened, and that you yourself will be
in a fitter frame of mind for overcoming
the difficulties of life. Do you agree ? '

'Well, your reverence, I came here fully
prepared to ask your advice, and to abide by
it whatever it was, and so, though it is a bit
disagreeable like to go away, still, if you
think it's the best thing, well I'll do it,
and leave my interests in your reverence's
keeping.'

1 Spoken like a man, Varley. Rest assured
I'll watch over them scrupulously.'

The vicar's interests and Mr Varley's, in
this instance, were identical ; but even had
they not been so, Mr Shipwright was far
too conscientious to break faith with his
humble companion, having promised to
serve him. It was agreed that on that day
week Varley should be at a certain town,
about fifty miles from Fernwood, in order
that the vicar might address a letter there
if needful.

It was the vicar's intention during the next
few days to strike a blow  enact a coup d'etat
on his own responsibility, in fact and he
scarcely knew as yet whether the presence
or absence of Varley would be the most conducive
to success. He had learnt a good
deal about Violet and her affairs through
this conversation ; but Mr Shipwright was
not the sort of man who would condescend
to use a spy ; hence he did not care to have

Mr Varley prowling about on the detective ;
added to which, he bond fide believed that
it was better for the man himself that he
should go away for a time.

Thus, after a little more talk, they parted.
Cheap Jack took the road to Hurton, walking
very slowly, however, and with his
head hanging down, his eyes reading the
ground, looking very much like a naughty
boy sent unwillingly to school.

Mr Shipwright, meantime, walked up and
down his study, to which he had betaken
himself on Varley's departure, and smiled
with a certain amount of complacent satisfaction.
The game was in his own hand,
if he only managed to play the cards aright.
A stormy interview with Violet was imperative
 of that he felt certain, and perhaps he
looked forward to it with some degree of
satisfaction, though it was scarcely the* coup
de main on which he relied. So during the
few hours which had elapsed since his con-vol.

III. l

sensation with Matthew, the Rev. Lawrence
had determined to offer himself, his fortune,
and his well-appointed vicarage to the Lady
Valentina. The thought of what the duchess
and Mrs Desborough would say when they
knew it amused him not a little, for Mr
Shipwright, notwithstanding his erudition and
his dignity, was quite vain enough to feel
a pleasure in rousing the jealousy of women.
Only suppose that Lady Valentina should
refuse him ? But then, how would they
know aught of what had passed ; for surely
so high-born a dame would scarcely condescend
to the vulgar vice of tattling ? He
would not broach the subject too hurriedly ;
however, it were as well perhaps to reconnoitre
the ground a little more carefully
before committing himself.

So the morning being fine, he thought he
would take a stroll through the Vantage
grounds in the hope of meeting some of the
home party. A few dexterously put leading

questions would, he imagined, give him an
idea if there had been any change in the
respective positions of Valentina or Violet
since yesterday. He felt inclined for a walk ;
perhaps by a circuitous route he might at
last find himself at Monarchs about luncheon
time. Drinking in the sunshine, and dreaming
pleasantly as he drank, he wandered
through the little village, now acknowledging
the children's curtsies by a friendly nod ;
now saying a few kindly words to different
parishioners as he passed them. To each
and all the passing thought came, that the
vicar was looking cheery and content this
morning.

An hour later, when he returned that way,
he walked hurriedly on, without bestowing
one token of recognition ; the smiles on his
face had turned to frowns, the happy dreamy
look to one of dark moody preoccupation.

FROM GLOOM TO LIGHT.

UT little sleep visited Matthew's
pillow after his conversation with.
Mr Shipwright. In a moment of
impetuosity he had decided to make as it
were one last appeal against Fate, by placing
the direction of his affairs in the Rev. Lawrence's
hands ; the vicar, however, had decided
with Matthew's own conscience, and 
for Claire ; and Matthew was resolved to
abide by that decision. He knew full well
that the weak point of his character was
vacillation, and he had frequently prayed 
oh, so strenuously  against it; but prayers
without a determined assistance of works
he knew were of little avail. This was

Matthew's first great temptation, as Mr
Shipwright had said ; ' it should be overcomes
he resolved, ' he would conquer and
be strong. Peace surely would come at last
as a sweet reward.'

So all night he wrestled with the
demons who were struggling for ascendancy,
but from among whom Claire's pure
face seemed to be ever looking plaintively
and upbraidingly forth as Mr Shipwright's
parting words, ' she will droop and die, and
you will be her murderer rang perpetually
in his ears. He had been much inclined
of late to accuse her of coldness and indifference,
but the vicar's words had roused
him into some consideration for her feelings
; from consideration there was but one
step in Matthew's excitable temperament to
frenzy, and by the time the grey morning
light crept into his room, he had decided
that Mr Shipwright had received some private
information of Claire's state, and that

he knew she was in extremis on his account.
Verily, it was a desperately real picture the
vicar had been unwittingly drawing ; for he
had not heard aught either directly or indirectly
of the Baileys since they had left
England.

About seven o'clock exhausted nature
refused to endure a greater amount of
mental pressure, and Matthew fell asleep ;
nor did he wake till late in the day, thus
avoiding all necessity for making an appearance
at the family breakfast-table ; a fact
which called forth no especial comment, as
owing partly to his spasmodic habits, partly
to feebleness of physical power, he not unfrequently
indulged in sleep after the rest
of the world was wakeful and busy. As
still half dozing he stretched himself back
into a state of consciousness, he felt like a
man who had been ill for weeks, and who
is gradually passing into convalescence.
The great rush of passion which, during

some hours, had borne down on him as
though it would carry him away in its
torrent, had passed. Mr Shipwright had
opened the sluices and ably directed its
course. The first object Matthew's eye
fell on was Claire's photograph, which had
hung over his mantel-piece for many months,
having been given to him in the days of
their boy and girl friendship, long before
any engagement had existed between them.

1 My sweet little Claire, and to think how
nearly I was untrue to you,' he murmured ;
this very morning I will write you a long
letter, plead my suit urgently, and place
temptation beyond my reach.'

Matthew was arranging for the future,
without calculating on the ordeals through
which he had yet to pass. Naturally, a
meeting with Lady Valentina was what he
dreaded above all things, though he was
fully aware that, living as they were doing
under the same roof, it could not in the

ordinary course of events be long delayed ;
and therefore he wisely argued that he
would not attempt to avoid it, but would
let matters take their course.

After a hasty breakfast, eaten more from
duty than because he really wanted it,
Matthew was proceeding to the library,
which at this hour was usually untenanted,
with the intention of writing his letter,
when his mother, opening the door of her
boudoir, called to him to come in. Escape
was impossible, and Matthew, much against
his will, found himself in the midst of a
little circle of morning visitors, to whom
Mrs Desborough took a sort of dismal
pleasure in presenting him as ' My only
son.' He looked round the room hastily.
Lady Valentina was not there, that at
least was a mercy ; ' so he set himself to
talk energetic platitudes, with a courage
which showed plainly how thoroughly in
earnest he was in his endeavour to be

honest and true. The party consisted of
a mother and two daughters, rather pretty
girls, but lately emancipated from the schoolroom.
Matthew had never seen them before,
nor from his mother's introduction did
he make out their name. He imagined
them to be new arrivals in the neighbourhood,
which indeed they were ; and Mrs
Desborough, from her exceeding civility,
evidently intended to foster them. They
were in fact the last pets, and although
quite new acquaintances, the only people
except her old friends that she had seen
since poor George's death.

Matthew set himself to talk to the eldest
girl, who, although she was barely eighteen,
was not in the least shy, but carried on the
conversation so very glibly, that he soon
felt he had nothing to do but appear to
listen, putting in an occasional yes or no,
not, however, quite in the right places,
since his thoughts were wandering far away

from the mere county gossip and pretty-nothings
with which this young lady was
striving to amuse him ; at last she said, 

You must know the Baileys, do you
not, Mr Desborough ? My cousin Frank
Leverton writes that he has met them
abroad. They are at Mentone, I believe.'

I think  I believe so  yes and Matthew
became suddenly interested.

1 He gives a terrible account of Miss
Bailey ; says he never saw any one looking
so changed and ill in all his life. He went
to Mentone to  '

Good God ! ' The startling exclamation
and the blanched appearance, the sort of
horror depicted on Matthew's face, arrested
the young lady in the middle of her sentence,
and she murmured in a frightened voice, 

What have I said ? Oh, I am so
sorry  '

Her words recalled Matthew somewhat
to his senses.

1 Claire Bailey and I were brought up
together as children,' he explained, speaking
very fast. ' I had no idea she was ill. Tell
me quickly what you know about her

There was a sort of authority mixed
up with the rapidity with which Matthew
delivered this sentence, which, as it were,
commanded obedience.

The girl answered, although in a very
frightened voice, as though she feared another
outbreak on the part of this somewhat
eccentric Mr Desborough.

1 Frank only says that she looks very
ill, and has quite lost all her bright gay
manner ; that Lady Laura is very anxious
about her, and that  '

But Matthew did not stop for any more.
A sort of attempt at ' Thank you ' fell from
his white lips, and he was gone. He felt he
could not have endured to stay in that room
for another moment, whatever remarks his
sudden flight might occasion ; so, setting

courtesy and conventionality on one side,
he dashed out into the open air, where his
over-wrought feelings could at least have
scope to rage at will.

She will droop and die, and you will be
her murderer,'  he repeated the words over
and over, as he sped across the park without
either knowing or caring whither he went.

Could he ever forgive himself ; should
he ever dare to lift up his head again if
anything happened to Claire ? Sweet, darling
little Claire, who had loved him with all his
many faults so truly and so constantly ? '

Ay, Mr Shipwright's words had taken
root ; for had they never been spoken, it in
all probability would not have occurred to
Matthew to imagine that his faithlessness
had aught to do with Claire's illness.

Now this news coming after his conversation
with the vicar, and after the night
of feverish agitation he had passed, worked
him to such a pitch of frenzy, that any one

who had seen him tearing through the
Vantage grounds would have imagined he
was an escaped maniac. The violent exercise,
however, helped to work off some of
the excitement, and he had become to some
slight degree more like a reasonable being by
the time  having taken at least a five miles'
walk  that he found himself in the little wood
near the house. Lady Valentina was sitting
under a tree reading. She looked up when
she saw Matthew, and an exclamation of, 

 Good gracious, Mr Desborough, how ill
you look ! What has happened ? ' fell from
her lips.

1 I have had very bad news he answered,
more quietly than might have been
expected. ' I am going to start for Mentone
to-nights

Matthew had fully made up his mind now
how he meant to act. It was, therefore;
useless to falsify his position with Lady
Valentina any farther.

Going to start for Mentone ? Who is
at Mentone ? '

Claire, my darling little Claire, whose
murderer I shall be if I dally here any
longer.'

Lady Valentina turned white, and a sharp
low cry as if of pain escaped her involuntarily
; but he looked at her very fixedly,
almost brutally. In his extravagant remorse
he could not help associating her as a
partner in the great wrong that had been
inflicted on Claire. He quite forgot that his
behaviour to Valentina herself merited some
reprobation ; he quite forgot that but yesterday
he had professed to love her. The only
idea in his mind was that since murder must
be perpetrated to effect their union, any
communication he might hold with Valentine
was a deadly sin, and thus it was almost
with a feeling of loathing that he stood
looking at her, with a haggard white face
and wide open staring eyes.

1 My God ! Matthew, are you  ' and the
calm, proud woman gave utterance to an
unusual mode of speech in her excitement.

But he did not let her finish her sentence.

I I am in my senses, Lady Valentina,
fully in my senses, and very resolute. I
have bowed to your sovereignty quite long
enough, and neglected my duty. This very
night I start to fulfil it. Do not speak tome
or attempt to hinder me, for it is useless.'


I I don't know what you mean by hindering
you, Mr Desborough. I think I have
always urged a strict regard for duty,' and
she looked as coldly regal as if she were
incapable of passion. Matthew's words had
roused her pride, and it stood her in good
stead now.

1 Perhaps you have forgotten,' she added,
that I hear of this duty to which you allude
for the first time to-day.'

'And whose fault was that ? What but

the witching power of your beauty, the charm
of your conversation, the fascination of  '

1 Mr Desborough!'

And Lady Valentina turned from him,
and proceeded to walk slowly towards the
house. He stopped her, however, and seizing
her by the hand with a force she could
not withstand, he began to cover it with
kisses.

Do not part from me in anger. I have
been very, very miserable ; but what can I
do ? To act otherwise would be murder.
My honour demands it  Claire must be
saved.'

She wrenched her hand from him with
some difficulty, and said coldly, 

Enough, Mr Desborough. No explanation
is necessary ; be brave and true.'

1 And you will still be my friend ? ' he
pleaded.

There was a moment of silence, and then
she said very firmly, 

Yes. Why not ? '

Once more he caught her hand and raised
it, this time almost deferentially, to his lips 
another second and Lady Valentina had left
him, and he did not again attempt to stop her.

1 Then the story of his engagement to
Claire Bailey was true. I wonder why everyone
combined to deceive me ? ' she murmured
softly to herself, too dazed as yet to comprehend
it fully.

She did not see Matthew again before he
started for Mentone.

Skirting the little wood on his return to
the vicarage, Mr Shipwright had witnessed a
portion of this scene, although he was too far
off to hear a single word. Matthew, as it appeared
to him, pleaded ardent love, to which
the lady did not seem to have been wholly
cold ; hence the cloud which had descended
on his brow during his walk  his aspect
having been so very serene when he left the
house.

VOL. III. M

1 If Lady Valentina can care for an unreflecting
irresolute boy like that, her affection
and high esteem are not worth the winning
was his verdict, as, seating himself in his
arm-chair, he conned over the events of the
last twenty-four hours. And even with
Mr Shipwright, philosopher though he was,
human weakness showed itself for a time, and
he was dissatisfied and out of temper with
the rest of mankind. Even his books did
not prove companionable that afternoon. As
the sun's rays  for it was a bright, glad day-danced
aslant his window, they irritated him.

It was too fine a day to be spent in
reading,' he said ; he wanted a companion,
solitude palled.

The groom from Vantage rode up to the
gate with a note. ' Dine there again tonight
! '  no that he would not, the vicar
determined before he had even stretched
out his hand for the missive. Not Mrs
Desborough's writing, but Matthew's.

Dear Friend,  I am off tonight for Mentone.
Claire, I hear, is ill. I trust to you to
remove all obstacles with my mother. There
is no farther impediment, since only Claire
really loves me.  Yours sincerely, M. D.'

1 No answer,' said the vicar to the waiting
servant as he glanced over these lines, and at
once the sunshine became delightful, life a
boon, the earth a paradise, and he stretched
himself with a sense of utter satisfaction.

1 Wilful, impetuous youth,' he thought
smiling. ' So he actually proposed to Lady
Valentina after all ; and it is only after being
absolutely refused that he is going to Mentone
to join the Baileys. All things considered,
Lady Valentina was scarcely likely
to marry Matthew Desborough.'

And laying this flattering unction to his
soul, the vicar began to plan out in his mind
how he should deliberately and effectually lay
siege to Valentina on his own behalf. A

coadjutor he must have, he decided, and that
coadjutor could scarcely be Mrs Desborough
he further affirmed, with rather a conceited
smile. Perhaps the duchess would do, she
was a younger and less exacting woman ; she
might be more inclined to help. But first he
must get that business of the letters into
working order. Truly, Mr Shipwright was
oppressed by the weight of many small intrigues
at this juncture.

WHAT IS THE PRICE f

Lord Beaurepaire only had
some of the impetuosity with
which George Desborough was
so largely endowed, he would be perfect ! '
Violet mutters to herself.

She is a little cured of her infatuation for
the grand old lord, that is, of her predilection
for himself, apart from his title and
position, by the hot and cold process he had
brought to bear on her, never allowing a
gush of warm feeling to be otherwise than
succeeded by a douche of frigidity.

The Duke and Duchess of Monarchs had
gone to Paris  it was a sudden whim of the

duke's, for which no one could exactly account
perhaps he saw signs of coming disturbances
in the social atmosphere, and did not wish his
wife to be in any way connected with them.
It was always difficult to arrive at the duke's
motives, or even to be certain that he had
any ; but, though reserved in speech, he was
decided and peremptory in action, and the
duchess found herself compelled to accompany
him to Paris, perhaps not quite unwillingly.

As for Violet Tremayne, she was not
invited to accompany the ducal party ; so
she found herself once more in the ' toy
house' in London. It, however, scarcely presented
its usual luxuriously finished aspect,
Violet only having been in town two days,
during which time she had not felt in the
mood for making her Lares and Penates
become the envy of her neighbours. The
Beaurepaires had left Vantage Park, but
had not returned to Belgrave Square, having
accepted an invitation to stay for a few

days at another house in the north, with the
sister of the late Countess of Beaurepaire,
1 who of course, will back up Lady Valentina
in her objection to her father's second marriage,'
declared Violet, speaking half aloud to
herself, as she kicked a footstool with a
wasted amount of energy across the room.
It is hateful, positively hateful, there is no
getting what one wants in this world ; but
some one shall pay if I am disappointed. I
should not wonder if I were to bleed Julia.
She might have clinched this business if she
had liked ; but she is far too selfish. She
has got into a good position herself, and she
does not care for any one else. I'll make
her feel her want of interest in me, that I
will.' And Violet gave such an irritable
thrust at a little bookshelf, on which she was
arranging some books, while she soliloquised
over her affairs, that she knocked .it out
of its proper balance, and down came all
the books clattering with noisy discord, a

volume of Consult striking Cheap Jack's
glass balloon as it fell, and breaking the airy
plaything into a thousand atoms. Violet
stood for a moment as though stunned ; then
a naughty word, a French one, fell from her
lips. The crackling as of some broken glass
made her look round.

Mr Shipwright had been announced at the
very moment of the clamour, but she had
heard nothing except the descent of books
till he accidentally trod on a fragment of
the little balloon.

1 Good gracious ! ' and Violet coloured upas
she noted the amused smile on his face,
and felt that the situation, as far as she was
concerned, was truly ridiculous.

1 Did he hear that naughty word ? ' she
wondered. She would have repeated it for
his especial benefit if she dared. Having
recovered herself with an effort, she burst
out laughing a little spitefully.

1 Those are all French novels,' she said,

pushing one or two of the books aside with
her foot. ' I suppose they knew there was
a strait-laced parson in the house, so they
tumbled at his feet out of respect

1 I am afraid my visit is inopportune ! '
answered Mr Shipwright politely. ' I am
sorry.'

'Oh, I don't mind if you don't. It is a
nuisance the books tumbling about ; but it
would be quite as bad if you were not here.
You may pick them up if you like.'

This was scarcely an occupation which
befitted the dignified Shipwright, who had
intended to be more than usually imposing
on this occasion ; but it was his turn to make
himself ridiculous. He placed two of the
books on a table close by, and then suggested
that it was rather dangerous stooping
among the broken glass.

Oh, there is a little broom somewhere ; but
I forgot you cannot sweep it up. " Rien n'est
beau comme inutile," ' and she rang the bell.

Arrange all that, Tom ! ' she said when
the page entered, and then, instead of talking
to Mr Shipwright, she gave orders about the
replacement of her books, interspersed with
occasional conversation with her dog, and some
loving remarks to an exceedingly noisy canary.

During all this time Mr Shipwright sat
waiting silently. What could he want, she
wondered ; and curiosity at last getting the
better of her ill-breeding, she told Tom to
be off and leave the rest of the books for
arrangement at some other time. Then
came the tug of war. Violet sat down in a
large arm-chair and looked at her visitor,
who, she felt sure, had not come there for the
love of her, but for some sinister purpose.

If you have anything disagreeable to say,
please say it and have done with it ! ' she
exclaimed, as Tom shut the door.

Mr Shipwright did not fence or make any
polite speeches about how impossible it
would be for him to make disagreeable

remarks to a lady ; but he merely said very
quietly, 

I have come for some letters addressed
by a certain Sardinian nobleman to the
Duchess of Monarchs, before her marriage.'

1 Indeed ! ' and it was difficult to say
whether amusement or anger were the predominant
feeling with Violet when she heard
this statement. ' And you are the fair Julia' s
ambassador. She has tried a good many
dodges in order to get back those letters,
and at last has had recourse to you.'

1 I am very much surprised that one
gentlewoman should seek to detain letters
belonging to another against her will.'

1 So am I, Mr Shipwright ; it is not the
sort of thing that would happen if there
were any honesty in the world ; but there
is not, and so in self-defence I am compelled
to keep the letters.'

How so ? '

1 Well, Julia is not to be relied on, though

I daresay you think she is. She would have
dropped my acquaintance with the coolest
effrontery long ago if I had not held these
letters, and that would not have exactly
suited my views.'

What price do you require ? ' he asked,
as coolly as if he were bargaining for fruit
or flowers with a market girl.

What price ? ' she echoed.

Yes, everything in this world has a price.
These letters, I presume, have theirs.'

1 And are you prepared to pay it ? '

Mr Shipwright's object was to make her
acknowledge to him, as she had done to
the duchess, that Lord Beaurepaire's hand
was the price she demanded for the letters ;
but the last little vestige of womanhood that
was left in her rebelled against such a confession.
She only said, in a light off-hand
manner, 

Oh, I don't ask much ; only position and
wealth.'

And if you do not obtain these, you will  '
Send the letters to the duke, I suppose.'
1 The result of which will be your ignominious
expulsion from all good society for
the future. Believe me, it is a short-sighted
policy, Mrs Tremayne.'

In your wisdom can you suggest a better
one ? ' and there was a sneer in her voice
as she spoke. He did not affect to mark
it, however, but answered cordially, 

 I hope so ; especially as I observe you are
acting somewhat in the dark ; there are one
or two facts in connection with this business,
of which I do not think you are cognisant.'

1 Will it please your reverence to enlighten
me?'

The vicar bowed.

The duke, it seems, has already heard
something about these letters. It is at his
request that I am here to-day.'

Indeed ! Does his grace wish me to
post them to him at once ? '

1 No, Mrs Tremayne, he wishes you to
put your price on them and give them tome.'


1 I don't know what the duke means by
putting my price on them,' said Violet
with irritation.

He means that if you give the letters
to me now, without any fuss or trouble, he
is ready to make over for your use such
a sum of money as will render it unnecessary
for you to be any longer a hanger-on
of his wife. If you do not do so, the gates
of Monarchs Castle will be none the less
closed on you, and you may occasionally find
yourself rather inconvenienced for money.'

She looked at him for a second, and then
she burst out laughing.

You enjoy this, do you not, Mr Sive-wright
? So nice, isn't it, to be able to let
out a little of my life's blood ? '

Pardon me, Mrs Tremayne. The sufferings
of other people scarcely form part

of my catalogue of enjoyments,' and the
vicar looked so superbly dignified that Mrs
Tremayne was compelled to forego bravado
and return to business.

I think I shall keep those letters a little
longer ; I may not require the Duchess of
Monarchs' patronage in the future.'

I should advise immediate terms ; if you
condescend to ask my advice in a friendly
spirit,' said the vicar very softly.

Go on. What else do you know ?
There is something behind all that blandness.'


Lord Beaurepaire has pledged his word
to his daughter that  '

He will not marry me ? ' and, brave to
the last, she tried to laugh out the words ;
but she looked ghastly white.

1 Exactly. The position of your late
father, the avocations you yourself followed
in your childhood ; above all, your
later well-known love for play, render a

marriage with you a mesalliance which no
Beaurepaire could brook. I am exceedingly
sorry to be the bearer of so much
bad news.'

1 A very kind sentiment, I am sure, from
my bitterest enemy ! '

Your enemy, Mrs Tremayne ! It were
ill in accordance with my calling to bethe
enemy of any one. Those actions of
mine which have seemed inimical to you
have merely been prompted by an ardent
love of truth.'

Bother truth ! ' cried Violet ; ' you can
leave it to unravel itself fast enough when
it suits you. How about the child you
put to school at Hammersmith four or five
years ago, and whom you go to see periodically,
although you leave the poor little
wretch there all the holidays ? Possibly
you are not more immaculate than your
neighbours, notwithstanding your great semblance
of truthfulness.'

It is scarcely a breach of truth to seek to
cover a fault by silence

Then you do acknowledge that there is
a fault?'

6 A fault, yes ; but none of mine, on my
honour, though I would rather you thought
me ten times guilty than that I should
allow myself to reveal the names of the
parents of this child. They are both dead,
let their memory rest in peace.'

Mr Lently's eldest girl has gone to the
same school,' explained Mrs Tremayne ;
the world of one's acquaintances is small,
you know. Mrs Giles took the Lently child
to school, and she recognised your protege!

1 Mrs Giles  what ! the eccentric widow
at Ravensholme ? '

'Just so. Revelations seem to be mutual
to-day, Mr Shipwright.'

'Mrs Giles !  I am perplexed to know
where she can have seen that unhappy
child before.'

VOL. III. N

1 Oh, she has known you for years. Knew
you when you and Mr Wharton were so
much together in London.'

I have not the faintest recollection of her ;
however, if she by any means has learned
the real story of my protege, she is disloyal
to have divulged it. If she does not know
it, why air her ignorance ? But to business,
Mrs Tremayne, as I am going to see this
same child at Hammersmith before I leave
London.'

I You do not offer me money to hold my
tongue.'

He smiled as if he thought the remark
were beneath contempt, and said rather positively,


I I shall feel obliged if you will give me
those letters quickly.'

She walked to the little escritoire and took
out a bundle of untidy dirty-looking letters.

1 I wonder how much they are worth ? ' she
said.

1 An annuity of two hundred pounds a-
year, provided you give your word never to
molest either the duke or duchess again, and
never seek to enter any house in which they
may be living

She threw the bundle of letters straight
at Mr Shipwright, nearly hitting him in
the face ; he caught it, however, with some
dexterity.

The magnitude of the duke's offer had so
taken her by surprise, that she accepted at
once, without any farther argument. Then
it suddenly struck her that the action had
been a rash one.

I suppose I- can trust you ? ' she asked.

1 We will have strict business and no questions
of trusting,' he answered ' Have the
goodness to give me a sheet of paper.'

He just glanced at the bundle of letters he
held in his hand, so as to make sure they
were in the writing of the noble Julia, and,
having farther obtained some sealing-wax

and a light, he sealed them up with Mrs Tree
seal, and requested her to address
them to the duchess, and then he put them
in his pocket.

1 Now presenting the ducal paper promising
to pay her two hundred pounds a-year
on certain provisos, ' have the goodness to
sign this paper, and remember that any one
of these conditions being broken, the duke's
lawyers have orders to stop your annuity

She signed her name with a flourish.

Mr Shipwright laid fifty pounds in notes
on the table, being a quarter's payment
in advance, and then rose to take his
departure.

1 Two hundred a-year the richer, and a
whole bevy of friends and pleasant acquaintances
the poorer,' said Violet, as she sat
down on the arm of a chair and looked
comically miserable. ' I was fond of Julia,
too, after my fashion. I can't help it if
chance has given me more wits than heart,

can I, Mr Shipwright ? and yet I am punished
for the uneven balancing of the scales  it is
hard. Dear me, I shall have to let this
house after all, I suppose ? '

1 The wisest thing you can do, and go
abroad, for a time at all events.'

Gracious ! why, you are as bad as the
doctors ; they always send patients abroad
when they don't know what to do with
them here.'

And so, thanks to Violet's wonderful
capacity for adapting herself to circumstances
with a joke they parted, notwithstanding
the unpleasant nature of their
interview.

1 Should she go abroad or should she have
another throw with the dice ? ' she asked
herself as soon as he was gone. She did
not quite believe what he had told her
about Lord Beaurepaire. If it were true
the old lord had been coerced into it 
of that she was quite certain, and could she

not by the power of her fascinations bring
him back to his slavery ? Then she decided
it was useless to try. If they had managed
to discover any incident of her past career in
the slums, it would not be much good striving
to make any farther impression on that
proud aristocratic old noodle. No, she had
better go abroad, or she would be forfeiting
her annuity by some rashness. 4 Ay, you
must start afresh in life, my beauty, Vi,' she
went on, addressing herself, * without a friend
in the world, without a friend,' and she laid
her head against the side of the chair,
and closed her eyes, from which slowly
trickled down her cheeks two or three unbidden
tears.

She thought for a moment of George
Desborough, feeling sure that he would
not have been talked into giving her up so
easily ; draping the dead, as one not unusually
does, with a magnanimous robe, and
almost persuading herself into the belief that

she had loved him. On that other faithful
heart that waited and watched for her, she
did not bestow a thought. Even as she sat
there, viewing regretfully her fallen social
fortunes, she would scarcely have been
grateful had she been reminded of the
existence of Cheap Jack Varley's unwavering
love.

LOVING WORDS.

HE weather was hot in the south
of France, that is, during the
day when the sun was out ; the
invalids sat about in summery garments with
large sunshades, and drank in draughts of
life, and with it hope ; but the warmer it
grew the more pretty Claire seemed to
fade, neither life nor hope came to her as
welcome visitors with the sun's rays.

1 She was not ill, she assured Lady Laura,
in answer to her repeated questions, only it
was so hot, it made her tired.'

So Lady Laura had the boxes packed up
and determined to try what cooler breezes

among the lakes of North Italy would effect.
Perhaps a little travelling would amuse the
child. But when Claire was not looking
the silent tears would fall. From her heart
she feared that no change would bring back
the roses to Claire's cheeks. The seat of the
evil lay deeper than either doctors or mother
could reach. Claire watched the preparations
for departure, as she watched every other progressive
act in life, with a dreary ' What does
it matter ? ' look in her sweet young face.
Had she spoken on the subject she could
have told how she would far rather have
been going back to Swanover ; but she said
nothing. The. future was all a weary waste,
she thought, and it did not matter much upon
which part of it she stood. So the maid,
under Lady Laura's directions, packed the
trunks, while Claire, like an unquiet spirit,
wandered from room to room looking on
apparently at the preparations, though in
reality she heeded them but little.

Wednesday morning at ten o'clock had
been the time fixed for departure, but Claire
had asked for one day's delay.

1 Wherefore?' was the question that puzzled
Lady Laura. She had no interests at Mentone,
no friends, not even any acquaintances
who charmed her. Why should she want to
linger one day beyond the settled date for
their departure ?

Matthew had not written for some little
time. To give one more day for the chance
of receiving a letter was Claire's real object ;
though she knew she could not trust her voice
to tell her mother what she felt on the subject;
and Lady Laura was too discreet to ask.
She merely said, very gently and kindly, 

As you will, my Claire. Thursday, then,
we will go ! ' and as far as discussion was
concerned there was an end of the matter.
The rooms in the hotel, after everything
had been packed away ready for departure,
did not present the most cheerful appearance,

and Lady Laura suggested that she
and Claire should go for a drive, and come
back to a late dinner.

4 And the post,' thought Claire, ' which
cannot fail to bring a letter to-day, since I
have waited for it ; though perhaps, after
all, it will only tell me of his marriage with
Lady Valentina,' and such a curious grey
look came over her face as the vision of
Matthew married to Lady Valentina rose before
her mind, that Lady Laura gave a little
cry of pain when she saw it ; startling, the colour
back into Claire's ashy cheeks as she asked, 

1 What is it, mother dear ? '

1 Nothing, my child, nothing. I thought
you looked  '

1 Oh ! I am all right, darling mother ; let
us go and have a drive.'

So the carriage came round, and-some
cushions were put in for Claire to lie back
on ; for some weeks past the effort of sitting
up in a carriage had been too great for her.

They went along the Cornice road ; but
neither mother nor daughter seemed fully to
appreciate the wondrous beauty of its scenery,
they were both too absorbed in their own
reflections. But few words were spoken ;
what could they talk of since each was striving
so strenuously to deceive the other ?

At last arrived at the little quiet hotel
which was their temporary residence, Lady
Laura got out of the carriage, and then
turned to help Claire, from whose youth
all the buoyancy seemed to have departed,
as slowly, almost painfully leaning on her
mother's arm, she walked across . a small
hall which divided their rooms  which were
on the ground floor  from the outer door.

Any letters ? Is the English mail in ? '
she asked a jargon as she passed him.

At last Lady Laura had learned the reason
for wishing to pass another day at Mentone.

None for mademoiselle, but  '

Claire heard no more, her fingers tightened

on her mother's arm as she walked
into the sitting-room.

Ah!

The hot blood flushed with crimson suddenness
across her face ; then it became, if
possible, more ashy white than it had been of
late. She started from her mother's side, but
her feeble limbs refused to do their office, and
she tottered against the door ; in a momenta
strong arm was round her, and the whiteface
sank on Matthew's shoulder as consciousness
forsook her.

You should not have come so suddenly,
you have killed her,' said Lady Laura
severely.

Matthew made no answer, but carrying
Claire, to a sofa, laid her down, tenderly
arranging the pillows under her head. Then
he knelt beside her and kissed her on the forehead
and lips, whispering softly, ' My Claire,
if I had but known,' as he held her there.

Lady Laura came forward to see in

her maternal solicitude what could be
done, but Matthew totally eclipsed her.
He was everything now, as he crouched
beside the sofa whispering loving words,
as though he knew they would have the
occult power of bringing Claire back to
consciousness, and he was right. She
opened her eyes and looked at him ; then
she closed them again, as though afraid she
was deceived in what she saw ; yet it must
be true, was not the voice for which she
had pined so long once more uttering
words of love ? She opened them again
and looked into Matthew's face ; and all the
past neglect, coldness, and hesitation were
forgotten on the instant, forgotten as though
they had never been.

But Lady Laura was by no means so forgiving.
She was angry with Matthew, very
angry ; the more so perhaps because he had
come now, than she would have been if he
had not come at all.

1 Why should he treat Claire in such a
manner if he really cared for her ? ' she
asked herself as she watched them there.
'If he had grown indifferent about her,
or had determined to be guided by his
family, she could understand his behaviour ;
but to love her, and yet neglect her out of
mere caprice, was past all tolerance.'

Get up, Matthew, and come away ; you
are making Claire quite ill,' she said at last,
taking him by the shoulder, as though to
force him into giving her once more possession
of her child ; her anger against him
being for the moment stronger than the
knowledge that his presence was Claire's
salvation ; but the girl's pleading eyes were
raised to her mother, as she clasped her
thin hands together, and laid them on
Matthew's head as he still knelt beside
the couch.

Do not send him away, mother, I am
happy  so happy now.'

They were the first words Claire had
spoken since Matthew came, and they told
the mother at once how totally incapable
she was to perfect her child's happiness,
even though she sacrificed her own. She
walked away at Claire's appeal, and stood
looking out of the window into the garden ;
in her heart almost hating Matthew for the
possession he had so incontestably taken of
her treasure ; and yet only a week ago she
had longed for his arrival and upbraided
him most severely for his absence. So
changeful and full of caprices is the human
mind.

For a long time Lady Laura stood at
the window, only murmurs reaching her of
the conversation which was going on at the
other end of the room. It was a strange
experience, one which in all her life she
had never passed through before, that of
feeling entirely put by and set at naught by
the being who was as a part of herself. She

had seen Claire fading from before her eyes,
and she had to a certain degree grasped the
reason of her gradual decline ;. yet she had
never fully realised it as she did to-day,
when with Matthew's unexpected appearance
life and hope and interest had so thoroughly
and suddenly been awakened. Matthew
had seated himself on a low footstool beside
Claire's couch, and, happy in their union,
neither of them guessed the tumultuous
feelings the picture of their happiness had
called up in Lady Laura's heart.

1 And you do not love that queenly
Valentina ? It is quite true  quite. You
will tell me the entire truth, won't you,
Matthew ? Never try to deceive either
yourself or me,' Claire says, as, having
risen from her recumbent position, she sits,
her elbow on the cushions, her face resting
on her hand, looking at Matthew.

I have admired Lady Valentina, respected

her judgment ; but I have never loved any
vol. in. o

one but you ; I am sure of it  quite sure now
since I see you again, my darling Claire. If
I had only known how ill you were I should
have  ' but she did not let him finish the
sentence, for she asked, interrupting him, 
Does Lady Valentina love you ? '

I don't think so. She is kind to me ;
but no, she does not care for me, she is
very cold and proud.'

Oh ! I am sorry, very sorry for Lady

Valentina.'

1 Sorry for her. Why, Claire ? '

Because they say cold proud people love

the deepest ; and I should be sorry, for anyone

who has suffered even the half that I

have done of late.'

Claire ! what a base wretch you make
me appear in my own eyes when you talk
thus. Remember you yourself tried to
break off the engagement between us.'

1 Yes, Matthew, and I would do it again
if I thought it was for your good. 



side the matter well, dear Matthew, and
if you think that Lady Valentina will ever
stand between us in the future, tell me at
once honestly, and let this interview be our
last. I am not saying this from jealousy.
I am not jealous, save of your happiness ;
so that is assured, I will strive to be contents
but the last part of her sentence
ended in a sob, showing how difficult it had
been for Claire to speak this speech, and
how unreal it was, believe it though she
might strive to do ; but Matthew kissed
away the rising tears.

Never, dear Claire, never; we have both
passed through an ordeal of trial ; there is
to be nothing but happiness for us in the
future, besides, you did not run away abroad
and send me to Coventry on Lady Valentine's
account ; so don't pretend you did.'

No, Matthew, but because it was fitting
that the heir of Vantage should be free to
leave off his wooing or begin them all afresh.'

1 And now, my pet, we are going to start
from a fresh standpoint, and wander together
in a country where there will be no
clouds. I have turned another page in my
life since we last met. Henceforth I am
going to take counsel of no man, but follow
the unblessed dictates of my own feelings
and opinions.'

Going to be obstinate, Matthew ? What
a difficult man you will be to live with.'
And there was such a twinkle of fun in
Claire's eyes as she said this as had not been
there this many a month, and which surely
would have had the effect of delighting Lady
Laura's heart had she been looking on,
instead of obdurately turning her back on
her daughter's happiness. But still they
went on talking in low tones, and every
now and then Claire's merry girlish laugh
was heard, that silver laugh which for weeks
past had been hushed ; and then at last
she called out, 

Mamma, why do you stand there all
alone ? Come and look at Matthew, see
how bright and well he is looking.'

Lady Laura turned round but did not
move. Was all her anger against Matthew
to merge into a welcome and a compliment
about his looks ? No, since he had come,
and her child was happy once more, at
least she could afford to be dignified. Perhaps
he saw what was passing in her
mind, for he got up and went to her.

1 Lady Laura, I have been to blame 
grievously to blame. I will not excuse
myself by saying I little guessed how
unkindly I was behaving, though God
knows it is true ; but acknowledge that I
was selfishly taken up with my own affairs
and vacillations. Claire has forgiven me ;
will you not do so too ? '

1 Forgive you, Matthew ? Well I hope I
forgive you ; but you have caused much
unnecessary pain, and I don't know now

that the past can be remedied. Claire is
very ill.'

 Oh, I am better, mother ; don't frighten
Matthew into thinking I am going to die.'
Though, the excitement of meeting Matthew
being passed, she looked pale and
haggard enough to warrant any amount
of anxiety.

Once more Matthew was by her side.

If love can save her and make her
strong again, love will not fail,' he said in
his impetuous way.

But Lady Laura shook her head ; she had
ceased to believe in Matthew's outbursts.
It was Claire, not himself, who made her
stretch out to him the right hand of friendship,
as she said, 

1 Darling mother, for my sake, say just
one little kind word to Matthew.'

Thus appealed to, Lady Laura was forced
into a concession, though it was scarcely
given as graciously as might have been

expected from one possessing the gentleness
and loving kindness for which she was
renowned.

But Matthew had wounded her in her very
heart's core ; it would take some time before
the wound would heal over, and even then
she must be always watchful, lest he should
inflict a fresh one. She bade him welcome,
however, and after a little while ceased to
show her dissatisfaction quite so plainly.
How could she be reservedly severe when
she saw the long absent smiles wreathing
once more about Claire's face, and heard
her chattering gaily and discussing future
plans ? Matthew of course dined with
them, and Claire even tried to make a
show of eating some dinner; though it
was a very feeble effort.

Lady Laura shook her head, as she
wondered what the effect of all this undue
excitement would produce. By the morrow
she imagined Claire would be quite ill ; but

Lady Laura had scarcely calculated on the
recuperative powers that youth possesses,
when the mischief that produces languor
and disease is once removed. The next
morning when Lady Laura woke Claire
was already up and singing like a larkin
the little dressing-room she occupied
next to her mother's room. It had been
decided not to leave Mentone for a day or
two, but that the tour among the Italian
lakes should not be abandoned since it was
certainly advisable on Claire's account, more
especially since her restoration to health
would be the more rapid, from the fact
that Matthew was to accompany them. It
was useless for Lady Laura to ask him
what his friends said in England, the only
answer she received was, 

That his mother might rage, his father
might object, counsellors might advise ; but
that he did not intend to separate himself
from Claire again till every arrangement

was made for their marriage.' And so they
all three started together for a pleasant
tour, which had the effect of making Matthew's
little white Snowdrop look each day
more and more like a rose ; and even Lady
Laura could not regret his coming to join
them, since he brought with him life, where
she feared death had already set its dreary
mark.

AN ULTIMATUM.

HEN Mr Shipwright left Violet
with the precious letters in his
pocket, he took a hansom and
drove straight to Hammersmith. At a
seminary for young ladies, conducted on the
strictest church principles, he stopped. It
was somewhat of an anomaly that a provide
of Mr Shipwright should have been placed
in a school where the tendencies of religious
education were decidedly ritualistic ; but
perhaps the circumstances of the case were
such that he could not altogether exercise
free will. He rang the bell, and on the
door being opened by a tidy maid servant,

he asked for Miss Brown. He was shown
into a room of true conventual type, rigid
both in its furniture and appointments, which
were of the scantiest. The Rev. Lawrence
looked round with a half sigh, as though
he, with his luxurious tastes, could not forego
a feeling of pity for those who were bereft
of the adornments of life. He was not, however,
left many minutes to his reflections. A
girl about fourteen came in very slowly,
stopping to curtsey as soon as she had
crossed the threshold of the door.

Mr Shipwright went up to her and took
her kindly by the hand, as she stood therewith
her head bent down, not daring to look
at him ; in fact it was not till he himself
raised her face by putting his hand under
her chin, that he got the chance of seeing it
at all.

Why, Lucy, your are not becoming less
bashful, I fear. Come and sit down and
tell me how you are getting on, child.

You are surely not afraid of so old a friend ?
Are you happy ? '

Yes,' answered the girl very softly ; ' I
suppose so.'

You suppose so. Now what does that
mean ? Eh, little woman ? '

There's a new girl here who tells me I
don't know what happiness means.'

Mr Shipwright had to bend his head so
as to catch the words, they were uttered in
so low a tone. He smiled when he did
hear them.

1 Very possibly. I should like to hear
the new girl's " definition of happiness.'

Lucy could have told him, no doubt ;
only she was afraid she had already said too
much, especially as she fancied she detected
a covert sneer in his answer, and Lucy was
foolishly sensitive, and perpetually on the
look-out for snubs. So there was a little
pause, after which Mr Shipwright said more
kindly, 

1 I think I would rather have your views
of happiness than the " new girl's." Tell
me, my child, what should you like more
than anything in the world ? '

She did not speak for a few seconds, then
the almost whispered answer came slowly, 

I should like to leave this place and live
in the country, where there would be trees
and flowers.'

Mr Shipwright's brow clouded over, and fora
moment he thought how utterly fallacious
was all attempt to work by system. This
girl had been shut up in the Hammersmith
Seminary since her earliest childhood ; she
had scarcely ever been beyond its walls, in
order that, knowing no other life, her education
finished, she might pass her days either
there or in some similar establishment as
teacher, and now already was she panting
for ' trees and flowers.'

What you ask it is not in my power to
give you ; at all events not now. I am

Sackcloth and Broadcloth.

afraid you must make yourself content, my
poor little Lucy.'

She flushed up as he spoke, and then all
the colour suddenly faded. Perhaps all her
hope of release from thraldom had lain with
Mr Shipwright, or she would scarcely have
summoned up the courage to tell him of her
longings.

He stayed for quite half-an-hour talking
with the girl, but not making much way.
Since Lucy had discovered that there was
no chance of any change in the programme
of her life, she had relapsed into shyness,
and only answered his questions in monosyllables,
thus giving him so much trouble
to carry on the conversation that he was at
last forced to give it up, and to send his
little protege in search of the school-mistress,
with whom he said he wished to exchange
a few words.

An hour later Mr Shipwright walked
slowly along Hammersmith Mall, his arms

crossed behind his back, his hat well on his
brow, thinking, not of the almost classic
ground on which he was treading in an atmosphere
rife with the spirits of departed
genius, but of the little shy girl with straw-coloured
hair and a baby waxen face, who
was shut up in that grand old house by the
river side. Scarcely was it surprising that
Mrs Giles had fabricated a gossip and a
scandal out of the mystery which connected
Mr Shipwright with this child's career. Perhaps
he would have been as well pleased
if it had remained hidden from public gaze ;
but since Violet Tremayne knew it, secrecy
was no longer possible ; and it was not improbable
that that morning's conference with
her might have some influence on the fortunes
of the little Lucy.

Altogether it had been rather an eventful
day to Mr Shipwright, who. never courted
excitement, and in fact but rarely met with
any occurrence of sufficient importance to

arouse it. Still, for various reasons, the incidents
of the last twenty-four hours had produced
an amount of stimulating interest
which he but rarely felt, nor was the programme
he had marked for himself at an
end with this visit to Hammersmith.

Having sauntered along the Mall very
leisurely, he looked at his watch ; the hour
it was nearly five, was so much later than
he had imagined, that he hailed a cab
forthwith, and desired the man to drive
with all possible speed to the hotel in Jerk
Street, where he usually located himself
when in London. Arrived there, he
ordered some dinner to be prepared while
he packed his portmanteau, and having eaten
it he started, not on his return journey to
Fernwood-cum-Grasdale, but to catch the
tidal train en route for the French capital.

Till those letters had been safely conveyed
into ducal hands, Mr Shipwright did not consider
that he had fulfilled his mission.

He travelled straight through, arriving in
Paris early in the morning ; and after breakfast
and a rest, he presented himself at the
Hotel Bristol, where the duke and duchess
had taken up their quarters, about one o'clock.

The duchess was shopping, the duke was
alone ; thus luck favoured the vicar, who
especially wished for a private interview
with his grace.

'Ah, Mr Shipwright! ,

The welcome was a hearty one ; to find a
thoroughly diplomatic agent to perform such
a friendly act as Mr Shipwright had just
been executing for the duke was scarcely
common, and therefore the more thoroughly
appreciated ; for the duke knew by Mr
Shipwright's presence in Paris that he
had been successful. The first formalities
of greeting over, he laid the sealed packet
of letters on the table before himself. He
did not hand it to the duke.

1 The terms are accepted ; there is the

VOL. TIL P

signed paper. I do not think there will be
any more trouble with Mrs Tremayne ; she
has judged it expedient to exchange a
grudgingly bestowed acquaintance for two
hundred pounds a-year, paid quarterly and
Mr Shipwright smiled cynically, and turned
over the packet of letters which lay before him.

I Thank you.'

There was a moment's pause, during which
the duke looked at the packet of letters.
Then he said in rather a hesitating tone, 

You still advise that this matter should be
kept a secret from the duchess

I I not only advise, I insist,' answered Mr
Shipwright haughtily. ' When you came to
the vicarage a week ago, and confided to me
that some officious person had written to you
on the subject of certain unpleasant letters,
which Mrs Tremayne had possessed herself
of, belonging to the duchess, I then told you
I could take no steps in the matter unless I
was assured that, by doing so, there would

be perfect concord between you and her
grace in the future. This concord can
never exist if the duchess is made aware of
your interference. Such was my judgment
then, the same it remains now.'

There was a loftiness in Mr Shipwright's
bearing as he uttered these words, which
made the duke look a little nervous and feel
as if he were on his trial, listening to the
judge's verdict : he did not possess half the
grandeur of character with which Mr Sive-wright
was so conspicuously endowed.

C I do not wish to depart from what we
arranged  far from it. Julia shall never
know from me that  but Mr Shipwright,
what are you going to do with the letters ? '
Give them to the duchess herself.'
Good gracious !  on what pretext ? '
Pastors, my dear duke, are in the habitual
receipt of many confidences, and have, I hope,
the power of healing many family differences.
Believe me, the duchess will be as thankful

as you are, that the society of Mrs Tremayne
need no longer be imposed on her as a
necessity.'

Then, Julia  the duchess has already
told you '

Enough to make me feel that I am acting
judiciously and loyally in advising you to let
the matter drop in silence, assuring you at
the same time that any indiscretions of
which her grace may have been guilty in
the past, are of such a nature that they
cannot, even in the most remote way, affect
the present. It was well to magnify them in
order to be quit of Mrs Tremayne. That end
accomplished, let them be buried in oblivion.'
The rustle of a silk dress was heard in the
outside passage, the door handle was touched,
Mr Shipwright put the letters in his pocket
just in time. The duchess walked into the
room.

1 In Paris !  you, Mr Shipwright ! This
is an unexpected pleasure.'

1 Having a few days of leisure, I thought
they could not be better bestowed than on a
visit here, especially since you and the duke
are honouring it with your presence

I When did you come ? Are you staying
in this hotel ? '

I I came this morning, and I am staying at
the Grand.'

You will dine with us to-night ? Eh,
Mr Shipwright ?' put in the duke.

1 I shall be delighted.'

Oh ! that will be charming. We are
going afterwards to the Francois ; the duke
is going to be victimised, he hates French
plays. Don't you, duke ? '

The carriage was soon after announced
for a drive, but Mr Shipwright declined to
accompany his friends, feeling that he required
an hour or two of solitude if 'he intended
to enjoy their society and a French
play in the evening.

At an early dinner  that is early for

English habits, about half-past six 
they all met again, and the cloud which
had been on the duke's face in the morning
seemed to have passed away. With
reflection had come the wise decision to
keep the golden silence Mr Shipwright
had recommended, and to trust to his
friend's judgment in this matter as he had
already trusted to his competency in carrying
out the details. A hard struggle had
been going on in the duke's breast for
some weeks past ; he had spoken quite
truly when he had said that he would
never forgive even the smallest indiscretion
in his wife. He had meant it fully at the
time he said it, nor perhaps would Mr
Shipwright have succeeded in persuading
him to do so now had it not been made
quite clear to him that the duchess was
unaware of his knowledge of her past
foolishness. His dignity would be in noway
compromised, he argued  a point

about which, like his clerical adviser, he
was rather a stickler ; and probably love
for his fair wife, and a sort of fear of
casting a shadow across their happiness,
had more weight in the matter than he
would altogether have cared to own. Having
arrived at this conclusion, the duke
took the trouble to be pleasant, and not
for a long time had he appeared so affable
and so genial as on the evening of Mr
Shipwright's arrival, even stopping in the
foyer long after the second act of Herman
had begun, in order to give the duchess
and her confidant an opportunity of settling
for ever the question of those hateful
letters.

1 Now I know why you came to Paris ;
how good of you ! ' the duchess had said,
as he presented them without speaking.
And the price, Mr Shipwright, what is
the price ? I had a few lines from Lady
Valentina to-day. She says that she rejoices

to tell me her dear father has quite
given up all idea of that marriage

Just so  yes. So I have heard.'

Then how have you become possessed of
these ? '

By means of a little diplomacy, the
details of which would scarcely interest
you. I have learned many facts about Mrs
Tremayne ; do not let us enter into them,
dear duchess ; suffice it that you have the
letters, and that Mrs Tremayne's name may
in future be struck off your visiting list
'How? She has agreed to  '
1 Drop the acquaintance, at my request.'
Oh, Mr Shipwright, how delightful ! I
am so glad ! You have indeed lifted an
incubus off my life ! '

The vicar smiled as he thought of the
fibril texture of that diaphanous fabric
called ' female friendship.'

But will you not tell me how all this has
been accomplished ? '

1 No, my dear duchess. I don't feel
justified in exposing all Mrs Tremayne's
weak points, even to you. Suffice it that
you are free, Mrs Tremayne will in future
live abroad, so no questions will be asked
about the cessation of your intimacy.'

Thank God ! ' And this exclamation of
relief and thanksgiving ended all conversation
on the subject, which nevertheless
for some time to come would usurp a
great portion of her grace's thoughts.

When the duke returned to his place at
her side, he read at once on her face that
the future absence of Violet Tremayne from
her daily companionship was by no means
regretted, and as she moved her ample
satin skirts to make room for him to draw
his chair nearer to her, there was an expression
half of tenderness, half of confidence
in her eyes which made him inwardly
rejoice that he had listened to the vicar's
advice, and not allowed the jealous tendencies

of his nature to get the upper
hand.

1 How can I ever repay you for all your
kindness ? ' the duchess whispered, as she
leant on the Rev. Lawrence arm on their
way out of the theatre, the duke being a
few steps in advance.

1 You may be called on to render me
your assistance sooner than you expect he
answered in the same tone.

You ! How can I help you ? Believe,
whatever it is, I will do it thoroughly.'

4 There are episodes in most men's lives
when a woman's help is invaluable. Perhaps
I am on the eve of passing into one
of them.'

What do you mean ? '

Mr Shipwright smiled.

I mean that at fifty I am beginning to
think that man was not intended to live
alone.'

The duchess gave a little start as she

looked at him in some surprise. She had
probably deemed that this man was to befor
aye her devoted slave, the right to
his attentions being disputed only with Mrs
Desborough. She recovered herself, however,
at once before he had time to note
the momentary astonishment.

1 You are going to marry  '

1 Stay, my dear duchess, I have by
no means arrived at that point. Many
delicate negotiations on your part
will be necessary before my hopes are
crowned.'

'Negotiations on my part! Why, who
is to be the future  '

'Lady Valentina Beaurepaire.'

Charming  delightful ! How many pleasant
surprises you have afforded me, Mr
Shipwright ! ' And every idea of art arrive
pense seemed to have left the duchess's
mind.

Then you will help me to win her ? '

With all my heart. Come and talk it
over tomorrow morning

They shook hands warmly, and parted at
the carriage door.

1 Only fancy, Monarchs, Mr Shipwright
wants to marry Valentine exclaimed the
duchess as they drove off. ' Since Matthew
Desborough has determined to be faithful
to that pink-faced little Miss Bailey, about
which I fancy Valentina is just a trifle
hipped, nothing could turn out more satisfactory.
What do you think ? '

I agree with you, my love ; Shipwright
is a man we must all respect. I suppose
Beaurepaire will think it a good enough
marriage for Lady Valentina.'

1 Of course he will he must. Why, Mr
Shipwright comes of a very good family, and
is altogether a most superior being. I know
some one, however, who will not be pleased
Mrs Desborough. It will be rather amusing
to note her little manoeuvres to appear

as if she were not disappointed. Dear me,
how funnily things do unravel themselves in
this world.'

And the duchess gave a little sigh  it was
one of relief.

They reached the Hotel Bristol at this
juncture ; when they got into the full light
of the hall, she remarked that the duke
looked unusually beaming and satisfied.
The query crossed her mind for a moment,
could he have been jealous of Mr Sive-wright
? She little guessed how much he
thanked the vicar as he looked forward to
a cloudless future.

SOFT PINK LAMPS.

HE first spring weather is gladdening
the hearts of Londoners.
Open carriages are dashing hither
and thither with ladies in bright toilettes
of the latest Parisian fashion. Bond Street
and Piccadilly are in a state of block, only
kept from being positively dangerous by the
efficiency of a brigade of police. Noise and
bustle with business and pleasure fighting
for predominance prevail everywhere, the
Metropolis being what is technically called
crammed ; every house has its inmates, no
dreary-looking shutters  for they are dreary,
however artistically painted  meet the eye,

and scarcely a bill announcing that apartments
are to be let is to be seen in any
of the fashionable quarters. It is acknowledged,
even by tradespeople, to be a good
season, and verily there is no dearth of rout
and reception, concert and crowd. Even
Lady Valentina has awakened from her
usual indolent indifference, just one degree
of flurry seeming to reflect itself on her
from the tempestuous rushing throng with
which she moves. There is more colour
in her cheeks than there used to be, more
lustre in her eyes ; yet Matthew is a
declared defaulter in homage.

Since he had rushed off abroad as
suddenly as he had arrived at Vantage,
Lady Valentina had scarcely heard from
him, though she had received a long letter
from Mrs Desborough, giving a very diffuse
account of how obstinately he abided by his
engagement to Claire Bailey, and how she
would rather see him lying in his grave

beside poor George than know him to be
married to that pink-faced chit.

Valentina had thrown the letter from her
with an outburst of feeling to which she
did not usually give way, and sat for a
while her head resting on her arms, then
all the proud blood of her ancestors mounted
in her veins, and a quarter of an hour later,
when she lifted her head, her cheeks were
red, her eyes were flashing ; in a fortnight's
time neither flash nor colour had faded, and
there was a feverishness about her mien
which made her father just a little anxious,
though she assured him there was nothing
amiss with her, she was enjoying the season
and the balls excessively.

She had no cause for annoyance she
said, ' now that all the fear of his marrying
that dreadful little adventuress was at an
end ; ' a remark which caused his lordship's
high forehead momentarily to contract into
a frown, for he still had a pleasing recollection

of Violet Tremayne, and did not mind
acknowledging that his feelings had been
made subject to his judgment. This was a
state of affairs which could scarcely have
been brought about, save with a proud man ;
nor would he in this instance have paid
attention to any of Valentina's pathetic
appeals, or even the duke's or Mr Sive-wright's
statements, had not he himself seen
Violets stolen interview with Cheap Jack
Varley.

Potently then, father and daughter having
summoned all their pride, they were both
struggling against circumstances, Valentina
acknowledging nothing, the earl occasionally
regretting that high breeding had not in
this instance gone hand by hand with beauty
and brightness and wit. Sometimes he
would allude in surprised terms to Matthew's
silence ; but Valentina never encouraged him
to discuss the subject, and he was far too
grand and large souled to bring the word

VOL. III. Q

ingratitude into his talk of Matthew, as
many an equally honest-hearted but less
noble-minded man would have done. They
had given dinners, not a few, in the sumptuous
Belgrave Square dining-room, and
Valentina, to the no small surprise of some
of their guests, had been quite conversational
and affable. Having something to
hide had roused her moral energy. Lord
Castletowers had proposed and been refused,
without the matter receiving a second
consideration. This happened before the
Duchess of Monarchs returned from Paris,
or perhaps she would have brought a little
friendly pressure to bear on Valentina in
this matter.

1 Dinners palled and grew monotonous,'
Valentina said, and 'dancing was a bore,
especially as the weather was becoming hot
so she persuaded his lordship to engage the
famous new singer Madlle. Fiesole at an
almost fabulous sum, and invite all fashionable

London to a concert. Of course there
were numberless stars of a lesser magnitude
in Fiesole's train, and the approaching concert
was expected to be unsurpassable in
talent. For ten days at least before the
evening on which it was to take place it
was the subject of endless conversation,
and many were the heart-burnings of those
individuals who aspired to belong to good
society, and yet had not crossed the impenetrable
of that exclusive set to which
the Beaurepaires belonged. The Duke and
Duchess of Monarchs arrived in town just
as the invitations were being sent out ; her
grace seemed to have profited greatly by
the change, and looked far less white and
preoccupied than she had done when she
left England, nor did she seem at all to
miss her quondam shadow, Mrs Tremayne,
who had suddenly gone abroad, leaving her
house in an agent's hands to be let.

A stereotyped account of the lights and

flowers and general splendour which prevailed
at the Beaurepaire fete would be
neither amusing nor instructive ; still less a
detailed description of the toilettes of the
high dames who streamed up the staircase
in crowds ; suffice it to say, that when the
duke and duchess arrived, they were accompanied
by Mr Shipwright, and that Lady
Valentina received him with a very sweet
smile, and looked superbly regal in her soft
white satin dress, with no ornament, save
some pearls, her father's last gift, twined in
her glossy hair. The Rev. Lawrence just
slightly squeezed the little gloved hand she
held out to him, and passed on into the
glittering throng, visions of a bishopric rising
pleasantly in his mind, with Lady Valentina
for coadjutor in the pastoral charge. He
had none of Mr Lently's scruples on the
subject of matrimony, and had only remained
a celibate till he was well over fifty, for the
reason that never before had he found any

woman of sufficiently high station and dignity
to fill so important a position as that
of his honoured wife and helpmeet. Mr
Sivewriorht soon met a few old friends of
his early London days in the throng, for he
always had had the entree into some of the
best houses in London ; still of later years,
shut up in his country parish, notwithstanding
the companionship of such women as
the duchess and Mrs Desborough, he had
grown rusty. No one knew it so well ashe
did himself.

When standing in the vortex in Lord Beau-repaired
drawing-room he felt quite outside
the torrent of babble which forms the sum
total of London society. He scarcely regretted
it, however, for though he loved
society, especially as the word is understood
by highly bred, well-educated people, yet
there was a very cynical expression on
his face, as leaning against a door, he
watched the people as they passed him on

their way to the concert room. Music had
no especial charms for Mr Shipwright, so
he had placed himself where he could hear
just as much of the great Fiesole as pleased
him, and yet make a retreat into the cooler
rooms if he were bored ; added to which,
perhaps he had other reasons for wishing
to give himself free ingress and egress on
that particular evening. The brilliant programme
was half over, and he was still
standing, statue - like, at the outer door,
almost alone as it were, for the vast crowd
was in front of him listening with strained
ears and engrossed senses to the magical
trill of Fiesole's voice. There was a deep
silence save for its clear notes ; he heard
the almost inaudible frou-frou of a woman's
dress close to him.

He turned his head suddenly  the Lady
Valentina.

1 Not listening to Fiesole ? ' she said, with
some little surprise in her voice.

They were too far off for their low-toned
conversation to interfere with the
enjoyment of others.

1 And you ? '

'Oh, I am hostess, therefore compelled
to play the skirmishes on the look out for
late comers.'

Otherwise you would be in the very
centre of that room, and perfectly happy.
Eh?'

I am very fond of music,' she answered,
1 but as for enjoying, well  no, I do not
enjoy anything in a crowd.'

1 But you like London life ? '

Do I ? I think not. I believe I am
very tired of it ; but it suits papa better
than any other, he misses his club when
we are in the country ? '

1 And you, Lady Valentina, do you really
mean to say that you would be content to
live a country life ? '

1 I ? Oh yes, I should like it. I take a

part in this turmoil because I belong toit,
but I infinitely prefer quietude and
regular hours. What many people would
term monotony would be a pleasure to me.'

Cocks and hens and sick people ; do you
think you could ever tolerate them ? ' he
said, half cynically.

For poultry I have a perfect passion. If J
lived in the country, to have rare specimens
of poultry would be my special delight ; and
as for sick people, I hope I am not so hardhearted
as to have no kindly feeling for
them,' and she looked up at him with a smile.

Perhaps in connection with Matthew Des-borough
Lady Valentina had had these things
much in contemplation of late, it was then
somewhat of an ordeal through which Mr
Shipwright was forcing her to pass. He never
dreamed of this, but said very fervently, 

Hard-hearted  no, never should I be such
a barbarian as to deem you hard-hearted ; on
the contrary, I was about to appeal mo

ardently to your large-heartiness, by asking
you to overlook some of the many faults
which are glaringly apparent in my character
and habitation, and to share with me my
modest home. If  '

With you, Mr Shipwright ! ' the exclamation
was one savouring more of surprise than
satisfaction, but it did not arrest his suit.
Once having launched his bark of love, he
was determined not to withdraw it, because
the waters into which it had drifted were
scarcely suppleness. If it could not weather
the first squall, there was little hope for the
future, so all his knowledge of navigation
must be brought to bear.

1 With me, Lady Valentina. Is my poor
homage so small a tribute that it is met by
scorn ? '

Oh no, I did not mean that at all, but
you have taken me so much by surprise.'

Mr Shipwright's wife ! and Lady Valentine
mused, perhaps she was a little flattered

by the immense compliment she felt she had
been paid, at all events she considered the
position seriously, while he poured forth a
torrent of the ablest words he had at command.
They might have been gibberish for
anything she heeded, the one fact that he had
asked her to marry him was so clearly before
her, that she paid no attention to the rapid
torrent into which he had learnt on a sudden
to give his passion vent ; but when he had
finished she smiled and looked coyly at him,
as though she were half afraid of his iron-grey
locks, and yet admired the man for
the daring with which he had ventured to
woo her. Encouraged by her aspect he took
her hand  she did not attempt to withdraw
it. The bark suddenly found itself moored
in a bay, and the goddess of the stream
forgot to agitate the waters.

Once more the Rev. Lawrence Shipwright
put the direct question, would she share his
vicarage and his fortune ? This time to

receive a distinct affirmative, though spoken
in a whisper. If there were more of pride
than of love in the answer, she was scarcely
the sort of woman to make him feel it in the
future.

He had come to the rescue of her pride in
an hour of pique, and with her life she would
show her gratitude. Gratitude ! was that the
warmest feeling Mr Shipwright could evoke
after spending so many years in a vain
search after perfection ? Yes, if even Lord
Castletowers had proposed a week later, when
she was quite sure of Matthew's defalcation,
he might perchance have been equally well
received. But knowing though Mr Sive-wright
did of Matthew's love for Valentina,
it yet never occurred to him that she, a
regal beauty, cared for the stripling heir of
Vantage, handsome though he was. " Regard,
interest, was the warmest feeling he
supposed she felt for Matthew Desborough,
or he had scarcely put himself in the position

of being thought of Matthew's rival.
It mattered little, however ; Lady Valentina
had made a confidante of no one on the
subject, and she was never likely herself to
divulge this secret to Mr Shipwright, since
she had consented to be his wife.

They sauntered away from the door into
an ante-room, where ' a little glooming light
much like a shade ' was shed by some soft
pink lamps, and sat down on a blue
satin sofa, in a solitude as complete as
though they had been sitting under some
old elm in the Vantage woods. Mr Sive-wright's
talk was of the future, Lady
Valentina's heart was in the past, yet she
listened with seeming interest and made
becoming answers to his remarks ; he could
not tell that she was comparing him in
her mind, though perhaps not wholly unfavourably,
with Matthew.

From her ready acceptance of Mr Sive-wright
it may be inferred that Lady

Valentina had cooled somewhat in her
ritualistic views of late, that with her, as
with Mrs Desborough, the party to which
she professed to belong, changed with the
creed of the favourite preacher pro tern.

The fact was that Lady Valentina was
a true woman ; she had no creed, was
shackled by no dogmas, she believed firmly
in the Bible and Common Prayer-book of
the English Church, without inquiring very
curiously into what they taught or what
logical proof there was of their divine
origin.

Though she tried to be honest and conscientious
and loving, she had been so
perplexed and worried on religious matters
of late, that she felt it was another debt
of gratitude she should owe Mr Sive-wright
if he took the burden of hen conscience
upon him and supported it patiently.
In the little boudoir then, among the soft
pink lamps, the vows of these lovers were

plighted, with no less tender romance on
the one side, because the divine was approaching
three score ; with no less assumption
of an interest she did not
altogether feel on the part of the lady,
because her rank and fortune would have
enabled her to mate with the noblest in
the land.

To quote one of Mr Shipwright's favourite
poets, 

1 Hoc non fit verbis ; ut amoris ama.'

Let us hope that Lady Valentina, growing
in love as she journeys farther from
the land of regret, may reciprocate to the
fullest an honest man's affection, and never
deplore the hour when she gave her word
to ' love, honour, and obey ' the Rev.
Lawrence Shipwright.

LAYING A GHOST.

RS TREMAYNE elected to return
to the old pleasant hunting
grounds. If she could not command
a position in society's world, and reign
as one of fashion's queens, at least she would
not be moped ; but would indulge to the
fullest in her inordinate craving for excitement.
Thanks to the duke's annuity, added
to her own small income, she was in comparatively
easy circumstances, especially if
she did not attempt to vie with the rich
aristocracy of London. She took a little
villa in the neighbourhood of Monaco, with
a sort of hopeful idea that she could not fail

to double her income. Violet knew full
well that high play had brought her father's
and her own fortunes down to their very
lowest ebb ; yet, no way sobered by the
lesson, she was as keen for the venture as
though she had been the merest tyro at the
green table. In a few days, by a touch with
her magic wand, she turned the villa which,
badly furnished, had had nothing to recommend
it but its beautiful site, into a perfect
little paradise. No one knew so well as
Violet Tremayne how to make a little money
go a long way, or how to call forth surprising
effects out of what to most people would
seem colourless impossible materials. Having
established herself then not only comfortably,
but luxuriously, she went into the
great salle at Monte Carlo in search of acquaintances.
She had not proceeded very
far before she espied young Leverton.

Ah,' she said, holding out her hand to
him, ' you are the very man. You can tell

me heaps of things I want to know. Who
is everybody ? I have not been in these
parts for ages, and a new generation seems
to have sprung up.'

Mr Leverton thought for a moment of the
Baileys, and how Lady Laura had asked
that very question, then looked shocked at
his answers ; he did not, however, apprehend
any such contingency with Mrs Tremayne*
and set himself to the task she had given
him very freely, calling forth numberless
laughs from the frisky little widow, as he
proceeded with a somewhat exaggerated
description of the eccentricities and habits
of the people by whom they were surrounded.
Still Monaco was by no means at
its fullest  the hot weather had driven many
of the habitues northwards  it was only
the most ardent lovers of play who ventured
to linger on in the heat. Violet herself had
got such a coolly situated villa, with such
lovely grounds round it, that to her the time

VOL. III. R

of year mattered but little ; besides, come fairweather
come foul, had she not selected this
place for a permanent residence. And a
rare addition to the Monte Carlo society
was Violet likely to prove, especially if she
fulfilled her golden expectations ; for that
she would keep open house there is small
doubt.

1 Are you going in to play ? ' asked Mr
Leverton at last, after their talk had lasted
for some time.

No, not to-day. I am just looking about
me a little. I shall begin work in earnest
tomorrow.'

1 Why waste valuable time ? '

Oh, I believe I am just a wee bit superstitious
 to-day is Friday, you know. Don't
laugh at me.'

1 Laugh at you ! are not all gamblers
superstitious ? We should not be gamblers
unless we believed in luck.'

Just so, and as we are on the subject I

don't mind owning that I am rather inclined
to quarrel with the omens and auguries just
now.'

In what way ? '

Well, if the Villa Tadela, which I have
taken, were not newly built, I should say it
was haunted.'

A ghost story at Monte Carlo ! Oh, Mrs '
Tremayne, it wanted but that to make up
the sum total of its delights. Your luck is
certainly in the ascendant since it falls to
your lot to supply one.'

I don't see anything very delightful ina
ghost story. I hate weird dreary things,
not that I have exactly seen a ghost, only
there is something supernatural about, I do
believe.'

Mr Leverton looked a little incredulous ;
but Violet was not daunted.

1 You shall come into my grounds to-night
after sunset and see what you shall see,
unless indeed you are afraid.'

Afraid of a ghost ! ' and he laughed.
1 The only ghost that I am afraid of is
poverty

Then it is settled that you will come over
to the Villa Tadela this evening about nine,
and that you will walk conscientiously fora
whole half-hour about the grounds.'

On one condition, yes. That you will
accompany me.'

Now, do you suppose the ghost will
appear if we are chattering there ? '

Oh, we will be quite silent, and walk on
tiptoe if you like.'

Very well, only I shall also make my
condition, that if you do not see the ghost
to-night, you will go in search of it tomorrow
night alone.'

Agreed ; and now instead of going home
to think about ghosts and miseries, suppose
you come and dine with me in the public
room. It is past six.'

swell, I don't mind if I do,' was Mrs

Tremayne's answer, by which it may be inferred
that it was her absolute intention to
leave all the conventionalities de rigueur in
good society utterly behind her, in the old
career from which she had parted for ever.
And, verily, this sort of hap-hazard life was
far more in accordance with Violet Tree
proclivities than the more monotonous
and carefully guarded one, into which
she had endeavoured for a while to thrust
herself.

Mr Leverton ordered an appetising little
repast, with an accompaniment of ' Roederer
pour la grande Bretagne] as the waiter invariably
expressed it ; perhaps Mr Leverton
thought it would serve to lay Violet's ghost,
or at all events give them some courage to
go in search of it. Truly, if noise and 'tall
talk' and glare in anyway represent courage,
it existed in overflowing abundance in the
Monte Carlo dining-room.

Dinner was a long process, the digester in

the form of much conversation with several
acquaintances being taken into consideration,
and it was already half-past eight when
Violet and her preux chevalier stood once
more in the open air and looked at the full
moon, which was shedding down on them
floods of pale soft light.

Come up to the villa and have some
coffee, then we will go for our little stroll.'

Nothing loth, he acquiesced, and they
went together, making the terraces resound
with their gay chatter. Anything more unlike
being impressed by a ghost panic could
not well be imagined.

They drank their coffee, and Mr Leverton
admired the luxurious arrangement of the
pretty villa, till a somewhat awful ' Now,'
enunciated in orthodox ghost tones by
Violet, recalled him to a recollection of the
wherefore that had brought him to the Villa
Tadela.

1 Shall we take a revolver or the poker ? '

he asked, still slightly exhilarated by the
'' Roederer pour la grande Bretagne of
which it could scarcely be said that he had
drunk sparingly.

I Nonsense, Mr Leverton ; be serious for
once in your life, if it be possible.'

Serious ? You surely do not mean that
this play is anything more than a joke ? '

I I am perfectly serious. Come, and nota
word, remember

He went through a pantomimic display of
coercing his feelings into a courageous appearance,
and followed her into the garden.
The moon had hidden itself behind a cloud,
and a gloom had superseded the almost
dazzling brightness of half-an-hour ago.

There was something intensely comic in
the mute procession-timed march in which
they made the circuit of the grounds, Mr
Leverton shrugging his shoulders when they
returned to their starting point, as though
to insinuate that a vast amount of nothing

had been accomplished ; but to Violet's stern
4 Again ' he responded by following her at
once. This time, arrived at a long arbour
which had been erected to serve as a heat
refuge, she stopped, and laying her hand on
Mr Leverton's arm, pressed it gently. There
was something moving among the foliage.
Was it a man, an animal, or a spirit ?

Violet was prepared to declare for the
latter ; but Mr Leverton said this time in
sober earnest, 

If I only had my revolver

She answered by a ' Hush,' and her hand
still laid on his arm as though she would
assure herself of the presence of at least
one human being, she walked on slowly,
drawing him with her ; the undefinable
shadow, for it was nothing more, following
them closely a little to the right. They
went up to some steps leading directly into
the villa, where they stopped. The ghost
stopped too.

At that moment the moon looked forth
from behind the cloud. It was the figure
of a man that was passing among the foliage.
That there was no denying, though they
could not see his face distinctly. Violet
gave a little half-cry as though of pain
and dropped her hold of Mr Leverton's
arm.

Mrs Tremayne, this adventure frightens
you, pray go into the house while I punish
this rash offender.'

1 No,' she said very decidedly ; 'do as I
bid you. You go into the house  take the
light that is in the drawing-room, carry it
up to a room on the first floor, third door
from the staircase on the left, and bring
from there a whistle and a whip, which you
will find on a chest of drawers. I will
remain here till you return.'

But are you sure you are not  '

The form in the bushes moved as though
coming nearer to them.

1 Go at once. I am brave enough, only
obey me.'

She watched him as he ran up the steps
and into the house, then she turned and sped
off at her swiftest towards the ghost.

So you thought to frighten me,' she said
breathlessly when she reached him, ' this
foolhardy trick might have cost you your
life. Why are you here at all ; and what
do you want ? '

c You he replied briefly, as he took off
his cap, and Cheap Jack Varley's features
were plainly visible in the moonlight. ' I
shall follow you, Pearl, wherever you go.'

My friend, the gentleman who was with
me, has gone for a horse-whip. I sent
him.'

Jack Varley smiled.

If I have borne your sneers, I can bear
his thrashing.'

For a second there was a little puzzled
look on her face, then she said, 

1 1 never knew before that it required
so much bravery to endure ; but look you,
Jack, this is all nonsense, we must come to
terms. I will not, will never marry you 
nothing shall make me ; fear of death
wouldn't ; but you shall take care of me asa
faithful dependant if you like. Will that
do?'

Till you think fit to give your hand to  '

1 Hush  here comes Mr Leverton with
a light, vanish while I get rid of him.'

His hat pushed back off his head, a lamp
in one hand a whip and whistle in the other,
Mr Leverton at this juncture began slowly
to descend the steps. He paused when he
found Violet was not in her place ; she
speedily returned to it, however.

It is all right, Mr Leverton, you ,are too
late, the ghost has disappeared down the
hill. I screwed up my courage and went
to have a last look at him.'

Shall I follow him ? '

'On your life, no. He might lure you
into some awful danger.'

But what will you do, Mrs Tremayne ?
You will never be able to live in this villa
alone ? '

Oh yes, I think so. I have a faithful old
servant coming to me very soon. He will lay
all the ghosts in the principality of Monaco.'

But to-night ? Are you not afraid of
sleeping in that house ? '

Considering I have seen that ghost every
night since I have been here, why should I
be more afraid to-night ? '

Violet had with some difficulty awakened
Mr Leverton's ghostly credulity, and now
she did not find it easy to pacify it. At
last, however, she succeeded in persuading
him that ghosts never return twice in the
same evening, and that therefore he might
rest quite satisfied till the morrow, when,
if he liked, they would go forth once more
on the quest.

But this time without finding the ghost,' 
she muttered to herself, as having - shaken
hands with her attendant squire, she shut
and bolted the window and went upstairs
to bed.

After a few days a major-domo was
appointed to the Tadela household, than
whom no more faithful could be found. If
he were at times a little officious, and overzealous
in the discharge of his duties, a
fault which irritated the erratic Violet,
she had, however, the good sense to remember
that, except Jack Varley, she had
not a friend in the world  that he alone
on the whole earth had cared sufficiently
about her, to throw up his trade and follow
her fortunes ; to live like a dog in fact for
her sake, to be spoken kindly to or spurned
according to the whim of the most capricious
of mistresses.

WEDDING WELCOMES.

TpHE Vicarage of Fernwood-cum-
Grasdale was in gala dress. The
honeymoon of the Rev. Lawrence
and Lady Valentina Shipwright had been
passed at the country house of one of her
noble relations, and they had come home
about three days ago, under triumphal arches
which had been erected at intervals in that
portion of the parish through which they
were to pass. The idea of a vicars had
set all the people on the alert ; their zeal
in welcoming the bride not perhaps being
lessened by the fact of her being a 'my
lady.'

The first Sunday had been got over, and
Lady Valentina had shown herself demure
and quietly dressed in her husband's church.
She was perhaps scarcely as smiling and
happy-looking as the honest, simple-minded
parishioners expected, but that, they conjectured,
was no doubt owing to her exalted
rank.

Mrs Desborough, making use of her
mourning as an excuse, had not been present
at the marriage, which took place in London,
and she shook hands with Lady Valentina
for the first time as Mr Shipwright's wife
under the porch of Fernwood Church. Although
she had elected her for a daughter-in-law,
she owed her a grudge for marrying
her beloved vicar, and the meeting between
the two ladies was consequently scarcely as
cordial as their previous intimacy might have
warranted. Mrs Desborough made very
civil, well-turned speeches ; of these there
was no scarcity, but from their very abundance,

perhaps, they showed that lack of
sincerity which Valentina could not help
feeling, as she foresaw that near neighbours
though she and Mrs Desborough would be
in the future, yet her visits to Vantage
Park would be very periodical and never
expected without a formal invitation.

Mrs Desborough had by no means taken
the same view of Mr Shipwright's marriage
that the duchess had done ; thus the vicar
had been quite right in the conclusions he
arrived at anent the two women. But then
poor Mrs Desborough, had she not been
severely tried ? Her nerves had been much
shaken by poor George's death, and since
both Mr Shipwright and Matthew had turned
aside from the progressive path she had
marked out for them, was it to be expected
that she should do otherwise than be discontented
? So in ' the winter of her discontent
' she turned in her search for ' glorious
summer ' to the Rev. Luke Lently, who

would give her the work of which there was
but little to be found in Fernwood parish,
and what little there was would henceforth
be done by Lady Valentina, at least so she
concluded.

Although the Rev. Luke Lently felt the
star of his importance to be somewhat in
the ascendant at this juncture, naturally,
he utterly and totally disapproved of his dear
and reverend brothers marriage. But he
so entirely approved of Matthew's, that this
latter served as a counterpoise, and rendered
him sufficiently amiable to enable him to go
and pay his devoirs to the bride at Fern-wood,
which he did on the Monday following
the coming home, and to the astonishment
of those of his own parishioners who
saw them start; he was accompanied by
Mrs Lently.

Lady Valentina was most gracious. She
had always had a kindly feeling towards Mr
Lently, partly on Matthew's account and

VOL. III. S

partly because she believed in and admired
his zeal. Mrs Lently she saw to-day for
the first time, and it were useless to say she
was not a little appalled by that good lady's
eccentricities of dress and manner.

If this is a sample of vicar's wives, I
have indeed married out of my sphere,' she
thought ; but her breeding prevented her
from showing any reflex of her thoughts to
her visitors, and the talk flowed pleasantly
enough for more than a quarter of an hour,
when Mr Shipwright came into the room, and
received with much unctuousness the good
wishes which the Vicars of Ravensholme
thought fit to shower upon him. But good-hearted,
well-meaning Mrs Lently was totally
devoid of tact. She never could converse
with any one for five consecutive minutes
without saying the wrong thing, and her
mental short-sightedness seemed to have increased,
perhaps owing to nervousness, during
the conversation with the Vicar of Fernwood.

1 I went to Hammersmith about a fortnight
ago to the school  my Molly is there,
you know  and I saw Lucy Brown. Poor
child, why don't you take her away from
t here, Mr Shipwright ? She's not happy

The Rev. Lawrence's brow grew crimson,
Could it be possible that Lady Valentina
had heard naught of Lucy Brown ? From
the way in which she turned her attention
from Mr Lently to his wife, it was almost
apparent.

Why do you suppose it to be in my
power to remove Lucy Brown from that
school ? ' he asked rather sternly during an
uncomfortable silence.

1 Because she says you are the only person
who ever goes nigh her, and that she looks
to you alone for everything she has in the
world. Poor child ! I was quite glad to be
able to take her out with Molly and be justa
little kind to her.'

I am sure Lucy Brown feels exceedingly

indebted to you,' he said very coldly, assuming
his sternest, grandest manner, even
making Mrs Lently ' shake all over like,'
as she afterwards explained it to Mrs Giles ;
and she was by no means one of those individuals
who are easily influenced by tone
and voice. She did not mend matters either,
by saying rather hurriedly, 

I hope I have not done anything amiss
in taking the child out. Oh dear ! oh dear !
Somehow I am always doing the wrong
thing when I mean to do the right one.'

Mr Lently rose, he was invariably uncomfortable,
ill at ease in his wife's society,
and the turn affairs had taken made him
more than usually so to-day. Mr Sive-wright,
however, said more civilly, though
still very stiffly, 

1 1 assure you, my dear Mrs Lently, the
obligation is on our side. Valentina, will you
not join me in thanking Mrs Lently for her
kindness to zprotdgde of mine ? '

Lady Valentina endorsed her husband's
thanks with grave politeness, and the
Lently took their leave ; Mrs Lently
mentally determining that it would be a
long while before she put her foot inside
Fernwood Vicarage again.

As a natural sequitur, the first question
asked after the front door was closed on
them was, 

1 Who is Lucy Brown ? '

Mr Shipwright looked at his wife, then at
his filbert nails, then once more at his wife ;
at last he said in very clear but low tones, 

I cannot, may not tell you. She and
the secret of her birth were confided to me
on ja death-bed. An oath binds me to keep
my word in looking after her and shielding
her parents' name. Have you sufficient confidence
in me to help me to keep it without
asking questions ? '

Lady Valentina held out her hand to
him.

I am your wife, ought not that to be a
sufficient answer ? '

He pressed the hand she had given him
to his lips.

1 Thank you, my love, thank you. Then,
with your assistance, I hope we shall be
able to make this poor child's life a brighter
one. Till she is fifteen, I am bound to have
her instructed in religion as it is understood
by the ritualistic section of the church, after
that age she is to choose for herself. She
is turned fourteen now, and does not seem
to appreciate her Hammersmith rule.'

Poor child, we will have her here and
see if we cannot shed a little brightness and
warmth over her life.'

Mr Shipwright told his wife of little Lucy's
craving for trees and a river, and it was soon
arranged that her next vacation should be
passed at Fernwood. What mattered gossipping
tongues as long as husband and wife
were at unity on the subject of Lucy Brown ?

And so two or three weeks passed on
happily enough for Valentina ; perhaps more
happily than any time she had yet experienced
in life. Every day she learned to
care more and more for Mr Shipwright
and to appreciate the luxurious tranquillity
of her new home, revelling in a monotony
which suited her in every respect better
than the more turbulent variations of the
world she had left.

About this period Mr Shipwright, returning
one day from some parish meeting,
brought the news that the Baileys had arrived
at Swanover, and that the marriage
of Matthew and Claire was to take place
forthwith. Lady Valentina had scarcely
got over the sort of startle which this intelligence
occasioned her, when Matthew
himself, in his old impetuous way, dashed inrushing
past the servant into the drawing-room,
utterly regardless that etiquette demanded
that he should be properly announced.

The meeting was a warm one on all
sides ; perhaps Lady Valentina felt that she
had nothing to regret, and Matthew, radiant
with happiness, rejoiced that he had been
true to his love and to himself, especially
as he had no grounds for self-reproach as
regarded Lady Valentina, in whom he hoped
to secure a firm life-friend for Claire.

Influenced thus by priest or parson, a
change had passed over the actors in the
life-drama which, during the last few months,
had been playing itself out in the fair parishes
of Fernwood and Ravensholme.

If Mr Shipwright has seemed to accomplish
the larger share, owing to his more
fully developed diplomatic powers, and to
that importance which his physique and bearing
lent even to his most trivial actions, it
was perchance but another illustration of
the time-honoured truism, that head generally
triumphs over heart in all worldly
matters. Not that the latter organ was

small in our sleek divine, far from it, but
that the abnormal prominence of the head
was apt to dwarf it to the common eye.
The common eye ! the phrase gives the key
as to why Luke Lently, like many a man
of far superior parts, was a failure instead
of a success. Intent upon higher things,
he did not sufficiently respect the common
eye. In the busy scuffle of life people will
not take the trouble to dive into motives,
or to make allowance for exaggerations.
Yet ! Yet when all is said, it perhaps
comes to this, that those very persons who
would seek the respectable, the aristocratic
Parsons counsel and assistance under the
weight of mere worldly care, might fain fly
nevertheless to the dusty, unfashionable and
less logical Priest, when in an hour of extremity
the suffering soul cries aloud for
spiritual guidance and help.

