CHAPTER I.

HER DEBUT.

SS she coming to-night?'

Who do you mean by
she?'

Ah, madame, you know
full well. Of course I mean the beauty
who has rendered me sleepless for the
last few nights.'

And yet you have only seen her photograph
! I did not know you were so
susceptible, or I should have been more
careful.'

VOL. I. A

But, tell me, madame, do you expect
her here to-night ?'

If Madame d'Albin has not got a cold :
she is to come with her.'

Bah ! Madame d'Albin has always
got a cold.'

Madame de Brissac's answer was a
ringing laugh, and she turned away from
M. Felix de Gourlay, a little dandy, who
was known amongst his intimates as le
papillon triste, for the reason that he was
perpetually in love with some new beauty ;
but, unlike men of his changeable mood,
instead of sipping pleasure from every
blooming flower, he was made absolutely
miserable by each fresh passion that
took possession of him. Madame de
Brissac, the presiding genius of one of
the most celebrated salons in Paris, did
not turn away from Felix de Gourlay because
he bored her ; on the contrary, she
was a genial, amiable woman, and the
account of Felix de Gourlay's desperate
despairs afforded her immense satisfaction ;
but, being hostess, she turned from him to
greet an individual of a very different type.

He was a big man, of whose face but little
was seen, it was so shrouded by dark hair,
but a pair of eyes, keen as a hawk's, yet
soft in expression as a dove's, denoted at
once brilliancy of mind and a latent fund
of loving-kindness that bubbled over, even
to weakness, at every turn.

Paul Cazalet was the lion of the hour.
He was a geuj-e painter who for some
months past had been turning men's
heads, and making connoisseurs of both
sexes proclaim him a genius.

Worshipped, flattered, petted, still he
had not been spoiled, but was a thoroughly
good, genial fellow.

How meek Is real genius, and that Paul
Cazalet was a genius, there is little doubt !
Madame de Brissac had received at her
well - known Thursdays more than one 
nay, more than a hundred  nineteenth-century
stars of every country and characteristic
; yet to none of them had she
ever extended her hand with more real
cordiality than to Paul Cazalet. * She
positively delighted in him as a man, and,'
she was wont to tell her Intimates, ' if she

had been thirty, instead of sixty, would
have given her heart to him altogether.'

No wonder, then, though intensely
amused by Felix de Gourlay's chatter,
she ceased to remember even his existence,
at the approach of Paul Cazalet.
A groan from the injured butterfly, when
he saw the man he, in the plenitude of
his conceit, called his rival, momentarily
recalled Madame de Brissac to a
recollection of his presence.

Allez, Monsieur Felix,' she said pleasantly
; ' make the tour of the rooms, and
bring me word if the new beauty has
arrived.'

Monsieur Felix departed, with a bow, todo
her bidding, very certain that he could
not fail to recognise the woman whose
photograph he had seen in Madame de
Brissac's boudoir three days ago, and
about whom he had ever since been
making himself quite ill.

Having ridded herself of Felix de Gourlay,
who became a bore when he ceased to
be a plaything, Madame de Brissac said,
with much seriousness, to Paul Cazalet, 

You received my note begging you to
make an effort and come here to-night ? '

It is never an effort to come and see
you, madame.'

A truce to nonsense, Paul. Treat meas
an old woman, which I am.'

A charming woman has no age,' he
interrupted.

Tiens ! tiens ! where have you been
taking lessons ? One would think you were
a Frenchman, and the world says you area
bear.'

Ay, an English bear,' and he laughed ;
but remember I have lived in Paris nearly
all my life, and had the honour of your
acquaintance for at least six months.'

That is true. But do not take lessons
from the people by whom I am surrounded
: their manners are detestable
and insincere. You thoroughly know the
value of words, my friend ; never allow
that value to be depreciated. Better to
be rough  as a bear, if you like  than to
indulge in meaningless flattery. Women
will love you more deeply if you do not
always praise them ; while men  but I

don't think you are polite to-men, so I'll
stop my little sermon at the women.'

And may I ask if I was sent for here
to-night simply to be scolded ? '

No, dear Paul, no ; but to be presented
to the new beauty. She is English,
like yourself; but, unlike yourself, she is
quite uninitiated in the ways of our gay
capital.'

And you are going to appoint me her
esquire. As I have often told you, I have
no talent for understanding the whims of
fine ladies. I was born in a very humble
class. My father still keeps a boulangerie
in the Batignolles. He will not give it up,
though I have offered him a good income
if he will do so. We are of a proud race,
we Cazalets, though we are of the people.
Let every one stick to his trade, and be
independent of his fellows," is my father's
motto.'

And he has passed it on to you, big
bear. Still, for all that, although I do not
command you to be the esquire of this
desolate beauty, I command you to go
mad on the subject of her loveliness.'

Desolate beauty ! What a triste appellation
! '

She Is a widow.'
Young ? '

Why, of course  not more than twenty


Her name ?'

Mrs Jocelyn. She has been in Paris
a year  Having in retirement on account of
her mourning.'

And she is coming to-night ?'
Is already here.'

And Madame de Brissac crossed the
room, followed by Paul Cazalet, whose
curiosity had been somewhat aroused.
Madame d'Albin, whom he knew by
sight, was in the doorway. She was
a woman about twenty-six, dressed in
exquisite demi-toilette, which was de
7'igue7tr at Madame de Brissac's Thursdays.
She was a brunette of prepossessing
appearance, and, as a rule, attracted
a good deal of attention wherever she
went. On this occasion, however, she
was well-nigh overlooked, for every eye
was fixed on the English girl following

her  Mrs Jocelyn. Just a year ago since
her husband had died, people whispered,
and this was her first appearance on a
so-called festive scene. She still clung
to the mourning habiliments which proclaimed
her solitary state  clung to them
the more pertinaciously because they added
not a little to the setting off of her wondrous
beauty.

Her dress was of soft black silk, without
furbelow or tournure, thus aiding the
expression of every bend of her graceful
figure, while her height was increased by
the long, trailing skirt. The body fitted
to perfection, and cut rather low at the
neck, it was filled up with a quantity of
soft white tulle, among which nestled a
riviere of diamonds.

Masses of auburn hair were coiled and
twisted into endless rolls of such picturesque
confusion that they needed no
ornaments, but were themselves as an
aureole to the sweet young face.

Paul Cazalet accompanied Madame de
Brissac half way across the room, then he
stood for a second or two gazing on the

newcomer  nor was he the only one who
gazed, as it were, spellbound.

The sensation Madame de Brissac had
calculated on had in no way fallen short of
her expectations. Mrs Jocelyn's reputation
as a beauty was established. The
effect of it on Paul Cazalet was, moreover,
of so marked a nature, that it savoured
of strangeness. It was evident that,
beholding her, the courage of the strong
man failed him, for when Madame de
Brissac, the first gush of her reception
over, turned to present him to her English
friend, he was gone, only the dismal
butterfly, with eager, longing eyes, was at
her elbow waiting.

She was provoked, so provoked that
the sight of Felix de Gourlay irritated her,
and, unheeding his whispered petition for
an introduction, she treated him as though
she saw him not, and begged Mrs Jocelyn
to come into an adjoining room, where
Barri, the great tenor, was going to sing.
Mrs Jocelyn, quite composed and at her
ease in the new role, which she felt she
would play from that night henceforth, accompanied

Madame de Brissac into the
music-room, talking pleasantly to her the
while.

She noted full well the admiring glances
of the other guests, but she behaved as
though she saw them not, and chatted on
very glibly in French.

Whence Nelly Jocelyn came, or what
her name was before she married, no one
exactly knew, but during the year of her
retirement she had not lost one single opportunity
of perfecting herself in the language
of the country in which for a time
she had elected to dwell. She did not
speak with the rapidity and gesticulation
of a native, but there was a charm about
her manner of expressing herself, that was
wellnigh as fascinating as her beauty.

A place was found for her near the
piano. Madame de Brissac had set the
report in circulation that Mrs Jocelyn loved
art. Poor little half-educated Nelly a
patroness of the fine arts! Till a year
ago, her playing never exceeded a polka,
and her painting a daubed panel on
which it was difficult to decide whether

the objects were trees or clouds ; but a
new epoch had commenced in her life ;
she had been studying painting with a
respectable amount of success ; and she
had learnt to talk musical jargon, though
she would never be a performer herself.
It is astonishing, with a will such as Nelly
possessed, what a year will effect !

BarrI sang a grand Italian solo, and
with his luscious voice added to the
intoxication Mrs Jocelyn's arrival had produced,
while as for himself, he acknowledged
afterwards that never, even on the
most crowded, applauding opera night, had
he felt the wild turbulence of excitement
agitate him so strongly as when he received
the thanks and plaudits of the
lovely Englishwoman, who had sat listening
to him as in a trance.

She had taken off her long black glove,
and her white arm, jewelled, with its
large, shapely hand, was resting on the
piano while she spoke. It was unconventional,
but Nelly neither then nor ever
would understand the word conventionality.

To enjoy and be at her ease was her

one idea of life, and the set of people
among whom she had made her debut in
Paris belonged for the most part to the
artistic  that is, to the Bohemian  world,
marshalled as they were by Madame de
Brissac, herself the daughter of a painter,
married to an old general, now long deceased.
The prefix to her name, the
sprinkling of people with prefixes who attended
her sources, gave them just an
aristocratic tinge, keeping them from becoming
in the least rowdy or familiar.

A pretty Englishwoman would be highly
appreciated in Madame de Brissac's set,
and here seemed offered to Nelly the opportunity
to reign for which she had been
hankering ever since she was old enough
to rule the inmates of the home to which
she never alluded, and about which no one
seemed to ask, accepting her beauty as
passport.

On a sudden, as she sat by the piano
she was attracted by a pair of eyes that
were riveted on her from a doorway at
the farther end of the room from the oneby
which she had entered.

The eyes never closed nor blinked, but
remained fixed on her face, fascinating her
to such an extent that she felt she must
get up and go towards them.

Giving way to the impulse, she started
up, and was about to cross the room, when
she was suddenly stopped by Madame de
Brissac, who had been at last tormented into
presenting the Vicomte de Gourlay. Unfortunate
Felix ! the moment was scarcely
an auspicious one. Nelly surveyed him
from head to foot with a contempt that, ina
more guarded moment, she would have
concealed, merely vouchsafed a bow of her
pretty head, and then asked Madame de
Brissac, speaking very rapidly, 

Who is that standing in the doorway
yonder ? '

'Cazalet.' And the hostess's countenance
beamed when she saw the painter.

Cazalet  Paul Cazalet, who painted
Les Orphelmes ? "  introduce him.'

There was no escape for Paul now,
another second and he felt himself bowing
over Nelly's unloved hand, which was
lying in his, while she told him that for

months past, ever since she had seen his
marvellous picture, she had longed for this
introduction.

He looked at her, and smiled.

Ah ! there is some joy in your face,'
she whispered. ' I had almost feared it
was all sorrow. Why did you look so sad
as you stood in the doorway ? '

Did I look sad ? It was probably
because a great fear lay at my heart.'

A fear  of what ? '

That a page was about to be turned
over in my life, on which I should scarcely
find the word peace.'

Yet report says you are a philosopher.'

Ay, but there are some passions which
are stronger than philosophy, and kill it.'

'Indeed!'

And she opened her large ingenuous
eyes in wonder.

He did not reply to her ejaculation,
except by saying, ' Late hours kept him
from work in the morning. This was the
last soire he should come to ; he bade hera
very good night.'

She laughed as he left her ; he heard the

laugh, and through the long, wakeful, silent
hours of the night it haunted him.

She, however, turned to a bystander.

So that is Cazalet;  strange, whimsical
nature ; no wonder his work surpasses that
of most people.'

Pity he does not stop in his atelier and
draw bears.'

It was the slighted butterfly who ventured
on this remark.

But Mrs Jocelyn shook her head, 

Nay, not bears  heroes ! '

C A Z A L E T.

JAZALET is in his studio, of
which he has closed, even
double locked, the outer door
his mood is morose.
He is, as a rule, scarcely a congenial
man  that is, with men, and he does not
encourage the idlers, sometimes brother-artists,
sometimes dilettante who not infrequently
pass their time in studios.

To work with Cazalet means to think,
not chatter ; still there are some who are
admitted there occasionally for an hour's
serious talk, but even against these has
Cazalet closed his outer door to-day.

Yet he is not working, he is standing

gazing on a canvas on which some figures
have only been sketched in roughly. Is
he thinking of those figures while he looks
intently at them ? It would scarcely seem
so, for he never adds or diminishes a
stroke. Work and he seem strangely at
odds, yet the mid-day sun is streaming
floods of winter light into the studio, and
there is no apparent reason for idleness.
It overcomes him, however, none the less
powerfully, for its seeming want of cause,
and he finally sets the canvas down with
its face to the wall, and lighting a cigar,
begins to smoke vigorously.

Where have I seen that face before ? '
he asks himself, between the puffs. ' Is
it in dreams or in the substantial land
of reality ? Paul Cazalet, if you were not
both knave and fool, you would pack up
your knapsack and run from this atdlie7' of
yours as if hard-hearted creditors where behind
you. Yet, wherefore ? My picture
for the Salon, my order from the Viennese
banker  is all to be relinquished on
account of a woman's eyes and a shock
of auburn hair, that I have only seen

VOL. I. B

once ? Certainly not. I will stand my
ground,  lock the door,  refuse all invitations,
and be in reality the bear men
choose to call me. Ah ! you may knock
away, persistent intruder, there will be no
admission.'

And he sat down beside the open
window of an inner room, and taking up a
pencil began to sketch on a piece of paper
lying beside him.

Paul Cazalet's quarters in the Rue
Mignon consisted of a large studio, where
he as a rule spent every hour of daylight,
but which, unlike the studios of most men
who had reached Cazalet's fame, was
totally unornamented. It was a mere
workshop  no silken curtains, no tapestry,
no rare china set about in cabinets to
create effect ; the walls, except for a
picture or two he had hung up out of the
way, were bare, scarcely even clean ; the
high raftered roof was cobwebby ; the few
chairs the place contained rickety and
unworthy of a corner in a rich man's
kitchen.

Cazalet had no time to waste on fal-lals

or trumpery, he was wont to say, when
asked why he did not decorate his atdlier
as others did.

Free - spoken detractors  and Paul
Cazalet was too independent a man not
to have his detractors  averred that it was
sheer conceit that made Cazalet so seemingly
careless about his surroundings ;
that he believed his pictures were grand
enough to crown the most dismal hole
with glory.

In this they were scarcely mistaken ;
but, like most gossips, they were too small-minded
to be able to form any judgment
of the character of such a man as Cazalet,
who in his simplicity did not understand
hidden meanings.

He was engrossed in his work, and
whether his atdlier was decorated or not,
in truth he scarcely knew.

Born among the people, he had not
strayed often enough into aristocratic
haunts to have formed Caproean tastes.

Adjoining the studio there was a smaller
room, in which Cazalet sat, received his
friends occasionally in an evening, and

remained sometimes for half the night
reading wonderful old romances that fired
his imagination and kept alight his love
for the ideal. Out of this room there was
a cabinet de toilette where he slept, and in
neither the one nor the other was there
one article of furniture, one luxury more
than was absolutely necessary.

These rooms were scrupulously clean,
for his old nurse Justine was admitted to
them. She had her kitchen and her little
sleeping den across a passage at the back
of the apartment, and was allowed to
expend as much energy as she listed In the
sitting-room, but into her master's atdlier
she never dared penetrate without his
permission.

Good Justine  she had been Paul
Cazalet's foster-mother  what would he
have done without her ? She mended
his clothes, and prevented him from being
the subject of much jealous criticism on
his tatterdemalion appearance ; and, better
still, she kept away doctor's bills, by looking
after his meals and setting dainty
morsels before him, which he, ungrateful

monster that he was, devoured without
even knowing what he was eating. But
Justine wanted no thanks  she had become
a second mother to Paul, when his own
English mother died, and as long as he
was well, and his fame increased, she was
content ; nor ever pressed her society or
her remarks upon him.

Justine was one of the few golden
women there are in the world, who do all
that is necessary, without putting themselves
obtrusively forward, and diminishing
their own value by constantly jarring
against nervous, irritable temperaments.

Naturally a woman of few words, even
when she felt that talking was necessary
for her wellbeing, it was never Paul she
selected for a victim.

She came into the little salon now,
where he was sitting smoking by the window.
To the tip of her tongue rose the
query, why he was not at work, but she
judged it expedient to repress it, and without
a single remark set the cloth for his
dejeuner with as much complacency as
though she usually found the great artist

sitting calmly by the window at that
hour.

It was Cazalet himself who broke the
silence.

Justine, ma mie, have you been into
the Batignolles lately ? '

Seen your father, do you mean ? ' she
asked, still following her occupation of
cloth laying.

He nodded his head.

Three days ago I saw him. He looks
old and ill.'

Why did you not tell me ? '

Why should I ? I made two or three
little things he likes, and sent them by the
boy who brings the bread.'

I will go and see him myself,' and Paul
reached down a big felt hat from a peg
close by.

*No, no, Paul. Have your dejeuner first.'

It was so seldom she interfered with
him, that he looked surprised

There were tears in the good woman's
eyes.

My omelette she said, ' it will be
quite spoiled.'

He laughed.

Ah, it is your omelette, not my
stomach, you are thinking about.'

And he sat down, like the child he was,
in obedience to her wishes.

Something, however, seemed to have
interfered with his usually good appetite :
perhaps it was what she had told him
about his father. To Justine's annoyance,
he eat a very scanty breakfast, and then
set the soft felt hat firmly on his brow,
with the air of a man who was determined
to be off

Justine, true to her silent instincts,
looked on and wondered ; nothing she had
said could have caused this precipitate
start, she thought. The old man had been
ailing for some time ; he was getting into
years like herself, only he was not so
tough  why this sudden anxiety on his
behalf .>

The at (flier door is locked, Justine ; it
is doubtful if I shall be back before dark.
I don't feel inclined to work to-day. I
am going to see my father  and Lily.'

*PoorLili!'

Why do you say poor Lill in that
tone of voice ? Is she ill too, by chance ? '

No, Monsieur Paul, no. I did not
mean to speak. I was only expressing
my thoughts aloud. It was a mistake 
pardon me.'

Having made the mistake, perhaps
you will remedy it by explaining.'

There is nothing to explain. You
know Lili's story. You must dot the i's
for yourself.'

He shrugged his shoulders, and elevated
his bushy eyebrows, as though he either
did not, or did not wish, to understand,
and then he strode off out by the back
way, through Justine's kitchen.

Paul Cazalet's rooms were on the ground
floor, and visitors only came in through the
atdlier. Justine, her apron thrown over
one arm, followed him to the door, and
stood watching him till he was out of sight,
muttering to herself meanwhile. If she
did not talk to Paul, she made up for it
during her solitary hours. But then she
was only a woman after all.

There is something wrong,' she decided.

 I would give my best fete day gown to
know what it is. Something has stepped
between him and his work. Poor Paul !
He is as good as gold, and as soft as milk.
Pity he has not a more confiding nature !
So he has gone to see the old man and
the child. There must be something sorely
amiss when Paul flies away from here and
goes back to the old nest for shelter. It
is not Le Vieiix that will give him much
help or consolation  he is too rough and
hard. But Lili  I love that child almost
as well as I do Paul  she is a little angel!
Ah, when Paul and Lili are married  for,
of course, they will marry  that will be a
happiness for us all ! I would even give
up Paul, and go and look after the old
man, to see Lili and Paul married. After
all Le Vieux cannot live for ever; and then
there will be the babies to look after, bless
them ! '

And the deep affection with which old
Justine's nature was so rife, went forth ina
spontaneous gush towards the fledglings
yet unborn. And she pattered on, basking
in the sun's rays, and so thoroughly

engrossed in her thoughts of, and speculations
for, Paul, that it never occurred to
her that several neighbours were watching
her, and making scoffing remarks to
each other about the madwoman  mad
since she never gossiped with them 
that Paul Cazalet, the great artist, was
eccentric enough to keep for a housekeeper.
Nor while she was standing
there did she hear a loud knock at the
atdlier door, even though it was repeated
several times ; she would not probably
have heard it, had not one of the neighbours
called out, 

Au feu nere Justine!

Then she ran into the atdlier wringing
her hands, and as she exclaimed, ' Dieu
des Dieux, what a commotion ! ' threw open
the door.

A victoria, with two ladies seated in
it, was before it. One of them called out,
laughing,

Has Monsieur Cazalet become deaf, or
what has happened ? '

Monsieur Paul is out, madame.'

Out ! At this hour ? '

It is true. He has gone to see monsieur
his father, who is ill.'

What ill luck ! And we especially
wished to see Monsieur Paul. When will
he be back ? '

I do not know ; but he will not work
any more to-day.'

May we come in and see the pictures?'

In Monsieur Paul's absence, I cannot
give you leave.'

Don't be foolish. You know me. I
am Madame de Brissac. I want to show
them to my English friend.'

Justine made a civil curtsey.

If madame will take it upon herself to
come in, she is welcome; but I give no leave.'

Is Paul so very formidable ? '

He likes to be master, as do all men.
I never thwart him.'

Wise woman, you love peace. If we
were like you, and let men have it all
their own way, should we be happier? Eh,
Nelly?'

Nelly, for Madame de Brissac's companion
was Mrs Jocelyn, shrugged her
shoulders, and said, very softly, 

In Monsieur Paul's absence, I think it
would be better not to go into his atdlier!

Oh, Paul won't mind ! '

Perhaps not ; but I would rather he
showed me the pictures himself.'

As you will, as you will, my love.
Possibly it is the man, not the pictures,
you wish to see.'

The Englishwoman did not answer, and
Madame de Brissac, with a good-bye to
Justine, and a promise to come again, told
the coachman to drive on. Justine grumbled
to herself as she closed the principal
door, and bolted it.

Madame de Brissac, I know ; but the
other ? Dieu, how beautiful she is ! I
wonder if Paul knew she was coming, and
that is why he has gone out to-day '. '

Then Justine became as idle as Paul,
for she sat down with her hands folded
in her lap, and thought for a long, long
while.

THE BOULANGERIE ANGLAISE.

After a rapid walk of about
twenty minutes, Paul Cazalet
reached the outlying part of
Paris, where his father still
carried on the brisk business dignified by
the name of * The English Bakery.' He
was standing by the door when his son
arrived, smoking his pipe, and resting
after the somewhat arduous task of despatching
the numerous carts, which daily
started for the different parts of Paris
and its environs.

Le Vieux, as Cazalet senior was universally
called, was, like Paul, a big,

genial-looking man ; in fact, in type and
feature, the father and son strongly resembled
each other, * especially on Sundays,'
as the old man was wont to say,
when he had doffed his white habiliments
and appeared as a gentleman.

The old fellow, however, had been looking
considerably aged of late. He was
barely sixty, but such hard work as
father Cazalet had done, frequently adds
ten or even twenty years to a man's life.
Paul observed his father closely while he
walked up the street, before he himself
was seen, and wondered how it was he
had not noted this increasing decrepitude
before it was brought to his mind by
Justine. Ah, the reason was soon apparent,
when he beheld the change that
came over the old man's features when
he saw his son.

Such joy and delight  such pride he
had in his talented boy, that the sight
of him seemed to take, as by magic, the
weight of care off his brow.

*' Hullo, Paul ! I scarcely expected you
at mid-day  quel chance, quel chance, non

jargon ? ' and he shock Paul's extended
hand till he nearly wrung it off.

Then he asked, more temperately, 

But what brings you, boy  no ill news,
I trust ? ' for he thought he saw a cloud
on Paul's brow.

No, no, father,  a little overworked,
that is all ; so I thought I would take
a day's rest and come and see you. How
are you } '

Fanieux non gargo7i -fameicx ! '

The lingo the Cazalets talked with each
other was a strange mixture of English
and French.

Old Cazalet had lived in Paris for thirty-five
years, and though he had never learnt
to speak grammatically, yet he chattered
with the fluency of a native, often finding a
French word more readily than an English
one ; while as for Paul, no Parisian ever
had a better accent or a purer diction.

The two men passed through the shop
into a large back room, looking on to a
tolerably productive garden.

Where is Lili ? ' asked Paul, seeing
that the room was empty.

The old man, with his stentorian voice,
called out, 

Lili, Lili ! quick, my child ; here is our
Paul come to spend the day ! '

From the bottom of the garden, much
in haste when she heard these words,
arrived a young girl of about eighteen.
There was a bright colour on her cheeks,
a warm glow in her dark eyes, neither of
which were wont to be there, since Lili's
face was usually of alabaster whiteness,
and her eyes deep-thinking and sad ; but
at this moment she was more animated
than usual, for she had been running 
and she saw Paul.

Paul  who was her hero, her king, her
one hope in life and death.

For Lili was not Paul's sister, but an
orphan niece old Cazalet had adopted and
brought to the bakery to live with him
about two years before, when her mother
died.

From the moment of her arrival, the
two men had made a sort of idol of Lili ;
they had had no women-folk belonging
to them to love before ; it was so many,

many years since Paul's mother had died,
they had both wellnigh forgotten her.
Of course Le Vieux had made up his
mind that Paul should marry Lili : and
so, for the matter of that, had every one ;
and though no actual promise had been
given on either side, yet it was a tacit
understanding firmly believed in by all
concerned, except Lili herself.

She knew her uncle had no ambitious
views about Paul marrying some great lady
from the sphere into which his genius had
taken him, nor did she think that Paul had
any ideas of the sort for himself ; still from
the very worship she had for him, from the
very strong love she bore him, she could
not make herself believe that she was
worthy of him ; and yet she felt and knew
that to lose him would be certain death.
Torn, then, by these conflicting emotions
about Paul, poor little Lili made herself
very miserable, and, though the two men
never guessed it, she passed many hours
of her time in such mental agony as was
wellnigh wearing her out. Assuredly they
would have told her that she was only a
VOL. I. c

foolish child, giving way to doubts and
fears for which there was not the slightest
occasion, since Paul loved her very sincerely,
and thought her by far the most
beautiful maiden he had met in his path
through life.

Perhaps Lili was sentimental, and wanted
some pages out of a chivalrous romance to
be enacted on her behalf, since this sort
of passive love scarcely satisfied her or
made her happy.

Meantime the sight of Paul had
brought the crimson colour to her
cheeks ; and the expression of her face
was little short of radiance when he drew
her to his heart and kissed her, more
affectionately, she thought, than he had
done for long.

For awhile she stood there, his arm still
round her, looking up into his face in
adoring worship, yet wondering why there
were wrinkles on his brow.

He smiled on her, and did not attempt
to break the spell of her querying silence,
until the colour had quite faded from her
cheeks and her face had resumed its

habitual marble hue and calm, statuesque
repose ; nought lit up the delicately
chiselled features save the deep dark eyes
and the lustrous, plainly-braided blue-black
hair.

Then he said gently, 

Wake up, Lili. Smouldering fires die
out sometimes ; you should not keep your
energies so pent, my child. Spontaneity is
one of woman's most attractive attributes.'

Spontaneity,' she repeated, shaking herself
away from his encircling arm. ' I am
not clever like you, Paul. I scarcely know
what spontaneity means. If it means to
battle and cry out when you are hurt, and
find fault and scold  oh ! no, I can never
do that. What I have to suffer I will
suffer silently.'

Paul laughed.

Not quite a correct definition of spontaneity,
he said, 'or, rather, a very dark
one. What I mean is, why don't you
ask endless questions, interest yourself in
everything that does not concern you, as
most girls do ? '

Because it does not interest me, I suppose.

Except for you and my uncle, I care
for no one on earth.'

Yet you have not asked me one question
about my life in Paris.'

Perhaps I am afraid of hearing more
than I care to know.'

It was a mere shot, but it told ; the
wrinkles on Paul's brow deepened almost
into furrows, and a sad expression that
occasionally lingered there became set
with painful intensity, making his face
look fixed and stern.

Poor little Lili ! She almost cried aloud
when she saw it. To suffer and be silent
was not quite so easy as she imagined.
She succeeded, however, in controlling the
outward show of her emotions, and said,
speaking even more gaily than was her
wont, 

Ah ! Paul, you know you would not
like me or any one to ferret out all your
doings in Paris. If I were to cross-examine
Justine, for instance.'

She could tell you nothing, child, you
may not know  nothing.'

The assurance was a complete one ; yet

the tone in which it was uttered scarcely
pleased Lili, or, perhaps, Le Vietcx, for
he apparently thought it wise to change
the conversation, by asking, 

Well, little housewife, are you not
going to give this big, hungry Paul something
to eat ? '

I breakfasted before I came, on one of
Justine's superb omelettes. At dinner, I
will test Lili's powers.'

The best the house can afford you shall
have, Paul,' and she ran off into the kitchen
to give some orders to a stolid-looking
Normandy peasant, who composed Le
Vieux establishment.

If it had not been for this peasant, who,
notwithstanding her phlegm, was a very
capable, worthy person, Lili would often
have been terribly disconcerted. She
lived in a sort of dreamland of her own,
knew but little of housekeeping duties,
and had, moreover, a very superficial
acquaintance with the French language.
Till she came to her uncle, she had been
brought up at a third-rate English 
; and she had certainly not

broken the ground, during a two years'
residence in France, that Nelly Jocelyn
had done in scarcely half the time.

But then, though Lili was very sweet,
and loving, and gentle, she had neither the
spirit nor the determination of the young
English widow. She would always strive
to do the best she could for those she
loved, as she did her uncle and Paul ; but,
while her love gave her more pain than
pleasure, it would ever be terribly difficult,
and with much secret trouble, that she
would be able to carry out the little
schemes in their behalf which her affection
prompted. Even now it was the
Normande who planned the dinner, and
started Lili down the street with a basket,
to buy one or two little accessories she
required.

As soon as Lili was gone, the two men
wandered round the garden, pipes in
mouth, chatting, at first on general subjects
; then Paul drew an English cheque
from his pocket, and handed it to his father.

Seven hundred and fifty pounds! Why,
Paul, what is this ? '

The price of a picture. I received it
this morning. I want you to let me buy a
little house in the country with it, for you
and Lili to live in, and give up this
business.'

The old man looked at his son for a
moment, and then burst out crying.

No, boy, no. I will never be a tax on
you or any one. I have enough and to
spare for my small wants, and there will
be a dot for Lili when I am gone. Do
not ask me to give up my work, Paul. I
should be as a child without playthings if
I had no work.'

It is too much for you, father. You
have often refused to come and live with
me ; but in a little farm of your own, you
would have your pigs and poultry, and  '

Best let me bide where I am, Paul,
till the end comes. You were born here,
your mother died here  I could not bear
to leave the old spot.'

Then have a foreman, father. Do not
get up in the middle of the night to see
to the baking yourself, and stand till the
sun is high in the heavens starting the carts.

There wouldn't be much money in the
till if I had a foreman, lad. No, let me goon
the old way ; at all events, for a bit
longer. When I am old  any one would
think I was old now  then we will see,'
and he laughed ; ' there, take your cheque
and bank it, my boy. It will serve to pay
expenses when your marriage with Lili
takes place.'

My marriage with Lili ! '

This was the first time the subject had
been actually referred to in plain words,
and the sound of them seemed scarcely to
give Paul as much pleasure as might have
been expected.

My marriage with Lili ! ' he repeated ;
ah, that day is a long way off. I will
never take Lili away from you, father.
We must wait  '

But, Paul'

Hist ! here she comes. Another time
we will discuss this matter.'

And it seemed as if he were anxious to
put the discussion off till another day.
Yet he was very tender and gentle with
the girl, talking more to her than to the

old man during the hour they all three
chatted together before dinner.

That repast was no sooner over than
Paul started up.

I must be off.'

So early  why, it is scarcely eight.'

I have an appointment at the " Cercle
de Boheme " at half-past.'

Ah, Paul, I told you you would not
like your life to be looked into too closely.'

It was Lili who spoke, while she sought
to laugh off her disappointment at his
going so early.

This is simply a business appointment
connected with my work,' he answered,
speaking seriously ; ' but perhaps, to an
extent, you are right. No man's life, in
every detail, is calculated to give those
who love him pleasure. I am not better
than the rest. Ate revoir, ynignomie ;
come to breakfast, both of you, on Sunday.'

He was already at the outer door, to
which they accompanied him, watching
him along the street as far as the darkness
would permit.

Good boy, Paul ; good boy,' muttered

the old man ; ' few fathers are blessed with
a son Hke that. Thank God for it. Why,
LiH, what is the matter 1 Why are you
crying, child ? '

She wiped away her tears, and tried to
look up smiling into her uncle's face.

Paul always seems so far away from
us,' she said ; * he is like some bright,
glorious sun that comes to gladden us fora
little while, and then goes for months to
shine on another world that we have never
seen.'

True ; yes, that's true. There are two
sides to Paul's life. But you have no need
to fear, little one ; you will shine beside
him on the bright one.'

Lili shook her head.

I shall never share Paul's glory ; the
dazzling brightness would blight me. Best
leave me where I am, to serve and love
him in the gloom.'

Three days till Sunday, when we shall
see him in his own house ; no gloom there.
Little one, you must put away these foolish
thoughts. I tell you all will be gladness
for you and Paul.'

She kissed him and did not contradict,
but as she went upstairs to her own room,
she murmured, 

Can the same glorious sun ever shed
its rays on me and Paul ? '

WHO IS SHE?

HO is Mrs Jocelyn ? '

It is a question that one
half of fashionable Paris is
asking the other half, without,
however, obtaining any very satisfactory
answer ; for since the night of
her appearance at Madame de Brissac's,
Nelly's fame has spread, and many of
those who have not yet met her are
craving for a sight of the new beauty.

Her apartment is modest by comparison
with the princely residences that surround
it, but where it is wanting in expensive
luxury, artistic taste and a little well-manipulated
paint and drapery have produced

effects which hundreds of francs at
command would have failed to do with
less clever fingers.

Mrs Jocelyn, whatever her antecedents,
is by no means a fine lady, and she is
never idle. During the year she had
already been in Paris, when, being in deep
mourning, she had lived in close seclusion,
she had never found time difficult to kill,
because from brush to pen, from pen to
needle, from needle to book, she had
passed in such swift succession that the
hours seemed to fly, and the very few
given to sleep were grudged.

She was absolutely on the threshold of
life, although a widow, but she gave out
that she had not the slightest intention
of re-marrying, and resolved that, having
stated this fact very plainly, she would
make the most of her opportunities, and
with the word ' Enjoy ' in large letters
as a heading to the first chapter of her
book of events, conduct her story through
as few disagreeable vicissitudes as possible;
and while she filled its pages with man\-
charming and agreeable people, yet she

meant to avoid all melodramatic situations
and episodes that could in any way link
her name with the word adventuress. To
be careful, then, while she sipped nectar
from every bud, lest a drop of poison might
accidentally fall on her reputation, was
Mrs Jocelyn's plan. She little knew how
difficult was the task she had assigned
herself,  how almost impossible it is for a
woman to divide sweets from bitters when
she takes the ruling of her destiny into
her own guidance. She had, however,
begun well in placing herself under the
chaperonage of Madame de Brissac, and in
being seen in public with Madame d'Albin.
Nelly was not the sort of woman to take
delight in female friendship, or in fact
to have any predilection for or belief in
woman at all ; but she was clever enough
to know that if she wished to take her
place in the upper artistic ranks of
Parisian society, she must do it in conjunction
with the female stars who already
shone there. Naturally the effect she
had made on her first appearance at Madame
de Brissac's Thursday had afforded

her no little satisfaction, increased ina
great degree as it was by her
meeting with Paul Cazalet. He had
fascinated her there was little doubt ;
there was something so strange, almost
uncanny, in his manner to her, that an
instinctive feeling had crept over her
that this man was to play an important
76le in her life.

She had, at Madame de Brissac's suggestion,
accompanied her to his studio, but
she had felt relieved, nay, almost thankful
when Justine had told them that the great
painter was not at home. Still more did
she rejoice when the faithful servant
demurred about admitting visitors during
her master's absence ; to Nelly it would
have seemed almost like profanity to have
penetrated into the secret mysteries of
Cazalet's studio when the high-priest was
not by.

Now, having returned from her drive
with her richer friend, she is sitting alone
surveying with much satisfaction the
fabric of her own good taste in decoration
and luxury, but she is thinking meanwhile

of Paul Cazalet, and wondering whether
he will ever come to see her in those
quarters on which she has bestowed so
much care, and, if so, whether he will
approve her taste.

For a wonder Nelly is absolutely doing
nothing, some embroidery is in her lap,
but her fingers refuse to be made use of
after the usual nimble fashion.

Madame de Brissac had invited her to
come home with her and pass the rest of
the day in sociable converse, but Nelly
had refused ; a craving to be alone, for
which she could in no way account, was
upon her, and if she had not actually
barred her door, it was because she did
not imagine that her range of acquaintances
in Paris was sufficiently extended
for it to be likely that any one would call,
especially as the short November day was
waning.

No candles had been lighted  that might
be the reason Nelly did not go on with
her work. She was lying back on a chaise
longing, her feet resting on the fender, behind
which a bright wood fire was crackling

joyously, and casting fitful gleams on
many a pot or cup of rose du Barri or
blue Sevres, which Nelly had picked up
during some of her many wanderings in
the outskirts of the great town.

On a sudden she hears the unexpected
sound of voices, and starts up in wondering
amaze as to who the intruders may be.
Before the dainty maid has time to announce,
Madame d'Albin rushes in with
a glad exclamation, 

So delighted to find you, cherie ! I
was afraid you would have gone to the
Rue Tronchet with Madame de Brissac.
I heard you planning a drive last night'

She asked me to go, but I refused. I
felt as if I must have solitude this evening.'

Solitude !  only listen to her, Felix
solitude ! '

And with a gay laugh, that rang resonantly
in the highly-draped room, Madame
d'Albin turned to the Vicomte de Gourlay,
who, standing in shadow behind his more
majestic cousin, Nelly had not till now
perceived.

Nor did the sight of him afford her any

VOL. I. D

apparent satisfaction, for her eyebrows
momentarily contracted. She had not been
favourably impressed on the preceding
evening, and Felix de Gourlay  vicomte
though he was  was scarcely a welcome
guest. Blanche d'Albin, though, was her
friend, with whom she could not afford to
quarrel, since it was entirely to Madame
d'Albin that she owed any social status
she might as yet have obtained in Paris.

They had met at a dressmaker's, and
became acquainted in the most irregular
fashion ; but Madame d'Albin had been so
attracted by the young English widow,
that she had set at nought all the laws of
conventionality, and held out the hand
of amity, without any other knowledge
of her new friend save that she was
really the widow of an English country
gentleman. Madame d'Albin was a
pretty ailing woman, who lived to be
amused. Nelly amused her, and they both
decided that they would not be shackled
with any laws of caste or clique. Such
being the case, how could Mrs Jocelyn
appear annoyed by an invasion at an unusual

hour, or at her friend being accompanied
by a man she had set down on her
introduction to him as a bore and an idiot.

The voice, however, in which she asked
' Into what do you wish to change my
solitude?' was scarcely in Nelly's most
dulcet tones ; nevertheless, it hardly appeared
to affect Madame d'i\lbin, except
to make her laugh yet more merrily.
It was evident that she ascribed Nelly's
sullenness to the unexpected arrival of
the little vicomte, and for this she did
not care one scrap, since it was her
fixed determination to elicit an immense
amount of fun out of the idolatry Felix
de Gourlay was quite prepared to lavish
on the new English beauty.

About that other man, whose strange
behaviour had set Nelly thinking, Blanche
d'Albin knew nought. Friend though she
had been to Nelly, she was scarcely the
sort of woman to whom a sensible person
would make an unnecessary confidence,
and that Nelly was both sensible and
far-seeing, there is little doubt.

We are going to the theatre,' she

liNIVERSITY OF Illinois
LIBRARY

replied, when she had got over her
merriment, ' to see Bernhardt in her
new part. FeHx has got a box ; but
monsieur, my husband, who, as you
know, is most careful of me, will not
let me go unless you can accompany me,
so you must come.'

To the theatre ? I have never been
to a theatre in my life.'

So much the better. What a new excitement.
Why, Nelly, you are to be
envied. Never been to a theatre, eh,
Felix ? What do you say to that ? '

That I rejoice in being the individual
to whom it has been reserved to bestow
on Madame Jocelyn so great a distraction.'


But I have not yet said that I will go
indeed I cannot.'

And Nelly, her white brow puckered
Into something like a frown, sat down
once more in the chair from which she
had risen on their entrance.

'Not go, Nelly! you are mad; why
should you not go ? Your mourning need
not keep you from the theatre, since you

were at Madame de Brissac's party last
night.'

Oh it is not my mourning  but  '

But what ? '

I believe I have got a headache. I
feel terribly out of sorts to-night.'

Bah ! you never looked better in your
life.'

Madame is exquisitely beautiful,' put in
Felix, with an adoring glance.

Am I ? Then in case I should prove
too overpowering, I really think I had
better stay at home.'

And thereby oblige us to stay here
too, for Albert is positive that I am not
to go alone to the theatre with Felix, and
I have no intention of passing my evening
in the solitude you so ardently crave.'

Since il fate is the order, I suppose
there is nothing left me but to obey,' and
Nelly got up ; but she showed very little
alacrity, and felt as if a hidden power was
seeking to prevent her from running into
a dangerous path that night.

That is right ; now Nelly is her bright
self once more, ready for anything that the

whirlpool of events may cast up. Quick,
get ready, dear,  first, dinner, which Felix
has gallantly ordered for us at a restaurant
he is acquainted with, that eclipses
every  '

Not at a restaurant. We are not going
to dine with Monsieur de Gourlay at a
restaurant ? '

Since we are two. and Albert does not
object, why should you. Surely, Nelly, you
were elected a Queen of Bohemia when you
appeared at Madame de Brissac's last night.'

Mrs Jocelyn sighed, but attempted no
farther objections  perhaps she saw they
would be useless.

Ay, she had joined the Bohemian phalanx,
which was a step up the social ladder, if
her new friends only knew what her past
had been ; still it scarcely pleased her to
think that her ddbul in the new world
was to be made under the auspices of this
puppy De Gourlay, and she kicked sorely
against the pricks as she went into her
room to put on her bonnet.

Ah, if their companion had been Cazalet;
but the people one really cares to have

near one, are invariably the individuals
who but rarely come to the front !

At twenty four Nelly had already become
acquainted with this fact.

Once equipped, however, and launched
on the enterprise from which she would
so gladly have escaped, she would not be
sullen or disagreeable.

She would shine always, even if despair
was at her heart  that was her resolve 
and, to the utter distraction of Felix de
Gourlay's peace, she not only looked more
beautiful than any one he had ever seen
before, but she chatted so merrily that,
even with a modicum of loveliness at command,
she would have made a far less
susceptible man than De Gourlay her
p7'eitx chevalier for ever.

Once drawn out of herself, and induced
to make the best of a situation in which
she found herself rather against her will,
Nelly, to all appearance took a delight in
tormenting De Gourlay. She was no dullard
about discovering his ardent admiration
for herself, and at once she informed him,
as she did all men, that she had no intention

of ever marrying again ; then she considered
she had taken the honest, honourable
course, and from henceforth might
play with him, when she was disposed fora
little sport.

So the dinner passed most cheerily, and
the trio went off to the theatre in the best
of spirits. Nelly absolutely looked forward
to her first appearance there and to witnessing
the performance of the great * Sarah,'
of whom she had heard so much.

The play was Fedora  a more powerful
one could scarcely have been chosen for
Nelly's debut.

From the moment Fedora rushed onto
the stage, and was received by the audience
with deafening acclaim, Nelly was
entranced. In vain did either Madame
d'Albin or Felix make a remark to her 
she heard them not, but, as one transported
into another world, she sat there, following
every incident with an interest, and a
sensation of sleepiness, that made the
whole thing most horribly real. So changed
did the expression of her face become, so
ashen her colouring, as she sat there shivering,

though the theatre was hot almost
to suffocation, that Madame d'Albin suggested
in a whisper to Felix that perhaps
it would be wiser to depart, before Mrs
Jocelyn became so ill that she would have
to be carried out.

Go ! Merciful powers ! was it likely
that she would think of going ? and
Nelly's blanched, emotional face looked
round on them for one moment, while she
firmly expressed her determination to
stay.

The words had scarcely passed her lips
before she uttered a cry, and looked so
rigid, that Madame d'Albin thought she
was in a fit.

Nelly, cherie, what is it ? '

Nothing,  a mere spasm  it is past 
the curtain is going up on the last act.
Hush!'

Her two companions shrugged their
shoulders, they could do nothing with this
obstinate woman but wait the end of the
play. To their astonishment, however,
Nelly's attention was by no means so fixed
on the stage as it had been, but every

now and again her large eyes wandered
restlessly about the house.

Who could it be that she had seen
there ?

Paul Cazalet/ murmured Madame
d'Albin at last, after watching the direction
of Nelly's eyes, with much attention. ' Is
it possible that she  but no, she is only
excited by a performance that has the
effect of electrifying even old playgoers.'

And Paul Cazalet, how came it that he
had waived the business at the Club, and
found himself at the Porte St Martin ?

THE TITANS OF ART.

Bring the whole of the day
after the marvellous performance
at the Porte St Martin,
Nelly remained in her own
apartment, with closed doors. She was
under the charm of a new experience, and
she wished to rest in it till she had drunk
of it to the fill.

Wise little Nell, she seemed to know by
intuition that a really exciting, pleasurable
event is so rare that to lose one ray of
the impression it affords were madness.

No, she would not have her emotions
trampled upon for worlds ; above all, she
did not wish to see Blanche d'Albin, in

whose nature there was no depth. Nelly
felt that her gay laugh would jar, her light,
surface talk, teeming as it did with dispraise,
be maddening; for Madame d'Albin,
like many people who wish to pose for a
cleverness they do not possess, invariably
discovered a blameable side in every event
which presented itself, and, with her ready
tongue, knew full well how to turn it into
ridicule. On most occasions this amused
Nelly, who was herself by no means backward
when facetious criticism was in
question. But Nelly had a serious side to
her character, which Madame d'Albin had
not, and her every pulse had been stirred
by the marvellous representation she had
witnessed last night for the first time ; it
seemed as if she had only just discovered
the strong, latent power of feeling pleasure
and pain which she possessed. Assuredly
the sense of pleasure Bernhardt's
wonderful performance had produced was
so exquisite that it became almost a
pain.

Blanche d'Albin would have hinted at
the appearance of Paul Cazalet in the distance,

but she would have been wrong.
He had nought to do with the torture of
delight that Nelly was suffering.

Nelly was interested in Paul Cazalet,
more interested in him than in any man
she had ever seen. His great genius had
impressed her before she even saw him,
and the knowledge that he, the man she
saw and spoke to, was that incarnate
genius, filled her with wonder and awe,
even distracting her at times to look from
Bernhardt's performance into his face ;
perhaps she would fain note the effect such
acting made on him.

But Nelly Jocelyn was not in love with
Paul Cazalet. She did not intend that the
shackles of love should burden her. She
was independent, and she meant to range
the world at will, sip the pleasure from
every nectar-charged petal she saw, but
give no crenie de coeur in return. Such an
exchange would be too weak, she judged,
and self-reliant Nelly had every intention
of being strong.

She did not feel very strong the day
after the performance of Fedora. But

these emotions must be only fleetlnL ;
she would be her own vigorous, care-fontaine
self on the morrow. Still she
went, in imagination, over and over each
act of Fedo7'a, nor did she tire of her new
pastime till the garish hours of day paled
into night. No visitors had come to
break upon her solitude  the name of
Cazalet had never been mentioned  yet
by some means it occurred that he played
the hero in all the dramatic scenes her
fancy represented.

The evening, however, brought a very
different train of thought to Nelly.

By the mail from England arriving
about seven, there was a letter  not a
black-edged epistle, which might possibly
be the bearer of some unlooked-for family
calamity, yet the sight of it made Nelly
Jocelyn's cheek pale, and her lips quiver.

She placed it in her lap for a while, and
sat gazing at it while it lay on her black
gown, as though the idea of opening it
brought a fear to her heart that she could
not master.

The maid came back into the room with

some wood, of which the fire was In need,
and looked in surprise at her mistress ;
she was accustomed to see her so alert,
that she could not understand this seemingly
passive indifference to the contents
of a letter which evidently came from afar,
since it was covered with strange and
illegible postmark.

The room was too dark, she thought,
for Mrs Jocelyn to see to read, so she
took up a wax match, and proceeded to
liorht some candles on the mantelshelf.

I do not want those lights  put them
out, and go,' Mrs Jocelyn said, in an unnatural
voice, which made the maid stare
at her again, believing that some very
dreadful thing must have happened, her
mistress looked so unlike herself.

She did not dare, however, to intrude
farther after the order she had received,
and once more Nelly was alone, with that
unopened letter lying in her lap.

Am I to be ever followed by this
curse ? ' she muttered. * What is the use
of life if there is to be no release, no forgetfulness
of the bonds which, however

loosely they may entangle one's fettered
limbs, are still bonds ? '

And then, in a sort of frenzy of despair,
she tore the envelope open, and read
through the missive, which was not a long
one.

Poor wretch she murmured to herself,
with a sigh, when she had finished it.
Yet what can I do ?  how help ? It is
cruel to torture me with these complaints.
I have not done the ill for which, God
knows, I have been made to suffer too severely
! Have been made to suffer ! Will
the suffering ever cease ? But it shall !
I am creating for myself a pleasant, almost
happy, existence in Paris, and by the
force of my own will I will be free. Hardheartedness,
as far as this matter is concerned,
is necessary. I will shake off all
connection with the past as thoroughly in
reality as I do in outward appearance.
Ay, so far I have been successful  I will
carry my success through with a mighty
hand.'

For a moment she held the letter over
the wood fire, as though she would detroit

and Its recollection for ever, but with a
second's reflection she withdrew It.

I must answer It,' she said ; ' cruel
words alone will tell ; silence will only produce
another maudlin appeal such as this is.'

Once more she read It through from beginning
to end, and the look of Intense
scorn that came Into her face scarcely
supplemented the beauty of which men
raved ; but it speedily softened into an
expression of sadness, almost of despair,
as she sat down at her writing-table, and
took up a pen.

In self-preservation it must be done,'
she decided. ' My ruin cannot be productive
of another's gain ; and that I shall
lose every step I have attained, if I am not
strong now, there Is little doubt.'

The letter she wrote was scarcely longer
than the one she had received, and it did
not take her long to write ; yet, to judge
from her exhausted condition when she
had finished it, it would seem as If the ink
she had expended on its vigorously-written
page was her very life blood.

She folded it, placed it in an envelope,

VOL. I. E

and referred to the missive she held
tightly in her hand for the address.

My God ! how can I ever post it ? To
post this may bring about detection ; and
yet it must be risked.'

Finished at last, she secreted it in the
folds of her dress, and locked the letter
she had just received in a secret drawer of
her writing-table. Why she did not burn
it she scarcely knew, but perhaps it might
be wise to keep it for a time.

Her labours over, she sat down once
more before the fire, and sought to join
the thread of her life which the arrival of
this letter had broken in the midst of a
most tranquillising reverie.

But in vain. The charm of Fedora
paled before the stern reality that stalked
in naked truth ; nor throughout the entire
evening did peace condescend once more
to visit her hearth.

Almost prostrate at last from the tumultuous
ravings of her own thoughts, she
went to bed, hoping that sleep would come
and banish some of her mental sufferings.

In Nelly's dreams, however, they bore a

prominent place, mixed up strangely with
Cazalet and Bernhardt's Fedora ; in fact,
so agitated had been her sleep, that when
she looked at herself in her mirror in the
morning, she decided that the shadow
that had fallen on her face was scarcely
becoming,  she must go out into the fresh
air and get rid of those ugly lines.

It was Sunday  all Paris was astir ;
and in and out the churches crowds of
worshippers were passing and repassing.
Nelly was scarcely a religious woman,
that is, in creeds and dogmas she was
by no means versed. She bowed reverently
before the Great Father of the
universe ; but whether she knelt in prayer
in a Catholic cathedral or a Nonconformist
chapel was alike to her ; nor, to
speak truly, did she consider that she had
infringed her code of duty to any extent if
she did not go to church at all.

To-day she resolved to go to two
o'clock vespers at the Madeleine : the sort
of mental lassitude in which yesterday's
emotions had left her, made her feel as
though she wanted the fillip of a religious

service ; besides, she could post her letter
as she went.

Dressed then in a black cashmere dress,
over which  the day, though bright, being
cold  she had thrown a large black mantle
such as only Parisian fingers can fabricate,
and wearing a simple black straw bonnet
covered by a large gauze veil, she sallied
forth alone to join the throng of worshippers
in the great church, more crowded than
usual as it was to-day, since Monsignor
Brechemin, of world-wide renown, was to
preach.

It was a mere accident that had brought
Nelly there : she had never even heard
Monsignor Brechemin's name before, or
perhaps she would scarcely have come.
Emotions had wellnigh worn her out
during the last few hours, and she might
have feared a fresh one ; It was In order to
be calmed and soothed that she had
directed her steps to the Madeleine ;
rebellious Nelly had seldom received much
consolation from sermons.

No sooner, however, had the preacher
uttered three sentences, than she felt that

the power of a great mind was upon
her, and that if she could only follow the
precepts and the teachings he so ably-set
forth, the many troubles that were
for ever surging up in her life would
be at an end, and peace would come.

Peace !

Ay, in the abstract, it was a comfort
breathing word ; but would real peace
ever make busy, conflict-loving Nelly
perfectly happy ? There are some natures
that require agitation and warfare. Was
not Nelly's one of these ?

She thought not, as, her hands clasped
on her knees, she sat there, gazing into
the preacher's attenuated face, while with
an eloquence that was a gift given to few,
he peeped each of them to choose the
better part.

Ah, if she ' could only give up the terrible
world-combat, and join the phalanx
of those whose only hopes were in the
unending bliss beyond the grave,' she
thought, as she listened, and she rejoiced
that she had come here to-day to hear
those words of peace and joy.

The voice ceased. The ororan burst
forth in glad strains. The candles on
the altar were all alight, and the benediction
service began. Nelly knelt in
prayer till the congregation rose to leave
the church ; then she also rose and followed
the throng. Her veil, thrown back
off her face, hung down her back. She
was too engrossed to heed the admiring
glances that were directed to her, or she
would at once have concealed her face ;
but she felt as if air were necessary to her,
in order that she might breathe.

When, after pushing through the jostling
crowd, she at last stood by a small
side exit, she remained for a moment or
two, as though anxious to receive a full
flow of fresh air into her lungs before
starting on her walk home.

Thus she allowed several people to pass ;
among others, an old man and a young
girl.

Struck by something in the old man's
face that awakened a memory, she looked
at him attentively.

Where had she seen him before ?

A voice at the back of her spoke the
answer.

You, too, have been attracted by
Monsignor Brechemin's eloquence, Mrs
Jocelyn ? '

She looked round. It was Paul Cabaret
who spoke ; and as he did so, the
crimson blood rushed even to the roots
of her auburn hair.

Is he not wonderful ? ' she murmured.
He has touched me to the very quick.'

Ah ! I see you are highly impressionable,
 you can appreciate those on
whom the gods have bestowed royal
gifts.'

Some, yes ; if they are really magicians.'


The Titans of art. Like the representative
of Fedora and this preacher, for
instance

And, above all, Paul Cazalet,' she
whispered.

Nay,' he said, ' do not group me with
them. I cannot play on your imagination
I am a realist.'

Yet no one, believe me, has taken a

more powerful hold of my imagination
than you have.'

He bowed.

You came with Madame de Brissac to
criticise my pictures. I am sorry I was
out.'

I was sorry too. May I come again ? *

My studio is open to all my friends.'

He meant his answer to be impersonal.
She, however, did not take it in that spirit ;
but said, in a very low voice, 

Thank you, for including me among
your friends.'

An expression, that was almost one of
alarm, came over Paul's face ; and looking
at his father and Lili, who were standing
in the street, he said rapidly, 

Good-morning, Mrs Jocelyn, I must
not keep my good father and my cousin
waiting any longer.'

They did not shake hands, and like a
flash he was gone ; not, however, before
Nelly Jocelyn and Lili had exchanged
glances, which could scarcely be called
satisfactory to either.

And Monsignor Brechemin's discourse



how much of It did Nelly remember ?
How many of the good resolutions she
had formed while listening to it would
be put into practice ?

In very truth, Paul Cazalet has more
to answer for than he in the least suspects.

ONLY FRIENDS.

Justine, while she moves about
the Little kitchen in the Rue
Mignon, is muttering rapidly,
taking herself into the confidence
which, wise woman that she is, she
so grudgingly bestows on others.

Coffee  coffee now. Four struck ten
minutes ago. I never knew Paul have
coffee at this hour ; a chasse after breakfast,
good ; but now  not that I grudge him a
cup of coffee. Bless him, he might have
one every hour of the day, if only she was
not here. Three times lately has she
been to sit for the new picture : I don't
like such sitters. Why can't he have a

professional model ? Not but that she is
beautiful. Dien, therein lies all the danger !
Why, she is a feast even to my old eyes.
I could sit and look at her for ever ; still,
she should not be here. It will be the talk
of the whole place soon. Paul, who always
kept his atelier to himself, and scarcely
let in his near friends, now opens it at all
hours whenever this lady chooses to knock
at the door, and ask, in that winning voice
of hers, 'ram I intruding, ]\I. Cazalet ? "'
Poor Lili !  poor unhappy Lili ! For if
ever a girl loved Paul, that oriel is Lili.
But there, Justine, you have no right to
go on prating of what you know nothing.
Why should I doubt Paul ? He has always
been noble and honourable ; surely
this strange woman's beautiful face is not
going to change my Paul into what I
should be ashamed of.'

Then she poured the richly-scented
Mocha into a silver coffee-pot, which had
been a gift to Paul, and placing it, with two
cups, and some cakes of her own baking,
on a tray, she proceeded to carry it into
the usually forbidden atdlier.

Paul, habited in a suit of dark blue
flannel, which, though not altogether of
the freshest, was, notwithstanding, his very
best working suit, was standing before a
large canvas, painting diligently. Seated
in a chair by the wood fire was Mrs
Jocelyn, a dark cushion placed under her
head, which rested there reposefully.

She was not sitting as models sit  that
is, not according to Justine's views. She
managed to peep over Paul's shoulder,
however, and saw that he was in reality
reproducing Nelly's face in his picture,
which was some little consolation to her
in her trouble over the lovely widow's
presence. Justine set the coffee down on
a table near the fire, and then went very
slowly out of the room ; for, worthy creature
though she was, she was, nevertheless,
not above being anxious to pick up any
crumb of the conversation that mio-ht be
allowed to fall. But Mrs Jocelyn and Paul
were evidently indulging in the sociability
of silence, for neither of them uttered a
word while Justine was within hearing.
No sooner, however, had she taken herself

off, and closed the door behind her,
than Paul threw down his brush, and,
drawing a chair to the fire, began after so
gauche a fashion to pour out the coffee
that Nelly, laughing as she raised herself
from her half-recumbent position, took the
coffee-pot out of his hand.

You will never make a domestic man,
M. Paul ; you should marry, and have
some one to do these things that are beneath
your great genius.'

He looked at her very fixedly for a
moment or two, as though seeking to discover
if these words were of any value.
Then he asked, speaking quite seriously, 

Would you really like me to marry ? '
The crimson colour came rapidly, as it

very often did now, into Nelly's face, and
she said, 

Great men are seldom happy when
they are married.'

Not unless they marry congenial
spirits. Art and study bore most women
they crave the attention we workers
have no time to bestow. But you yourself,
Mrs Jocelyn, have scarcely a high

opinion of marriage, since you have given
out your intention not to marry again.'

On the contrary  on the contrary; but
I am afraid I love my independence better
than anything else in life. If I were not
independent, how could I be sitting herewith
you to-day ? It is scarcely conventional,
you must admit.'

Oh ! an artist's studio is privileged
ground.'

Not yours, Cazalet, since I understand
you have lived till now with closed doors.'

Do you wish me to open them ? '

No ; but I sometimes wonder why you
opened them to me.'

A power over which I had no control
drew back the bolts ; besides, did you
not promise to sit for La Veieziana ? '

And the great picture being finished,
it will be a case of " Adieu, Nelly ! " '

Nay, Mrs Jocelyn ; do you think I could
ever say adieu to you ? '

That depends on your masculine fickleness
; but seriously, I will try and make
myself so useful to you that you will never
want to get rid of my friendship  for weare

friends, are we not, Paul,  staunch
friends, as though we were men ? '

He laughed as he looked admiringly at
her, and contemplated how little like a
man she looked. She, however, went on,
resolved not to see his meaning, 

I shall delight in a real staunch, honest
friendship  with a man ; it is a boon from
the gods for which all my life I have
craved ;  no silly love-making, no despairing
glances  faugh ! how I detest men
of the sorrowful butterfly type.'

And you think I am not of such ? '

You ! You are grand, and great, and
noble, like your pictures. You would never,
by word or deed, do a dishonest or dishonourable
act. You  '

Hush ! for pity's sake, Mrs Jocelyn,

your eulogium far surpasses my merits.

You are, I am afraid, but a poor reader

of character, or you would have discovered

how weak I am. With every desire to

act for the best, strength of purpose is

so often wanting.'

You mistake loving-kindness for weaken


ness, my friend. If you do not stride on

the straight path regardless of events, it
is because you are afraid of crushing some
humble fly in your path.'

Nay, do not be resolved to make a
hero of me. I cannot accept such an attitude
; believe me, you are blinded. I
may have the gift of painting  I think
and hope I have  but there anything godlike
about me ends. I am a frail mortal,
whose character is full of inconsistencies.
I am, in fact, more liable to fall short of a
high standard than most men ; the gods,
when they made an artist of me, forgot
to make me what you will persist in thinking
me  a hero.'

Do you wish me to believe that you
are a bad man ? '

Far from it, dear lady. I try to be a
good one ; but what we will in the abstract,
and what we are in detail, does not always
coincide.'

Notwithstanding the character you give
yourself, I will take you for a friend, and
trust you.'

And she held out her hand to him.

On your own responsibility be it,' he

replied, grasping the soft, lissome fingers
in his own broad hand.

And with the last sip of fragrant Mocha,
the daylight seemed to depart, and Mrs
Jocelyn, rising, tied a tiny, unassuming
straw bonnet over her auburn hair, and
declared she must get home before it
was quite dark  there could be no more
painting done to-day.

Paul said if she would wait five
minutes till he changed his painting suit
for a more seemly garb, it would give
him the greatest pleasure to accompany
her.

She looked at him in surprise, and fora
moment meant to refuse, half dreading
the talk it would occasion if she were seen
perambulating the streets in the semi-darkness
with Paul. Then the pleasure
she took in his society got the better of
discretion, and with a brief ' Be quick
then,' she agreed to let him accompany
her.

And why should they not walk together.-
They were friends, even as men are friends.
Mrs Jocelyn had expressly told him that

VOL. I, F

their intimacy was to be strictly on these
terms.

Such being the case, it was quite unnecessary
for Paul to mention Lili. What
had his private life, his family affections,
to do with Mrs Jocelyn ? She was simply
2, grande dame who, inspired with a strong
love of art, had sauntered for a while into
his life, and held out the right hand of
fellowship to him, more as a patroness
than a comrade. No ; he would talk pictures
to her,  even teach her to daub, if
she listed, but beyond that what was Mrs
Jocelyn to him, that he should confide
to her any of his hopes and fears for the
future ? She had told him nothing of her
past life, and, except in stating the fact
that she did not intend to marry again,
never alluded to the future ; in being silent,
he would only be following her example.
Lili  why should he speak of Lili to her ?
La Veneziana finished and hung on the
walls of the Salon, all Paris would bow
in homage to the beauty of the new picture
; but the real Veneziana, more beautiful
than anything his brush could create,

would pass away out of his life as suddenly
as she had entered it. She would be
tired of his companionship by then. And
later on he would marry Lili,  have his
coffee poured out en regie, and settle down.

Settle down !

Paul Cazalet laughed horribly as he repeated
the words  for such was the tenor
of his thoughts as he wandered back to
the Rue Mignon, after leaving Mrs
Jocelyn at her own door.

As he had himself told Nelly, though
he ever strove to act for the best, where
women were concerned, most assuredly he
was not strong.

He did not wish to give pain to Lili by
this friendship with Mrs Jocelyn ; he did
not wish to annoy Mrs Jocelyn by bringing
any allusion to his future marriage
with Lili into his conversation with her 
so he determined to keep them both utterly
and entirely separate.

If a man had asked Paul Cazalet to
commit any slippery or not perfectly
straightforward action, he would have
spoken out boldly, and resented the suggestion

as an insult ; but he could not
see that, in keeping silence now, he was
heaping up not only perplexity and difficulty,
but probably pain, if not disgrace.
The force of circumstance, he considered,
had thrown him, almost against his will,
into Mrs Jocelyn's society ; chance, that
unreliable ally to which so many people
trust, would, he hoped, get him out of any
painful position into which his acquaintance
with her might lead him. Since their first
meeting at Madame de Brissac's Thursday,
wherever he had gone he had met
her, as if by a fatality ; and when at last
he was compelled to receive her in his
studio at the instance of his old friend and
patroness, he resolved, longing though he
was to reproduce her beautiful face on
canvas, that nothing should persuade him
to ask her to sit. Then again strong circumstance
stepped in, and it was Madame
de Brissac who said, 

Confess. Paul, that I have brought you
La Veneziana. The dream of years will be
accomplished, if Mrs Jocelyn can only be
persuaded to sit for the fair Venetian.'

Ay, was she not his ideal, though he had
not dared to own it even to himself; but
Madame de Brissac had spoken it, and
he could not contradict. Besides, Nelly
was willing.

To sit for La Veneziana ! What
greater pleasure could be in store ?
Painted by Paul Cazalet ! hanging on
the walls of the Salon I '

Little Nelly, in her peeps into life,
never, even when imagination was at the
highest, peeped into such a rose-tinted
vista as this.

And thus it came about that the sittings
Justine so severely censured were inaugurated,
and with them a bond of friendship
was linked, the shackles of which were
already beginning to weigh somewhat
heavily on Paul ; and if he had followed
his own strong impulse, he would fain
have torn them asunder for ever, and
blotted the word friendship out of his
vocabulary.

When they weighed more heavily than
usual, as they did to-night, he would goto
the Boulangerie, and, passing an hour

with the old man and Lili, try to forget
that Nelly Jocelyn's wondrous eyes, and
the soft perfume that pervaded that glorious
auburn hair, had ever come between
him and his sweet little dark-browed
love.

It was late when he returned ; Justine,
who had seen him go out with Nelly, was
still up watching.

The soft light that shone in Paul's eyes
as he entered, troubled her not a little ; it
was not till he said, ' I have been spending
the evening with Le Vieux and Lili, and
they sent many affectionate messages to
you,' that Justine gave utterance to a
single word.

Then, in the fulness of her heart, she
exclaimed, 

God is good, and will keep you safe
and true to Lili, my brave Paul ! '

A DARING SCHEMER.

EVERYONE is busy In the
Bo7ilanger2e Anglaise except
Lili, who is walking about the
garden airing herself in the sunshine,
as though she had nought to do with
this world's work.

A voice in the distance calls her three
times, and on hearing it she at once
wends her steps to the bottom of the
garden, where she stops and looks over
the hedge.

Another idler basking in the sunshine !
A girl in a large flapping hat is waiting
for Lili in the adjoining garden, which is
a far larger one than that belonging to

the Boulangerie, and reaches, studded with
shrubs and trees, up to a somewhat pretentious
white villa. It is evident that
Lili's friend is well-to-do, or, at all events,
has the appearance of being so.

She is a bright, clever-looking girl, but
scarcely a beauty, for her complexion is
sallow, and her eyes, though at times very
sparkling, are wicked-looking, and do not
inspire confidence.

By some means, however, she has won
Lili's trusting love. But then that is not
very surprising, considering that Lili is
scarcely a physiognomist, and that Marian
Wallis is English, or, at least, comes of an
English - speaking race ; though she has
never been in the old country in her life.

Her father, who passes for a rich man
and is certainly a vulgar one  brags of
having made a considerable fortune in
Australia ; and he has now come to Paris
to set his daughter up in French, and his
wife in clothes,' as he says ; also to do a
little trading on his own account in the
way of bric-a-brac, which he sends out to
a large house in Sydney.

Mr Walls is a fussy, talkative man,
and has insisted on more than one occasion
on smoking the pipe of intimacy with
old Cazalet ; but it is only under severe
pressure that the worthy baker can be
induced to put up with Mr Wallis'
society.

He hates shams, he is wont to grumble,
and this man is a sham, if ever he saw
one in his life.

Accustomed to dealings with men of
many types, Le Vie2ix is not wanting in
penetration ; but somehow he fails to extend
his capability for character-reading to
the daughter.

The girl isn't as bad as her father,' he
says ; ' and if it amuses Lili to talk to her,
all right. I don't mind ; only keep me
from Wallis.'

In this, however, Le Vietix was quite
wrong. Wallis was a swaggering, blustering
vulgarian. But there was no harm in
him ; while Marian, though decidedly of
a more refined type than her father, was
a born schemer, and never put herself in
the least out of the way without an especial

motive. That she did put herself out of the
way to win Lili's friendship and affection,
there is Httle doubt. LiH was of far too
retiring a disposition to run after Marian
Wallis, glad though she was to have a
friend who spoke her own language. She
was under a strong impression, too, that
Marian was far above her in social condition
; and this of itself would have
prevented Lili from making any advances.


Poor little humble-minded Lili! To seethe
two girls as they stood together talking
in a gap they had themselves made in
the hedge, there was little doubt which was
the higher born of the two.

Whatever her parentage, Lili, in her
simple black stuff gown, with its plain
white linen cuffs and collar, looked like a
young princess. Marian, clad in a large-pattered
plaid, much bedizened about the
body and sleeves with imitation lace, would
be nowhere in a match for grace and distinction.
Yet she had a fine glib tongue,
and she could make her mark with repartee,
and hold her own when Lili's less

striking characteristics might be passed
over. Women of Lili's type are not infrequently
as * caviare to the general.'

Why, Lili, you look quite rueful this
morning ! ' Marian exclaimed, as soon as
the accustomed kiss had been exchanged.
What is the matter ? Is the handsome
cousin too cold to please you ? '

Paul ! Oh, he was here yesterday, and
brought me a basket of lovely violets.'

What a melancholy flower ! Did you
ask him if you could take me to see his
pictures ? '

Yes ; and he said in a few weeks.'
A few weeks ! What a horrible procrastinator
! '

He has got an unusual model  a lady
of position is sitting ; and he does not
wish to be interrupted in his work.'

Poor Lili ! '

Marian, what on earth do you mean ? '

Oh ! nothing ; only beware of ladies of
position. Is she a beauty .- '

Naturally, or Paul would not have her
to sit to him.'

'What is the subject of the picture ? '

A Venetian girl. It is for the Salon.'

And have you seen this lady ? '

Yes  coming out of the Madeline two

Sundays ago. There is no doubt she is

very beautiful'

What is her name ? '

Mrs Jocelyn.'

And M. Paul told you all this ? '

Not all ; I heard some of it from
Justine.'

Poor Lili ! '

Marian, this is the second time you
have pitied me. Do you know anything ? '

Only, my love, that if you don't hold
your own a little more cleverly than you
do, you will go to the wall.'

Do you think Paul loves  this  this
Mrs Jocelyn ? ' And there was a sob in
Lili's voice as she spoke.

Love is a strong word ; but one never
knows where this sort of thing may end.'
Oh, Marian, what shall I do ? '
Marian shruucred her shoulders.

If I told you, you would not follow my
advice.'

Why not ? '

>

;'.

You haven't got the pluck.'

No, I have not much pluck where Paul
is concerned.'

Yet if you would keep him, you must
assert your rights, or this English beauty
will oust you.'

Do you know her ? '

Well  no, I don't exactly know her,
but I know about her. She has taken
Paris by storm : all the men are raving
of her,  the illustrated papers have anticipated
M. Paul, and published her portrait ;
besides, I have heard a lot from  '

Gracious ! Whom do you know in
that set ? I thought  '

That M. Paul kept all the plums to
himself. No, Lili ; one manages occasionally
to clutch one off the tree. You know
the little Vicomte de Gourlay ? '

I have heard you speak of him.'

Well, he is acquainted with j\Irs Joce-
lyn, and raves about her till I get so angry
I should cut him, if I did not think him a
good stepping-stone into French society.'

I thought this De Gourlay was your
especial property ? *

Bah ! He wants to marry money, and
fancies I am an heiress, so he got the
Fauces, the bankers in the Rue St Honore,
to introduce him to papa, who is highly
delighted and amused. As for me, if I
thought it would be any benefit to become
Vicomtesse de Gourlay, there is no saying
but I might do so, though I thoroughly
despise the little idiot.'

Oh, Marian ! '

No righteous indignation, dear. I am
not going to marry him unless everything
else fails. He is too rapturous over the
beauty of Mrs Jocelyn. Ye powers ! how
I hate her. And, let me tell you, for your
edification, dear, that he is frightfully
jealous of handsome Paul.'

Lili thought very intently for a few
seconds, then she said, 

I do not believe that Paul loves this
Mrs Jocelyn, though he may be fascinated
with her for a time. He is too good, too
gentle to rne for there to be any love
between them. Paul is thoroughly honest,
and could not play so base a part.'

Little you know about men  nothing

wakes them up to be considerate and kind
like the knowledge that they are acting
falsely. It is a sort of salve wherewith
they quiet their consciences, I suppose ;
but it is all right, if you are satisfied. You
will ask me to the wedding, I hope.'

'I do not think I shall ever marry Paul.'

Marian burst out laughing.

Lili, you are an utter little fool. You
love this man till the love you have for
him is nearly killing you, and yet you
quietly let some one else walk in and
carry him off, without putting out even
your little finger to retain him.'

It is not that ! it is not that ! I have
told you I do not believe Paul to be false ;
but I have a presentiment that I shall
never be his wife.'

A truce to presentiments  they are
folly ; instead of living in visions, which
will never show you anything tangible,
look after the real flesh-and-blood Paul,
and put a spoke in Mrs Jocelyn's wheel.'

But I don't know how.'

Go up to the studio, and sit there
yourself. I am sure your head would

make as good a study as hers, and you
can take me with you to play foil if you
like. I'll sit. I don't mind  there must
be some ugly people even in the most
beautiful pictures.'

Lili smiled, but she shook her head.

How angry Paul would be ! '

Never mind his anger  who cares for
that as long as we get our way ? and if he
is the good-natured, kindly man you represent
him to be, surely we can distance
that red-haired woman, and have all the
around to ourselves.'

Almost unperceived by Lili, Marian
had begun to say ' we ' in speaking of the
attack she recommended should be made
on Paul, and which it was very evident
she did not intend should take place without
her.

In truth, Marian Wallis cared very little
whether Lili or Mrs Jocelyn was first
favourite with the great painter, her object
was to distance them both if possible, and
come in at the winning-post herself.

To this end she decided that a quarrel
between them was the most likely way

to bring about the result she desired ; for
the peace-loving Paul would close his
doors and his heart on both, while she,
if any good luck attended her, would very
probably step into the breach. This
scheme of Marian's was not only a wicked
but a daring one ; but what cared she.
Life without spice would be far too flat,'
she often said. And carrying off the great
painter, with whom as yet she had not
exchanged a word, from these two women,
who in their several ways she believed to
be devoted to him, was exactly the sort of
game for which it pleased Marian to throw
a large stake. She had seen Paul Cazalet
several times, and watched him from afar
when he had come to the Boulangerie ;
and once she had met him at the Louvre,
accompanied by Mrs Jocelyn ; and about
him, from Lili and De Gourlay, she had
heard enough to fill reams of paper. Yes,
decidedly, before she was even introduced,
she had fallen in love with Cazalet  as
much in love, that is, as Marian was
capable of being with any man : his position
and his appearance suited her.

VOL. I. G

It would be quite cJiic to win him,' she
made up her mind ; but how was she todo
it, unless she urged this foolish little
Lili into desperate acts ? Lili must get
rid of Mrs Jocelyn, and then it rested only
with herself to get rid of Lili  that was
easy enough.'

From which same observations of
Marian, it may be inferred that the bonds
of friendship between Paul Cazalet and
Mrs Jocelyn had been strengthened of
late. And yet it was only a friendship 
strange it should have become so rapidly
strong, that it was before this friendship
Marian Wallis quailed, not before the love
Paul ever professed for his sweet young
cousin.

In order to distance the 'red-haired
woman,' as Marian expressed it, she was
resolved to act in strict combination with
Lili. A difficult impediment, however,
was placed in the way, by Paul having
postponed for a few weeks the permission
for Lili to bring her friend to the Rue
Mignon.

If, however, Paul would not give leave,

they must take the law In their own hands,
and go to the studio without it.

Oh, Marian, I don't dare ! ' cried timid
Lili.

Nonsense, child ; leave it to me ; I'll
manage it. We'll go there as if it was
the most natural thing in the world, and
even Paul himself will not be angry,  go
there too when the high priestess is sitting
on her throne worshipping at the
painter's shrine.'

Oh, Marian ! '

No objections, if you please, Lili. I
will not hear them. Can't you trust
me?'

Yes, I think and believe you are very
clever, but cleverness is too alarming
sometimes.'

'Foolish Lili. Give me a kiss and have
faith in me. There is M. Cazalet calling
you ; run along, and leave me to mature
our plans.'

Lili left her to go to her uncle, but she
went very slowly ; all the alacrity she
usually displayed In obeying his summons
seemed suddenly to have died out ; it was

as if a great fear was holding her back and
crushing both Hfe and spirit.

Meanwhile Marian Wallis, as she saw
her saunter slowly up the garden, muttered
to herself, 

She is a fool,  a beautiful fool, but she
is not altogether as plastic as one might
wish ; still it will be odd if I cannot contrive
to mould her.'

MARIAN IN CLOVER,

O you are seriously contemplating
matrimony,  why, Felix,
if you told me that the stars
had descended to the earth
and ceased to shine in the celestial hemisphere,
I should not be more surprised,'
and Madame de Brissac laughed gaily.

The little Vicomte shrugged his shoulders
and looked injured.

Why should I not marry and become
a domestic character  a family man?' he
asked.

Why not ? But what are we to do for
our butterfly ; besides, being a butterfly.

how do you expect to remain constant to
one flower ? '

I do not mean to try.'

Mon cher, what morality.'

This marriage, dear Madame de Bris-sac,
will be what hundreds of marriages
are every day, simply a marriage of convenience.
The young lady has money,
which I have not. I have a name and a
good position, which she has not.'

Tiens ! Papillon, you have more sense
than I gave you credit for ; and the girl,
does she agree to this ? '

She has not committed herself to either
yes or no ; like all her countrywomen, she
requires time to consider; but there is no
doubt she smiles on me.'

And she is presentable, you say

Quite.'

I should like to see her.'

That is exactly the favour I have come
to ask you.'

You want her to come to my Thursdays
? '

He bowed his head affirmatively.
Madame de Brissac went on, 

I am very extended in my Ideas,  not
particular enough, some people call it ; but
I should prefer looking at this young lady
before I give her carte blanche to come
here every week. Besides, have you considered
the matter well ? Her presence
may quite upset your chances with la belle
Nelly ; ' and again Madame de Brissac
laughed.

Bah ! She has no eyes for any one
but the big bear Cazalet. ' Diei, how I
hate him ! But, please, do not distract my
thoughts to Mrs Jocelyn : it disturbs my
peace. Will you, accompanied by me, dome
the favour to call on Mademoiselle
Wallis and Madame her mother.'

No, not with you. I will call by myself.
Your presence would hamper me.
Go and tell them I will call tomorrow
afternoon between three and four.'

And Madame de Brissac kept her word.
Several times after Felix de Gourlay left
her she sat down to write and tell him she
had changed her mind, and would rather
have nothing to do with these strangers.
A hidden power, for which she could not

account, seemed to hold her back, but she
would not allow what she considered her
free will to be conquered by a mere sentiment,
so the note was not sent to De
Gourlay, and the visit was paid to the
Wallises, who, of course, were in full dress
to receive her, rather shocking Madame de
Brissac by the gaudiness of their attire.

She made allowance for it, however, by
the fact that they were English colonists,
and trusted that a little instruction on her
part might mend matters, at all events as
far as the girl was concerned. On the
mother Madame de Brissac could do little
more than gaze, seeing that her knowledge
of the English language and Mrs Wallis'
aptitude for French were about on a par.

Marian's French, if not grammatical,
was fluent, and she chatted away to the
great lady who had condescended to call
on them, with an ease and flow that was
almost pert.

No ; assuredly Madame de Brissac was
not impressed by Miss Marian Wallis.
She had mixed far too extensively in
society not to know pure gold from dross,

and that Marian Wallis was dross there was
Httle doubt. Still good-natured Madame
de Brissac tried to persuade herself that
her instincts were at fault,  that the girl
only wanted polishing, etcetera. It would
be such a good thing for Felix de Gourlay
to marry a rich wife ; for his sake
she must make the best of these people,
and do all in her power to promote his
interests.

Marian had wisely suppressed her father
for the day : the sight of him might have
thrown in the casting-vote against the
Wallises. But with the assurance that
Mamma never goes out in the evening ;
she can't speak French, and it bores her,'
Madame de Brissac said, she hoped Mademoiselle
Wallis would come to her next
Thursday evening.

The moment the invitation had left her
lips she felt she had made a mistake, but
it was too late to recall it, and besides, Felix
would be so grateful.

By Marian's gushing acceptance, it was
evident that she was grateful too.

Ah, if Madame de Brissac, worldly wise

though she was, could only have guessed
how that very invitation she had so considerately
given on Felix's account was
calculated to retard rather than promote
a marriage between him and the scheming
Marian, she would probably have allowed
her acquaintance with the Wallises to begin
and end with that visit. Strange how not
unfrequently our good actions  those on
which we bestow our greatest care and
thought  turn out in exact contradiction
to all we hoped and looked for. Marian
Wallis, in having Madame de Brissac's
doors thrown open to her, had obtained
the entrance she craved ; if she succeeded,
as she fully expected to do, in making
her own way, there would be no need to
marry De Gourlay. If she did not succeed,
well, the little idiot would always be
there to fall back on.

Thus she reasoned, even while she was
saying pretty, gracious speeches to her
new acquaintance ; and no sooner was the
great lady gone, before even her victoria
was out of sight, than Marian ran down
the garden in search of Lili, to confide to

her  well, not exactly all her hopes and
fears  Marian was too clever a schemer
not to know when to ofush and when to
be reticent  but all she chose to tell,
especially that she was going into society
where she should meet M. Paul and his
new model, this English lady, and that,
of course, she should have her friend's
interests dearly at heart.

The news, however, did not give Lili
the pleasure Marian had anticipated. Lili
liked Marian's companionship  felt thankful
that she had some one to talk to who
spoke her own language ; but she was too
pure and true - hearted unreservedly to
place all trust in Marian. Confiding
though Lili was by nature, there were
moments when she wondered if Marian
was altogether quite reliable,  whether
she would act in a perfectly straightforward
manner, if placed in a difficult
situation. Something of this temper was
on Lili to-day, while she listened to
Marian's gushing talk about all she
hoped to obtain from her introduction to
Madame de Brissac.

Scarcely then did Lili feel pleased that
this so - called friend of hers should be
continually meeting Paul, and be able to
twist opportunity as she listed.

Had Lili a presentiment that Paul was
not wholly uninteresting to this girl, who,
as yet, had not spoken to him ? Was this
poor little Lili afraid of discovering another
rival when she looked into the animated
face of Miss Marian Wallis ?

Alas ! alas ! for the sensitive temperament,
the tender, loving heart to whom a
man crowned by genius occasionally throws
a blossom from his tree of love. What
pain the tending and cherishing of the
carelessly-gathered fragrant bloom not unfrequently
costs ! What tears, what heartbreaking,
leading even into the very
shadow of death !

But Lili's blossom was not dead. Paul
loved her still ; only a few hours ago he
had held her to his heart and called her
his ' Sweet-eyed darling.'

Yet why was this English woman ever
at his side,  why did Marian Wallis twit
her by telling her she should meet Paul

and would reason with him ? Was it not
rather her right to be there, since one day
she would be his wife ? Oh, it was very
very hard to bear! If only she could go
mad or die, then these things would cease
to trouble her ! '

Suffering, loving Lili felt she could not
bear to be left much longer in the cold,
pining for Paul's love. And yet he in the
vigour of his strength saw no trouble for
her or danger to himself in the course he was
pursuing, since it was only friendship that
existed between him and INIrs Jocelyn ; and,
of course, at that future day when events
should ripen into fulfilment, he would
marry Lili and give the loving child a
home with him in the Rue Mignon.

That Lili even knew of the existence of
Mrs Jocelyn, Paul scarcely thought.

Who should tell her aught of that
nothing there was to tell '. '

Little did he dream how her friend
Marian Wallis was magnifying what he
called ' nothing ' into a jealousy of such
gigantic dimensions that it was wearing
away sweet Lili's life, and that even Le

Vieux noticed that each day she looked
more ill and frail, while with a melancholy
shake of the head he set her ailments
down as hereditary, saying her father
came of a weakly race.

It never for a moment occurred to old
Cazalet that Paul had anything to do with
the change in Lili, and that it was for his
undivided love she was pining.

Much as Le Vieux loved Paul, proud
as he was of his talent and renown,
certainly he would have given him a
right down stern, fatherly lecture had
he in the least suspected what was going
on.

But, taken up with his business, kindly
old Cazalet knew nought of heartburning,
and though Lili's white face haunted him,
even while he was poring over his ledgers,
it would never be within his province to
bring events to a crisis. Marian Wallis
flattered herself that the pulling of the
cords of circumstances rested with her,
and that she would pull them to her own
advantage there was little doubt.

She donned what she considered her

prettiest frock  it was a pink and blue
shot silk, which scarcely suited her sallow
complexion  and started, unaccompanied,
to Madame de Brissac's Thursday.

It never entered Marian's head that she
required a chaperon, and the self-willed
girl certainly did not intend to be shackled
by the presence of either her father or
mother. It was the first real party she
had ever been at, and her eyes glistened
with delight when she saw the crowded,
well-lit rooms, and heard the rare music,
for which Madame de Brissac's parties
where renowned. The listened still more

J o

brilliantly, however, when she saw Mrs
Jocelyn come in, which she did rather late,
looking about her with querying glances,
as though asking each person she met if
Cazalet was there.

No one had seen him, which was
strange, since he had promised Nelly to
come. She must make the best of it.
however, and not look too much as if she
missed him, so she even entered into conversation
with the butterfly, who, charmed
at this public testimony of Mrs Jocelyn's

favour, was so engrossed by it that he entirely
forgot the presence of Miss Marian
Walls, and how necessary her money-bags
were to the sustaining of his Vicomte's
coronet.

Marian, however, was not jealous ; she
cared too little about De Gourlay to be
otherwise than amused at his fluttering his
pretty wings about this dangerous flame.
She would use his neglect of her to her
own advantage  of that she was resolved,
so she sat down in a corner near Mrs
Jocelyn, and put on the most woebegone,
miserable expression that could well
be.

A first-rate actress Marian would have
made.

More than one person noticed the little
stranger's unhappy face, and addressed
observations to her, but she did not want
their pity ; at last some one drew Madame
de Brissac's attention to her, and she immediately
said a word to the butterfly
which recalled him to a sense of the expedient.
Another moment and he was
by Marian's side ; but she bade him leave

her in peace  how could she compete with
such beauty as Mrs Jocelyn possessed ?
She had come into that corner on purpose
to feast her eyes on it. If she could only
look on a face like that for ever, she
should be quite happy. What would she
not give if she dare speak to and make
acquaintance with that lovely woman ?

Here was an opportunity for De Gourlay
to repair his neglect and be forgiven.
Another minute, and, with Nelly's permission,
he had introduced the little,
strange Meet from the Colonies, who had
gone mad on the subject of Mrs Jocelyn's
beauty. Of course Nelly was flattered 
a woman's tribute to beauty is always
worth having ; it is so much rarer thana
man's  and, being flattered, she was
wholly taken in by Miss Wallis.

The girl being, like herself, a stranger
in Paris, was another link between them ;
of course she would befriend her as much
as she could ; she must come and see her,
and they would be able to arrange ways
and means for a little amusement.

Marian did not look miserable now :

VOL. I. H

the clouds had cleared thoroughly from
her brow, and the sunshine was so brilliant
that it could not grow brighter, even
when Paul Cazalet himself appeared on
the scene, and Mrs Jocelyn, after shaking
hands with him most cordially, said, in
her low, rich voice, 

Mon ami, this is an English girl  Miss
Marian Wallis. She is lonely in Paris ;
I have promised her a little pleasure.'

Paul Cazalet looked at her for a second,
and then, with a cold bow, received the
gush of enthusiasm over his talent, which
Marian knew so well how to bestow.

He remembered at once that this
Marian Wallis was Lili's friend, and he
wondered what complication her acquaintance
with Mrs Jocelyn might bring about.

THE POWER OF LOVE.

HE morning after Marian Wallis'
introduction to Madame de
Brissac was bright and clear
and frosty. Just the winter's
day in which a painter revels.

Paul, absorbed in his art, had forgotten
all the complications and combinations his
friendship with Mrs Jocelyn might occasion,
and, for the time being, though
she was lying dreaming in the armchair
by the fire,  her auburn hair in heavy
masses about her shoulders, her large,
soft eyes fixed on him,  he forgot the
woman in the model ; and all the perturbations
of mind which had troubled

him so much of late, were merged into
the object he had so desperately at heart
to idealise Mrs Jocelyn's beautiful face
till the world should cry aloud in rapture
when it beheld La Veneziana.

Nelly, meanwhile, was gazing at the
man, not the artist. She was wondering
if she had met Paul Cazalet before life
had began with her in earnest -whether
their friendship would have ripened into
love.

It did not occur to Nelly, even while
she was analysing her feelings as she lay
there watching Paul, that there was something
very nearly akin to love in the deep
interest she took in this man.

If he were suddenly to start off on a
long journey and leave her alone in
Paris, would she drift back into the
happy, independent woman she had been
before she met him, or feel that with
Paul Cazalet the brightest joy in her
life had departed ? If Nelly had attempted
to picture what she would be
without Paul, she would have shuddered
in dismay at the despair his absence

would produce ; but her dreams were
retrospective rather than of the future.
Why should she contemplate the future,
since the present was so happy ? only
she could not help feeling that, with
another past, all might have been quite
different. As far as Nelly knew, there
was no woman's face between her and
Paul.

He was her very own dear, kind
friend, only her independent will prevented
him from being anything nearer ;
that story in the past which made her
resolve to eschew love in the future.
No ; she would have nothing changed
in one tittle ; she gloried in her freedom ;
she delighted in having Paul Cazalet fora
friend  of what greater happiness could
the most exacting woman dream ? Besides,
Paul did not love her : his first
and only real love was his art ; she
could not bear to have the second place
in his heart, whereas, being only a friend,
there was no cause for jealousy. Ay, she
had chosen wisely ; with a man of Paul
Cazalet's calibre, it would be absurd to

expect the impossible ; and that he should
descend from the pedestal of his genius
and bestow all his time and thought on
a woman, would be quite impossible.
Look at him now ; does he know
whether she is a real flesh and blood
creature, or a mere lay figure from which
he is painting ? '

Thus did Nelly dream on, and seek to
persuade herself that all was for the best
in her relations with Paul ; still, for all
that, there is little doubt but a passionate
glance from his keen eyes, a tender pressure
from his kindly hand, would have
fired her into enthusiasm, and the strong
feeling for him which was only slumbering
in her heart, waiting for him to awaken it,
would have cried aloud with glad spontaneity,


My only love  through life till death 
my Paul ; my only love ! '

But Paul Cazalet's emotions were restrained
by a stronger power than Nelly
dreamed of. Was he not fighting to retain
his allegiance to Lili,  not to forget in his
friendship for one woman that his love

was promised to another ? What Mrs
Jocelyn thought mere play for him, while
it almost amounted to acute pain for her,
was nevertheless deep-rooted mental agony
to Paul.

Yet painting there, intensely interested
as he was in his subject, who could guess
that at any moment the man might assert
himself, and in an outburst of intoxication
set aside alike his honour and the strict
principle of right and wrong to which he
was ever striving to hold fast. For Nelly
was bewitchingly lovely as she reclined
there with her bright eyes fixed on his
face ; and if Paul, struggling as he was
to be free, could not help loving her, was
he to be blamed or accounted wholly a
base and worthless man ?

Oh the power of love ! the power of
love ! How well-nigh impossible it is to
resist it, and yet what misery and suffering
it brings to the weak and the
cowardly.

And yet to be valiant and strong in the
presence of the woman whose beauty sheds
a lustre over his life, to say with strong

resolution, ' Be silent, loudly-beating heart,
I will listen to none of your promptings 
this beautiful being, who, as my wife,
would gladden my onward journey as
the sun's rays gladden the earth, shall
never be more than a sister or a familiar
friend, because in loving her I am bringing
unhappiness and misery to another,' was
almost more than to mortal man was
possible.

Still for this end Paul was struggling ;
would he triumph, armed, as he believed
himself to be, with an artist's strength ;
or, throwing down his palette and brush,
would he cry out in his heart, 

Her beauty has conquered me, even in
the stronghold of my honour ! '

There had been a long, long silence ;
the clock on the mantel-shelf had ticked
away well-nigh an hour ; but he who
dreamed over his work, and she who
dreamed of him, alike unheeded time.
The dead quiet was at last growing
oppressive.

Paul stepped back from his picture.

Are you tired, Nelly ? Sitting so

honos In one attitude must surely have
cramped you.'

They had long, as comrades should,
been Nelly and Paul to each other.

She did not move, only smiled on him.

Watching you, dreaming of your
genius, how can I be tired ? ' she
asked.

The glad light as of deep joy came
into his eyes at her words, but it faded
away, to be succeeded by such a sad,
agonised expression,  that Nelly cried
aloud.

What is it, Paul ? What pains you 
are you ill ? '

No, no ; not ill. But there are
moments when a sudden dimness and an
unaccountable sense of trouble come over
me.'

And he threw open the window, and
let some of the fresh outer air into the
heated studio.

Nelly was by his side in a moment.

My friend, you are overworking yourself
; you shall put your painting away
for a while, and see a doctor.'

He shook his head.

I must finish La Veneziana, and I will
see no doctor. He would not understand
my complaint.'

Nay, but, Paul, you surely do not
wish to make me anxious,  to pain me
by seeing you suffer } '

It is not suffering, it is joy,' he whispered.
' The pleasure of having you with
me is so intense, that in trying to realise
it, I stagger. Do such emotions ever
kill, Nelly?'

Dear Paul, how good you are to me ! '

And her words came out richly, as
though the pleasure Nelly felt was totally
unallied to pain. Nor was there a shadow
of regret mixed with her feeling for Paul.
Why should there be ? Something in
his manner, as he stood there inhaling
the fresh outer air, almost made her
think he loved her. Well, and if he did,
what then ? To be loved by Paul  must
not every other sensation pale before it.

Ah, the past, the past  she had already
forgotten it, and with the first revelation
in Paul's eyes she was living in the future

with all her friendship as dead as the bygone
buried years.

His arm was round her now ; her head
was on his shoulder ; the perfume from her
auburn hair intoxicating him, till the very
existence of Lili faded from his mind.

Yet he did not ask Nelly to be his wife ;
for the present moment to know they loved
each other was enough  shackles would
come all too soon.

No more work to day,' so Nelly said.

But Paul would not listen to this decree,
it was not work to him to paint her sweet
face. La Ve7ieziana must be finished
while the inspiration was upon him ; it was
to be his masterpiece,  the great work on
which his fame as a painter would rest.

She must not let his pleasure in her
beauty rob him of a part of his glory.
His glory! was it not dearer to her than
to himself '.  was it not his genius she had
worshipped, before she loved the man ?
For that she did love Paul Cazalet, love
him as she had not known till now that
she was capable of loving, there is little
doubt.

So they lingered for a while by the
window talking, not of the future, with its
hopes and fears, not of the past, with its
long train of regrets, but of the present,
teeming with delight as it ever is at the
first flush of love's young dream ; and then
at last they went back to their respective
positions, he to his easel, she to her reclining
chair, from thence to gaze into
each other's eyes, till the swiftly-flying
hours of daylight should be shrouded by
the veil of night.

No one came to interrupt them, not
even Justine. Since they had ordered no
coffee, why should she bring it ?

Coffee ! In the ecstasy of a new passion
dawning for the first time in both their
lives, what room was there to bestow a
thought on material subjects ?

They wanted neither food, nor gold, nor
shelter,  nothing in the wide world but
each other.

Would not even the craving for Paul's
glory set now that the brighter sun of love
had risen high in the heaven they had
made for themselves ? Six brief hours

since Nelly had entered that studio a
seemingly free, independent woman, with
a strong friendship for the great painter,
and now what a change had been effected.
Whole years have stretched themselves
between the Nelly of the morning and
the Nelly who at last ties the black bonnet
over the auburn hair, and, freeing herself
from Paul's encircling arms, bids him stay
where he is in the studio  she will go home
alone. Emotion is wellnigh overbalancing
her reason  the cool evening air and solitude
are tonics necessity compels.

He obeys her, for he too has need of
quiet ; conscience has already begun to
torture him with a recollection of Lili's
prior claims. ?sirs Jocelyn does not seek
to open the studio door, which Paul always
locked when he was at work, but went
into the sitting-room intending to say a
rapid good-evening to Justine as she passed
the kitchen on her way into the street.

She felt somewhat like a thief, creeping
out of Paul's house in the gloaming : it was
the last time she must come there, she
decided. As a sitter to an artist, it was

a mere business transaction ; but now that
the artist was no longer a friend but a
lover, they must meet only on neutral
ground, or occasionally in her own .


She had not yet told Paul that this washer
determination, but her woman's instincts
prompted it none the less decidedly
on account of her silence. Mrs Jocelyn
was fully capable of strong, staunch, passionate
love, and its very depths had been
stirred by Paul as they had never been
before and never would be again by any
living man. But to be true to the man
she loves  a woman must be true to herself
 no breath of slander must rest on her
fair fame, no injurious suspicion sully her
purity. But Nelly by no means gauged
how difficult this would be. As long as
she walked along a straight path, she
cared nought for the remarks with which
evil tongues are ever ready, nor was it
the dread of gossip that would keep her
in this path. She was one of those women
who, naturally proud and high minded,
would so have loathed herself for any

divergence from the path of virtue that
her Hfe from that hour would have become
such a terrible reproach as not to
be worth the living.

No ; the pleasant dawdling in Paul
Cazalet's studio, few though they had
been, were already at an end. She
would, alone in her own apartment, revel
for that one evening over her love for
the great painter ; and in the morning
she would arrange some plan which
should keep both herself and him from
harm. Even as she stumbled through
the little sitting-room in the semi-darkness,
she made up her mind to this,
and a sort of craving for some one to
protect her from herself was upon her.
She had closed the door leading from
the sitting-room to the atelier, leaving
Paul alone ; when she opened the second
door on the opposite side of the room,
she heard voices in the kitchen  Justine
was not alone, and a bright paraffin lamp
was burning glaringly ; she would walk
hurriedly on, without looking to the
right or left ; her nerves were at too

high tension to bear conversation with
Justine's gossiping acquaintances.

To get away unseen was, however not
so easy as she had expected.

Ah, Mrs Jocelyn, we have been waiting
here for you to come out  we did
not like to interrupt the stance!

Compelled to stop, Nelly stared in a
bewildered way at the speaker, as though
striving to remember where she had seen
her before.

Miss Wallis,' she murmured at length,
the name and the girl's features suddenly
coming back to her recollection.

Yes ; and this is Lili, my intimate
friend, and M. Paul Cazalet's fiancdel

Mrs Jocelyn turned her eyes, with an
almost stony stare, from Marian Wallis'
face to Lili's ; she seemed to drink in,
as it were, one long  to her fevering 
draught of the girl's pale, wondrous
beauty ; then, as though she did not
wish anything to come between her and
the melancholy sadness of Lili's face,
without speaking one word more, she
strode forth into the now absolute darkness



of the early winter's night, and,
with an even deeper darkness overwhelming
her own heart with its chill
gloom, she stumbled rather than walked
through the streets till, as it were by
intuition, she reached her own home.

VOL. I.

WHICH LOVED HIM BEST

Ally JOCELYN's feelings
had been stirred to their very
depth during her recent interview
with Paul. Marian's
sudden statement, conveying, as it practically
did, a revelation of the utter
duplicity of the man she had been
robing in ideal glory, was almost more
than, for some time, she could altogether
grasp.

The capability of thinking seemed to
be absolutely stagnated ; and, as one ina
dream she met the exigencies of the
moment, without thoroughly understanding
what was going on.

She had promised to dine at Madame
d'Albin's, and, like an automaton wound
up to perform a certain amount of work,
she dressed and went  nay, more, she
so far restrained her natural feelings
that she managed to talk and laugh so
successfully that for a time no one
even guessed that there was aught amiss.
But the high pressure told at last, and
before the evening was over most of
Nelly's sentences ended in a hysterical
sob, and it was obvious that she was
suffering acutely.

She must go home, she said ; a
night's rest would put her all right ; she
had been doing rather too much of late.

A night's rest ! If sleep would only
come to her pillow and chase away
thought ; but alone once more in the
solitude of her own room  away from
the many curious eyes which would, as
it were, look into her very soul  the
pent-up agony burst forth, and without
even taking off her long black, trailing
skirts, she wandered up and down the
room like one distraught, till the grey

dawn peeped in through the crevices of
the shutters. What mattered that the
night had been cold, and the silver
hoar-frost lay on the hardened earth ?
Nelly did not even throw a shawl over
her shoulders, but continued her rapid
walk backwards and forwards with monotonous
precision.

At last the sounds of awakening traffic
penetrate even her dulled senses, and
she lets in the daylight. Cold and uninviting
is the aspect of that early
morning  not becoming, either, to Nelly's
beauty ; there are black lines round her
eyes, her face and lips are absolutely
colourless, and the auburn hair hangs
about her shoulders in dishevelled masses,
which are scarcely picturesque. Nelly
looks at her watch  it is half-past eight.
She knows full well what she intends
to do, but the day is, as yet, too young.
She smiles grimly as she looks from her
watch to the looking-glass, and says, 

If he had seen me thus, I might not
have been taught to suffer.'

Even in her utter despair woman's instinct

to make the best of advantages does
not wholly desert her.

She takes off her evening toilette, wraps
herself in a warm dressing-gown, rolls her
hair up into a knot, and finally rings the
bell.

A fire, a hot bath, and some strong
tea.'

The maid who answers her summons is
somewhat surprised to see her mistress on
the alert at so early an hour, but she makes
no comment. There is something in Mrs
Jocelyn's face that forbids remark. By
eleven o'clock, though the colour has not
come back to her cheeks, nor the light of
beauty to her eyes, yet she looks a sad and
lovely woman as she stands ready to go
out,  the simple black bonnet tied under
her chin, her long gauze veil floating behind
her. The maid supposes she is going
to sit as usual for her picture, and is
somewhat surprised, as she watches her
from the window, to see that she walks
briskly down a street quite opposite from
the one that she would take to go to the
Rue Mignon.

Exactly the route she ought to follow
she does not know herself ; but she has
got the words Boulangerie Anglaise firmly
engraved on her mind, and she makes no
doubt that when she reaches the Arc de
Triomphe some one will tell her where it is.

On, on, then she wanders, her aching
brow refreshed by the cool morning air,
her whole thoughts concentrated on a meeting
with Lili, and a thorough laying bare
of the unvarnished truth, at all events as
far as Paul is concerned.

Meantime Paul, in total ignorance of the
meeting between the two girls and Mrs
Jocelyn, is standing gazing in rapt admiration
at the half finished Venezia7ia
wondering every now and again why his
beautiful love does not come, yet almost
welcoming her absence, since it teaches
him how dreary life would be without her,
how his very being is merged in hers.

As for Lili, he scarcely bestows a thought
on her ; and when he does, he quiets his
arguing conscience by saying that, after all,
he has never made very serious love to
her ; and though he has told his father that

oo

he would marry her some day, and give hera
home, surely such a promise is not binding.
She shall have a home with him and
Nelly when Le Vietix dies ; and no doubt
so undemonstrative a being as Lili will be
quite content.

But why does not Nelly come ? '

And he began to pace restlessly about
the room, and look ever and again with
longing eyes out of the window. Well is
it that we cannot penetrate the mists that
shroud our omniscience.

Mrs Jocelyn had reached that part of
Paris where she believed the Boulangerie
to be. She was not long before she saw
the shop itself, and the honest baker standing
at the door giving orders to his men,
who were loading the carts with bread.

She stood and contemplated him for a
few seconds.

Her Paul's father ! There was a gentleness
and a probity about his countenance
which made her heart bound as she thought,
' Surely in the son of a man like that,
there can be no deceit.'

Suppose she went straight to him for

6 Nelly Jocelyn, Widow.

information. But no ; she would not pain
the good, doating father by throwing even
a momentary doubt on his son's honour.
And she half turned away in indecision.

Fate, however, had so intended it that
Mrs Jocelyn should not have come sofar
for nothing. Looking back from the
Boulangerie, on which her attention had
been fixed, she saw that she was watched
watched by an individual whom, during
the last twelve hours, she had learnt to
hate.

Miss Marian Wallis, tripping along
in search of any adventure chance might
bring about, scarcely in her wildest imaginings
hoped for such a promising one as
the appearance of Mrs Jocelyn in those
regions foretold. To let it slip would be
to belie her character for ready cleverness.
So she bowed, and smirked, and held out
her hand.

Are you looking for our villa, Mrs
Jocelyn ? I hope you are. It is just at
the back of M. Cazalet's. We can o
through his garden : it is much nearer.'

Without waiting for an answer she

al

opened a gate which led down an alley by
the side of the shop, to the Cazalets' garden.
?sirs Jocelyn followed, led on by a sort of
mysterious power, but she did not utter
one word. Her one overwhelming thought
at the moment was of Lili. Would she
see Lili there, and find her willing to
answer truthfully any questions she might
put.

Yes ; Marian knew full well that Lili
Alas in that garden, or she would not have
invited Mrs Jccelyn to come into it.

A few seconds more and the two rivals
for Paul Cazalet's love stood face to face,
Marian watching them with a sort of
mocking sneer. But Mrs Jocelyn could
scarcely say what she had to say before
Marian Wallis, so she asked her to go onto
the villa,  she had a message for Lili,
when she had delivered it, she would
follow her.

To allow any part of the game to be
played without her immediate supervision
was scarcely Marian's intention ; but Mrs
Jocelyn's manner was peremptory  she was
perforce compelled to obey her.

A message for Lili ! What could it
be?

Both the girls were wondering, though
with very different feelings agitating them
the while.

Marian out of sight and earshot, Mrs
Jocelyn took Lili's hand, and gazed into
her eyes, as though by their means she
would look into her very soul.

'Is it true,' she asked, 'that you are
the affianced wife of Paul Cazalet ? '

Yes,' Lili said in a clear voice, speaking
very low. ' What have you come to tell
me. Has he sent me a message  is it that
he would be free ' '

'Free!' answered Mrs Jocelyn. ' Is it
possible ever to be free from a given
promise ?'

Oh yes, Mrs Jocelyn ; and rather than
he should be unhappy, I will give him
back his promise, though the loss of him
should kill me. I love my cousin Paul 
God only knows how I love him  still I
know he is far, far above me. I am nota
fitting wife for him, yet I thought and
believed he loved me, but now  ' her

sentence ended in a sob, and she fairly
broke down.

Mrs Jocelyn looked at her almost tenderly
as she said, 

My poor child, I wonder whether Paul
Cazalet is worth these tears ? '

Oh, Mrs Jocelyn, and they told me
you loved him ! '

Love him ! Has even he, great genius
though he is, the right to make the misery
of two hearts. Is winning love, that he
may squander it, a privilege which even
Paul Cazalet can dare to claim ? '

He has not sought to win my love.
Oh, Mrs Jocelyn ! you are mistaking his
great, noble nature. I gave him my love,
gave it without the asking. It was my
uncle Le Vieicx who arranged that Paul
should marry me and he who never refuses
his father anything, simply acquiesced.'

My child, you are deceiving yourself,
and trying to deceive me. Either M. Paul
Cazalet has asked you to marry him, or he
has not done so  there can be no middle
course in such a matter.'

Still I will never marry Paul for it to

be a misery to him. If they had only left
me in England to work or beg for my daily
bread  here I am only in Paul's way, 
standing between him and a great ladylike
yourself. Oh, if it would please God
to take me ! '

There were tears in Nelly Jocelyn's
eyes as she looked at Lili, in surprise at
the great sacrifice so grandly, because so
simply, offered.

I cannot take Paul from you, my poor
Lili. I have no right ; besides 

Lili's dark eyes beamed for a moment
as a sort of glow, shed by Paul's love,
seemed to come over her at these words ;
a chill blast, however, quickly swept it
away, and she asked, 

Besides what ? '

Mrs Jocelyn seemed about to speak
unrestrainedly, then she pulled herself
suddenly together and said coldly, 

I have ceased to esteem a man who
can offer me the deep love of his whole
heart when he has already promised it to
another.'

There was no gleam of joy in Lili's

eyes now. It was as though she had
received her death-warrant ; and the aoonv
of a sudden spasm contracted her fragile
frame till she was bent nearly double ; she
managed, however, to stammer, 

Paul  Paul  has  done  this.'

And then she sat down on a seat close
by, and leaning her head on a leafless
lilac-bush, she looked as if life were well-nigh
extinct.

Mrs Jocelyn was seized with a sudden
fear. This girl had evidently got a heart
complaint, and the shock of her statement
might prove fatal.

She went towards her and tried to take
her hand ; it was icy cold, but the flame
that was still burning in Lili's lamp of
life, though feeble, was not incapable of
emitting a sudden, strong light.

She repulsed Mrs Jocelyn so vigorously
that she did not persist in offering her
unwelcome attentions.

I am not ill,' she said, ' only troubled.
No one can help me  least of all you.
What can there be between you and me ?
best that we had never met.'

Nay,' answered Mrs Jocelyn, who, now
that Lili had spoken, recovered from her
temporary fright,  ' nay, it was necessary
that we should meet  the truth demanded
it.'

The truth. I wonder if the truth ever
kills.'

It is rather falsehood that kills.'

Yet I have not been false. I have ever
striven to be true.'

My child, you will surely not be the
victim of this great wrong.'

Lili shook her head.

What I am suffering now is more than
I can bear;  please leave me;  why do you
look at me like that ? You are great and
noble  loving too  but you cannot help
me. You will get over your disappointment
in Paul  for you cannot love him as 1
do. Get over it, did I say ? you will be
with him  at his side sharing his glory,
while I  '

Lili, for mercy's sake do not talk like
that ! Do you think I could ever forgive
Paul the suffering he has dealt out to both
of us ?'

We always forgive those we love ;
if we could not forgive we should not
love.'

Impossible !  this man has behaved too
disgracefully.'

There must be no disgrace cast on the
name of Paul Cazalet. If I can suffer
silently so that he may be great, surely
you will agree to be silent too.'

I wish I had never come here, never
come,' muttered Nelly, 'but had borne my
burden patiently. For your sake, LiH, I
wish this  not for his.'

This time Lili held her hand out to
her.

You have not harmed me ; it is by a
sterner decree than yours that I am suffering.
Now go, and do your best for Paul.
He should know nothing of this meeting.
I will not tell him.'

Nelly, angry even to madness at what
she was pleased to call Paul's deception,
was silenced before this lowly girl's simple
devotion.

She stooped and kissed the white brow,
which did not shrink from her lips, and

when at last she turned and left the garden,
going not towards the villa but outby
the alley through which she had entered,
it was with Lili's not her own wrong that
her heart was filled.

And Lili did not attempt to move after
Mrs Jocelyn left her ; as one crushed, she
sat on there, leaning against the lilac-bush ;
even thought seemed dead, everything but
her great love for Paul, which lay like a
heavy weight at her heart.

At last Marian Wallis, tired of waiting
so long for Mrs Jocelyn, and wondering
whether this troublesome message would
ever be delivered, came through the gap
in the hedge into the garden to see what
they were about.

Lili; good gracious! what is the matter?
where is Mrs Jocelyn ?'

But Lili made no answer, nor moved
when Marian approached her.

Even when her friend shook her somewhat
impatiently she did not respond, and
Marian, in alarm at her comatose condition,
called out, bringing La Normande forthwith
on the scene.



Their combined efforts could not, however,
rouse Lili ; so very quietly, fearing
lest Le Vietix should hear them and be
anxious, they carried her up to her room
and put her into bed, hoping that warmth
and rest would restore animation. Before
long they discovered that all their efforts
were unavailing ; it was necessary to inform
Le Vieux of Lili's illness, and to send
for the nearest doctor.

VOL. I.

K

SANS ADIEU.

His

LL through the morning Paul
waited for Nelly, passing the
time in dreaming and impatience
by turns,
untasted djeicner had been removed
by Justine, with many a grunt and
groan over the change that the acquaintance
with this English widow had entailed
for that her Paul was not the same man
Justine saw full well.

As for painting, that was quite out of
the question ; he could not get on without
Nelly, and why she did not come perplexed
him greatly.

At last he threw off his blouse, put on

his soft felt hat, and wandered forth to
inquire the reason of her absence.

Madame was out, the maid said, had
been out some time, and she knew nothings
where she had gone.

Back, then, to the Rue Mignon to wait
a while longer Paul decided to go ; doubtless
Nelly would come to him as she returned
from her mysterious expedition.

His mind full of Nelly, he walked on
without looking round ; if he had done so,
what chancres miofht have been effected in
both their lives ! As Paul sauntered disconsolately
off in the direction of the Rue
Mignon, Mrs Jocelyn arrived at her own
door from the opposite direction.

For a while she stood and watched
Paul till he gradually retreated from her
sight, then very slowly she crawled through
the porte cohere up the stairs which led
to her apartment.

The scene of the morning seemed to have
put such a barrier between her and her love
that she was powerless to call out to him
to render her an explanation of his strange
and seemingly most dishonourable conduct.

And as Paul walked slowly home, a
strong belief in affinities was upon him,
and he felt, though he could not have
defined how, that Nelly was near him,
but that some powerful agency was holding
them apart.

It was a horrible, nightmare feeling,
and he tried to shake it off, explaining it
by saying that of course Nelly was near
him  was she not ever by his side, her
spirit ever pervading the very air he
breathed ? Yet, what was keeping her
away ?  ah, if she would only come back,
and, casting her loving arms about his
neck, tell him she would leave him never,
never more, how happy it would make
him.

But the day wore on, the silence of
night once more succeeded the sun's
radiance, and still Nelly did not come.

Paul by this time was utterly wretched ;
still he would not humble himself by going
again to her door. Perhaps he was
afraid of injuring Nelly, or perhaps he
was just a little bit angry himself  angry
and despondent by turns, as lovers are

wont to be  since she had promised to sit
to him assail, and had neither come nor
sent a hne of excuse.

Would he not dine  he had eaten no
breakfast? Justine asked at last, breaking
her rule of silence in despair, as she
dashed suddenly into the studio where
Paul was sitting, listless and unhappy, in
the gloom.

Dine ? He did not know. Was it
time for dinner ? How the day had worn
away. He was not hungry  perhaps he
was ailing.

Ay, ailing  heartsick,' muttered Justine,
a disease from which it would be well to
be cured quickly.'

He did not heed or hear her grumbling,
but rousing himself as with an effort, said
he would go out to dine ; he wanted distraction
 a meeting with some of his comrades
at a restaurant would cheer him and
do him good.

Justine could scarcely contradict this
assertion, though in reality she had no
belief in Paul's intention to have any
dinner at all.

She was not sorry when, just as they
were discussing the subject, a loud knock
came at the allies.

Paul Cazalet grew deadly pale.

Nelly, or a messenger from her,' he
decided at once.

Meantime Justine, whose head was not
filled with Mrs Jocelyn, as Paul's was,
threw open the door. Just what she hoped
and wished for ; one of Paul's artist friends
had come to invite him to share a friendly
repast at the 'Barbe Noire  an establishment
in great Bohemian repute, so called
after its black-bearded chef I

Naturally Paul's first impulse was to
refuse the proffered hospitality, but something
in Justine's eyes compelled him to
accept. To escape comment and inquiry
from Justine was Paul's first object at
that moment. After all, he need not eat,
he thought, and as soon as dinner was
over, would get away, under the pretext
that he was going to Le Vieux.

To the ' Barbe Noire,' then, the two acquaintances
adjourned, and many were the
nods of recognition Paul received as he

passed sundry small tables in search of a
place ; for Paul Cazalet was an enormous
favourite in the art fraternity, all of whom
exalted him to a high position, both for
genius and honour.

There was not a man in that room but
would have quoted Paul Cazalet as the
beau-ideal of goodness and high principle ;
and yet, oh, inconceivable human weakness
! how near he was to falling from his
high estate.

For the first time, perhaps, in his artist
life, these jovial companions and good
fellows failed to cheer Paul, and, simply
because he himself was out of tune, their
jokes fell flat, and the viands and wines
offered him were insipid.

If he could only get away, was his constant
craving ; his anger had disappeared,
his pride was conquered ; he must go to
Nelly Jocelyn's, find out what had become
of her, and beg for an assurance that whatever
should befall, through weal and woe
she would love him to the end.

Nine o'clock, and they where still at
table, jokes that he seemed to have heard

fifty times, tales that he declared were
worn out with age, were still going the
round, and Paul was thoroughly bored.

Truly the fault lay with him, for in wit
and humour no coterie in sparkling Paris
could match the habitues of the ' Barbe
Noire. '

At last, a man pleaded an appointment
and rose ; Paul did not delay in following
suit. The rest sought clamorously to retain
him ; but his father kept early hours,
would be in bed if he did not hasten, he
said.

When they finally gave him his freedom,
like an emancipated schoolboy, no
sooner was he out of sight of the loiterers
about the door, than in the most undignified
manner he took to his heels and
ran, wonderfully swiftly too for a heavy
big man as Paul Cazalet was.

It was a good mile and a half from the
restaurant where he had been dining to
the quartier in which Mrs Jocelyn dwelt,
and it would have seemed simpler to have
taken a cab, but Paul was too restless to
sit any longer, and, moreover, was accustomed

to trust for locomotion to the use
of his own strong Hmbs.

Half-past nine was striking by a neighbouring
clock when he stood under the
porte cohere from whence Nelly had
watched him in the morning.

Without speaking to the concierge, he
intended to pass upstairs, and once more
interview Mrs Jocelyn's maid, but this
time the old man who was Cerberus at
the lodge laid his hand on his arm.

'La dame Anglaise n est pas Id!

Not there. Has she not come in ? '

Elle est partie!

Gone ! '

And great drops of sweat stood on Paul's
brow as he pronounced the one word
which was as a deathblow to his hopes.

Gone ! Why had she gone ? Where
had she gone ? '

The co7icierge shrugged his shoulders.

The maid, is she upstairs, can she tell
anything '. ' went on Paul.

The maid has accompanied madame,
the apartment is quite deserted  I have
the key.'

Strange ! And no word, no line ; yet
they had parted in perfect friendship.
What could it all mean ?

And Paul, propped up against the doorpost
of the concierge s lodge, seemed incapable
of either speaking or moving.
The concierge, who, although he did not
know who Paul was, had on more than
one occasion seen him accompany Mrs
Jocelyn to the door, guessed that some
lovers' quarrel had occasioned her departure.


Sorry for the man, who seemed to be
utterly broken down by the intelligence
he had just received, he invited him to
come and sit down for a little in his room.

Paul accepted by dropping heavily into
the wooden armchair the old man pushed
towards him. For a few minutes he sat
there without speaking, the concierge contemplating
him the while. Suddenly Paul
looked up, and noting the man's face,
seamed with wrinkles as it was, remembered
that Nelly had more than once
spoken of this old man as being a quaint
and extraordinary character.

Charon in very fact,' Paul's painter
instinct decided.

That he would make friends with him,
since he might be very useful, was his next
impulse.

The little mental effort the sight of old
Andre's face had produced, brought Paul
back to some sense of the actual.

He threw a five franc piece on the table.

Get a bottle of wine, mon heave, and
drink to the health of the lady who has
gone, and to her speedy return.'

Greedy of gold, as his race usually are,
Andre being an Auvergnat, his eyes glistened
as he looked at the piece of money ;
but he did not touch it,  only stood waiting,
as though to learn what he was expected
to do for this gift. To Andre it was impossible
that anything should be given for
nothing ; nor was he wholly mistaken.

When did madame go ? ' asked Paul,
after another very short silence.

About seven. By the night mail to
England.'

To England, mon Diet! Has she gone
for good . '

And once more large beady drops came
to Paul's brow.

She has left all her effects. The maid
said some relation was ill or dead ; but no
ddpeche arrived to my knowledge.'

And Andre looked at the five franc
piece, as much as to say, ' Now I have
earned it.'

His meaning, however, was quite lost
upon Paul, who went on, 

And she left no word, no note for me ?
You are quite sure, nothing for me, Paul
Cazalet } '

Tenez. You are Paul Cazalet, the
painter ? '

And old Andre, his mouth wide open,
stood looking at his visitor as though only
now he saw him for the first time.

Yes, yes ; tell me, is there not a message,
 a scrap of paper } '

Andre only shook his head, and pushed
the five franc piece back to Paul.

If you are Paul Cazalet, I cannot take
your money.'

Why not ? '

Genius is exempt from paying.*

Paul, notwithstanding his trouble, could
not refrain from laughing.

What do you know about genius, my
friend ? '

I have seen your pictures, Monsieur
Cazalet  Hens '' The Peasants Dancing
the Bo2tr7'ee cT Atropine "  best viag-
nifique I '

Ah, you have seen that, have you, and
it pleased you ? '

Diablement, I have always wanted to
see the painter -partie, and you are M.
Paul Cazalet. E7npochez voice piece decent
votes y and shake hands.'

Paul held out his hand, and gave old
Andre a vigorous shake ; but, of course,
he did not take up his money.

The man's delight at having touched the
hand of the great Cazalet was boundless,
and, under other circumstances, would have
amused Paul vastly.

As it was, he said, 

Look here, von brave, how would you
like to sit to me yourself ? '

Andre hesitated for a moment, as
though he thought Paul was joking, then

he nodded his head and laughed, thus
deepening all the wrinkles of his face.

Un vieiix Auvergnat  Andre Bichot
handed down to posterity by Paul Cabaret'


All right,' said Paul, rising to take his
departure. 'Come to the Rue Mignon
when you can be spared from here in the
daylight, and we will see ; ' then looking
back again when he was already in the
street  ' if you have news of her, let me
know.'

He did not wait for Andre's answer.
He was gone, leaving the concierge to
mutter alone, 

She is beautiful cette Anglaise, and
Paul Capulet loves her. Strange she
should go without a word ; and Dieu ! how
ill and triste she looked.'

While he talked to himself he wrapped
the five franc piece up in an old envelope,
and put it away in a drawer.

Natural avarice prevented him thrusting
it back on Paul, but that he looked upon
it as different from all other money there
is little doubt ; and if he had known how

to write, he would probably have inscribed
name and date on the wrapper.

Meantime Paul, thinking little of Andre
but much of Nelly, wandered slowly back
through the oft-trodden streets to the
Rue Mignon. The key of the tier
door was in his pocket, but he went in
by the back way. Justine was standing
in the little passage waiting for
him.

I thought you were never coming,' she
said. ' There is a message.'

From Nelly  from Mrs Jocelyn ?'

Sacre nom ! Can you think of no one
now  but this Englishwoman ? If we
were all  all your family dead and buried,
I don't believe you would care.'

Paul scarcely heeded her reproach, but
asked more vehemently, 

What is it ? Tell me, Justine.'

A message from Le Vieux. You are
to go to the Bottlangerie at once.'

Is my father ill ?'

No, not your father, but Lili.'

ON A CALAIS Steadier.

HAT sudden impulse had induced
Nelly Jocelyn to take flight,
even before she allowed herself
a night's reflection on the
matter ? Was it that she was even more
afraid of herself than she was of Cazalet ?
afraid of the weakness that would make
her forgive him his disloyalty, and having
forgiven him would she not seek to hold
the place she already felt she possessed
in his heart, and so supplant poor little
Lili, who indubitably had the only right
to reign there ?

Blame Paul !  ay, she had blamed him

bitterly and remorselessly for having set
her up as an idol before he had cast down
the shrine in which he had encased
another love.

If she had told him all her story, as
one day  had she become a part of his
life  she would have been compelled todo,
doubtless in turning over its dark
pages there would have been many a
strong reason for recrimination ; but that
she only loved Paul and no other living
man, would she aver as solemnly as though
she were registering a vow before God !
In this lay Paul's disloyalty, so Nelly
felt. A hundred torturing difficulties
might prevent his marriage ; the very
ruin that a domestic life might brine to
his art was in itself a strong objection to
the matrimonial state ; but that he should
love another  that that little fluttering
soft-eyed dove should come between her and
her great god-like artist, was an obstacle
Nelly's passion could not overcome; unless
with one supreme thrust she could banish
the flutterer for aye, and herself reign triumphant
in Cazalet's heart and studio.

VOL. I. L

It was to save herself from this that
Mrs Jocelyn fled to England. She had
been absent from the old country for many
a month ; the sight of it again, and of some
familiar faces which were never forgotten,
might quell the raging fire that was devouring
her ; and having learnt once more
to see life from a reasonable aspect, she
would be better able to wend her footsteps
along that sensible path from which she
had sworn to herself there should be no
digressions.

It was an intensely cold, though not a
stormy night, that Mrs Jocelyn selected
for her flight from Paris. By the time
she reached Calais, the stars were shining
brightly, and the moon, which had risen
during the last half-hour, showed plainly the
icicles that hung on window ledge and carriage
roof. But the fire that burned fiercely
in Nelly Jocelyn's heart prevented her from
feeling the outside cold ; and though she
had never even sought her bed on the preceding
night, she jumped out of the train
with the expressed determination that she
would pass the time allotted for crossing the

Channel on the deck of the steamer. In
vain the maid expostulated that she would
catch her death  she was resolute.

You can do as you like, Marie,  go
below, if it pleases you ; I intend to stay
where I am.'

To be cramped up in a small cabin
would, she felt, be more than her agitated
nerves could endure.

All, then, that Marie could prevail on
her mistress to do, was to allow herself
to be covered up with the rugs and wraps
that were to hand ; and then the abigail
left her, to see if she could not End a fire
and some more comfortable quarters for
herself in the downstairs regions.

There was not a large number of passengers
 the night was too bitter for anyone
to think of travelling except those
who were absolutely compelled  thus Mrs
Jocelyn was the only lady on board ; and
not a little surprise was expressed by
more than one man pacing the deck,
that, if obliged to cross the Channel, she
had not chosen a warmer position. Fora
while after the boat left the harbour

she remained so passive under the shawls
that the other passengers almost forgot
her existence, till at last inaction oppressed
her, and, standing up, she too began to
walk about.

To unconventional Nelly it did not seem
that she was doing anything to court
remark. Why sit, if it suited her fancy
to walk about . As to her beauty exciting
attention, that never gave her a
thought  since Paul had passed out of
her life for ever, there was no one else
to heed it.

She was mistaken, however. Standing
near the wheel there was a small, dapper-looking
man of somewhat sinister mien,
though the world chose to call him good-looking.
He was wrapped in a large
Inverness cape, with a drab travelling
cap to match, the flaps of which were
tied down over his ears. Not a particularly
becoming attire ; in fact, it was
almost a disguise. Save for a certain
sharp opening and shutting of his little
beady eyes, his most intimate friends
would not have known him, since one

of the strong characteristics of this man
was an excessive dandyism in all matters
of dress ; yet he was not effeminate or
mawkish, like the butterfly ; on the contrary,
he was business-like in his habits,
and very decided in tone and gesture.

He watched Nelly Jocelyn as she took
two or three turns up and down the
deck, then as she once more approached
where he was standing, he held out his
hand to her. She started away ; but then,
as plainly as the cold, searching moonlight
revealed her features to him, so plainly
did she see his, and, recognising them,
gave a low, frightened cry, as of pain.

John Wisden,' she said ; ' what has
brought you here to-night ? '

Fate, I suppose, since I have been
looking east and west for you without
success.'

And what would you with me ? I
am not aware that we have aught in
common.'

Not so fast, brave Nelly, not so fast.'

I must request, sir, that you will not
presume to call me by my Christian

name. It is a privilege I only grant
to my friends.'

He laughed, and, taking a fusee box
from his pocket, proceeded to light a
cigar, saying, between the puffs, 

Well, am I not your friend ? I
assure you it were wiser to have me fora
friend than a foe ; besides, I do not
know by what other name you elect to
call yourself.'

'I am Mrs Jocelyn,' she said briefly,
turning away as if to bring the interview
to an end. But he would not
have it so, and slipping round to the
other side once more faced her.

Ah, you have not changed your name,
as I was told you had done. It would
have been wiser.'

Why should I ? No one knows that
wretched story but you ; and since the
name he bore for all business purposes was
not his own, why should I change mine " '

No, not his own, and no one knows
the story but me ; best, then, to treat
me well, and confide in me  don't you
think so, Mrs Jocelyn ?

What have I to confide ? '

Why are you scampering about the
universe, as if Old Nick were at your
heels,  crossing the Channel alone on
such a bitter night as this ? '

My maid is downstairs  I am simply
travelling like any other private individual.
I have been living in Paris
since my widowhood,  am going to
England to see my mother, who is ill.
Now, are you satisfied, though I do
not know what right you have to ask
questions ? '

His answer was a growl ; for if John
Wisden had said what he really thought,
it would have been that he did not
believe one word of her statement.

Your mother ? ' he asked ; ' what does
she knows ? '

Nothing, save that I am a widow
with a moderate income.'

Moderate ! You managed to possess
yourself of a very fair allowance. Clever
woman, Mrs Jocelyn  very clever woman!'

She stamped her foot with a little
irritable gesture.

Now, since you know all about my
affairs, will you inform me what you
want with me ? '

Simply that I do not wish to lose
sight of a lady for whom I have always
had the very greatest reverence and respect.'


Bah ! '

Nay, you had best not flout me ; I
may be very useful to you. I know
your secret, you see.'

I cannot see that it can be otherwise
than most damaging to me to be seen
even speaking to a man like you.'

'How so?  how so? You are quite
mistaken. My worldly reputation is absolutely
unblemished.'

Indeed ! Then I can't say much for the
world's cleverness in detecting knavery.'

He did not wince at the word, only
laughed, and asked her if she intended
to return to Paris.

I do not know : it depends on my
mother's health. I shall probably stay
with her for a time.'

Ay ; better under the shadow of your

mother's wing. It is a dangerous thing
for a young and beautiful woman, even
though she be a widow, to be escaping
about the world alone,'

There was a jeer in his voice that displeased
her vastly ; but except for a
visible irritation of manner, she did not
answer him directly.

I see the lights of Dover,' was her
next remark ; ' thank goodness ! we shall
soon arrive there.'

And you think you will be quit of me, 
for that is what you mean ; but not so fast ;
it shall be the object of my life to watch
over you, and keep you from harm.'

I must request, Mr Wisden, that you
will not persecute me with your attentions :
I am perfectly capable of taking care of
myself.'

Of course you think you are  women
always do ; but do you mean to tell me
you have not got even into one little bit
of a scrape since you have been living
alone ? '

The hot blood coursed for a moment over
Nelly's pale face, at the recollection of all

she had left behind in Paris, and Wisden,
seeing it, went on, 

Exactly ; I knew it ; no woman can be
trusted with the management of her own
affairs. I'll manage them for you, and
then whenever I see you are getting
into hot water I'll remind you of that
secret I hold, and after that we shall sail
along quite calmly and smoothly.'

I decline to be interfered with ; I would
rather drain to its dregs the deepest cup
of misery it is possible to drink, than
have peace meted out to me at your
hands.'

A glare, as of a lioness at bay, came
into her eyes while she spoke, which made
her look as if, with a little more persecution,
she would spring at this wretched
man and kill him on the spot.

For a moment he quailed, then he said,
assuming a soothing tone, 

Come, come, come, no melodramatic.
I daresay we shall arrive at understanding
one another. I'll give you your head 
never doubt it  if you'll be gentle and
kindly with me, and toss me an occasional

douceur to help me over the rugged
bits of life.'

Money, so it's money you want ; I
miofht have known it from the first. To
extort money from a woman is what one
might expect of a man like you, and goodness
knows I have little enough to give.'

Those diamonds,' he suggested,' they
would realise a large sum.'

What diamonds ? '

Now, don't look blank, and pretend you
have not got them, because they are gone,
and no one but you could have taken
them.'

Mrs Jocelyn had worn diamonds among
the folds of her white tulle the first Thursday
she had gone to Madame de Brissac's,
but she answered very coldly and deliberately,


I have no diamonds. What few jewels
I saved out of the wreck are gone long
ago for necessaries. I strive to keep up
a fair appearance, but I am far poorer
than people think.'

I wonder if you are speaking the truth,'
he said insolently.

Once more she tried to walk away from
him, but again he stopped her.

Look you, Mrs Jocelyn, let us settle
matters before you go. However small
your income, you can manage to throw an
occasional crumb to those in want. I aman
unfortunate, impecunious individual 
and I hold your secret. I won't press you
now, but I'll call at your mother's house
for a fiver ; if you give it to me, well and
good ; if you don't, you know the consequences.'


For a moment it was on Nelly's lips to
say,

I care nothing for this secret,  tell it
on the housetops ; I have done no harm.'

Had she said so, John Wisden would
have been powerless, and she would
have been free, but woman's weakness
prevailed.

O God, if Cazalet should get to
know the truth, and from this wretched
man's lips ! ' She could not bear it.
No, better starve to give him gold
than that.'

You can do as you like,' was her only

reply out loud, and It was uttered in such
a tone that the inference was palpable 
she would give the money to win his
silence.

By this time they were close to Dover
harbour, and in the hurry and fuss of
landing no further allusion was made to
the subject.

Mrs Jocelyn's modicum of baggage was
labelled through to Charing Cross, so,
except a handbag that the maid had
charge of, there was nothing to look after
at Dover. In that handbag was the
diamond riviere about which John Wisden
had been inquiring, and anent the existence
of which Nelly had told such a
ready falsehood.

Yet Mrs Jocelyn, as a rule, was a truthful
woman, but she knew John Wisden well
enough to be aware that these diamonds
would not be long out of his possession if
he discovered their existence.

I am glad I brought them,' she thought
to herself, ' for I'll turn them into money
in London ; they'll help to meet this
wretch's requirements.'

They did not travel in the same carriage
to London, for John Wisden had said his
say, and for the moment he preferred his
cigar to Mrs Jocelyn's society ; but they
met again at Charing Cross, and as he saw
Mrs Jocelyn's luggage put on a cab he
whispered, 

You are going back to Paris  beware
! '

What does he know, what can he
possibly suspect ? ' she murmured over
and over again while she drove to her
mother s house, which was at Fulham.

THE wanderer's RETURN.

,7yT was just six o'clock as Nelly
7 v Jocelyn drove up to her mother's
Vjh door. The moon and the stars
which at Calais had shone so
brightly in the cold sky had all disappeared,
and in their place a murky darkness enshrouded
the earth, through which, as yet,
did not gleam one ray of dawn.

Nelly had telegraphed her intended arrival,
or certainly she would have found
the household sleeping. As it was, they
were on the alert, and there were lights in
more than one window.

The Retreat, where Mrs Strickland,
Nelly's mother, lived, was a dismal-looking
place  at all events externally. It

stood back out of the main road, from
which it was completely hidden by a belt
of trees that environed it, and whose heavy
branches in summer time hung even on to
its very roof, but from which Mrs Strickland
would scarcely allow even a leaf to be
pruned.

Now they stood gaunt in the winter
gloom, and as skeletons stalking out of a
dead past they seemed to Nelly as she
shiveringly approached them on that chill
January morning.

As soon, however, as the door was
thrown open, and the inside of the house
was revealed, there were some symptoms
of warmth and welcome.

A middle-aged woman, who had opened
the door, and who was Mrs Strickland's
maid, seemed glad to see the traveller, who
had not crossed the threshold of that house
for more than two years ; but she had no
time to give her greeting words. A pair
of soft young arms were round Nelly's
neck, and kisses fell thick and fast on her
cold, colourless cheek.

My darling, darling sister, I am so

glad you have come back to us at last !
Why not before ? Why not in all your
trouble, Nelly ? You know how we love
you.'

And then the girl, Dot, as she was
familiarly called, held Mrs Jocelyn at arms'
length, and tried to read her face with
questioning eagerness. What she saw
there evidently gave her but little satisfaction,
for she went on murmuring 

Why not before ? But it is not too
late. If our love can make you happy,
you shall have it lavishly, my poor, dear
sister.'

Mrs Jocelyn was too heavily freighted
with trouble to brook pity. She answered,
almost snappishly, 

Nonsense, Dot. I am all right ; only
cold and starving. How is my mother ?
You look bonnie enough.'

Ay, Dot was a bonnie, winsome-looking
girl  the very counterpart of her sister
Nelly, only in miniature. She was, however,
by no means convinced of Nelly's
happiness. They had been too much together
till the elder sister married, for her

VOL. I. M

not to be able to read signs and lines.
She shook her head sadly, while she answered,


Mother is pretty well for her. She is
not up yet; but said you were to be brought
to her as soon as you arrived.'

So they went upstairs together into Mrs
Strickland's bedroom, where there was a
fire and a light in expectation of Nelly's
coming, and the old mother sat in bed,
propped up with pillows, waiting. And a
very fragile old lady she looked, to be the
mother of these two young beauties. Still
there were traces of Mrs Strickland having
been a beauty too in her youth. But since
that time she had been very ailing, and
was, in consequence, probably, of her
ailments, a very querulous woman.

All the roundness of life in Mrs Strickland
had been fretted away, and there was
nothing left but rough and ragged edges.

She had been pining for months to see
Nelly again,  had been much delighted
when she received the telegram announcing
her coming ; yet the reception she
gave her was scarcely a genial one.

So you have come at last, Helen. I
suppose you thought the old mother must
die before honor.'

Oh ! mother, I never thought of such
a thing. I only felt that I should like to
see you and Dot. So with my usual impetuosity
I started off and came.'

You never gave us the opportunity of
helping you in your sorrow.'

You could not help me, mother, and
my trouble would only have pained you.'

Now, I suppose, you have got over it
all  have forgotten the dead ' '

o

There are some troubles in life that whenever
forget  they haunt us like spectres
for ever.'

It isn't your love for your dead husband
then, or you would not have been flirting
about in Paris as you have been doing
lately. By the way, there has been a
man here more than once of late, John
Wisden, he has asked frequently after you ;
but I did not give him your address, since
you requested me not to do so. I suppose
you had some motive ?'

Thanks, mother ; but I have seen John

Widen ; I met him on the Calais boat
by chance. He is coming here tomorrow,
he says.'

As she spoke it seemed as if Dot's face
was illumined with a strange light, which
so blinded Nelly that she clutched a chair
that stood near her for support.

But she showed no other sign,  did not
ask a single question, or, in fact, utter a
sound ; Dot, though, had noticed her momentary
weakness.

Come, Nelly, and have some breakfast,
you look faint and tired out.'

Yes, child, eat and rest ; about eleven
o'clock I will see you again, and you shall
give me full details of all that has happened
since we parted.'

Full details ! ' Full details of her life
to her mother ! What should she tell her ?
how get away from the truth ? Verily
with all her heart she wished that she had
not been a coward and run away from
Paris. Already she had stepped into
troubled waters by her meeting with John
Wisden, and the lie she had told him
about the diamonds.

Oh what would the end be ?  and that
light that had come into Dot's eyes, what
did that mean ?

Such were the thoughts that coursed
Hke wildfire through Nelly Jocelyn's brain
while Dot poured out the hot coffee, and
heaped her sister's plate with an amount
of viands that she would not eat in a
week.

In the turbulent stream of events into
which Nellysuddenly found herself plunged,
there was not even time to think of Cazalet.

His countenance, much as she loved
him, seemed to have faded away, the place
it once occupied in her mind to be filled
by the more ignoble and set features of
John Wisden, exemplifying the fact that
dread is oftentimes a stronger feeling than
love in the human heart ; and that Mrs
Jocelyn, for some reason, had a strong dread
of John Wisden was obvious.

There would have been a certain amount
of pleasure to her in coming back again
to her mother and sister, whom she had
not seen for nearly three years, had not
John Wisden's inopportune appearance

seemed to cast aside every thought but
that produced by the fear of him ; especially
as, from what she had already gathered,
he was a tolerably frequent and not altogether
unwelcome visitor at the Retreat,
though for what reason he came there
she had yet to learn, and feared to ask.
At all events she would put off the question,
and, as much as possible, the recollection
of John Wisden till, the first flush
of her arrival over, she had resumed the
place she had so long vacated in the
family circle.

Breakfast over, a bath and an hour or
two of repose was what she craved the
most before that dreaded interview with
her mother, in which she felt the cross-questioning
would be a more terrible ordeal
than any through which she had been
called on to pass.

Nelly Jocelyn was by nature truthful
and straightforward in her dealings, hating
deceit and fraud as all honest men hate
vice ; but, owing to circumstances over
which she had, if any, a very remote
control, she had been forced into a vortex

where lying reigned triumphant, and from
which she had not the courage to free
herself by a plain and open statement of
what was the true state of affairs. It was
because she feared the world's verdict that
she subjected herself to the endurance of
many painful hours, none more painful
perchance than those in which she contemplated
that coming interview with her
mother, during which she felt prevaricating
and romancing must take the place
of truth. Her torture of mind kept the
so-much-needed rest from her body, and
when she came out of the room where
Dot had left her, as she hoped, to sleep
peacefully, there was little of the 
beauty left on Nelly's face, for
its hue was almost ghastly ; the beautiful
eyes refused to shine in the midst of the
dark hoops that encircled them, and looked
dim and sad.

Even Mrs Strickland, who but rarely
heeded any one's sufferings save her own,
could not help being struck with the alteration
in her child, and exclaimed, with more
spontaneity than she was wont to exhibit, 

My poor Nelly, I never gave you
credit for so much feeling.'

At her mother's remark Nelly burst
into tears, and laying her head on the
back of the armchair in which the old
lady was sitting, remained there sobbing
silently for some seconds, till Mrs Strickland
drew her face down to her and kissed
her.

Poor child, poor child, tell me all about
it : it will relieve your mind.'

There is nothing to tell, mother, but
what you know ; please don't ask me to
go over that sad, sad story.'

'Ah, well, perhaps it will only pain
you ; still I believe it is wiser to give
sorrow words.'

Yes, dear, another time I will talk of
it  not to-day. I am weary from the
journey and having been up all night.'

'Why you travelled in that crazy way
I can't think ; but you always were impetuous
and self-willed.'

Oh, mother, if I had been self-willed
I should never have married Arthur
Jocelyn. It was to please you I did it.'

And yet his death seems to have
brought you to the very verge of despair.
I am surprised, especially too as they
told me you were going in for all the
festivities of wicked Paris.'

They told you  who knows aught of
me ? Who told you ? '

Ah, people who live in a quiet neighbourhood
like this hear more than you
think of, Nelly. Who is Cazalet ? '

Nelly started from her kneeling position
as if an adder had stung her. It was her
turn to ask questions now : 

Who told you of Cazalet ? What have
you heard ? ' she said.

Mrs Strickland turned round and stared
at her with scrutinising eyes.

Then there is some truth in the report ? '
she said. ' Unhappy as you would have
me believe you are about your husband's
death, love passages do exist between you
and this Cazalet.'

'It is a lie,' answered Nelly, speaking
rapidly, and as though the words choked
her ; * there are no love passages between
me and Cazalet, He is merely a great

painter to whom I have been sitting fora
picture. He is engaged to be married
to his cousin. I am as nothing in his
life.'

Mrs Strickland did not speak for a
second or two, then she said, rather
severely, 

*I cannot believe this statement, else
why did you show so much emotion ? '

Because it is unkind of people to
couple my name with Cazalet's  it is these
promiscuous pairing that ruin a woman's
reputation.'

Women should not put themselves Ina
position to arouse the voice of scandal 
where there is no fire there can be no
smoke.*

There is neither fire nor smoke. As
you love me, mother, do not believe those
who gossip of me.'

Prove their falseness, Helen, by staying
on here with me.'

In that triste house, with no society
save an occasional visit from John Wisden,
whom she loathed ; cut off even from the
knowledge of what Cazalet was doing, 

no, Nelly felt this was too much to expect
of her. But she was not yet sufficiently
sure of her ground to venture on an outbreak,
so she answered reservedly, 

I am gong to stay here for a time,
of course ; but my home  my household
gods are in Paris. I must return there
later on.'

You will stay here till the spring ? '

Yes, if you wish it. Three  perhaps
even six months ; we must be guided by
circumstances.'

So the mother was satisfied. That
there could not be much danger from a
love affair with Cazalet, if Nelly could
be content to stay away from Paris for
even three months, she felt almost convinced.


To the poor old lady it never occurred
that absence sometimes strengthens love,
particularly when the absence is a forced
one, because the love is stronger than the
power to fight against it.

For the present, then, Nelly had
smoothed away difficulties with her
mother ; but their conversation had

brought back the recollection of Cazalet
with a force that was well-nigh maddening.


She once more got rid of Dot's solicitude
with the assurance that she must
absolutely be alone to rest ; and then,
throwing herself on the ground, she lay
for a while writhing in an agony of despair,
which, if it had not been accompanied
by torrents of tears, would well-nigh have
banished reason from its throne.

That jealousy of a little, pallid-faced
mignonne like Lili could have effected
this, none of her friends in Paris would
have believed, and they would have been
right. There was a more potent cause
for Nelly's despair than any ordinary
individual would have deemed possible.

At last the storm that for a while
raged so furiously began to quell itself,
and Nelly dragged herself up from her
crouching attitude, and opened her 
to get out some eau de Cologne,
in order to bathe her fevered temples.

As she opened the bag, the diamonds
fell at her feet. Like a guilty thing she

snatched them up, and huddled them out
of sight. The He she had told about their
possession seemed to start before her as
an omen of coming misery. She would
turn them into money the very first time
she could manage to get out alone  of
that she was resolved. Meantime, not a
living being should know of their existence.
That the time would come when she
would bitterly regret the hour she had
appropriated them, alas ! poor Nelly did
not then dream.

TRAMPLED DOWN.

Throughout the rest of the
day on which she arrived at
the Retreat, Nelly Jocelyn satin
a darkened room and pleaded
headache as an excuse for silence ; but
towards evening exhausted nature could
no longer stand out against the repeated
storms of feeling she had indulged in,
and being prevailed on by Dot to goto
bed early, she sank into a heavy
sleep, from which she did not awake
till Marie, accompanied by the little sister,
stood beside her bed with a tempting-looking
breakfast-tray. At twenty-four sleep
speedily banishes the ravages caused by

emotion. Mrs Jocelyn on the morrow was
a totally different being from the dejected,
pallid, heavy-eyed individual who had
leant against Mrs Strickland's chair on
the previous day.

Now I recognise you at last,' cried
Dot joyfully, stroking back the auburn
locks which clustered on her sister's brow ;
now you are my very own dear cheery
Nell.'

No, never cheery again, dear Dot.'

Well, never mind the cheeriness,' cried
Dot, sorry she had alluded to her sisters
trouble ; ' you look ever so much better.
But, do you know, it is twelve o'clock ;
even mother is up, and in the drawing-room.'


Twelve o'clock, is it ? Well, there is
nothing very special to hurry up for, is
there ? '

Oh, you lazy Nell ! Are those the
hours you keep in Paris ? Besides, you
yourself said Mr Wisden is coming. He
will be disappointed if he does not see
you.'

Nelly started up as she heard these

words, and a death-like pallor once more
overspread her face ; while Dot's, as she
spoke, had become as red as a peony.

Ah, I forgot. Yes, I must see that
horrid Wisden.'

You do not seem to have any partiality
for Mr Wisden,' remarked Dot, in a subdued
tone.

I hate him ! ' was the fierce answer.

Oh, Nelly ; and he was your husband,
Arthur Jocelyn's, most intimate friend.'

What do you know about the friendship
that existed between John Wisden
and my husband, eh, Dot ? '

And the look of searching inquiry that
accompanied these words made Dot quail,
while she answered hesitatingly, 

Only that they were friends. Mr Wis-den
told me. There is nothing for you to
be annoyed about, Nelly.'

I am annoyed that John Wisden should
come here at all. There should be nothing
in common between him and the inmates
of this house.'

You are prejudiced, my sister, for some
reason that I know nothing of. But never

mind John Wisden now. Eat your breakfast,
and get up. It is you, not us, that
he is coming to see, remember.'

For a paltry five-pound note ; what a
cur he is,' muttered Nelly to herself.

When once more alone, she proceeded
with her toilette, and she was only dressed
just in time. A knock came at the door,
and she was told that Mr Wisden had
called to see her.

He was talking to Mrs Strickland in
the drawing-room when she went in, and
Nelly wondered how he would dare, before
her mother, to broach the subject which
had brought him to the Retreat. She did
not yet know John Wisden, if she was not
aware that he invariably managed to find
ways and means to effect any end he had
in view.

The object he had in view at this particular
juncture was a far more astounding
one than Nelly was in any wise prepared
for.

Platitudes were discussed for a while,
and then in the most natural manner
possible John Wisden led the way to

VOL. I. N

a conservatory that opened out of the
farther end of the room, and in which
the bright-hued blossoms were an attractive
feature, in contrast to the dull, chill
appearance of external objects.

Nelly followed him, impelled onwards
by a power she could not control, the
five - pound note clutched in her left
hand. She was resolved to pay him,
and get rid of him for the present, in
the hope that their meetings in the future
would be of the rarest.

Mrs Strickland did not appear to think
it strange that they should seek a 
interview, or she would without doubt
have given utterance to one of her little
tart remarks.

To John Wisden's admiration of some
chrysanthemums, which rivalled in beauty
even those of Temple Gardens' fame,
Nelly merely responded by holding out
the sum he had asked for, and said, 

Here is what you want  go ! We
have nothing in common, you and I.'

He burst out laughing, and pushed her
hand away.

Do you really believe that I would
take little wretched sums of money, as if
I were an absolute mendicant ? '

Nelly looked in astonishment at the
change that had come over him, and he
went on, 

I simply put the matter in this light
to try you. Now that I have seen to
what extent I have power over you, I
intend to make my own terms.'

I pray God that they may be such
that will keep you out of my sight forever.'


On the contrary ; they weill tighten the
bonds that unite us, and make us as one
happy family.'

What in Heaven's name do you mean ? '

Well, it is no use beating about the
bush. I will come to the point at once.
I love your sister, bright-eyed, dimpled
Dot, and I  '

You  love  my  sister '. No, it is impossible
! Fearful things have happened,
but not that. Say that it is not true.'

Really, Mrs Jocelyn, you are not complimentary.
I am disappointed. I had

reckoned upon having you for a firm ally ;
but you will not fail me, though I would
rather your consent to our marriage had
been given without pressure

I will never consent to your marriage
with Dot. I will proclaim on the housetops
what a vile, contemptible wretch you
are  '

Not so fast, rapidly-sailing Nelly ; not
so fast. There are some things people
are forced to do in this world, whether
they will or no. Of course, you have
the choice of two paths open to you ;
either that I should tell your story and
you should tell mine, or that we should
clasp the hand of amity and swear eternal
silence. Pray choose  naturally, I should
prefer the latter, but it shall be even as
you will.'

'What have I done  what have I done,
that I should be thus tried ? That I
should suffer for my own sins, I can
understand, but that I have been forced
into acting a living lie, that was planned
and put upon me by another, is more than
human patience can endure.'

That you benefit by the He there Is
no doubt, else you would not so persistently
dread the unmasking,' said Wisden,
in a jeering tone.

'It is difficult to retreat when you
have once gone through the gap,' she
replied shortly.

Ay is it. You are right. Go on
valiantly, and hold your head high. I will
be by your side.'

And the price of this Is that my sister,
my loving, gentle Dot, should be given
to you ? '

Even so.'

It Is impossible. I wonder what you
take me for.'

A desperate woman, who has some
difficulty in keeping her head up out of
deep and troubled waters.'

And supposing, for Dot's sake, I elect
to sink Into these same troubled waters,
and make no farther effort to save myself

You will not do this, because you
cannot sink without dragging her down
with you Into the abyss. Your disgrace
revealed becomes her disgrace too.'

*What a hard verdict. Why, she does
not even know that disgrace exists

It would be the world's, and, such
being the case, your sacrifice would in noway
benefit Dot. Best make for the
shore, Mrs Jocelyn, and walk daintily
along it with Dot and my humble self
by your side.'

If I only knew what to do,' she
murmured ; ' if I only knew what todo.'


Poor tempest-driven woman ; but you
will not take advice when it is offered.'

Not yours  not yours.'

And yet there is no other human being
on the wide earth whose advice you dare
ask.'

Look here, John Wisden, give me
twenty - four hours to think. You shall
have my answer at this time tomorrow.'

Best settle it now. I have Mrs Strickland's
consent, and, of course. Dot's. It
will be injurious to my prospects if they
should imagine you have cause for hesitation.'


'If I had not chanced to come here,

yon would not have asked my consent,
I presume ? '

I told you I had been looking for
you east and west,' he replied ; I fancied
you were in Brussels, and I had been
over there in search of you when I met
you. I meant to  '

She struck suddenly into the middle of
his sentence.

I will never give my consent to this
marriage.'

Exactly ; I scarcely expected you to
go as far as that, but you will be silent.
The past, as far as we are both concerned,
shall be a closed book, and you will shut
your eyes and let things take their course.'

She shivered from head to foot like
one stricken with palsy, and then sat
down among the flowering shrubs to
recover herself.

My Dot !  my poor little Dot ! ' she
murmured.

A dark scowl gathered on John Wis-den's
brow.

There has been enough of this maudlin
nonsense,' he said savagely. ' You know,

as well as I do, that you 77mst let me
marry your sister if I choose, and that it
is mere putting off the time to discuss the
matter. What I know about you is, after
all, more dangerous than what you know
about me. I have been a fool to ask your
silence when I could dare you to break it.'

But you are very poor, you say ; how
will you keep my sister from want ? '

Oh, I daresay we shall manage to live ;
the old shop affords some resources yet ;
and, like you, she has a fortune, you know.'

Her fate, then, is to be even as mine ;
we were born under the same luckless
star.'

Bah ! I look upon the matter as settled ;
and since you wish it to be put in that
light, I dare you to tell any one what you
know of me. I have learnt more of your
secrets too, during the last half-hour ; it
strikes me you would scarcely like Paul
Cazalet, the great Paris painter, to hear all
the truth.'

Nelly held out her hands deprecatingly
this last taunt was almost more than
she could bear.

Leave me,' she said ; ' do what you like
with life, but leave me now.'

He burst into a fit of laughter, which to
Nelly's overstrung nerves sounded like the
laughter of a fiend, and then, revelling ina
sort of yell of triumph, he strode out of
the conservatory to rejoin Mrs Strickland
in the drawing-room, leaving Nelly in an
almost lifeless state cowering: among the
shrubs.

For a long time she remained there, the
sound of voices in the room just reaching
her, and jarring on every nerve, when now
and again Dot's gay, untroubled laugh fell
on her ear, till slowly a consciousness of
what was required of her came to her by
degrees.

She must rise and be doing or she would
court poignant observations. John Wisden
or fate had beaten her, and tied her tongue
so that she dared not speak or Cazalet
would know the truth.

Well, and if he did. What was Cazalet
to her? He was as far removed from her
as was the brightest star in heaven. Lili
was his love ; he would marry Lili and

settle down into a humdrum domestic
character  what could it matter to her
whether he knew her secret or not ; and
yet for Cazalet's sake she would rather
plunge a dagger into her heart, and die
there at once among the flowers, than that
he should guess the dark, dark secret of
her life.

Such beinor the feelings under which she

o o

laboured painfully, she raised her weary
body from its recumbent position, and once
more stood erect ; it was as if there were
chains about her ankles binding her feet
when she strove to walk, yet struggling
with their weight she moved slowly on till
she reached the door by which she had
entered the conservatory.

So quietly had she come, trailing her
soft black train along the floor, that no
one had heard her. For a moment she
stood leaning against the portal, watching
the group by the window. Mrs Strickland
was seated in her armchair with her
back to the conservatory, Dot stood before
her, a whole heaven of happiness shining
in her eyes, while John Wisden's arm was

round her shoulders ; he seemed to be
drawing her towards him, while he told
the mother how he would shield her from
sorrow in the future ; but they were Mrs
Strickland's words that Nelly heard as she
stood there sasine on the scene.

Thank God that my Dot has found an
honest man like you to love her ; may this
marriage bring all the happiness in which
poor Helen's failed.'

With an agonised cry she could not
repress, Nelly seemed to protest against
this speech, and then she fell forward on
the ground in a dead faint, thus startling
and dispelling the group whose unity had
filled to overflowing her cup of bitter
pain.

Vain were their efforts  for a time consciousness
absolutely refused to be recalled ;
and when at last Nelly's long slumbering
senses came slowly stumbling back to a
knowledge of what was going on around
her, it was already evening, and she was
lying in the white-curtained bed where
she had slept every night of her happy
childhood. Dot and Marie were beside

her, and a grave-looking, kindly doctor
was pouring some strong mixture into a
glass ; even Mrs Strickland, who but
rarely left her armchair, was flitting about,
and anxiety reigned on every countenance.


'That man, that horrid, black-haired man,
where is he?' murmured Nelly, too weak
to conceal the thoughts that agitated her
troubled brain ; but no one particularly
heeded her remarks, which they set down
to a sort of wandering delirium ; for there
was no doubt that Nelly was very ill.

She was not, however, delirious, and ina
few minutes, with the aid of Dr Gregory's
potion, she rallied sufficiently to remember
that she must be silent ; and as for being
ill, and told that she must lie quietly in bed
for a while and not trouble her head about
anything that was going on, she accepted
the decree with thankfulness, since it would
prevent her from being present during John
Wisden's visits, and keep her from hearing
the subject of his hateful love for Dot discussed
freely in her presence. So Nelly
lay there prostrate, tired out bodily and

mentally, through many weary days and
nights, only getting up very occasionally
to sit by the fire for a while, and steadily
refusing all invitations to come downstairs
once more.

Nor during this painful time did she
write one letter to any of her Paris acquaintances,
or receive a single line, since
no one knew where she was.

At last it became imperative that some
communication should be made  rent had
to be paid, and, moreover, Nelly had
started with a very small stock of wearing
apparel, so she resolved to send Marie over
to Paris to bring what was necessary and
settle various little business matters. From
the time Marie started till her return, which
was to be in a week, Mrs Jocelyn was on
tiptoe with expectation. Till Marie's departure
she remained passive, with no
knowledge of what was going on ; now
that there was a chance of hearing something,
she did not feel as if she had the
patience to wait for it ; and, to Dot's intense
surprise, her excitement knew no
bounds.

DEAD.

RS JOCELYN had slumbered
away nearly six weeks at the
Retreat before she thought it
necessary to send Marie back
to Paris, * for a week,' as she said.

But Marie had friends to see in Paris, 
things to do for herself as well as her mistress,
and the week became a fortnight ;
still she had not returned. Nelly, who,
since Marie's departure, had taken to going
out and promenading about the still desolate
and leafless shrubberies, was beginning
to imagine that the girl had proved false,
and was not coming back at all, when suddenly

one day, when she was least expected,
she put in an appearance.

Dot was out ; she had gone into town to
have her wedding garments tried on ; she
was taking advantage of John Wisden's
absence abroad on business to look after
her trousseau, not at all understanding why
her sister, though she was ill, showed so
very little interest in whether her new
clothes were pretty or ugly.

It had been such a reprieve to Nelly of
late that John Wisden should be absent,
that she perpetually waived the subject
whenever his name was mentioned, and it
was owinor to his absence that she had been
indulging in walks in the grounds. It was
a reprieve too now that Dot was in London
when Marie returned, for she knew
the questioning she would receive from
Dot about Paris details would be endless.
Nelly tried to put on as off-hand and
jaunty a manner as possible when she saw
Marie, asking carelessly, while she glanced
at the outsides of a bundle of letters she
had brought, 

Well, I suppose you found everything

all right ; but you might have come back
sooner.'

A long explanation on Marie's part of
the numberless little nothings that had detained
her, interrupted by Nelly with the
question, 

Had no one called ? Did you ask the
concierge ? '

Oh yes. Madame de Brissac and
Madame d'Albin several times.'

No one else ? '

Monsieur de Gourlay, I think old
Andre said, and  '

And ? Go on.'

Monsieur Paul Cazalet. Oh, madame,
Andre was so delighted to have seen the
great Monsieur Cazalet. He was quite enthusiastic
on the subject. Fancy, Monsieur
Cazalet asked him to sit for his portrait ! '

And did he ? '

Nelly cared very little whether the
painter took old Andre s portrait or not ;
but she wanted to draw Marie on to talk
about Cazalet.

Monsieur Cazalet has not been painting
lately.'

 Not painting ? '

Oh, I forgot, madame does not know
the dreadful thing that has happened.'

What dreadful thing, Marie ? Speak
quickly. You are driving me mad ! '

Did madame know that Monsieur
Cazalet had a little cousin called Lili ? *

Yes, yes. I have seen her. What of
her?'

She is dead.'

Dead ! Lili dead ! but it is impossible.'
Alas ! madame, it is very true. I think

it was on the very night we left Paris
Monsieur Cazalet was sent for, because
she was very ill. She did not get better.
They sent for another doctor, and still
another doctor. Monsieur Paul spared no
expense, for it appears he loved Mademoiselle
Lili very dearly ; but she never
got better, but gradually sank, till at last,
after about a fortnight, she went to sleep
for ever in his arms. But madame looks
quite distressed and faint.'

And Marie, while she spoke, pushed a
chair to her mistress, who sank heavily
into it as one stunned.

VOL. I. o

This is terrible news,' she murmured,
very terrible news ; and Paul  Monsieur
Cazalet, has any one seen him since Lili's
death ? '

No, madame, no one that I know of ;
I hear he is heartbroken. It is said that
he blames himself for her death,  says
that he neglected her.'

Blames himself! '

And there was such a wild, strange lookin
Nelly's eyes that Marie was quite frightened,
and terribly sorry that she had told
her mistress anything about the calamity
that had happened to the Cazalets.

Another second, and Marie's breath was
wholly taken away, for Nelly started suddenly
up.

Quick ! pack up my things, get everything
ready without delay ; we will go
back to Paris at once.'

To Marie, who disliked England, this
was festive intelligence, yet it's tone struck
her with a dreary chill. That sorrow
would come to her mistress in the future
by this mixing herself up with Paul Cabaret's
life she fully believed ; but it was

not her place to impede her, nor did she
believe it would be possible to do so even
if she tried.

Back to Paris, madame ? You can dono
good ; the poor child is dead more thana
month ago.'

I can comfort the survivors ; I can
make their sorrow mine  Paul and the
poor old man. Quick, Marie, quick ! the
thought of them maddens me.'

Marie shrugged her shoulders, and
without offerings farther details of what
business she had transacted for her
mistress, she proceeded to do her bidding.


Meanwhile Nelly tied on her bonnet,
with its long gauzy veil, as though she
intended to start that very moment.

As soon as Marie had left the room,
she opened her bag, the key of which she
always carried on a piece of cord round
her neck, and taking out the diamonds,
she put them in her pocket.

Then she seized a pen and scrawled a
hasty note, which she addressed to John
Wisden.

I am compelled to return to Paris on
urgent business. Whatever you may hear,
make the necessary excuses, as you value
my silence. H. J.'

Having carefully enclosed this scrap of
paper in an envelope, she went with it in
her hand into Marie's room.

Meet me at Chariot Cross Station intime
for the night boat. I have business
in London, and shall not come back here.'

She went downstairs, and told her
mother's servant to give her note to Mr
Wisden as soon as he came back. This
settled, came the difficult question,  what
was she going to tell her mother ?

For a second or two she paused to consider
the matter, and having come to a conclusion,
she went into the drawing-room.

I am obliged to go to town, mother, on
business in connection with a letter Marie
has just brought. I may have to go over
to Paris for a few days. You must not
mind. I shall hope to be back soon.'

She stooped over her mother's chair,
kissed her, and before Mrs Strickland

could recover from her astonishment she
was gone, out through the conservatory
into the shrubbery, from a side gate of
which she could reach the main road that
led to the station.

It was a happy chance that took her that
way if her object was to get off unobserved,
for before she had even reached
the side gate Dot came in at the front
door, accompanied by John Wisden, who
had just returned from abroad.

Mrs Jocelyn reached the Charing Cross
Station, for which she was bound, without
any interference. It was nearly five o'clock
by the time she got there, and as the Paris
train started at seven, she had not too
much time if she had any amount of business
to transact. She seemed to know
exactly where she was going, and started
off along the Strand as briskly as the vast
amount of traffic would allow.

After walking about half-a-mile she
turned up a side street, examined the numbers
with care, and then went up on to
the first floor of a house which had a
wooden frame of names on its doorpost.

Straight into a sort of back office she
walked, where a stupid-looking boy was
lounging over a desk.

Mr Varley at home ? ' she asked.

The boy raised his head and nodded.

Can I see him ? '

He don't see no one who ain't got a
name.'

She took up a piece of paper and a
pencil, scribbled two or three words, and
despatched the boy with this communication
to his master.

In a few minutes she was ushered into
the presence of a little keen-eyed man,
who wore a velvet skullcap, and looked
so wizened with age that you would
scarcely have been surprised had you been
told that he was born in the Middle Ages.
He uttered a grunt of recognition when
Nelly walked in, making it evident that
this was not the first business transaction
they had had. She did not speak  probably
she had discovered that Varley was
a man of few words. She merely laid the
diamonds down before him on the table.

His eyes glistened for a moment when

he saw them ; evidently he was a rare
judge of jewels, and the diamonds were
of the first water. Speedily, however, his
brow clouded, and he sniffed the air contemptuously.


Don't say they are worth nothing she
said rapidly, ' for you know as well as I
do that they are.'

Two hundred sovereigns.'

Bah ! six hundred at least.'

My dear lady, what did you give for
them ? Where is the receipted bill ? '

I did not buy them. They came tome.'


They came to you  ay  ay. From
whom you do not care to say. You see,
a diamond without a pedigree is dangerous
ware to traffic in.'

You know their pedigree, Varley.
Why do you force me to speak ? '

He laughed.

I will give you three hundred pounds
not one penny more.'

She snatched up the jewels.

All right,' he went on ; * but they are
safer with me than in a pawnshop, and I

don't believe they would give you as much.
Besides, they would want a name and
address.'

I am not ashamed of my name and
address.'

No. Still it does not look well on a
pawn-ticket. Nasty, troublesome business
dealing with pawnbrokers, especially when
they are suspicious.'

And while he spoke he opened a drawer
and took out a handful of gold, which he
began to count as though to tempt her.
Varley and Mrs Jocelyn were not wholly
unknown to each other, and he believed
her to be more impecunious than she
really was.

It was not of the gold in this instance
that she stood in so much need, as to be
rid of the diamonds, since John Wisden
had been inquiring about them.

She let him count his gold for a minute
or two while she thought, then she threw
the diamonds down before him.

Three hundred. I suppose I must
take it, but you are a hard bargainer.'

Notes or gold ? ' was all he asked.

Notes ; gold is too heavy.'

He counted her out a roll, which she
carefully counted after him, possessing but
little belief in his rectitude, and then with
a simple, 

Good-afternoon, Mr Varley,' she was
gone.

Could she have seen the intense pleasure
with which he scanned the diamonds
after her departure, it would scarcely have
afforded her much satisfaction.

A good day's work  a very good
day's work,' he repeated to himself, ashe
finally locked them away in a strong
iron safe.

Nelly, meanwhile, felt happier in her
mind since she had left those diamonds
on old Varley's table, and with the notes
tucked inside the body of her dress she
sped once more along the Strand till she
saw a quiet - looking restaurant, where
she ordered a light dinner, and sat playing
with and dawdling over rather than
eating it till the time approached when
she hoped to meet marie on the Charing
Cross platform. It was just twenty

minutes to seven when, her dinner over,
she passed into the station. She went
into the ticket-office, and took two through
tickets to Paris, then she turned to look
for her maid and the luggage.

There was Marie, where she expected
to find her, but to Nelly's no small consternation
and dismay, by her side stood
John Wisden.

TO THE BITTER END.

HEN Mrs Jocelyn perceived John
Wisden, her first impulse was
to beat an immediate retreat.
But she was too late ; he had
scarcely been behind her in observation.

She must resign herself to her fate, she
presumed, for that she would be, metaphorically
speaking, handcuffed and taken back
to the Retreat, she fully believed.

She was, however, mistaken. John
Wisden was only too thankful to be rid
of her ; her acted, if not outspoken, disapproval
of his marriage with Dot annoyed
him to such a degree that he could

gladly dispense with her presence ; but
the note she had left for him at the Retreat
was, he considered, a move on her part to
arrive at a compact.

To find out what her game was, and
have that compact ratified, was the object
of his appearance at the Charing Cross
Station.

He had gathered enough from a cross-examination
to which he had subjected the
unwilling Marie, to have discovered that
a death that had happened in Cazalet's
family was the reason of Nelly's sudden
determination to return to Paris.

He wanted then to ascertain how strong
was her love for Cazalet, because he knew
full well that the farther it carried her out
of the depths of prudence, the stronger
would be his own power over her, and,
consequently, his freedom to act as he
pleased without any interference on her
part.

It was in a jeering tone that he accosted
her when they met at the station.

So weakness is as usual stronger than
strength  the poor moth is returning to

the flame that is waiting to burn it up,'
he remarked.

If you mean me, I am simply going
to my home ; I have been away from it
more than six weeks.'

Exactly. Flying from the Retreat as
though some one had offended you is
an unusual manner of simply going home.'

My mother is so difficult to manage
without a manoeuvre. I should have to
remain there for ever.'

Nonsense, Mrs Jocelyn ; don't take
the trouble to fence with me. You came
away from Paris because you discovered
that Paul Cazalet had  france who stood
between you and him. It was a wise
and womanly precaution to leave the field
free to her. She is dead, and you are
rushing back to possess yourself of the
vacant place by his side. Still, the
difficulties that hem you in are scarcely
fewer than they were before. A word
from my lips would upset your dream
of bliss. You see it is not with one but
with all your secrets that I am acquainted.'

She looked at him for a moment as

though she were utterly bewildered ;
and she did not attempt, as usual, to
scorn and flout him, only said very
quietly, 

This is not wholly true ; my dream
is of misery, not bliss. You know it is
little enough I can do for him or any
man ; but he is labouring with a sorrow
for which I am partially to blame : it
would be loyal to leave him to bear it
all alone.'

John Wisden burst out laughing.

I did not know you were such a
sophist,' he said soothingly ; * but how you
reconcile this matter with your conscience
has nothing to do with me. I am only
an onlooker at your game of life, and as
long as you do not interfere with mine,
I will make no remarks about what I
may see or hear. It was to shake you
by the hand in all faith, and assure you
of my agreement to your proposed arrangement,
that I took the trouble to
accompany Marie here this evening.'

Nelly kept both her hands under the
long black cloak she wore, and turned

away, Instead of clasping his extended
palm.

Devil ! ' she muttered, between her
clenched teeth  loud enough, however,
for him to hear it.

Devils get the best of it in this life,'
he said gaily ; 'let me carry some of the
packages, and come quickly, or you will
lose the train. Shall I take your bag }
Are the diamonds in it ? '

I have no diamonds.'
She spoke so positively that he believed
her.

I am sorry,' he replied, looking somewhat
annoyed ; ' for since you have not got
them, they may have fallen into hands that
will cause their re-appearance when one
least cares to see them.'

Mrs Jocelyn did not answer this, but
she shivered as though not even her heavy
cloak would keep out the chill evening
air, and then she got into the railway
carriage, the door of which a porter was
holding open.

Don't have any anxiety about Dot
her money shall be settled upon herself,'

said John Wisden, looking in at the
window when she was seated.

I have no anxiety on that score,' she
answered coldly ; ' the Married Woman's
Property Act is in force.'

He tossed his head with a slight gesture
of scorn, and without re-attempting to
shake hands with her, merely observed, 

We shall soon meet again. I will
bring Dot to Paris on our wedding-tour.'

Not Paris ; the world is large  why
should you choose Paris ? '

Because she wants to see the gay
French capital, poor child  because you
will be there.'

The train glided off as he uttered these
last words, and any further expostulation
on Mrs Jocelyn's part was useless ; but
the promise of the speedy arrival in
Paris of her sweet little Dot as his wife,
afforded her no consolation.

Since circumstances drove her into
tacitly permitting this marriage to take
place, she would gladly have forgotten
that either of the contracting parties
existed.

The heavy load that lay on her conscience
had prevented her of late from
enjoying her sister's society as she would
otherwise have done, and now if John
Wisden was going to bring her to Paris,
it was merely that poor Dot might be a
walking reminder of how much she herself
was in his power ; and thus by threatening
her every act, he would render her
life a curse and a misery.

No, it was impossible that she could
bear the weight of so much sin. Except
in keeping silence, what had she done
for which such a burden of ever reproaching
scruples should be cast upon
her?

In what other way could she have acted,
without involving in a tangled mass of
difficulty those with whose lives she had
no right to meddle. Even Dot would
lose rather than gain if Nelly uttered a
few outspoken words, and would probably
marry John Wisden after all, since it was
indisputable that she loved and believed
in him.

Yet, notwithstanding all this false

VOL. I. p

reasoning with which Nelly sought to
quiet the tormenting reproaches of her
sleepless conscience, she had a strong
inclination to get out of the train at the
first station at which it stopped, and to
return to the Retreat and state to her
mother the whole truth of what had happened
in the past.

But the iron hand of fate retained her
with a firm grip : two people got into the
carriage and took the seats nearest to the
door. She had not the courage to pass
them and tell them that she had changed
her mind and meant to go back to
London.

Such vacillation had no sense she
decided. ' Having made up her mind to
go through with her miserable story to
the bitter end, she must now leave its
workings to unravel themselves as best
they could.'

Besides, was she not going to Paul
Cazalet  Cazalet, who was free, and, in
his deep sorrow, would receive her ministrations
with an affection that she felt
even under bereavement would be almost

glad. Why should she set up another
obstacle between herself and Cazalet by
publishing the miserable story of her life ?

Thus mile after mile she journeyed
on, and no farther thought of turning
back disturbed the even course of her
journey.

She reached her apartment just at
daybreak ; and old Andre muttered numberless
oaths under his breath at being
awakened at that early hour ; but when
he saw Mrs Jocelyn, his anger turned to
pleasure, for she was a great favourite
with Andre, and as he looked in her
face he knew, if none of her fashionable
acquaintances could guess, what had
carried her away out of Paris in so impulsive
a manner, and why as suddenly
she had returned.

Good was the fabricated story that her
mother had been ill, and was now better ;
it might fit the requirements that society
demanded ; but Andre knew that a far
deeper reason for Nelly's apparently
strange conduct lay beneath that surface
one.

Ugly, almost to picturesqueness, as in
outward appearance Andre was, his face
seamed by the hand of time, still he was
as romantic and devoted to a real love
affair as any young man of five-and-twenty.


An interest he had always taken in
Mrs Jocelyn on account of her beauty ;
that interest was doubled now that he
guessed how her strong love for Cazalet
was wearing away her life ; for that Nelly
Jocelyn was much changed since she had
left her apartment in Paris, no one could
help remarking.

Andre grieved over it, as he helped
Marie upstairs with the luggage, and then
set to work to light a fire, and perform
several little menial offices which were
by no means included in his duties as
concierge.

How could he know that it was not
only her love for the great painter, against
which she had for a time combated so
vigorously, that had effected this change
in Nelly, but the miserable story of her
own life that was weighing her down ?

She had been brought up by a mother
who, querulous and sharp of speech, could
scarcely be called an amiable woman ; but
who was, nevertheless, kindly and considerate
for her children. She allowed
them, as far as education was concerned,
to learn pretty much what they liked,
because she professed to have in horror
the over-education of women ; yet Mrs
Strickland had bestowed on both her
girls a thorough religious training, and
the difference between right and wrong
had been so forcibly drilled into them,
that whatever the vicissitudes through
which they would have to pass, it would
be strange if they ever wholly forgot
their mother's lessons and their mother's
warnings. Truthful and sincere by
nature, till Nelly married she had
never even contemplated the existence
of lies and deceit. No sooner, however,
had she put her future into arthur Jocelyn's
keeping, and left her mother's house, than
she found herself in a very vortex of deception.
Yet this man was of Mrs Strickland's
choosing, not Nelly's. She had

persuaded her child into the marriage, because,
forsooth, she thought the suitor had
money, and was of a good family ; moreover,
by his wiles he had gained her sympathy
; and she praised him so persistently
that at last poor Nelly began to think she
cared for him, and finally consented to
marry him. When once he was her husband
she found he was her master, and
that far from the ample means he had
told Mrs Strickland that he possessed, his
riches were of a visionary nature, sometimes
abundant, sometimes they did not
exist at all, except on paper.

He was of a good family, it was true,
but he was the black sheep of that family,
and Nelly discovered by degrees that his
aliases were numerous, and his fraudulent
practices neither few nor far between.

The only green spot in this man's character
was his love for his beautiful wife ;
the only honest thing he had done for years
was marrying her in his real name.

It was Arthur Jocelyn's love for her
that in the first instance subjugated Nelly
and moulded her to his will ; besides, it

was only gradually that she learnt some
of his dark secrets, and found how she
herself was involved in his duplicity.

From the first discovery she had shown
herself to be a coward  she could not bear
that people should know what Arthur
Jocelyn really was, and to shield him she
strayed a few steps out of the track of
honour ; and though each time that she
did so the fierce strife with her conscience
that the delinquency occasioned was no
mean one, yet a few more steps and yet
a few more were trodden, till Nelly began
to perplex herself as to where the boundary
of honour lay ; disturbed and put out of
its even course as the line ever was
in any conversation on the matter that
arose between her and her husband or
\{\s fidics Achates John Wisden.

That she was not treading the path of
honour now, she was fully aware. She
had strayed so far away from it of late
that she scarcely knew her way back
from the byways of silence and deceit 
groping among the brushwood to seek the
light of truth was dreary, depressing work,

for which Nelly seemed to have lost all
energy and courage, and much though
the sin of deceit vexed and troubled her
once loyal spirit, yet now she told herself
she was too involved to free herself,
and with mistaken sophistry she persuaded
herself that it was as much
for Dot's advantage as her own that
she should keep back the history of the
past.

The ravages these tormenting thoughts
committed upon her beauty would tell
sorely if she did not manage by some
means to quiet her conscience : a glance
at her mirror reminded her of this fact,
and she resolved to rest for a while,  take
chloral, if need be, before she underwent
any fresh emotions.

Andre s unusual zeal in her service suggested
an idea.

She bade him go, as soon as people
were astir, to Cazalet's, to inquire how
he was, and ask him at what hour he
would come and pay her a visit.

Till her messenger returned she would
put off the chloral and the rest.

When would real, true rest ever come
to her ? she wondered.

At last, by the time she had drunk the
hot coffee Marie prepared, and was sitting
warm and comfortable by a bright wood
fire, r\ndre came back. She saw at once
from the expression on his face that he
was the bearer of evil tidings, but she
did not cry out, only waited patiently till
he spoke.

Monsieur Cazalet is gone, madame.'

Gone, Andre ! Where . '

Xo one knows ; the place Is all locked
up, dark and dismal.'

And Justine  the bonnie ? '

She too has disappeared. I could get
no news of them from any one save that
Monsieur Paul has not been seen in the
Rue Mlgrnon since Mademoiselle Lill
died.'

OUT OF THE HUBBUB.

WILD, rock-girt coast, a raging
sea, dashing with tempestuous
fury over a jutting promontory,
gulls screeching, their white
wings standing out in relief against the
black angry sky !

Everywhere storm and fury  Nature in
one of her angry moods buffeting against
the progress of civilisation ; for more than
one fishing-boat that had gone out on the
previous evening on calm and placid
waters is riding painfully over the foaming
waves, at a terrible risk of never
reaching the dangerous rocky shore.

The dawn has only just crept up out

of the east, but the whole village which
lies down in the bay is on the alert ; and
many a wife and mother, her infant in her
arms, may be seen standing watching,
with eager, streaming eyes, some tiny
craft on the vast ocean, in which the
father and bread-winner is combating with
the storm for life.

On a high hill above the village there
is a small chapel where the devout fisher-folk
attend mass on Sundays and holidays,
and where many a prayer is offered for the
absent strugglers on the deep ; for the
Bretons are a religious race, and no
new-fangled doctrines have reached their
primitive villages to trouble the old time-honoured
faith.

Beside the chapel door two men are
standing watching the storm and the
battling boats with as much interest and
excitement as though they too had entrusted
the lives of their nearest and
dearest to the mercy of the fickle elements.
Yet they are merely sojourners in Avreux
for a while,  have come there to forget, if
possible, the cares and disappointments

of life ; and far away from the tramp and
hubbub of the world in which they have
their place, they hope to become reconciled
to a crreat and grievous calamity that
has fallen upon them.

No one in that Breton village knows
aught of their origin and calling ; they are
free to come and go unheeded as they
list.

In the summer-time the fisher folk at
Avreux are accustomed to the arrival of
an occasional visitor, who, for the sake of
the wild beauty of the place, puts up
with the meagre accommodation it affords,
but they think it perhaps just a little
curious that these two strangers should
have selected the winter months for their
coming, and February is scarcely on the
wane. They ask no questions, however,
and beyond knowing that the two men
are very kindly and generous  bestowing
many a twenty sous piece where
they see that it is wanted, they know
nothing about them, not even their
names.

Yet that of the younger man has resounded

through the length and breadth
of France, for he is none other than Paul
Cazalet the great painter, who, accompanied
by Le Vieux has fled away from
Paris after Lili's death to court the sympathy
of solitude.

Paul, as he stands there by his father's
side, seems to have aged ten years since
the day Nelly and he lingered at the
studio window, and he told her that all the
passion of his heart had gone forth ina
wild pining love for her.

Does he ever think of Nelly now, or
does he seek to banish her for ever from
his mind, as a penance for the grievous
wrong he believes that his love for Nelly
brought to the poor, devoted child, whose
descent into the tomb had been hastened
by her deep grief at Paul's desertion '

Alas ! alas ! there are strong passions
that take such deep root in the heart that
neither time nor absence will efface them.
Paul's love for Nelly was one of these ;
strive as hard as he could, and he did
strive very hard, he could not forget
her.

Even in the darkest moments of his life
she was present, and that he was constantly
now environed by as black mental
clouds as those that lay athwart the
angry threatening waters, God and his
conscience knew full well ; still, an occasional
gleam of hope would ever and
aofain break like a silver streak on the
leaden horizon.

He was a free man, and why should
he not marry Nelly and be happy ? '

With electrical swiftness he would
banish the alluring light of what he was
pleased to call his temptation, and the
clouds would close once more over the
streak of hope.

He had forfeited Nelly for ever by
his sin in causing his poor little cousin
to suffer and die.

It was rather a sentimentalist's than a
strong man's view of life ; but strongly
imbued with the artistic temperament as
Paul ever was, recent events had worked
on him so powerfully that his entire nervous
organisation was unstrung.

If Nelly had appeared to him in the

flesh during this period of probation, the
chances are that, with extended arms, he
would have received her, and, lulHng his
conscience to sleep, would have forgotten
everything save that she was the one
woman to whom his heart had ozone forth
in a wild cry of passionate love.

But Nelly had passed out of his life ;
she had run away from the misery his
faithlessness had wrought, and unforgiving
because she believed that only a portion
of his heart was hers, she had gone into
exile, and left no trace by which he knew
whither to follow her.

Ay, it was best so. He would carry
his burden of remorse silently,  best
that she should think him a heartless
flirt, comparable only with the Butterfly,
whom he held in such sovereign contempt.

To be thus judged by Nelly would be
something like penance for his fault. In
vague disconnected fragments, some such
thoughts as these agitated his brain, even
while he watched the raging storm, whose
fierceness seemed in such strange unison
with his present frame of mind.

After a time the fate of a tiny craft,
towards which all eyes were directed, was
too critical for personal feelings to obtrude
themselves, and even conscience-tortured
Paul Cazalet forgot his private griefs while
he was carried away by the general excitement
over the fate of the little boat.

Wave after wave dashed over it, and it
was apparently gone to rise, however,
once more to the surface and ride again
the foaming waves, its temporary rescue
being received by such a loud shout of joy
from the onlookers that even in that
hurricane it made itself heard. Again the
tiny bark was engulphed, again to appear
triumphant out of the bosom of the deep.

A wild wave, more tempestuous than the
rest, dashed it with fury almost as it seemed
against the shore ; but it was a deep moan
of despair, rather than a shout of joy, that
greeted its rising.

Those who knew the coast were sensible
of the existence of hidden rocks that rendered
all approach from the side to which
the boat had been tossed absolutely impossible.


They were right  the boat was shivered
to atoms  and the next sight that met the
view of the onlookers was the heads of the
two fishermen as, thrown to a great distance
by the furious, dashing waters, they
made a violent struesle for the life which,
however troubled and humble his condition,
is still dear to most men.

Paul Cazalet and Le Vieux grew so
excited by the scene and the uncertain
fate of these men, that to remain longer
mere passive spectators on that prominence
was impossible to them. They felt
they must do something, though there
was little to do that called for action, 
nought, in fact, but trust to the great God
who governs the universe.

With mutual consent, and without a
spoken word  they could not in truth
have heard each other's voices  they ran
down the steep incline into the village.
Quite five minutes passed before they
reached it, for they too were buffeted from
side to side by the cruel driving wind.
When they did arrive it was to see women
standing by the doors wringing their hands
VOL. I. Q

ow.

in an agony of despair, and uttering such
wails of sorrow as no feeling heart would
ever forget so lone as it was allowed to beat.

'What has happened?' asked Paul.
What has happened since we left the
hill?'

But a straightforward answer was
unattainable.

The best - looking young fellow in
Avreux, the pride of his father, the consolation
of his mother, and Clementine
Bertie's fiancd to boot  Dieu des Dieux,
but it is terrible  poor Baptiste ! '

He is not dead ? You do not mean
that this young fellow is drowned ? '

Go forward to the crowd there on the
strand. Monsieur can judge for himself.
Perhaps monsieur is a doctor, and can
give some help.'

Paul pressed forward  he begged Le
Vieux not to follow him ; he would save
him if possible the pain of a terrible sight ;
but the old man would not be held back,
and together they elbowed their way,
through the crowd, to the beach where
Baptiste lay.

Baptiste, in the full vigour of youth, and
strength, and manly beauty, his limbs
rigid, his face still and pallid, even with
the stillness and pallor of death ; beside
him was the body of an old man, the
patriarch fisherman of Avreux, his head
had evidently struck a rock as he had
been tossed on to the shore, for his face
was blood-stained, and his features scarcely
recognisable.

A young girl, his grand-daughter, knelt
beside him and wept silently ; but it was
over ' le beat Baptiste' that the multitude
mourned as they stood there panic-stricken
under the weight of the great misery that
had fallen on Avreux.

It was reserved for Paul Cazalet to restore
some order to their scattered senses.

With a glance at the old man he saw
that life was extinct, but that there was
a chance of saving Baptiste he felt almost
sure.

Some blankets and a mattress, and
quickly ! ' he said, in a master's voice,
which commanded prompt attention.

And in a few seconds Baptiste was

raised from the beach, where the fisher folk
would have let him die, even while they
wailed, and was placed in a warm bed in
the nearest cottage, Paul himself using
every appliance that he thought would be
of any avail, or of which in his conversation
with scientists he had ever heard.

And the first throb of joy that his heart
had felt since Lili died came to it when
Baptiste began to breathe heavily, and
opened his eyes, looking about with a
vacant stare. The young fisherman was
saved. The news was received with such
loud acclaim by the assembled crowd outside
the cottage door, that it almost deafened
the inmates of the little room, and
Paul was compelled to go out himself
to silence the many voices, which were
exciting his rallying patient.

He little anticipated the greeting he
would himself receive  the men doffed
their caps to him, the women knelt to kiss
his hand, or even his garment ; in fact, the
whole population of Avreux was prepared
to treat him as a supernatural being.

In vain Paul Cazalet, who ever avoided

homage and a scene, told them he had
done nothing miraculous, only the best he
could according to his light, they would
not desist from regarding his work as a
miracle, and adoring him as if he were a
god. And when, at last, feeling that his
services were no longer required by Baptiste,
he returned, accompanied by Le
Vieux, to the humble quarters which were
the best that Avreux afforded them, the
whole fisher folk followed them to the
door, and Paul felt that if he would have
peace and silence to muse over his lost
happiness, he must travel afield ; for in
Avreux all chance of an incognito was at
an end.

For that day, however, he must be
content to remain where he was. On the
morrow, perchance he might induce Le
Vietix to make a start,  the storm had
abated considerably in fury, Nature would
probably have re-assumed its usually tranquil
appearance, and they would wander onto
some other spot where chance and the
people's ignorance would not, he trusted,
convert them into miraculous agents.

For some time after Paul and his
father had retired into their own quarters,
people lingered outside the door of their
habitation ; then at last, slowly, one by
one, they returned to their houses, and
quietude was once more fully restored.

The shades of evening crept up early
on the short winter day, and Paul, taking
advantage of them, stole out once more,
muffled in a large cloak, to have a look
at his patient.

The village seemed still to be more or
less in a state of confusion as he passed
along the back way to Baptiste's cottage,
but he did not give the matter much
heed, imagining that the excitement of the
morning had not wholly died away, and
that preparations were moreover being
made for the old fisherman's funeral.

He reached Baptiste's abode at last by
a circuitous route, and found the fine
young fellow sitting up by the fire, having
almost entirely recovered the vitality
which was so nearly gone for ever.

His gratitude to the man who, everyone
said, had saved his life was by no

means so demonstrative as that of his
friends and relations ; but it was none the
less real on that account.

A life for a life was Baptiste's idea of
repayment, and in sincere but simple words
he bade Paul remember that his services
and his life were his to command, if ever
in the unseen future they could avail him
aught.

There was nothing melodramatic in the
situation : it was true and honest ; and the
two men clutched each other by the hand
as friends, Paul, no less than Baptiste,
feeling that he should gain by this fellowship.
And then they sat for a long while
chatting of Baptiste's hopes in life  to
Paul's there was no allusion : ' they were
dead,' he would have told Baptiste. Besides,
what did this young fisherman
know of artists and their aspirations, or
of a saddened life history, since his own
lay clear and serene before him ?

Yet the talk with Baptiste benefited
Paul ; and when he at last rose to go,
he promised to see the young man again
in the morning, and resolved to postpone

his departure for a few days, in order to
learn more of a character in which there
was so much of simple, honest faith that,
as he wended his way back to le Vieux,
he could not help likening Baptiste to the
fishers of old who cast their nets into the
sea of Galilee.

His meditations were interrupted as he
reached his temporary home by the sight
of more light in the sitting-room than that
in which Le Vieux was wont to indulge,
and by the sound of voices. That some
ovation had been prepared for him he
almost dreaded ; but he pushed the door
open manfully to face it.

A woman, who was certainly not an
Avreux fishwife, was in the little sitting-room
in close conversation with Le Vieux.

She turned her head when she heard
Paul's footfall ; but the expression of his
face as he beheld her features was scarcely
one of joy, and he simply exclaimed, without
one word of welcome, 

'Miss Marian Wallis ! '

CHAPTER I.

TAKEN BY STORM.

AUL Chalet knew very
cs JUA little of Marian Wallis, save
\r& that she was LiH's friend, and
had been with the poor child
almost constantly during the last hours of
her life. As such he had a certain tenderness
for her. Still, his feeling when he
went into the room and saw her talking
to Le Vieiix, was one of regret that she
should have come to Avreux.

It was very kind of her, no doubt, for

VOL. II. A

he could not imagine otherwise than that
she had come there to look after him and
his father. Avreux was far too out-of-the-way
a village for visitors to put up thereby
mere chance.

Paul Cazalet, however, wanted no society
beyond that of his father, with whom he
could talk by the hour of Lili, if it so
pleased him.

Of course he knew Marian Wallis would
be most sympathetic on that subject ; still
he preferred solitude.

She noted full well the shade on his
brow as he entered the room, and seizing
his hand and wringing it in an excited
manner, she began talking rapidly, 

I could not be so near without coming
to see how you both are, especially as
very probably we may never meet again.
I am on my way to England to stay
with some relations of my mother's ; m}'
father has already gone there, and we shall
most likely all three go back to Australia
together.'

Leave Paris for good ? '

Yes. Father must go back to Melbourne

for a time, at all events, and I
do not care to stay in Paris now poor
dear Lili is no more

And De Gourlay, to whom people said
you were going to be married ? '

Oh, M. Paul, dont y 02 speak of that : it
is too horrid of you. How could you suppose
I should ever marry that popinjay ? '

Paul smiled and shrugged his shoulders.

Love, especially woman's love, is capable
of many strange freaks,' he said ; ' but
I am sorry for the poor butterfly.'

Yes. He has not been very successful
in his love affairs, it seems ; but I fancy
he has suffered more through the English
widow" than through me.'

A slight tremor passed over Paul Cabaret's
frame at her words, and he grew
very pale. It was the first allusion
that had been made to Mrs Jocelyn since
Lili died, and though she was seldom
absent from his thoughts, yet as a penance
for the neglect of Lili with which
he was constantly reproaching himself, he
was ever seeking to banish her image from
his mind.

Marian read the workings of his brain
as though she were reading an open book :
there was Httle capability for deceit about
honest, straightforward Paul Cazalet.

You know, I suppose, that Mrs Joce-
lyn has left Paris ? ' she went on.

I have heard something of the sort,
yes  but of late no Paris gossip has
reached me. She has not returned
then ? '

She went to England, I believe,' was
Marian's evasive answer.

To England? Yes.'

Marion did not tell him that Mrs
Jocelyn had come back to her old quarters
two days before, and that it was
owing to the sundry inquiries she had
been making after the Cazalets that
Marian had judged it expedient to come
off to Avreux before Nelly should find
out where they were, and perchance make
a descent on them.

Marian was judging Nelly Jocelyn by
her own standard when she imagined her
capable of pursuing such a course ; for
though Nelly, over weighted by the force

of circumstances, had succumbed from the
strict path of honour, she had too much
pride at command to willingly place herself
in a false position. Marian, on the
contrary, did not possess a particle of
pride ; to obtain what she wanted, at any
cost, was her idea of a successful life,
and if she occasionally received a severe
snubbing, she treated it as a mere accessory
to existence, which, if disagreeable
in detail, was at the same time absolutely
unavoidable. With Lili's death she thought
the coast was clear for the easy conquest
of Paul Cazalet, who from his big-heartiness
she judged to be very malleable ;
but events did not altogether turn out as
she expected.

Very few days elapsed after poor Lili's
funeral before the two Cazalets, leaving
the business to a foreman, or its fate, went
off on a solitary wander, in order if possible
to hide their grief from public gaze.

Whither they had gone Marian could
not for a while discover, since the Nor-marche
declined to be friendly with her,
and the foreman was not at first very

amenable to her wiles. From the moment
she discovered their whereabouts, her object
vas to get to Avreux  not a very
easy thing to arrange ; but since it was
only difficult situations that afforded Marian
any amusement, she took this one in hand
coil ashore. And the carrying out of the
scheme she was for days concocting was
at last hastened by the knowledge that
Mrs Jocelyn was in Paris.

Marian Wallis had complete influence
over her mother. Her father was not so
easy to manage, but in this instance chance
came to her assistance. Mr Wallis was
compelled to go to Australia for a time on
business, and for this same reason intended
to visit London, and sail from there.
Marian's plan then was to prevail on her
mother to go over to England and join her
father, under the pretext of seeing him
start. She herself had no intention of returning
to Melbourne, though she told
Paul that she had.

Mr Wallis out of the way, and the
journey to London agreed on, Marian's
next step was to persuade her mother

that it would only be kind to take
Avreux wert route, and say good-bye to
the Cazalets.

Marian was not the sort of earl to
have been hampered by her mother at
all, if it had not quite suited her ; but she
decided that respectability would cover a
multitude of sins, so she insisted on her
mother accompanying her to Avreux, and
by her presence chaperoning the farewell
she said she was going to take of their
friends.

That it would be a leave-taking extending
over a prolonged period of time there
is small doubt, were the matter to be left
solely in Marian's hands.

She had not brought her mother with heron
her first visit to the Cazalets' quarters.

She was tired and resting,' Marian said.
The storm that had greeted their arrival
had frightened her considerably.'

Where on earth they were located
puzzled Paul iot a little. He thought
he and Le Vieux had secured the only
comfortable quarters that the place afforded.


Oh, we are on the hill above the village
in a charming cottage  that is, it would
be charming in the summer time. Won't
you walk home with me, M. Paul, and
then you will see for yourself? Mamma
will be delighted to receive you.'

Bear though Paul Cazalet professed to
be, what could he do but accompany her,
mentally resolving meantime that he would
return forthwith to Paris, and shut himself
up in his studio.

But ' riiomme propose et jennie dispose',
Marian had not come all the way
to Avreux for nothing. She did not intend
Paul to escape just yet.

If he had told her she was a bold hussy,
and sent her about her business, he would
only have been treating her as she deserved,
and have saved himself much
trouble in the future ; but, as Marian had
discovered, Paul was malleable, and could
not be bearish to a woman, especially
when that woman was clever and observant
enough to know how to work on
his weak points.

The cottage where Mrs Wallis and

Marian had found a temporary dwelling-place
was some distance off, amid a colony
of cottages reserved for summer loiterers,
which Paul had not yet chanced to visit.

All the way, as they walked along
together, Marian's talk was of Lili, how
she had loved her as she never loved a
girl friend before, and how deeply she
sorrowed over her sad early death.

No subject at that juncture could have
interested Paul more than the prattle of
this girl over the sayings and doings of
her sweet dead friend.

To talk of Lili with one who had loved
her as Marian did, was a sort of unguent
to Paul's grief, making him resolve, long
before he reached the cottage, that he
would linger on vet a dav or two at
Avreux, and indulge in the consolation
this talk afforded him.

He uttered, however, a refusal which
was far more pointed than Marian expected,
when on reaching the cottage door
she said suddenly, 

'Will you come with us to England.
M. Paul?'

To England ? No. To any spot on
earth rather than to England.'

Then suddenly bethinking himself that
she might consider his peremptory refusal
strange, he sought to cover it by remarking
that he particularly disliked England ;
though it was his birthplace, he was a
naturalised Frenchman, and preferred
French habits.

Marian smiled quietly to herself. She
fancied she knew more about his sentiments
than he knew himself; still, for all
that, she wished she could have got him
to come to England * out of the way of
temptation,' as she called it. Since it
did not seem probable that he would do
so, she must manage to remain for a
while at Avreux, she supposed.

Without making any farther remark on
the matter, she took him to see their
rooms, and to introduce him to her
mother, whom Paul had never previously
seen, and whom he put down in his own
mind as a soft, harmless, motherly individual,
which in truth she was.

Before they parted for the night, Marian

got him to promise to come for her on
the morrow, and take her for a honor walk,
and show her some of the beauties of the
place, and then she went to bed and slept
a sleep of happy dreams.

So far she had succeeded, and that she
would ultimately succeed in gaining Paul
for herself she made no doubt.

It was clear that she knew how to
catch life at the rebound, and make the
best of materials she had to hand, for
Paul, as he sauntered home, felt soothed
by Marian's kindly ministrations, and
looked forward with something like a
feeling of pleasure to the walk on the
morrow, when he could indulge in his
sorrow, because was it not her sorrow
even as much as it was his ?

But old Cazalet sprinkled a few drops
of cold water on his son's sentimentalism
over Marian Wallis. He did not care
for the Wallises.

Marian was not a bad sort of a little
girl,' he said; 'but Mr Wallis, with his
trumpery, snobbish airs, was a man to
be carefully avoided.'

This assertion did not seem to trouble
Paul.

Mr Wallis was not there,' he said ;
and since they were not likely to have
any relations with the Wallises after the
next few days, It mattered little what
Marian's father was like.

Le Vieux gave a snort by way of
answer ; perhaps his idea of their relations
with the Wallises did not altogether coincide
with his son's.

The good old baker was so delighted
to find any one who would divert Paul's
thoughts from the sorrowful channel in
which of late they had strayed, that he
hailed the arrival of Miss Marian Wallis
with a certain amount of satisfaction, even
though that satisfaction was not altogether
unmixed with alloy.

Paul's father had never been introduced
to Mrs Jocelyn, thus had escaped being
dominated by her fascinations, as most
certainly he would have been. He knew
nothing of her save from Paul's lips, when
he had listened to his son's bitter self-reproaches
over the way in which he had

neglected Lili for the more beautiful
widow.

He had thus scarcely judged Mrs
Jocelyn in as kindly a spirit as she
ought to have been judged. Yet notwithstanding
his own deep sorrow over
his niece's death, he had more than once
had a serious intention of writing to Nelly,
asking her to come and help him chase
away Paul's despair and lead him back,
if possible, to the pathway of fame and
glory.

If he had done so, what a different
story of the artist's life might it have
been ours to tell !

The unexpected arrival of Marian
Wallis caused the old man to give up
all idea of sending for Nelly. She would
do, perhaps, as well as the other to keep
him from brooding over the past ; and
perhaps she might not altogether prove
such a dangerous agent as the beautiful
widow.

Alas ! alas ! for the shortsightedness of
man !

A VILLAGE ORATOR.

HE morning after the storm at
C"! 5 Avreux broke in beauty.
 j\ It seemed as if winter had

been carried away in Nature's
latest convulsion ; and the soft, balmy
zephyrs of spring played about Paul Cabaret's
head as he went up the hill to call
for Marian Wallis in anticipation of the
projected walk.

She was ready, waiting for him at the
door, dressed in a pretty Parisian toilette,
which, though a little bit startling in
colour, was nevertheless not inartistic in
design.

Paul Cazalet did not pay much heed to

the form or colouring of Marian Wallis'
clothes  she was neither poor Lili in his
eyes, nor that arch-priestess of taste, Mrs
Jocelyn, but only a little chattering Australian
girl with whom he was going to
take a walk in order to pass the time,
and, because she was Lili's friend, all that
remained to him of the poor child he
mourned so piously.

The Australian girl managed to chatter
very much to the purpose that bright spring
morning, for she succeeded in making Paul
laugh more than once, which he certainly
had not done for many a week, and he
could not help acknowledging that the
society of a bright, cheery woman is a
consolation and a boon for which a man
should in his heart of hearts be thankful.

Their wandering footsteps had led them
along the cliff away from Avreux, which
lay down in the bay between two heights ;
the colony of cottages in one of which
Marian Wallis dwelt being on one height,
the post of observation from which the
two Cazalets had witnessed the storm on
the other.

By a circuitous route the road along
which they sauntered brought them back
to the village, a place which since yesterday's
scene Paul was a little bit inclined
to shun, fearing, perhaps, recognition, and
something bordering on an ovation.

Marian, however, begged him to take
her down among the boats  she had never
been in a fishing-village in her life, she
said.

How could he refuse'* He did not
know that Marian had heard all about
Baptiste's resuscitation, and rather hoped
for the ovation which Paul dreaded, since
she felt some of the prestige would fall
to her share if she was standing by his
side.

Nor did her expectations fall short.
They went down on to the strand, surveyed
the fishing-boats, talked to some
loiterers who were mending their nets,
and passed an hour very pleasantly without
anything happening to upset Paul's
equilibrium, the temperament of his mind
being balanced this morning with unusual
evenness. When at last the lengthening

shadows reminded them that it was time
to think of going back to their respective
quarters, they turned off the tiny quay
where the fishing-boats lay closely packed
together, up into the one village street.
The first thing that met their gaze was
two carts, to which poles had been attached,
and from pole to pole a rope was fastened,
and across it bright pieces of stuff on
which bouquets and wreaths of immortelles
hung.

Though crude in the extreme, the effect
produced, in contrast to the dismal-looking
fisher-cots, was most picturesque.

The good people had brought out all
their fete day paraphernalia to do honour
to one who, since he had saved Baptiste
from a premature grave, ought, they in
their ignorance thought, almost to be
canonised. Paul started back in dismay
when he saw these preparations, and
would rather have taken a boat and gone
by sea to the next village than have faced
them.

But it was too late to return, and,
moreover, Marian Wallis was in an

VOL. II. B

ecstasy of delight, and almost dragged
him on under the triumphal arch, as she
was pleased to call the fisher folk's erection.


Once arrived there, Paul was received
with a shout of vives / and a mahogany-faced
old man, with snow-white hair, who
was both oracle and orator in the Avreux
population, advanced with two laurel
crowns, tied with ribands, such as are
placed on the heads of the successful
competitors for prizes in the French
schools.

These he presented to the advancing
pair, accompanied by a speech, the rough
and ready eloquence of which showed
that the man, with education, might
have had some claim to parliamentary
renown.

To Marian, who drank in the man's
words with avidity, the situation was a
dream of delight ; she felt as if she had
suddenly become an empress, and she
looked up into Paul's face with proud
gladness, as though he were her emperor,
and she would fain see on his

countenance a reflex of the pleasure that
was overflowing in her own heart. But it
was not so. Paul Cazalet's features were
sternly set, and he looked so dark and
frowning that Marian, had she been less
courageous, would have trembled with
fear.

Paul's views about what he stigmatised
as ' ridiculous mummery,' evidently did
not coincide with hers ; not but that,
under different circumstances, the boyishness
that was latent in Paul's character
would have thoroughly enjoyed the spontaneity
of this village exhibition, and he
would have permitted himself to be the
hero and plaything of these worthy
fisher-folk in all good humour, simply
because it gave them pleasure. But all
vitality and sense of enjoyment, either
for himself or others, had been crushed
out of Paul in the ordeal he had gone
through of late ; moreover, there were
words in the Avreux orator's speech
which, though they teemed with rapture
to Marian's ears, produced such a sense
of annoyance in Paul as to call forth all

the brutality with which, in a more or
less degree, every man's nature is imbued.
The allusion which produced such
different feelings in the breasts of these
two beings, who, standing side by side,
were compelled to listen to Jean Pierre's
eloquence, was that made, by the ignorant
spokesman, to their reciprocal relations.

The Avreux fisher-folk, rich in imagination
 as are many a people who
have not had the poetry trodden out of
them by the footfall of civilisation  had
invented quite a tale of romance about the
good-looking father and son who had
come to mope in their midst, but whose
dulness had been quickened into life by
the arrival of this cheery little English
girl.

Of course she was Paul Cazalet'syf;/.
There had been a quarrel ; she had been
in the wrong, and had, in all good faith,
come to acknowledge her fault and beg
for forgiveness, which, since they had
been out together all the day, had
naturally been accorded.

This was the supposition which had

%b

been set forth in Jean Pierre's speech,
followed by congratulations and good
wishes without end, in which all those
assembled joined with reiterated vives
and shouts of joy.

During this deafening acclaim, Marian,
who noted the angry frown on Paul's
brow, whispered to him gently, 

Do not contradict them, my friend ;
it is only poor Lili's place I am taking
for a while  think of her, and forget me.'

The wildness of this proposition staggered
Paul, and made him feel quite
dizzy.

This girl in Lili's place  by his side 1
Marian, however, gained her end ; the
moment for contradiction passed in hesitation,
and the opportunity was gone.

To get away from a scene in which
Paul felt that he was playing an essentially
ridiculous part, was now his most
ardent wish ; he muttered a few incoherent
words of thanks, and strode
on, leaving the good, simple - minded
people, who had got up what they
thought would be a gratifying surprise

for him, very much with the feeling that
they had utterly failed in their purpose.

Marian, who loitered for a moment
behind Paul, saw the manifest disappointment,
which no one attempted to repress.

She was quite equal to the emergency,
and in her fluent, ungrammatical French,
said a few pretty words explaining that
Paul was very shy of thanks, but that she
knew from the bottom of his heart he
appreciated their kindness.

All momentary annoyance was speedily
dispelled from their faces, and amid fresh
shouts of ' Vive la france I Vive la belle
Anglaise Marian followed Paul, who
from the distance he had reached had only
a dim idea of what she had been saying 
wondering, too, the while, by what right
she had said anything at all.

As soon as she had reached him, she at
once proceeded to put matters straight,
asserting herself in a way which seemed
to say, if you'll only follow my directions,
your path in life will be absolutely smooth.

She took the garland he was carrying,
and which, as its white ribands hung

o

dangling in the road, gave him an utterly
forlorn appearance, out of his hand, and
slipping her arm within his, though she
had received no invitation to do so, began
to laugh.

'Well, M. Paul,' she said, 'if we had
sought an adventure, we could not have
found a funnier one than that of to-day.'

She knew he did not think it funny, but
it was her purpose to make as light of it
as possible.

I am glad you were amused,' was all
he answered coldly.

Amused ! of course I was amused, and
were not you ? I was also proud to have
for a friend one whom the Avreux population
thought worthy of so much honour.'

They seemed to forget that the other
occupant of the lost boat is lying dead ina
cottage hard by, and that his grandchild
is weeping beside his corpse.'

Pooh ! the old man was the black sheep
of Avreux. Our landlady told me so this
morning. The girl will do far better
without him : he beat her periodically.
She is only weeping over his loss because

she is so accustomed to cry that she does
not know what it is to feel happy.'

I wish they had all died before they
made me the subject of so much foolery ! '
said Paul, who could not overcome his
anger.

Marian snatched her arm out of his.

I hate you when you talk like this.
Come, it is not you, but your evil genius,
that speaks. These poor, simple-minded
peasants do their utmost to show their
appreciation of your kindness ; and to meet
their advances with such coldness and
contempt is downright brutal. Now, if
any one has a right to complain, it is I.'

'You, Miss Wallis?'

Yes. Hasn't my name been coupled
with yours, and I have not for a moment
thought of uncoupling it, for fear of vexing
these good people.'

Is it, then, such a fearful calamity to
you for your name to be coupled with mine
for a brief space . '

Well, sailing under false colours is
never an enviable position, is it? If our
names were really coupled there might be

but what nonsense I am talking. I am
only the little friend who has come to
sympathise with you in your sorrow.'

And the france of the Vicomte de
Gourlay,' put in Paul.

No  no  no. No Paul, not his
france  anything in the world but that.'

'Indeed, and why not? I certainly
thought you were engaged.'

Why, he is the English lady  Mrs
Jocelyn's  lover.'

Paul started for a second, then he smiled
sadly, and said, speaking very quietly, 

I do not think so  there is some
mistake.'

Certainly there is some mistake, if you
are deceiving yourself into the belief
that they don't care for each other ;
why, I know for a fact that they do. De
Gourlay may be a butterfly, but he really
cares for la belle Helene, as he calls her,
while she, I believe, loves him, though
she is ready to sip admiration from every
cup of flattery that is held out to her.'

Your estimate of Mrs Jocelyn's character
is scarcely a high one.'

No, scarcely a high one ; but she Is nota
friend of yours, I hope, beyond that she
has sat to you for her portrait ?  I believe
you scarcely know her.'

There was a short pause before Paul
Cazalet answered, then he said, very
slowly, 

It is very doubtful if Mrs Jocelyn
and I will ever meet again.'

Marian did not pretend to detect any
especial meaning in this speech, but she
too paused before she made any further
remark, and then she said, as if speaking
to herself, 

Poor Lili, how she hated that woman ;
strange, for she was not given to hate.'

Paul made no direct reply, but after a
little he said, 

You were very fond of Lili, Miss
Marian. Will you love me just a little
for her dead sake ? '

Why, of course ; isn't it to look after
you that mother and I have come
miles out of our way en route to
England ?'

Thanks, many thanks ; it will be a

safeguard to me from myself to feel
that Lili's friend is my friend too.'

I don't think I ever had the opportunity
of telling you that Lili on her
deathbed asked me to have a care for
you.'

Did she ? '

And the tears were in honest Paul's eyes.
Marian tried to look as deeply moved
as he did, but in secret she dubbed him
somewhat of a silly sentimentalist, though
she rather rejoiced over this tendency of
his, since she believed it rendered him
more malleable, and thus more amenable
to her will. She took prompt advantage
of his apparent weakness, for she went on,
speaking in a very low voice, 

Yes ; it was the night before she died,
you remember.'

Well.'

She called me to her, and said  but
I don't think I can tell you what she did
say.'

Please do so,  go on.'

Be good to my Paul ; keep him from
harm if you can. I shall never be his

wife now, but if I thought that you  but
oh, M. Paul, I can't tell you ! '

Paul Cazalet had pity on her apparent
bashfulness, and laying his hand on hers,
pressed it gently while he said, 

I understand, my dear young lady,
quite understand  poor Lili  she loved
me well.'

This was not altogether what Marian
wanted him to say ; still a step had been
made in the right direction, and for the
present she must be content. Lili's words
too, she felt sure, would sink into Paul's
mind, and in time, perchance, bear the
fruit she craved.

No, Paul would not come in, he said,
when they reached the house in which
Marian was staying ; but his manner
towards her, as he bade her farewell,
was more tender than it had ever been
before.

CHAPTER III.

IN THE FIGARO.

HAT had Paul Cazalet to do
with women ? Ought not his
art to be sufficient for him ? '
This was the question he
asked himself over and over again during
the long weary hours of the wakeful night
he passed after his walk with Marian
Wallis.

Lili was dead, entirely owing to his
neglect, he was ever repeating, in the exaggeration
of his regret giving no place
to the insidious malady that had for years
been undermining the poor child's constitution.


By Lill's death he had forfeited the

right, even as much as if she still lived, to
any keenly enjoyable hours in the society
of Mrs Jocelyn, and now this Marian
Wallis had come to him, sent to him by
Lili from the verge of the grave.'

Yet gladly vould he have escaped from
her, buckled on his knapsack and fled
farther into the wilds  anywhere, so long
as he could have solitude and be at
peace.

Supposing these circumstances to be
those of another man and not his own,
Paul Cazalet, in the hours when he was
capable of rational thought, would have
decided that a man who could allow himself
to be made so absolutely the victim
of a sentimental chimera was little short
of a lunatic, but recent events seemed to
have blinded his mental vision so that he
could not see his way clearly, and thus he
allowed himself to be tossed hither and
thither at the caprice of false and mistaken
reasoning.

That he had not been born under a
happy love-star was true enough, still Paul
Cazalet was one of those men who, had

he chosen to Hve solely for his art, might
have set love on one side and felt no void
in his life. It was now, however, too late
to do so ; the depths had been stirred ;
the misery awakened which would not
slumber again for many long, troubled
days ; and the strong man  the genius of
artistic Paris  had set his strength and

o

his glory on one side, and become fora
while little short of a sentimental
driveller.

And this was woman's work  Nelly
Jocelyn's work, in plain speech.

During that night of wakefulness, ashe
lay tossing from side to side, craving
for the slumber that would not be courted,
his tormented spirit cried aloud for
freedom.

He would be up and doing in the
morning ; the art he had deserted had
never proved him false  she was the
truest mistress ; he would return to her
embraces, and seek to forget that she
had ever had a rival. There should be
no more vacillation, no more regrets, no
more remorse. Hardness and determination

of purpose should henceforth dictate
his course in Hfe.'

And so at last, with this resolution
arrived at with difficulty, but purposed to
be strictly carried out, he fell, just as the
bell for early matins was rousing the fishing
population to the work of the day,
into uneasy, refreshing sleep.

Nor did Paul's grudgingly - bestowed
slumber last for long. A loud knock at
his door woke him before the full rays of
daylight flooded the eastern sky, and he
sprang up as though fully aware that the
sudden call had an ominous boding.

To his question of ' What is the matter
? ' the landlady's voice bade him come
to his father at once, for during the night
it was evident he had been stricken with
a grievous malady. A few seconds more
and Paul was by Le Vieux s bedside ;
sentiments, resolutions, hopes, fears all
alike forgotten in the stern reality of an
unexpected and terrible visitation.

Justine and La Ordnance had for
months seen such a change in the elder
Cazalet as, in their opinion, foreboded

no good. Paul, though frequently urging
his father to give up work and be at
rest for the remainder of his life, had
refused to believe what would be the
dread alternative of a neglected warning.

The old man's helpless condition, ashe
saw him lying on his bed powerless
from a sudden stroke of paralysis, came
to him then with such an awful shock
that for a moment or two he was incapable
of either thought or action.

Le Vieux speech was only affected,
not wholly lost, and it was he himself who
recalled his son to a sense of what was
best to be done.

I am sorry,' he said, feebly and slowly,
so sorry for your sake, Paul,  glad though
that the Wallises are here ; they will help
to comfort you.'

Marian Wallis ! Had Lili sent her to
him from the grave to help him now ? Ay,
he would send a messenger to her at once.

Poor Paul ! all his good resolutions
destroyed in one fell swoop  his chance
of escape from Marian Wallis' wiles gone
for ever.

VOL. II. c

It did indeed seem as if the Fates were
against him ; not that Paul thought of his
own future at this juncture, or of anything
save the danger in which his beloved
father lay, and the difficulty there was in
getting any medical assistance on which
he could fully rely.

Within an hour of the time when Paul
first entered his father's room, Mrs Wall is
and Marian arrived, and their exceeding
helpfulness and capability for doing the
best that the emergency demanded, filled
Paul's heart with gratitude.

Mrs Wallis, when viewed with society's
eyes, was an ignorant, vulgar woman 
how could she be otherwise, since her
origin was of the lowliest ?  but that did
not prevent her from being kindly to
weakness, or from being very competent
in the practical workings of life.

She was as good a nurse as if she had
been trained in an institution ; not one
but many patients had passed through
her hands before she came home from
Australia to play the fine lady at her
husband's and Marion's bidding in Paris ;

and though she thought old Cazalet's
state very grave, she was determined to
make the best of it, for Paul's sake.
Best ore the cleverest doctor the neighbourhood
can produce,' she said ; ' but
you won't want a nurse while me and
Marian is here. We'll take it in turn
to do what is necessary.'

By which it will be seen that Mrs
Wallis' English was decidedly ungrammatical
; but what matter, since she herself
did not pose for grandeur, and her
heart was in the right place.

It was Baptiste, now quite convalescent,
who, as soon as he heard what
had happened  for the news had spread
like wildfire through the tiny village,
volunteered to go to a town some ten
miles off, for a medico who was much
renowned in the whole neighbourhood.
Oh the hours of suspense and agony
that Paul endured till this man should
arrive ! Not even the joint efforts of
Mrs Wallis and iVIarian could keep him
from looking at life from its very blackest
point ; and that Marian was very tender,

very patient and loving with Paul no one
could gainsay ; in fact, those who had
known Marian Wallis from her early
childhood might have been somewhat
surprised, could they have witnessed this
new aspect of a character in which softness
and sweetness had hitherto met with
little cultivation. But there is nothing
like being in love to round off the rough
edges that will occasionally prevail in
practical natures ; and certainly Marian
Wallis fancied herself in love with Paul
Cazalet, so much so that, for the time,
her craving for general admiration almost
ceased, and she did not even consider by
what means she was most likely to get
on in life.

As for Paul, how could he be otherwise
than grateful to the Wallises for
their kindness, especially as they expressed
their determination to give up
going to England for the present, that
they might stay on at Avreux and nurse
M. Cazalet ; the doctor who had been
called in having expressed his opinion
that it would be some weeks at least

before he could bear the fatigue of a
railway journey in order to return home,
and that never would he sufficiently recover
the use of one side which had
been affected, so as to be able to move
about as he did of yore.

So Justine, who during Paul's absence
had gone home for a holiday, was sent
for, and the little Avreux party resolved
to make the best of the calamity that
had so suddenly fallen upon them ; and
even Paul, under the cheery influence
of these devoted women, recovered some
portion of his former equanimity.

Justine was on the side of the Wallises.
From the moment that poor Lili had
drawn her last breath, she had feared
Mrs Jocelyn's influence for Paul. Justine
had no belief in anything good arising
from this intimacy between Nelly and her
beloved foster-son.

If he must marry, and she supposed
it was a necessity, though Justine would
rather have seen him married to his
art  well, better far to Marian Wallis
than to the widow, who was too beautiful,

in Justine's estimation, to be a goodwife.


Marian had a shrewd Idea that she
would find a staunch partisan in Justine,
or there is little doubt but she would
have prevented her from coming to Ave
Having then given her sanction
to her coming, she at once annexed her
as a friend, and made her the confidante
of her strong love for Paul.

Intending as she did to get Paul into
her meshes, she could scarcely have taken
a wiser course.

Old Cazalet too, in his enfeebled state,
declared for Marian. Six weeks ago, if
any one had hinted to him the probability
of his handsome artist boy allying himself
with Marian Wallis, he would have repudiated
the idea with scorn ; but now,
lying on his bed of pain, with Marian's
kindly voice and gentle ministrations about
his pillow, he saw life from a very different
standpoint, and during many wakeful hours,
when those about him believed he slept,
his thoughts were of his beloved Paul,
and how far more happily he should goto

his rest if he knew that a loving,
kindly woman, such as Marian, was
making his boy's home bright by her
presence, and watching over his every
hope and want.

Nor did Le Vieux think that he was
in any way thwarting his son's wishes
by settling this marriage in his mind,
since Paul had never once hinted to his
father that there was any lingering love
for Nelly in his heart, or, in fact, made
any allusion to his acquaintance with
her.

It was one of those subjects of which
he felt he dared not speak ; even his
father's hand was too heavy to touch it
without breaking off some of the fragile
threads.

And the days passed on, for Paul, at
least, peacefully ; for Marian, since she
was constantly by Paul's side, happily,
yet without any incident which would
lead her to expect that their lives in the
future would be side by side. He was
invariably kindly in his relations with
her, even to tenderness ; but Marian

wanted more  she wanted the declaration
that would enable her to say to
all men, ' He is mine.' And she was
determined, if it were possible, to bring
it about before old Cazalet's approaching
convalescence should take them all
back to Paris, and perchance bring Paul
once more into relationship with Mrs
Jocelyn.

To find out what Nelly was about washer
first move, since she thought any
little disparaging remark about her that
reached Paul would always score one to
her own advantage.

The result of her inquiries was that
one morning when Paul went into the
sitting-room for breakfast, he saw a Paris
newspaper, the Figaro, lying open on the
table before him.

Since he had been at Avreux he had
not seen this paper, which is a favourite
in the capital, since it is always filled with
social gossip.

He turned it over with some degree of
interest before he been to eat. The
result of his curiosity was that he ate

no breakfast at all ; but, after awhile,
taking up his hat, he went out for a
solitary ramble.

It was Mrs Jocelyn's name that had
attracted his attention, Mrs Jocelyn's
name announced in a list of fashionables,
with that of the Vicomte de Gourlay and
others, who were getting up a fancy ball
for an English family long resident in
Paris, who, by the death of the father,
had become destitute.

Even though the act was tempered by
charity, that Nelly Jocelyn should bethinking
of smart dresses and a gay ball
while he was in sorrow and bowed down
under a blighted life, troubled Paul Cazalet
not a little, and raised a feeling of angry
dissatisfaction in his mind against the
woman who, having helped him to fall
away from the path of honour, was so
taken up with frivolity that she could
not even grieve with him for a brief
space.

Marian's shaft had indeed taken aim ;
the few lines in the Figaro had shaken
much of Paul's faith in the woman who

had so fascinated him that she had made
him forget the ties by which he was already
bound. They were utterly broken
now, and he was alone !  doubly alone,
since he began to think she was faithless,
 only a butterfly like the rest.

Ah ! if he could but have known
through what an ordeal Nelly was passing
! For the greater part of the afternoon
Paul wandered on the heights
wrestling with his own thoughts, so
determined to put Nelly out of them
for ever, that again he was neglecting
his duty by forgetting every one but
her ; and it was not till, at last, the
sun's rays flashing on the sea as they
touched the western horizon reminded
him how late it was, that he turned
towards Avreux, for at least an hour's
brisk walking before he reached it.

When he entered his father's room daylight
had nearly faded from the sky ; but
there was just enough light to show the
old man's white head as he lay on a couch
by the window, on to which they had got him
of late, preparatory to a homeward move.

Of course Justine was with him : she
never left him when Paul was out ; but
no, it was not Justine, the form who,
kneeling beside him, was seeking to
soothe away his solicitude over Paul's
protracted absence. Not Justine, but
Marian.

Ah, my boy, where have you been ? '
he exclaimed, in joyous accents, when he
beheld Paul.

Marian started up  a flush on her face,
as Paul answered gravely, 

The beauty of the day caused me to
stray farther than I intended.'

And she has been so good tome.
Oh, Paul, if I could only see
you happier, less prone to solitude, my
son. Life is given us for happiness, if
you would only believe it. Even I,
weak as I am now, should be very
happy if only  '

He glanced from the one to the other 
the flush deepened on Marian's cheeks ;
but Paul's face, as seen in the increasing
darkness, was deathly pale.

Poor Lili,' went on the old man, murmuring

in a low tone, ' she would have
grieved to die, though she said death was
rest, if she could have known that her rest
would be your despair. She would not
have willed it so.'

As Le Vieux ceased speaking, Paul
drew a long breath, then, after a short
pause, he held his hand out to
Marian.

For Lili's sake, will you take my life
into your keeping ? It is a crushed and
damaged thing ; perchance you will
think it scarcely worth the patching.
Still, by careful, loving hands,
the broken pieces may be riveted,
though I fear there will ever be chips
and cracks.'

Oh, Paul, will you indeed give me
this work ? '

Yes, Marian, if you care to undertake
it.' ' As well you as another,' he might
have added. * And my father likes you
best ; ' but he stopped in time not to
commit himself, though doubtless Marian
felt the lovelessness of his wooing, but
she accepted it none the less. To bethe

wife of the great painter Paul
Cazalet was a position of which any girl
might be proud.

And that there should be no more
idling at Avreux she was determined, but
Ho for Paris and Fame !

TOO LATE.

OR several days after Mrs Jocelyn

arrived in Paris she remained in

seclusion  that . is, she never

went out, except to seek tidings

of Paul, and did not let any of her French

fashionable friends know of her return.

This state of affairs could not last very
long. To her no small annoyance, one
day as she was going in the direction of
the Rue Mignon she met the Vicomte de
Gourlay, who stopped her and expressed
his supreme surprise that she had returned,
and that no one seemed to know it ; by no
means either mending his own position 
if position he had in Nelly's esteem  by

finishing his little speech with the wonder
whether Paul Cazalet had also come back,
and was playing incognito in his studio.

 Of M. Paul Cazalet/ she answered, so
sharply that De Gourlay almost disbelieved
her, ' I know nothing. I have neither
seen him nor heard from him since before
I went to England.'

You know there has been a death in
his family } '

So I heard casually from my maid.
You seem to forget, M. de Gourlay, that
any relations which may exist between me
and M. Cazalet are only those between a
great painter and a devotee at the shrine
of art.'

Pardon, madame, I did not mean to
offend.'

I am not offended ; only I wish you
to understand the truth. Now perhaps
you will gratify me with some information
about my friends, whom I intend to go
and see as soon as I have settled myself
in my quarters.'

She listened with tolerable patience
while he chattered on a running stream

of small gossip about Blanche d'Albin
and Madame de Brissac, interrupting him
at last with the question, 

And your friends  the Wallises  where
are they ? '

Gone to England.'
To England ? '

Yes ; that is to say, Mr Wallis has
gone to Australia on business, and the
ladies have gone to London to see him
off;

Exactly. And when they return, is
the marriage to take place ? '

De Gourlay shrugged his shoulders.

Nothing is decided. It is a sad thing
to be compelled to marry for money, where
one's heart is not.'

And the meaningful glances of admiration
he cast on Nelly were to her so
utterly absurd that she could not help
feeling considerably more amused than
irritated. She, however, brought the interview
to an end, with the remark, 

Let me see ; tomorrow will be Thursday.
I dare say I shall go to Madame
de Brissac's,' for she felt that, with this

meeting with De Gourlay, all chances of
privacy were at an end.

To tell truth, too, Nelly was getting justa
little tired of her own society. Perhaps
if she went once more among her usual
associates she might obtain that information
about Paul which she had as yet
utterly failed to get.

So she resolved forthwith to resume
her old habits, and take to frequenting
her old haunts.

People would doubtless say that the
lissomness of youth seemed to have left
her since her journey to England,  that
she had come back a much older
looking woman than when she had departed,
and appeared to be freighted with
care.

Yet if any of her acquaintances had
Nelly's burden to carry, they would
scarcely look even as bright and cheery
as she did.

To make the best of life was one of her
resolves, and if she had slid back several
paces during her disappointment about
Paul Cazalet, she had taken up a sturdy

VOL. II. D

staff now, and meant to march onwards
as steadily as the rugged, stone-bestrewed
road would permit.

She dressed herself then with her usual
care in the trailing black garments which
just marked, without accentuating, her
widowhood. Nought was wanting save
the riviere of diamonds ; and she started
for Madame de Brissac's Thursday.

Was it her imagination which, ever
on the stretch, frequently refused to be
guided by reason, or were her Paris
friends Inclined to be cold and short in
manner ?

In very sooth there was no acclaim,
no dash of welcome in her reception,
and poor Nelly, as she gazed on icy
faces where once she had seen gladness
and some show of affection, felt very
much as if she were standing beside a
volcano, from which at any moment might
leap a destroying flame.

There was no want of civility  the
world that frequented Madame de Bris-sac's
was too good-yellowish to be rude.
It was the old cordiality that Nelly

missed. She had been treated by them
all as a sort of goddess of beauty, to
be petted and worshipped by turns.
Now they passed her by with a nod
or a cold shake of the hand, as though
she were a mere ordinary individual.

What could they have heard ?

In utter perplexity Nelly was seriously
thinking of beating a retreat, when she
met Madame d'Albin coming in at the door.

Nelly ! ' she exclaimed, with a spontaneity
that showed an account of the meeting
with De Gourlay had not reached
her. * Nelly ! Why, I never expected
to see you again ! Where have you
been ? '

'To England, to see my mother, who
was ill.'

The answer was given so simply that
to doubt the truth would have appeared
absurd ; yet one or two of those who,
standing by, heard it, muttered,  * Her
mother ! ' which, reaching Nelly's ears,
made her colour up to the very roots of
her hair, as she turned round, an astonished
question on her face.

Library

Your mother has been ill ? ' said
Madame d'Albin. * Why did you not
tell us about it ? It was very odd
that  '

What was odd, Madame d'Albin ? 
that I should go off suddenly to London
because my mother was ill ? I cannot
think what you mean

Nothing  nothing, dear. I will tell
you another time. Since you have been
to your mother, it is all right.'

'Where else should I have been ? It
is rather hard I can't go where I like without
being suspected of evil ; for that it is
evil I make no doubt, since every one
looks so strange.'

'Nonsense, my dear Nelly. Don't heed
people's looks. It would be unnatural if a
beauty like you had not some enemies.'

Who have been saying  '

Madame d'Albin shrugged her shoulders.
You know the old proverb, dear, about
washing dirty things in private.'

I have nothing to hide,' said Nelly
boldly.

Then she stopped.

In this Instance, no, there was nothing
to hide, if, as she suspected, their insinuations
pointed in the direction of Paul
Cazalet.

But was there not a dark secret in
Nelly Jocelyn's life, which It was her
chief object to keep back, since the discovery
of it would doubtless hurl her from
her high estate In the world's esteem ?
A secret so grave that she was even
allowing Dot to be sacrificed, for fear it
should become public property. And as
the thought of it, and of John Wisden's
connection with it, flashed across her mind,
she almost hoped, for a moment, that he
had been false to his promises, since with
his betrayal Dot would be free.

An instant's reflection, however, convinced
her that John Widen was in noway
mixed up in this matter ; and the
attitude for her to adopt was that of dignified
pride on account of her injured
innocence.

She threw up her head, flashed an angry
glance on the little group from her usually
soft pleading eyes, and swept down the

staircase to resume once more a solitude
from which she did not intend to emerge
unless  unless 

Unless what? Was there anything that
could happen now that would make this life
of constant suspense and fear bearable ?

Paul Cazalet was gone  gone, she
shrewdly suspected, because he feared
a meeting with her. Her friends and
acquaintances had thrown a mantle of
doubt over her, without giving her the
opportunity of explaining that there was
no reason why she should wear it-was
it in order to be treated thus
that she was living in such constant
dread of the truth, that at twenty-four
she felt already old, and the glow of her
beauty was beginning to pale ? Would
it not be better that she should write at
once to John Wisden, bidding him say
and do his worst, for she had given up
the combat, and meant to tell her mother
all the strong reasons why he should
never be Dot's husband ? At all events,
her conscience would be clear. She
would be branded with vile epithets

and cut by all her acquaintances, who
for a few days would gloat over the
gossip attached to her name, and then
forget that she had ever existed ; butin
her own heart she would feel herself
to be unsullied, while now, whenever
she thought of poor Dot, she remembered
what a vile and cowardly creature
she herself was.

With these feelings crowding quick
and fast upon her brain, she went upstairs
in the full determination of writing
to England ere she slept. She tossed
her cloak to Marie as she entered, and
went into the drawing-room for this
purpose. There were some letters on
the table ; one of them bore the English
postmark. She tore it open.

Too late ! My God ! it is too late ! '
she murmured as she read it. ' They
were married yesterday, and I must goon
carrying my heavy burden to the end.
For her sake now, as well as my own,
I dare not speak. May she be happy
with John Wisden, since she loves him
so  happy ! '

And as Nelly repeated the words, she
laughed a low, mocking laugh ; and then
after a while she said more seriously, 

Yes ! the secret is now no longer
mine alone. In every word and act
I must school myself to hide the
truth. Poor Dot  poor Dot ! I must
console myself with the reflection that
she really loves this man, and that though
she may be miserable with him, she
would have been quite as miserable if
anything had occurred to prevent their
marriage.'

This of course was a mere fallacy,
and Nelly should not have allowed it
to weigh with her for a moment ; but
every one knows how those who are
acting in direct opposition to the dictates
of their conscience, catch at any twig
on which blossoms the tiniest amount
of false reasoning, and which is likely
to prove them not altogether so blameful
as they are compelled to acknowledge
themselves.

The opportunity for speaking out was
then past, Nelly must go on trudging

wearily along the path on which she
had begun her life journey, and be
thankful for any crumbs of encouragement
that Fate might send her.

Her letter from England went on to
inform her that she might expect the
bride and bridegroom  Mr and Mrs
Wisden  in Paris, very shortly. She
would not, on any account, that they
should arrive and find her at odds
with her Paris friends ; she must swallow
the affronting slight that she felt had
been put upon her this evening, by paying
Madame d'Albin a visit on the morrow,
and eettinor her to make matters
straight and smooth for her.

This indignity, however, was spared
her, for the first post on Friday morning
brought her two notes, one from
Madame de Brissac, who made no allusion
to anything that had happened, but
merely invited dear Madame Jocelyn to
a dinner at her house on the following
Monday ; the other was from Madame
d'Albin, praying her ' Nelly cherie not
to be angry at the heedless and foolish

remarks which idle people were so prone
to make, but to come and help her at
once in a great undertaking she had on
hand, namely, a Fancy Ball, before
Paris was quite a desert ; the ball being
especially recommended to Nelly's notice,
because it was for a charitable purpose,
and the recipients English people.

Not for all the charitable purposes in
the universe would Nelly have given her
name and time to the getting up of a
ball under other circumstances, but she
must substantiate her position in Paris 
of that she felt very certain. How could
she do so better than by allowing her
name to appear on a list with some of
its best-known fashionables, and to improve
her acquaintance with them by
working indefatigably in the same cause
in which they were interested ?

She wrote notes accepting both invitations
; and in the second note remarked
that she was glad about the ball, as her
sister would then be in Paris on her
wedding trip.

So in the length and breadth of fashionable

Paris Mrs Jocelyn's name was
posted as being so closely associated with
the coming ball that she was actually
on the committee of management, arranging
quadrilles, inventing dresses  in fact,
giving the matter as much attention as
if she were a devoted worshipper at the
shrine of Terpsichore.

In all the papers that troubled themselves
with daily details was the subject
fully discussed, finding its way into every
house, on to every tongue, till it even
penetrated into the Breton village where
Paul Cazalet was leading a saddened life
of temporary exile.

Nelly  his Nelly, as in his dreams he
sometimes dared to call her  was gayest
among the gay, dancing, flirting, laughing,
while he, as much through her fault
as his own, was condemned to the
endurance of a never-dying reproach,
which would embitter every year of his
life.

How could those who wrote the paragraphs
know that it was with an aching
heart, and an interest that was purely

fictitious, that Nelly was slaving so assiduously
over the pleasant masquerade,
which was the more palatable to the
community at large because charity was
the domino that it elected to wear ?

If Nelly could have known how this
public philandering with pleasure would
exclude her from all participation for the
future in Paul's life, it is absolutely certain
she would have renounced the very highest
social status, and been content with the
position of an outcast and a pariah, rather
than have lost Paul.

FOR dot's sake.

HE night of the great fancy ball
arrived at last.

Spring was advancing with
rapid strides, and it was the
last great occasion on which fashionable
Paris would be assembled before it made
an exodus in search of sea breezes or
green pastures.

In gorgeousness and eccentricity of
costume, this ball rivalled even those
that had preceded it in the palmy days
of the Empire.

At one time, when the animals congregated
to dance their quadrille, the
room represented a veritable Noah's

Ark, in which creeping things, quadrupeds,
and birds of the air were jostled
together in happy unison, De Gourlay,
in his true character of the butterfly,
taking gay precedence. Then on a
sudden the scene changed, and as a
parterre of flowers did the great room
appear ; the mignonette coupling with
the rose ; the modest violet pairing with
the stately hollyhock, or the peony, rich
in crimson colouring, resplendent beside
the sober-hued immortelle.

Nelly Jocelyn herself, as the Queen
of the Pansies, had taken the floral department
under her especial care, and she
had received unanimous praise for her
success, only calling forth a regret that
she was so gravely, almost sadly attired.

She did not answer them in the words
of the poet, 

Dans le souci tu vois remblme,
Des troubles de mon triste coeur,'

but she silenced them by hinting at her
recent widowhood.

Nor were other animate and inanimate

things unrepresented at this gorgeous fete.
Priests and vivandieres, poli chin elles and
five o'clock tea a r Anglaise, there was
not a class or a habit that had not donned
the costume that denoted its existence, and
boup-' I twenty francs ticket of admission
, the features of the evening, however,
being Madame de Brissac's troupe of
animals and Mrs Jocelyn's bouquet.

Dot, the fair young bride who had
lately arrived, and whose miniature likeness
to Nelly was a universal topic, had
chosen the wild strawberry for her flower ;
and she looked absolutely lovely  her
sweet face peeping out from a bower
of strawberry leaves and flowers, among
which, here and there, the pretty berries
were ripening.

There was no sorrow, as yet, on that
gay, truthful face, that looked every now
and aofain for her husband in the throne
that separated them for a while, as
though not to have him always at her
side, was the only tiny sorrow of which
she knew aught. And John Wisden,
to whom masquerading was scarcely a

pleasure, had, like Nelly, chosen a sober
part. ' He had declined both quadrilles,
and, in a court dress of rich black
velvet, with ruffles and jabot of Alen9on
point, he looked the veritable dandy
that he loved the world should think
him.

Nothing about him of any sort to make
people suppose he was not a fitting
husband for Dot ; they would have
thought Nelly mad had she hinted at
such a thing.

His manners and appearance were
those of a thorough gentleman ; his
behaviour to his wife savoured of the
truest devotion ; the continued blinking
of his eyes worried nervous people while
they were talking to him, and gave an
unquiet expression to his face ; still, if
ever it had been long enough at rest to
be thoroughly inspected, it would in all
probability have been set down as handsome.
Altogether, Mr and Mrs Wisden
were a success in Paris ; and on the
arrival of her charming sister and her
husband, it was entirely forgotten by

every one, except Nelly herself, that
she had been momentarily doubted.
And during all these weeks nought
had been heard of Paul Cazalet  favourite
as he had been only a few
months ago, his name on every tongue,
now he was, to all appearance, totally
forgotten.

No account of Le Vieitx illness was
ever given, for the reason that no one
knew of it except at the Botclangerie,
where fashionable people never dreamt
of inquiring. Before Nelly's eyes the
image of the absent Paul would ever
and again present itself, but she immediately
sought to banish it.

He had not treated her with much consideration.
Why should she waste thought
upon him ? If he were unhappy, it was
clear he did not want her assistance or society,
since he had neither written nor sent.'

Still, for all that, Nelly was very miserable,
and the chief source of her misery
was that there were no tidings of the
absent Paul.

Of late she had been too much taken

VOL. II. t

up with the work the arrangement of this
fancy ball had necessitated, to have much
time for thought ; but it was nearly over
now, and though she had the satisfaction
of knowing that her share of it had been
as near perfection as was possible, yet
she scarcely gloried in the knowledge,
but, weary in mind and body, sat down
for a brief space by an open window in
an inner room, which, for a time at all
events, was quite empty ; seeking, as she
breathed the pure fresh air, some respite
from the turmoil of the brouhaha which
raged on all sides.

Solitude, if that was what she sought,
she was not destined to enjoy for long.
A light footstep on the thick-piled carpet
made her look round.

John Wisden ! '

His coming was by no means a matter
for congratulation. She doubted and hated
him, had always done so  ten times more
now that he was Dot's husband. He saw
her annoyance at his approach, but he did
not choose to notice it, and, taking a seat
beside her, said gaily, 

Your ball has been a perfect triumph,
sister-in-law mine. May all your efforts
be crowned as fully with success ! '

She shrugged her shoulders. What
cared she for his approbation ? Perceiving
the movement, he drew his chair
a little nearer to her, and said, very
softly, 

Nelly, why will you always flout me ?
Is there no possibility of bridging over
the chasm that divides us ? I know your
secret, it is true, but I have sworn not
to reveal it ; and is it not my secret now,
for Dot's sake ? '

For Dot's sake ? ' she repeated. ' I
wonder how a man like you can talk
about Dot's sake ! '

I love Dot very dearly,' he answered,
still speaking low ; ' and I do not think
even you  strange though you may think
it  will doubt that she loves me  '

No ; I do not doubt it. Poor, misguided
child, she loves you ! '

Well, then, since I swear to you that
our love is mutual, will you not help to
foster it, and forgive my shortcomings, for

your sister's sake ; she knows nought of
them,  shall never know, if I can help

it;

Mrs Jocelyn was silent during a brief
space, then she said, 

In our first interview on this subject,
you did not tell me that you loved
Dot,  rather gave me to understand that
the marriage was convenient to you.'

I was compelled to intimidate you,
Nelly, or I should never have accomplished
my end.'

So you would have me to believe in
the loyalty of a man who accomplishes
his end by a lie ; especially as it is
difficult to decide which statement is the
truth, Mr Wisden.'

As long as I am kind and good to
Dot, and she is satisfied with my conduct,
why should you complain ? '

I do not complain ; I have said
nothing ; you sought this interview. I
came here because I was weary  mind
and body are alike nearly worn out with
my exertions of late.'

Poor Nelly, from the bottom of my

heart I pity you, and if you will only
hold out to me one tiny little finger of
encouragement, to the utmost I will be
your friend.'

I do not require your friendship,
thank you ; be good to Dot, and I will
not molest you in word or deed ; that
is the utmost favour I can promise
you.'

Is it possible to believe that in so
fair a form as yours there should be so
cold a heart ? '

My heart a cold one! Would to God
it were ! ' she said, starting up in absolute
surprise at his remark.

You know full well how I learnt to
love Dot, because she is the miniature
likeness of yourself. During days of
agony and nights of wakefulness, have
I not spent my whole time in worshipping
you, without receiving one crumb of
satisfaction ? '

My husband's friend, Mr Wisden 
you must be mad to refer to a time the
recollection of which should be buried
for ever. But since you have referred

to the subject, I do not mind telling
you that the thought of that time weighed
very heavily among your other shortcomings
in the balance against your
marrying my poor little Dot'

If I had never loved you I should
most probably have never loved Dot.'

These assertions are simply absurd ;
Dot is too lovable, too simple, too graceful,
not to be loved for her own merits
alone.'

You are right ; still it was her resemblance
to her stately sister that first
attracted me to my sweet, loving little
wife ; and for that reason her sister
should be less cold, less imperious in
her manner to me. It is scarcely becoming
in her to show the world so
plainly how much she objects to her
brother-in-law, since there exist those
who might perchance ascribe her motives
to jealousy.'

Nelly looked at him for a second in
scornful surprise, then she said with a
.sneer, 

Fiend I always knew you to be, yet

I had scarcely gauged the depths to
which your fiendishness could descend.'

Yet there is an oasis in every man's
nature, however arid  mine is my love
for your sweet sister Dot ; if you seek
to destroy her faith, her belief in me,
Mrs Jocelyn, it will be war to the knife
between you and me, and it seems you are
beginning to discover of what I am capable.'

I have never said a word against you
to Dot in my life.'

No, perhaps not ; but your manner
to me is beginning to occasion remark
among my friends, and will doubtless be
noticed by her in time.'

I cannot help my manner  it is naturally
cold, as you say.'

You can and you must help it, as far
as I am concerned, or a tide of affairs
will set in which you will find it very
difficult to stem. I am quite aware that
you will answer that it is cowardly and
unmanly conduct to intimidate a woman,
but there are some women who cannot
be induced to take the right path unless
heavy pressure is put upon them.'

And supposing I consent to look at the
matter from your standpoint,' answered
Nelly, after a short pause. ' What return
am I to expect from you ? '

He replied frankly, and without the
slightest hesitation.

Your sister's happiness ; my constant
endeavour, if I am spared, to keep her
middle and old age as bright as is her
youth to-day; and the reliance that I shall
always be ready to befriend you whenever
occasion requires.'

These are very tempting and fair promises,'
said Nelly, with just the soupgon
of a sneer in her voice.

She held out her hand to him, however,
and finished the sentence in an improved
tone.

As long as you are good and true to
Dot I will, as far as I can, keep up the
outward semblance of a sisterly regard for
you.'

He bent low over her extended hand,
and while he took it in his, imprinted a
kiss on her arm just above the glove. He
did not look up into her eyes or he would

have seen a deep fund of hatred gleaming
there notwithstanding her promised amiability,
but he felt just a tiny flinch and
holding back from his touch. He was
nowise daunted, but drew her arm inside
his own.

Let us make the tour of the rooms
together  it pleases me that assembled
Paris should see us on the best of
terms.'

She could not gainsay him after her
promise, so judged it wisest to assume
as contented an aspect as was possible ;
and they passed together through the
door into the throne and hubbub of the
large ballroom, where every one seemed
to be in the wildest spirits, and the crowd
of dancers had by no means thinned. In
fact so dense was it that every now and
again the patched-up pair of friends were
compelled to pause in their walk, and
apparently amuse themselves by looking
at and discussing the dresses of those
around them.

During one of these temporary stoppages,
the name of Paul Cazalet, spoken

by a man in a Vandyke dress, known to
belong to the artist world, attracted the
attention of both, and John Wisden could
distinctly feel Nelly's hand tremble as it
lay on his arm.

A slight clearance of that part of the
room would have enabled them to pass
on their way, but  as if by mutual consent
 they lingered.

The speaker went on.

Yes ; it is true enough. Le Vieux
has had a stroke of paralysis, and is even
now at the gates of death, and Paul is
going to marry this young Australian at
once, so that she may nurse the old fellow
with proper decorum.'

What young Australian ? ' asked a
halberdier to whom he was talking.

Mademoiselle Wallis. It seems there
is some romantic story : she was the great
friend of a girl who died, to whom our
Paul was attached, and she left him this
Anglaise as a legacy.'

Tiens ! Has he not got pluck enough
to choose for himself?'

Money-bags, non cher, money-bags.'

Ah, ah ! And they are to be married
soon, you say ? '

'Without delay.'

Mrs Jocelyn and her companion, jostled
by a fresh advancing crowd, proceeded on
their way.

And thus, after a separation of several
months, did Nelly hear of Paul Cazalet
again. She did not utter a word to her
brother-in-law, in fact, except in the slight
trembling of her hand, gave no sign that
she had heard aught ; and faithful to his
promise to be true to her as long as she
was true to him, he did not attempt to
probe her emotions, and they wandered
on out of the ballroom into the corridor.

Once there, a sudden tightening of
Nelly's hand till it grasped his arm almost
to paining him, made him look into her
face. It was ghastly pale, with the whiteness
of death. Before he had time to
ask a single question she had relaxed
her hold, and was lying in a dead faint
at his feet.

Assistance was at once offered ; those
around were only too ready to be of use

to the beautiful Mrs Jocelyn, who, they
all made no doubt, had succumbed to the
fatigue and worry she had had in getting
up this charitable y/.

John Wisden alone knew that Paul
Cazalet's approaching marriage was at
the root of the evil.

BE BRAVE.

HE secret of Nelly's love for
Paul Cazalet must, John Wis-den
felt, be kept as much on
Dot's account as her own.
It was not a fact to be especially proud
of that Mrs Jocelyn should be so desperately
in love with this bourgeois artist,
that on hearing of his intended marriage
with another woman she should betray
her feelings by going off into a dead
faint  at least so John Wisden decided ;
but at the same time he rejoiced that it
should be so, since the knowledge gave
him more power over his sister-in-law, 

was, in fact, another string by which to
make the puppet dance at his will.

He busied himself forthwith over her
recovery, got a carriage as quickly as
possible, and accompanied her home,
before Dot even knew that she had
fainted.

Nor while he bestowed on her the
thousand little attentions which relationship
warranted, did he for a moment
let her think that he had the slightest
suspicion that aught but the heat had
affected her.

Hating the close proximity of John
Wisden, she was forced to accept it in
her present weak and tottering condition ;
but she scarcely credited his repeated
assertion, that he was sorry the heat of
the rooms had been too much for her,
but that it was not surprising, after her
almost supernatural efforts to make that
ball a success. At all events they both
kept up their roles  only Nelly Jocelyn
was truly thankful when John Wisden at
last took his departure, and she was left
to the manipulation of the faithful Marie,

and the undisturbed contemplation of her
solitary and unhappy future. How few
of those who daily saw Nelly Jocelyn,
with a smile on her lip, and a gaze of
gladness in her clear bright eye, could
have formed any idea what a depth of
misery lay hidden beneath that seemingly
cheerful, placid exterior.

The day after the charity ball was bright
and sunny, the heat which visits the
French capital tolerably early in the spring
was already making people open their
windows and doff their winter wraps.
Nelly felt she must have some fresh air,
to counterbalance, if possible, the effect of
last night's excitement. She sent old
Andre to get her an open carriage, and
went out for a drive, lounging back in a
state of utter lassitude.

She enjoyed the balminess of the warm
summer air and the freedom from all
necessary conversation which a companion
would have entailed ; and, above all, she
revelled in the idea that when John Wisden
and Dot came to inquire after her  for she
made no doubt but John Wisden would

tell his wife about her fainting on the previous
night  that they would find she had
gone out, and thus no questions could be
asked.

Nelly Jocelyn felt that she could not
bear that even a tender hand should as yet
touch the wound that had been made by
the announcement of Paul Cazalet's marriage
with Marian Wallis, much less that
the ungentle hand of John Wisden should
attempt to probe and cure.

And yet what right had Nelly Jocelyn
to be sad and out of heart because Paul
Cazalet saw fit to let the void in his life
occasioned by Lili's death be filled by
Lii's friend ? Mrs Jocelyn had never been
any nearer to him than a mere friend ; how
could she have dared to hope that the
bonds should be strengthened It was
better for them both that the links that fora
time had united their sympathies should
be riven asunder for ever ; and yet to find
that she would never in the future have
any part or say in the Hfe of this man she
had elected to regard as an ideal, made
her very sad, and she wondered whether.

when he came back to the Rue Mignon,
with Marian by his side, she would be able
to meet him as a mere acquaintance.

But perchance they would never meet ;
Paul Cazalet belonged essentially to the
bourgeoisie ; it was only his great talents
that had taken him into the set in which
Mrs Jocelyn moved, and she did not think
any of her immediate friends would be
anxious for an intimacy with his wife.
They had noticed her at Madame de
Brissac's instance because the Vicomte de
Gourlay had had a dream of her Australian
riches ; but as Madame Paul
Cazalet, the case would be quite different.


Madame Paul Cazalet ! '

Nelly Jocelyn repeated the name over
more than once, as she lay back in her
hired carriage. There was a euphonism
about it which to her was very sweet.

It was early in the day, when, as a rule,
fashionables do not drive ; still, the brilliancy
and warmth of the morning had
tempted out more than one of those who
had been at th/ite on the previous even-vol.

II. F

ing, and not a little surprised were they
that Mrs Jocelyn should look so distraite,
and fail to bestow even the tiniest nod of
recognition.

Even the man who was driving the
carriage must have remarked Mrs Jocelyn's
strange indifference and apathy, for instead
of conducting her straight along the usual
track, he turned off into a side road,
which in a very short time would have
taken her quite into the country and away
from all sound of horses' feet and rattling
wheels.

Nelly Jocelyn did not appear to notice
where he was going, till the carriage all
on a sudden came to a dead stop. The
unexpected cessation of movement awoke
her from her dream, and she started up.

A man of shabby-genteel appearance,
who looked as if he might once have
been a gentleman,  a half supplicating,
half-threatening expression on his face, as,
without speaking a single word, he handed
her a small piece of paper,  was standing
by the carriage door.

For a second Nelly Jocelyn looked

round in terror, as though seeking someone
to whom she could apply for assistance,
but the spot was a lonely one.

Could the coachman be in league
with this wretch, she wondered, as she
shivered.

Then she cast her eyes on the paper,
and a terrible cry rose to her pale lips ;
but she stifled it, and calling up with an
effort all her bravery of nature  and she
had not a mean share  she said, speaking
English, 

I can do nothing. It is useless coming
to me. Are you not afraid of the police ? '

No,' he answered ; * I have served my
time and am free ; but he  the idea of
seeing him again will spoil your pleasure,
my fine lady.'

I am not afraid,' replied Nelly, who
thought that assurance would serve her
purpose best ; * those who have suffered
severely can generally dare much ; besides,
I do not believe he wishes me
to be annoyed  he has always had some
regard for me and my desolate position.'


He had  he had ; you are right  till
your position ceased to be desolate ; now
the pangs of jealousy devour him as keenly
as those of hunger.'

Not desolate ! My God ! I wonder
of what possession I can boast, if it is
not that of utter loneliness ! '

He has heard differently  tales of the
existence of a lover have reached him.'

They are untrue  utterly baseless.
There is not a man living who has the
right to press my hand.'

Well, well, that is not my business,
and time is short. Gold to keep him
from starving is what I have come to
seek from you.'

Where is he ? '

That I am not prepared to say : he
must convey that piece of information
himself. You have his written request
that you will give me the money ; besides,
you know full well that I have ever been
his friend, and will not desert him now.'

I have but very little about me. What
there is you shall have ; you must come
to my rooms if you want more.'

She opened her purse and tossed its
contents Into her lap. A few francs,
among which two gold pieces glittered,
and that was all.

She handed them to the man, who
seized and pocketed them eagerly.

That will keep off the wolf for a time.
I will send it off at once ; and come this
evening for more.'

But he cannot stay in France ; he
must go. He will be retaken, and the
whole case opened up afresh.'

'He is pretty safe for the present ;
don't alarm yourself Go on your usual
even course, and get rid of the scared
look that has come into your eyes.'

It is all so sudden  here too in this
deserted allen'

That is a mere coincidence. I was
coming to you at dusk ; meantime, I
thought I would refresh my wearied
frame in the balmy air of these glades.
Fate sent you into my very arms. Ah !
there is a gendarme watching me, wondering,
no doubt, what the beautiful Mrs
Jocelyn has to do with such as I am.'

And then, with some grace and ease,
obviously not assumed for the occasion,
he raised his hat, with the conventional
phrase, 

eau revoir, madame!

Then he told the cocker to go on and
take madame carefully home, in French,
which was so Parisian that it baffled a
guess at his nationality, since he had just
been speaking English like an Englishman.

There were no more dreams, either dim
or roseate-tinted, for Nelly Jocelyn that
day ; a stern and terrible reality stared
her in the face  a reality from which
she felt she was utterly powerless to free
herself.

If she looked ill and worn-out when
she left her home for that hapless drive,
ten years at least seemed to have been
added to her age when she returned.
Old Andre, who, devoted to her, had
come out to assist her from the carriage,
was so shocked when he saw her, that
he could not forego an exclamation. She
asked him to pay the coachman, and she
would send down the money to him by

Marie, and then she waited for a minute
or two by the door till the man had
driven off, hoping by her presence to
save any gossip between the driver and
the old concierge on the subject of the
meeting in the Bois.

Finally she stumbled upstairs to her
own apartment, a kind of blindness having
come over her, making her feel as though
she had been, both morally and physical',
stunned.

To lie down for a while, like one ina
state of torpor, and wait till the pressure
of events had crushed her or passed, as
thunder clouds pass into another direction,
was what she seemed to crave. She rang
the bell of her apartment. Marie opened
the door at once, a grin on her ever-beaming
face.

A monsieur has been waiting for a
long time to see madame.'

Poor Nelly staggered and clutched the
side of the door to steady herself.

Was this day's cup of bitterness not
yet full ? Had he come there to terrify
her, and drive her from her home } '

Then she pulled herself together with
an effort.

Ridiculous ; of course it could not be
kzm, but John Wisden.'  John Wisden, to
whom she felt herself to be absolutely
clinging in the terrible trouble that
had come to her during the last few
hours.

She steadied herself, and turning the
handle of the door went into the salon.

Marie, who had hoped that the sight
of this visitor would be a joyful surprise
for her mistress, had purposely not told
her whom she was to expect.

Paul Cazalet ! '

Overstrained as her nerves were at that
moment, Nelly Jocelyn almost shrieked
his name. Yet the tone of her voice was
one rather of terror than of joy. He came
to her and took both her hands. His
voice was soft and gentle as of old, every
word he uttered went straight to Nelly's
heart, and filled it with a bewildering
pleasure, of which the pain was so acute
that with difficulty she prevented herself
from crying aloud from the suffering.

*You do not look well,' he murmured.
You have been ill since we parted.
Ah, we have both had our meed of
suffering.'

What do you know of mine V she asked,
almost savagely, her excitement rendering
her fearful lest he had discovered the
secret she would guard carefully from him
above all men living.

I know nothing, still I can read that
there is trouble in your eyes. Can I do
anything to avert it ? '

Oh no, nothing, thanks. Annoying
family matters have been worrying me of
late. Nothing in which any outsider can
interfere.'

Paul Cazalet bowed his head in acceptance
of the way she put him outside the
pale of her intimacy. She was so changed,
he thought, that he almost regretted he
had come to see her.

The remembrance of the ideal Nelly
who had stolen him away from the poor
child to whom he had belonged, was so
different from this sharp-tongued, wild-eyed,
haggard-looking woman, that Paul

Cazalet shuddered. She noticed that she
had shocked him, yet she did not attempt
to withdraw her words.

A deep gulf must for ever lie between
her and Paul  best that she should not
attempt to fill it up.

'How is Le Vieux? I was sorry to
hear from public report that he has been
ill,' she asked, taking off her bonnet meanwhile,
its weight being too oppressive for
her aching head, and throwing it beside
her on the sofa.

'He is better, thank you. I got him
up to the Rue Mignon yesterday ; he is
going to inhabit my rooms in the future,
with Justine in attendance.'

And you ? You do not mean that
you are going to leave the Rue Mignon
?'

He shrugged his shoulders.

New responsibilities require new developments,'
he observed tersely.

Which means  '

That I hope my art will not suffer
because my canvases will be exposed to
view in a more fashionable quarter.'

You have taken a new atdlier ? '

A little hotel in the Avenue Montaigne.'
'Ah!'

You disapprove  I see it in your eyes.'
I have no right to approve or disapprove,
I am simply a little conservative
in my ideas. Success sometimes loves a
groove, and rebels against being torn from
its old haunts.'

You are not a kindly prophetess, Mrs
Jocelyn,' and there was some bitterness
in his tone ; perhaps he could not help
catching it from hers.

I do not pretend to be a prophetess,'
she answered ; ' I am only a silly, superstitious
woman.'

Or a jealous one,' he muttered to
himself.

Even he, Paul Cazalet, humble-minded
though he was, could not doubt Mrs
Jocelyn's love ; and he began to question
himself very roughly as to why he had
come there.

What strange and impelling fatality had
forced him to her door, even on the very
first day of his arrival in Paris ? He had

rashly enough engaged himself to be
married to Miss Marian Wallis, and as
an honourable man he could not back
out of the engagement.

And Paul Cazalet was an honourable
man, only he was affected with a degree
of false sentiment that amounted almost
to a disease. It was this unfortunate
malady that had made him fly from all
communication with Nelly Jocelyn when
he became convinced that his intimacy
with her had occasioned Lili's death ; and
it was the same malady that had made
him engage himself to Marian Wallis.
He had made himself believe that quiet
would come to his conscience from the
penance he was inflicting on himself.

All this being considered, why then
had he come to see Mrs Jocelyn ? Was
it for the sheer pain or pleasure of torturing
himself and her ?

Even now as he stood looking at her,
changed though she was, but beautiful
still, he could not help regretting the
barrier that had come between them,
marring both their lives ; a barrier, too,

which he blamed himself for having setup.



Was it really too late to overthrow

all obstacles, to clasp this loving, lovely

woman in his arms, to

All forget the human race,
And, hating no one, love but only her?'

Not that Paul Cazalet would have been
a happy man could he have carried into
effect this momentary, though ardent desire
; the spirit of the unfulfilled past
would ever have stalked between him
and Nelly, and he would have been a
miserable, and, perchance, even a faithless
man.

But the feelings her sad eyes once
more azinor into his had awakened were

o o

but transitory ; she herself speedily annihilated
them with a sharp, stinging blow.

The account of your intended marriage
with Miss Wallis is on every lip,' she said,
speaking very deliberately ; *' do not let me
be the last person to congratulate you.
Believe me, I am thoroughly and sincerely
delighted that you should have decided
for this.'

You are delighted ? '

And his whole countenance expressed
surprise as he spoke.

Yes ; and most grateful that you yourself
have deemed it necessary to part
our lives.'

To part our lives ? ' he asked. ' Why
cannot we meet as friends ? '

No, Paul Cazalet, no. It is impossible
that you and I can ever meet as
friends.'

And you are glad that I, In a moment
of rash despair, have set up a barrier
between us ? '

Yes, since whether it Is your setting
up or mine, no matter, since it exists.
We can never be more to each other than
we are to-day ; better, then, that we should
part at once.'

Yet you did not always talk In that
tone. What has occurred to change
you ? '

She shivered, and turned away, as
though she would rather not answer him.
Then, seeming to think better of It,
she laughed.

You have come to tell me that you
are about to be married. What then can
it matter to you whether I am changed
or not ? '

I came, it is true, to see you once
more before I married this girl circumstances
and fate have forced upon me.
Now that I do see you, I feel that the
power you have had over me since the
first moment we met is as strong as
ever ; and I am ready to set aside even
my honour, if you will consent to share
my future.'

She shook her head, and looked at him
very sadly.

I cannot be your wife,' she said ; * if
you were perfectly free, I should give
you the same answer. As I have already
told you, it is better in the future that we
should not meet ; at all events, not for a
long, long time.'

But I do not understand. Are you
yourself not free  a widow ? '

Hush ! ask no questions. Fulfil your
own engagements, and leave me to make
the best of mine.'

But, Nelly, the picture  the Veneziana
that was to be the glory of the Salon ? '

Bury it with the forgotten past.'

You will sit again, and let me finish
it?'

While Marian Wallis plays chaperone ?
No, M. Cazalet. We played at love like
two foolish children who know but little
of the game that amuses them. We are
wiser now : let us be sensible. You have
done the very best thing a man can do,
selected a charming and a rich wife. Be
happy while the sun is bright, and leave
me in peace to disentangle those troublesome
threads in my life which neither
you nor any one else can help me wind ;
and now, God bless you, for this interview
must end. I shall never willingly
cross your path ; do you in kindness show
me the like consideration.'

It is not farewell, it cannot be farewell.
A strong presentiment tells me, Nelly,
that our future lives will not be wholly
separated.'

Pray God that they may be  pray
fervently that they may be as far asunder

as the poles. Now go, for this Is killing
me. Go ; be faithful and true to Marian
Walls, and remember that for me you
will henceforth live only in my prayers.'

But, Nelly

I can bear no more. If you ever had
any regard for me, leave me now.'

What could he do but leave her ?
Further discussion seemed vain ; but her
decision mystified him not a little.

For one moment, before she had time
to prevent It, he caught her In his arms
and imprinted an ardent kiss on her lips ;
in the next the door was closed, and he
was gone from her for ever, carrying with
him the most precious gift a woman can
bestow on man, even her happiness.

And yet he knew it not ; nor could he
prevent his lips from slowly repeating his
own words, 

Our future lives will not be wholly
parted.'

Her heart, however, did not respond in
hope. An icy chilliness came over her
as she realised that she herself had banished
Paul Cazalet from her side for ever

VOL. II. G

that he would have given up all ties of
family and honour for her if she had only-dared
to say, 

Let us go together into an exile where
the voice of scandal and misery can never
reach us.'

But it was too late to recall him. Besides,
she loved him too well to let him
make so great a sacrifice.

For his sake more than for her own
she had bade him leave her to-day ; but now
that she had sent him away, and the sense
of a vast solitude seemed to creep up on
all sides, the horror of her loneliness was
almost more than she could bear. She
sank down on the floor in a state of prostration,
which unconsciousness would not
come to deaden ; and so fearsome and
maddening was her agony, that she absolutely
uttered a joyful exclamation when,
a few seconds later, the door opened, and
John Wisden came in.

He, at least, could pity her if he would 
he, at least, knew what a terrible lot was hers.

John Wisden had met Paul Cazalet at
the foot of the staircase ; he knew the great

painter by sight, though he himself was
unknown to Paul, and had been passed by
totally unnoticed ; and, man of observation
as John Wisden was, he saw at once from
Cazalet's whole demeanour that the shock
of some great trial was thrilling him to the
very depths.

Yes, he understood more of Nelly
Jocelyn's case than she even suspected,
and probably would have pitied her, if
pity and John Wisden had had aught in
common. Prudence was a quality with
which he was more richly endowed than
with pity, and prudence suggested that
this sort of excitement must be stopped,
or there would be scandal, from which
no one but the newspaper proprietors
would derive the slightest benefit.

Oh, John, I am so glad you have
come!' Nelly had exclaimed when she
saw him, and it surprised him more than
anything that had happened within his
recollection. What could have happened
that Nelly should be glad to see him,
whom she always professed to loathe and
hate ? Was it possible that their compact

of last night was to be really a
bona fide one, and that Nelly intended
in future to treat him as a brother ? Anyway,
her seeming delight at seeing him
took away the sting of the words in
which he intended to reproach her for
having indulged in an intimate, and what
should certainly have been a forbidden, interview
with this Cazalet. He did not refer
to it in anyway in the first place, merely murmured
that he was glad if he could be of any
use to her, helped her to rise, made her lie
on the sofa, and placed some cushions under
her head, and gave her the smelling-salts
that stood on a table close by.

Have you any idea whom I met to-day
in a retired part of the Bois ? ' she asked,
after these preliminaries were over.

No, unless it was  '
*Who?'

Paul Cazalet.'

In the Bois  Cazalet  nonsense ! *

He left your house but now.'

Exactly. He has left it never to
return ; but do not let us talk of Cazalet,
but of the man I met in the Bois.'

Who was it ? '

Joseph Farrier.'

Good God ! I heard he was at liberty,
but did not know he was in Paris. Did
he recognise you  speak to you ? '

 Alas ! alas ! '

Go on, Nelly, go on. What did he
tell you ? '

And John Wisden grew more excited
than from his usually cynical demeanour
would have seemed possible.

He made me give him all the money
I had about me, and is coming here tonight
for more.'

But you will not give it to him  you
will not be so foolish. Hand him over
to the police if he persecutes you. He has
no claim against you.'

No claim, no ; still I scarcely care to
be brought in contact with the police ;
besides, I believe that even you will allow
that some one exists who has a claim on me.'

Who  what, what have you heard,
Nelly ? for that there is something more
than you choose at once to tell I feel
certain.'

Arthur has escaped ! '

John Wisden did not answer her, but
his face became Hid, and, getting up from
the seat upon which he had thrown himself,
he paced agitatedly up and down the
room for some minutes. At last when
his excitement had somewhat abated, he
murmured, 

Poor Nelly, poor Nelly!' Then once
more, growing excited, he asked,  ' And
Joseph Ferrier told you this ? Are you
sure that it is true ? He is the villain
who, in the first place, got both Arthur
and me into difficulty.'

He is coming here to-night. You can
see him yourself if you like,' she replied,
almost coldly ; ' as for me, I shall give up
now. The game of life is too difficult to
be worth the playing.'

No, Nelly, no ; you must be brave, 
fiorht the battle to the end, for Dot's sake,
if not for your own. Remember she is
almost as much mixed up in this business
now as you are, since she is my wife.'

You have not been convicted.'

'No, I have escaped. I have been

lucky. But if Arthur is at liberty, who
knows what may have happened to mar
our peace? Has he been rash enough to
come to France ? '

I know not. See Joseph Ferrier for
yourself to-night, and question him.'

Heaven forbid ! He must not know-that
you have told me a word of this, but
you must question him neatly, judiciously,
as only a woman can.'

My courage is broken and my strength
is gone.'

Take food and rest, they will come
again. You are naturally a brave and a
sensible woman, Nelly. Take a little
time to contemplate the urgency of the
situation, and you will soon see the necessity
of prudent action. I will leave you now
and make inquiries on my own account ;
lie still, sleep if you can, but, above all, be
brave, my dear sister-in-law, be brave.'

And so he left her, but not to sleep 
with wide-open eyes and aching brow
Nelly waited during the weary hours of
the afternoon for the terrible ordeal through
which she was to pass at night.

AT THE * THREE JOLLY BEGGARS.'

HE shadows of night crept
gradually over a lonely Hampshire
village, and a steady,
drizzling rain fell unremittingly.
The evening was not a cold one, yet
doors and windows were for the most
part closed against the damp, and scarcely
any individuals, even of the meanest, were
to be seen loitering about. Work for the
day was done, horses were in their stables,
cows foddered for the night, and the
hewers of wood and drawers of water' who
were not sufficiently domesticated to be sitting
in the bosom of their families, by their
own cheery hearths, were assembled in the

parlour of the ' Three Jolly Beggars,' where
tankards of foaming ale were pretty frequently
replenished, and the knot of men
gathered there were doing their best, by
good fires within doors, to keep out the
chill of the damp.

The windows of the parlour at the
Three Jolly Beggars ' were unsheltered,
but though blinds were drawn down, still
it was quite possible for any one on the
outside to see into the room at the edges
of these same rather ill-fitting window
appendages.

None of the men chatting and laughing
and spinning long yarns bestowed the
slightest thought on the windows : lurkers
were not abundant in the out-of-the-way
village of Dalestoke ; and, moreover, there
was nothing going forward that the whole
world was not welcome to see.

Still, the liberty of the subject being
generally agreed on by the rural population
of Dalestoke, which to a man was
Liberal, not to say Radical, the dogs 
ever conservative by nature, and testy to
a degree when any infringement of rights

is imminent  were by no means in this
hour as happy and contented as their
masters. A large retriever and spaniel
had been bidden by their respective
owners to lie quietly on the hearthrug
until further orders ; but, usually obedient
and tranquil animals, to-night it seemed as
if they could not be still.

First one and then the other started up
and gave a short, suspicious bark, which
was evidently intended for a danger-signal ;
then a friendly kick, or a ' Quiet, Hussy '
silenced them for a few seconds only,
for very speedily they recommenced, with
a still more angry manifestation of trouble ;
till at last Ned Blowers, the bailiff at
the dairy farm down in the meadows,
jumped up and pulled up the centre blind
with a sudden jerk.

Paul Pry's afoot to - night, or my
Hussy wouldn't waken when she should
be sleeping' after a long day's tramp. I
don't see nought, but it's steaming wi'
damp and drizzle. Down, down, Hussy,
ye'll break in the pane, and landlord won't
thank ye, nor shall I.'

For Hussy, the big" retriever, encouraged
by her master's movement, had
with one spring joined him at the window,
and was at this moment making
the most strenuous efforts to get
out.

Open the window, man, and let's see
what there be ; a ducking o' wet won't
hurt Hussy cried one of Ned Blowers'
companions.

Keep back the other dogs, then ; it's
no use to loosen a whole pack.'

Another second, and Hussy, needing
no further bidding, had bounded from
the window into the little garden that
lay in front of it ; for though the * Three
Jolly Beggars ' was a roadside inn, three
windows of the parlour looked on to a
garden at the back.

Nor did Ned Blowers close the window
after the dog's escape from it, but leaning
with half his body out into the damp,
chill night, he listened with strained ears
to what should next befal.

Of what he did hear his companions
were wholly ignorant, but there was no

mistake about Ned Blowers' stentorian
voice shouting, 

Back, Hussy, back! Come here, you
brute ! come here ! '

It was not within the memory of any
of his chums that Ned Blowers had ever
before spoken roughly to Hussy, to whom
he was absolutely devoted, and who was,
moreover, the gentlest and best-tempered
of animals.

Some occurrence, then, of unusual importance
must be going on, and quickly,
keen with rustic curiosity, every man in
the room got up and thronged round Ned
Blowers at the window.

Nor did he take the slightest notice
of any of them ; his whole attention was
riveted on his strenuous endeavour to
recall Hussy, who, in the most unusual
manner, appeared to be deaf to his call.
One more vigorous and more angry shout
than all the rest of * Back, Hussy, or I'll
kill you ! ' brought the retriever at last
to the window, on the outside of which
she lay down, growling angrily the while,
as though she were rebelling with her

whole nature against the obedience to
which she had been trained.

I'll keep the dog here : she'll follow
me if I stir,' said Ned Blowers, speaking
to a man who stood behind him ; ' and
do you go, Jim Falcon, and see what it
is that worries Hussy among the bushes
down yonder

The man he addressed was a tall
lissome stripling of a fellow, only too
delighted to be actively employed. He
bounded out of the window across the
dog, who gave an indignant protest in
the way of a deeper growl, and in
another second was lost in the darkness
in the direction of the bushes. Then
for a while there was a pause, each
man puffing silently at his pipe, and
waiting for the next incident that should
occur. Nor had they long to wait.

Hussy's growls became barks, and Jim
Falcon speedily returned, holding by the
ragged coat sleeve a miserable, drenched,
abject-looking individual, on whom Hussy
would have at once pounced, save for his
master's strict command to be still.

A loafer,' said Jim Falcon, still holding
the man by the coat sleeve ; * rags
and no victuals seem to be his recommendation.'


I'd work if I could,' muttered the man,
with chattering teeth.

Work  you ! '

The contemptuous exclamation was in
chorus.

The man looked too small and shrivelled
and white-faced to be a worker ; moreover,
his hands were small and fair asa
woman's, and to these real toilers the
idea of his working seemed a joke. He
shivered, and looked so frightened at
their noisy outcry, that Ned Blowers
took to him in compassion, and resolved
to elect himself his champion.

Ned Blowers had the character, in
Dalestoke, of being essentially good-hearted.


Let's give the chap a pull at the
beer mug, perhaps it 'full waken up his
spirit a bit. 'He looks to me as if he
had fell down in the world,  seen better
days, I'll warrant. He ain't an old 'un.

either, to be out of the swim that soon.
Is it vice or sickness that's done it, my man ?'

The tramp, for such he virtually was.
looked up from the beer jug, into which
he had been taking a long dip, with a
curious expression on his face as he
met Ned Blowers' eye.

I am very hungry  if I might have
a crust of bread and cheese  still I am
not a beggar.'

The words were spoken grammatically,
the diction was pure, and the sentence
seemed to have touched each listener,
for the bread and cheese were handed
to him forthwith. While he was literally
devouring it, Ned Blowers scrutinised
him closely.

The result of this scrutiny was a low
whistle ; but he did not make known to
his companions what direction his thoughts
in connection with this wretched-looking
individual were taking.

His whole attention seemed to be taken
up by keeping Hussy quiet, for she still
growled ominously  very certainly Hussy
had no predilection for rags.

After a little Ned Blowers looked at his
watch.

Do you want a night's rest, my man 
a barn and some clean straw ? * he asked
suddenly, addressing the tramp.

I shall be most grateful,' was the
prompt reply.

Then come along o' me. I am going
up to the farm. Here, Jim Falcon, cut off
another hunch o' bread and get a bit o' cold
meat from the missus  tell 'em to put it
down to my reckoning.'

This order carried out, and by no means
unwillingly, Ned Blowers put on a waterproof
coat, and, followed by his ragged
companion, to whom this most acceptable
food had been given in a piece of paper,
he prepared to make a homeward start.
Even Hussy seemed satisfied with this
arrangement  at all events she forgot to
growl.

Arrived at the barn, Ned Blowers pushed
open the door.

I can't give you a light,' he said, ' 'cos
of the sparks, but I'll bring you some dry
clothes if you'll wait a few minutes, and

in the morning before you make a start you
shall have a sup o' milk and some bread.'

Without waiting for thanks, in which
however, the man did not seem to be
profuse, Ned Blowers went into the little
cottage where he lived alone, an out-of-doors
farm-servant coming backwards and
forwards to do his cooking, and otherwise
administer to his wants.

As he opened the door with a key and
went in to get an old suit of dry clothes
for h.\s> protege, he murmured to himself, 

Poor devil ; it is lucky the others
isn't as shrewd as me, or perhaps they
couldn't but half see him in the darkness ;
but he's an escaped convict, I'll make
sure, and one of the better class too. Do
as ye'll be done by, was my mother's
motto ; I'll give the poor wretch a chance.
I wonder what he was in for ? '

Meantime, he got out a suit of well-worn
corduroys, and a blue shirt, ragged
but dry, and once more, carrying a closed
lantern, wended his way to the barn.

In a very few minutes the wretched
tramp had divested himself of his cling-vol.

II. H

ing wet rags, and was dry and comfortable
in kindly Ned Blowers' clothes.

 Boots ! ' laughed the bailiff, as he surveyed
his handiwork, ' I forgot all about
the boots, and as for them things you've
got on your feet, why they ain't nothing
at all. Take 'em off and cover yourself
up in the straw. I'll look for something
for you agen the morning.'

I wonder why you are so kind and
considerate of my wants ? ' asked the
tramp, querying instead of thanking.

'Cos you're in trouble, and I had a
brother once  dead and gone a long while
ago now  who was in trouble like you.'

Then you know  how on earth do you
know ? You will not give me up ? '

My hand on it. man  I'll help you
through ; but take my advice, keep out
of the main road for a bit till your hair
has growed, and try and speak less like
a gentleman. I suppose you was in
for fraud or some swell vice  '

A bubble scheme,' answered the other,
into which my partner lured me, and then
let me in for the biggest share of blame.'

In course, the old story ; but never
mind, best leave particulars out, I want
to know nought. Just you sleep a bit,
and I'll start you fair in the morning, the
weather will take up at dawn.'

So saying, Ned Blowers went away
carrying his lantern with him ; but though
a kind-hearted man he was by no means
wanting in shrewdness, and he therefore
took the precaution to lock his new acquaintance
into the barn.

Though he looked like a fraudulent
gentleman,' he said to himself, ' still, for
all that, it was best to be secure against
marauding. There is no saying, he might
belong to a gang.'

The night passed without any disturbing
incident, not even a growl from Hussy,
who slept in her master's room, interrupting
the kindly bailiff's repose.

As he had predicted, the weather took
up at dawn ; and when he went down to
the barn, a pair of well-worn boots under
his arm, and a goodly portion of provisions
in his hands, the sun was high in the
heavens.

He set down the things with which he
was laden, unlocked the door, and looked
into the barn. For a second or two he
almost thought that the man he had sheltered
was dead, so profound were his
slumbers. Nor did Ned Blowers' arrival,
and the entrance of light and air from
without, arouse him in the very least.

Ned Blowers stood contemplating him
with much apparent interest for a while,
thinking to himself as he did so that if he
had not seen his face before he had seen
some one uncommonly like him.

Then, with an effort of memory, he recalled
who it was that this poor pariah
resembled.

'Why! it's they Jocelyns, as my father
lived with for years. He's as like as two
pins to what the youngest son was,  Mr
Arthur ; but, of course, that's all nonsense.
Here, rouse up, my man ; it's time to be
afoot, when you've a distance to go.'

The wayfarer started up in a sort of
terror ; but when he saw Ned Blowers, it
speedily subsided.

In a very short space of time he had

eaten his breakfast, donned his comfortable
boots, and was under weigh, looking,
however, about as unfit for a long, weary
tramp as a man could possibly look.

All the compassion in Ned Blowers'
nature seemed to be strangely stirred for
this man, on whom, till yesterday, he had
never set eyes.

I don't wish to ask no impertinent
questions,' he said ; ' but what's your landmark
} '

The coast. Once I can gain the coast
I shall surely find some friendly bark that
will take me over to France.'

To France ! You're as likely to be
nabbed there as here.'

*Very likely. I am in danger everywhere
; but I have a friend there who
can perhaps help me.'

Gotten any money in your pockets ? '
For answer, a shake of the head, and a
sad smile.

Well, I ain't a rich man,  have to work
for my living, and pretty hard too, but
here's a yellow boy. You take him, and
if ever you're in better circumstances, and

can spare it, you send it back to Ned
Blowers at Dalestoke Farm.'

'Ned Blowers! Are you the son of
old Dan Blowers, who lived for years at
Garrow ? '

Yes ; I am that same.'

Strange, strange that we should meet,
and that you should befriend me.'

Then there was a pause, for Ned Blowers
was determined not to ask questions.

Meantime the would-be tramp put the
sovereign in his pocket, and held out a
hand to Blowers.

'Believe me,' he said, *if I live, this
gift of to-day shall be repaid with interest
; if I die, you will still be no loser.'

All right, my man, all right, but it's
time you were off; the village will soon
be astir, and it's best you should not be
seen.'

They wrung each other's hands as
though they had been old friends, and
so indeed they were. The departing
stranger went down a hill at the back
of the farm to a little wood, from whence
he could join the highroad at a distant

point, and Ned Blowers stood gazing
after him.

If he ain't Mr Arthur, well, my name
ain't Blowers. It must have been an
instinct as made me take up wi' him ; but,
my Lord ! to think as he should be ina
strait like that ! Somehow, though,
it's rather mixed up, for folks said surely
as Arthur Jocelyn was dead. Well, best
perhaps as he should be, and, as far as
I'm concerned, so he is, and buried too ;
for I'll never put a name to that poor
fellow, as will tramp himself into his grave,
with no mistake about it, afore many
months is over.'

So saying, Ned Blowers went up to
his cottage, carrying with him the bundle
of old rags the escaped convict had discarded,
and such other evidences of his
having been there as remained in the barn.
The work people soon arrived, and his
rounds had to be accomplished. He was
sitting down at last eating his breakfast
and thinking over the strange events of
the last twelve hours, when there came a
knock at the door.

Raising his head he could from his seat
at the table see that the visitor was a
policeman.

So, so, they're on the track ; well, he's
got three hours' start ; 'ain't much ; let's
see if we can't give him a bit more.'
Then he shouted, without moving,  ' Come
in ; the door's open, and you're welcome.'


The constable, who was well known
to Ned Blowers, did as he was bid, and
speedily stated his case, which was that
a telegram had arrived desiring him to
arrest Arthur Braithwaite, a convict
escaped from Portland.

Well,' said Ned Blowers, * and what
have I to do Arthur Braithwaite ? '

From information received from the
Three Jolly Beggars," he slept in one
of your barns last night.'

Right you are ; a miserable, washed-out
tramp slept there, but whether he's
Arthur Braithwaite or any other Arthur
I don't know.'

Is he there now ?'
J Went hours ago, afore it was light.

I stirred him out as soon as I was up,
and was almost sorry I had given shelter
to such vermin ; but then I suppose the
Hquor was in me last night.'

A pity you did not keep him. Have
you any idea which way he went ? '

I ain't very sure, but northwards I
believe ; he took the road straight up the
hill 'tother side of the village. If you
want my opinion, he's making for Birmingham
; so he's a convict, is he ? I thought
he was going to do a turn at factory
work.'

You think then it would be wise to
put the police at Birmingham on the
alert . '

According to my light, the very thing ;
an escaped convict was he ? Well, he
shouldn't have polluted that there clean
straw if I'd a known ; why it ain't even fit
for pigs now.'

The policeman fully agreed with him,
and after a little further conversation they
parted.

As soon as Ned Blowers was alone he
took the opportunity to relieve himself by

a hearty chuckle, which speedily gave
place to a sadder expression as he contemplated
the terrible picture of the fall of
good, worthy General Jocelyn's youngest
son, whom he remembered well as a boy,
and who he could now no longer doubt
was being looked for by the police under
the alias of Arthur Braithwaite.

IN THE AVENUE MONTAIGNE.

HAUL Chalet is by nature a
MmJJJJ worker and not a faindait, yet
since he has married Marian
Walls, and been installed in
the perfectly-appointed atdlitr prepared
for him in the little hotel in the Avenue
Montaigne, his right hand seems to have
lost its cunning, his genius to have
deserted him.

For hours each day he devotes himself
to his work. Art is the only living
thing left him to love, for Le Vieiix is
dead, and, so far as he is concerned, so is
Nelly Jocelyn ; but he can never reach
the standard he himself has set up.

True, Paul Cazalet's standard is far
out of the reach of most men's power of
attainment ; and he could not paint a
picture with a touch of mediocrity about
it if he tried ; still, the critics said he
had passed the zenith of his fame, and
that it was a pity this grand marriage of
his was casting clouds on the very meridian
of his glory.

Thus the outside world, with its usual
aptitude for ascribing wrong reasons for
that which it sees, naturally set down the
want of life every one fancied was apparent
in Paul Cazalet's later pictures to
the state of well-being and the general
luxury of entourage in which his marriage
with this wealthy Australian had placed
him.

Little did they know of Cazalet, or
they would have been aware that from
his former achievements in painting and
his frugal habits, his income quite equalled
that allowed by old Wallis to his daughter
Marian ; and that if Paul Cazalet had
felt that he was in any way dependent
on his wife's money, he would have

worked night and day to free himself,
since he considered that to give and
not to take should always be a man's
motto.

Still, that there was a heavy bank of
clouds darkening the bnVhtness of the
great painter's life, no one could gainsay.

Intimates in his family circle might
have told from which quarter they arose,
but of intimates Paul Cazalet had ever
had very few, and of late his doors had
been closed even to those few.

That did not, however, prevent the
hotel in the Avenue Montaigne from
beinor the rendezvous of more or less
chatterboxes of every shade and colour.
Marian loved society  to display her
beautifully-furnished house, her toilette,
her newly-acquired position, to a little
court of admiring friends, was the great
object of her existence.

How gladly, too, would she have
paraded her husband and his pictures
to their view, but that she had been
ordered to keep the studio sacred from
the public gaze, and that as the order

was, moreover, enforced by the key
being turned in the lock, she could not
well disobey it. In the solitude of his
studio, away from the ceaseless rattling
and empty turmoil that was for ever
going on in the rest of the house, Paul
Cazalet spent the only endurable hours
of his life. Happy they could not
be called, since they were filled with
repining and regrets ; for his marriage
had been a thorough failure, and though
he confided his griefs to no one, he was
the most utterly miserable man in Paris.

The victim of false sentiment ! Now
that it was too late, as he looked back
on the past he could not fail to recognise
how truly this was the case ; and to tell
himself that if his life could date back
once more from its beginning from what
very different premises he would act !
But there was nothing now left to be
done except to make the best husband
he could to the girl who, as he had discovered
too late, had no sympathy with
his inner life, but only cared for him
because he had a name in the world.

which she could now air and flaunt about
as her own.

Never for a moment did the six months'
old Madame Cazalet realise the deep
meaning, the pride, the glory of being
the wife of one of the greatest living
painters ; to her the artistic gems he
had produced were as meaningless as
the tinsel and gewgaws with which she
loved to decorate her attire, and the
vain frivolous words in which she chattered
away the heyday of her youth
with foolish companions as empty-headed
as herself.

Why they could not all form a merry
party round Cazalet's easel, she could
not understand ; only he was so disagreeable,
and bolted the door, saying
that if she and her friends invaded his
premises, he would betake himself and
his canvases back to the old atdlier in
the Rue Menon.

For some inexplicable reason or presentiment
Paul Cazalet would not give up
his apartment in the Rue Mignon, although
Le Vieux had died there some months ago.

Justine could stay on for the present;
there was time enough to give the place
up when the lease was out, he said,
when asked why he retained his old
house.

More frequently, too, did he go there
than his wife had any idea of. When
she thought he was at his club, or amusing
himself with some of the fashionable acquaintances
she was perpetually striving
to thrust on him, he was wandering about
the haunts where he had passed many
happy hours, or sitting on a wooden
stool in Justine's kitchen, talking to the
devoted old woman about Lili or Le
Vieux.

Justine knew better than any one that
Paul Cazalet was not happy, but was
wearing his life away in the tinselled
existence that surrounded him ; but the
charm of their familiar intercourse lay
in the fact that, wise woman as she
was, she never alluded to the subject.

Nor during any of their numerous
conversations was Nelly Jocelyn's name
ever mentioned, though Justine had often

regretted of late that Nelly was not
mistress in the Avenue Montaigne instead
of Marian.

Nevertheless, during the hours that
Paul was not closeted over his work, or
chatting with old Justine, which was ot
course more rare, he shook off as much
as possible the feeling of oppression
which never wholly deserted him now,
and strove to join coi a77iore in Madame
Cazalet's frivolities and pleasures. That
a husband and wife should each go
their own way, as is the fashion of the
day, Paul was far too right - minded a
man to endorse.

He had married this young girl, and
must not neglect her,' he said frequently
to himself ; ' or if mischief where the result
of his neglect, he would only have himself
to blame.'

Into a perfect whirlpool of pleasure
did Paul then at times find himself
plunged. Theatres, cirques, concerts,
balls, marian was never tired of going
the round ; and whether in deference to
Paul's dislike to living in public, or be-vol.

II. I

cause his society was more or less of a
restraint on her frivolity, she very frequently
begged him to stay at home
and go to bed, since he looked so
weary.

But no ! Paul adhered manfully to
the task he had set himself ; and notwithstanding
that the period of mourning
for Le Vieux was by no means
ended either in heart or garb, he showed
himself regularly by his wife's side, and
strove as much as possible to appear as
though he enjoyed the new vista that
was opened out before him.

Madame de Brissac invariably shook
her head when she saw Paul approaching
at some gdiy felt.

She, for one, did not believe in the
happiness he derived from the present
state of affairs ; and she reproached herself
exceedingly that she had listened in
the first place to the Vicomte de Gourlay's
request that she would call on the
Wallises, and had thus unwillingly been
the means of bringing Marian Wallis into
her coterie.

While as for Blanche d'AlbIn, who had
always been devoted to Nelly Jocelyn
from the first moment she saw her, she
positively hated Madame Cazalet, and
though absolutely ignorant of what had
taken place between Nelly and Paul, still
she ascribed entirely to this ' dashing,
impertinent little wife of his' Nelly's
disappearance from her old place among
them.

Another reason that made these two
women more inclined to be severe on
Madame Cazalet was that the flirtation
with Vicomte de Gourlay, which had been
in full swings at the time of her introduction
into Paris society, had been resumed
of late, and that in their opinion a
butterfly like De Gourlay would have
been a far fitter mate for this vulgar, ill-regulated
woman than the man who,
though born of the people, was a priceless
gem as compared with the little
vicomte.

Why she had not married him, and thus
rehabilitated his fortune and increased his
follies, they could not, either of them,

divine; and Blanche d'Albin, when discussing
the subject with Madame de
Brissac, was more severe than even the
elder lady, because De Gourlay being her
cousin, she felt that she had a certain
amount of right to speak.

Ah, if we could only do something to
save Cazalet from pain, but, alas ! I fear it
is impossible,' was Madame de Brissac's
invariable cry whenever this subject was
broached.

Poison his wife and render him a freeman
once more,' the bolder - speaking
Blanche d'Albin would rejoin. * Not impossible,
perhaps, that she will elope with
De Gourlay. Dieu I I should never be
surprised.'

Hush, Blanche, for mercy's sake, hush.
Such a scandal would be the death of poor
Paul. Besides, you know a miniature
Cazalet will ere long be born : that must
put a stop to her follies for a while ; and,
who knows, new and fresher feelings maybe
thus awakened in her heart, and a new
epoch of happiness begin for Paul.'

You give Madame Cazalet far more

credit for goodness than I do ! ' cried
Blanche ; ' it grieves me to the heart to
witness her soles, and see Paul fretting
his heart out for poor Nelly.'

It is scarcely kind to Paul to mention
Nelly's name with his now. They are
both  for some mysterious reason we do
not understand  playing the grand role of
martyrs ; do not let any idle words of ours
interfere with the sacrifice, though we do
not know what has occasioned it.'

It is all some silly, sentimental misunderstanding,
I feel sure. Paul was free
and Nelly was free, why could they not
marry ? Oh, Madame de Brissac, it
makes me quite angry when I think
about it.'

All I beg of you, dear Blanche, is that
you will conceal your feelings from Paul.
I would not for worlds that he should
imagine we thought he was otherwise
than quite happy with Madame Marian,
who has at least brought him riches.'

Bah, for her riches ! She spends more
in follies than she receives in rentes, or I
am much mistaken. The scales will fall

from Paul's eyes soon  that is, if he believes
in her, which I doubt.'

Madame d'Albin was right ; the scales
did fall from Paul's eyes sooner even than
she expected ; not that he had any implicit
belief in Marian. No one knew
better than he did that she was vain, and
frivolous, and shallow ; but that she really
loved him  as far, that is, as a woman of
her mean calibre was capable of affection 
he never for a single moment doubted.
But his faith in many things, both human
and divine, had been considerably shaken
of late.

On the very evening after the conversation
between Madame de Brissac and
Madame d'Albin, it was to have another
shake, even at the very root of the tree
on which blossomed the few buds of hope
that were left to him.

There was to be a reception at Madame
d'Erville's, the wife of one of the public
functionaries. All Paris was invited, and
it was expected that it would be very
crowded.

As Marian had been somewhat ailing

of late, and looked thin and jaded, Paul
remarked that in his opinion it would be
far wiser if they were to stay at home.

The bare suggestion called forth such
a storm of reproach, that he was sorry
he had alluded to it.

She had had a new dress for this
especial occasion ; all Paris would be
there ; she had seen so little of life ;
Paul always wanted to put a stop to
her enjoyment and keep her at home
by the fireside, as if she were a real
Englishwoman. For her part, she hated
English ways ; and, since they were in
France, why could they not go out
and enjoy themselves as French people
did?

This and much more came down on
Paul's innocent head in a perfect torrent,
making him almost gasp for breath ; and
while he stood looking at her with sorrowful
eyes, he found not a word with
which to contradict her.

Any one who had witnessed the scene
of Paul calmly enduring his wife's undeserved
reproaches, might have set him

6 Nelly Jocelyn, Widow.

down as a coward ; whereas he was
only a wise man patiently waiting on a
safe spot till the torrent should have
swept by, and it was safe to move and
breathe once more.

Marian, of course, had her way, and
they went to the reception at Madame
d'Erville's. She made a stout little effort
to induce Paul to stay at home if he
disliked going out so much, but on this
point he was quite decided.

If Marian would go out he would
accompany her : it was his duty to do
so, and he would do his duty.

The first person they met on entering
the brilliantly-lighted reception room was
Madame d'Albin. She gave Marian, as
she always did, a cold toss of her head,
which was supposed to be a bow, and
putting her hand into Paul's, pressed it
warmly.

Marian, on whom Madame d'Albin's
airs, as she called them, had but little
effect, saw one of her intimates a little
farther on, and walked off to join her, thus
leaving Paul and Blanche d'Albin together.

Madame d'Albin at once took advantage
of the momentary tete-astute, and whispered
to Paul, 

I have had a letter from Mrs Jocelyn
this morning.'

Ah ! ' he said, the colour completely
forsaking his face at the sudden news.
I hope she is well.'

She says nothing about her health,
but she scarcely writes in good spirits,
at least, I think not. I will send you
her letter to read if you like.'

No, no,' he answered rapidly, and
without giving his words sufficient consideration.
' I do not wish to see Mrs
Jocelyn's letter  it would not be right.'

Blanche d'Albin shrugged her shoulders,
and thought she could read volumes between
the lines.

Looking very confidential she asked, 
Why did Nelly Jocelyn go and fix
herself in Auvergne, M. Cazalet, do you
know ? '

I have not the vaguest idea,' he replied,
and truthfully.

Not for a single moment did Paul

Cazalet imagine that he personally had
anything to do with Nelly's exile from
Paris.

But, of course, Madame d'Albin did
not wholly believe him, and merely gave
him credit for being an honourable man,
who had no intention whatever of telling
a woman's secret.

Nor would he, even had he known it ;
but Nelly Jocelyn's secret was as much
of a mystery to Paul Cazalet as it was
to all the rest of her acquaintances ;
though, even as they did, he firmly believed
in the existence of a secret.

Nothing was to be got out of Paul,
Madame d'Albin decided with some irritation,
so, without attempting any further
conversation with him, she passed on,
leaving him in a very serious mood, as,
his thoughts far away, even with Mrs
Jocelyn in her self imposed exile, he
surveyed, but saw not the crowd of gay
pleasure-seekers with which the room was
crowded.

As for his wife, for the time at all
events he had forgotten her, as completely,

forsooth, as, for the matter of that, she had
forgotten him.

She had come out to amuse herself,
not to fuss about after Paul, of whom
she saw quite as much as she wanted at
home, so she thought, and would have
told any one who had asked her questions
about her husband.

In a brown study, Cazalet ? Are you
composing a picture, man, or inventing
a new colour, that you look so rapt ? '

Cazalet, awakened by these words,
shook off his dream with an effort, and
saw one of his brother painters, a man
with a reputation well-nigh as extensive
as his own.

Yes, yes ; I was thinking,' he said
vaguely.

Thinking, ay,' rejoined the other ; ' this
sort of fashionable Pandemonium is neither
to my taste nor yours, I fancy. I have
shown myself, and I am off  better come
with me.'

Paul shook his head.
I cannot,' he said ; ' I must wait for
Madame Cazalet.'

Exactly. If men will marry young
wives, that is the price they have to pay.
My poor Paul, I pity you ; better have
remained a bachelor like me. Then you
really will not come ? '

Once more Paul refused, and then his
acquaintance having departed, he set off
to make the grand tour of the rooms,
and see if he could find Marian, and discover
how long she meant to stay.

Not a single trace of her, however, to
be seen anywhere, and he was almost
beginning to think that he was wandering
about for nothing,  that, not feeling well,
perhaps, she had gone home without him.

Presently some one drew his attention
to the fact that a number of rash individuals,
though the night was rather chilly,
had gone out into the garden at the back
of Madame d'Erville's hotel, which had
been illuminated for the occasion.

Of course Marian was there, Paul
thought  she always did the most unconventional
and foolish things. Should
he go and seek her, or remain quietly at
the door awaiting her return ?

He decided for the former.

Where the lamps were brightest, the
knot of foolhardy loiterers the most numerous,
there was no Marian, and Paul
Cazalet, who felt chilly, was about to
return to the house, when his evil genius
suggested to him that he would saunter
through the dark and lonely alleys of the
garden.

He had not proceeded very far before
he fancied he heard voices, and paused
a moment to listen.

Ay, truly, and his wife's voice, there
was no mistaking It.

Who was her companion ?

Paul Cazalet would not have been
human If he had not waited for a moment
or two to ascertain.

Why did I marry Paul . ' Marian is
saying, in her fluent bad French ; ' for
no reason whatever but to revenge myself
on you.'

The words came clearly and incisively ;
Paul could not fail to hear each syllable.

He made a start as though at once to
enter the arbour from whence they proceeded,

but the man's answer arrested
him.

De Gourlay was the speaker.

Cherie, if I had only known you loved
me ; but I always thought you loved that
hateful Paul. He had already won the
love of Madame Jocelyn  that he should
supplant me with you, too, was almost
more than I could bear.'

Poor dear papillon ! But now you
do believe that I really love you.'

Paul Cazalet clenched his fists, and
stood for a second or two hesitating in
the darkness. To make an immediate
descent on this unworthy couple was his
first idea ; but, no, he could not create
a scandal in Madame d'Erville's house.

He would have patience, and bide his
time. So he retraced his steps, with a
dignity which made the sorrow and anger
expressed on his face only the more imposing,
and waited at the door till Marian,
her tite-a4ete over, should choose to
return to the house.

Rien n arrive que liinprdvu is, however,
a well-established saying.

He waited and waited, but Marian and
the Vicomte de Gourlay did not come ;
and at last some one told him that
Madame Cazalet was in the front hall,
that she seemed very soitffrante, and was
asking for him to take her home.

Evidently there was another entrance
from the garden that Paul knew nothing
of, for when he arrived in the hall, he
saw Marian cloaked and seated in a
\2iX<g fauteiiil.

Black rings were round her eyes, her
face was white as ashes, she was shivering
from head to foot.

This was no time for reproaches. A
carriage, and to get her home at once was
all he thought of.

To the future he must confide the
reckoning he had to settle with his flighty
wife.

A LITTLE DAUGHTER.

DOCTOR who was at Madame
d'Erville's soiree, was standing
beside Madame Cazalet when
Paul arrived in the hall. He
accompanied them home to the Avenue
Montaigne, and for the greater part of
the night was in attendance on the
reckless young woman, who was in a
high state of fever and delirium.

She had gone out ailing, and not fit
to endure the heat and the crowd, as
Paul had ventured to suggest to her ;
and sitting in the garden for a long
spell in the chill and damp air, not yet
heated by the summer's sun, had brought

on such a violent amount of illness,
that it was doubtful whether her life
might not be in jeopardy.

Under these circumstances, Paul felt
that the explanation he intended to have
had with Marian ere he slept must be
deferred.

For the time he must try, as much
as possible, to forget the conversation
he had overheard in the garden, and
tend and be good to the woman he
had just learnt had no love for him,
but whose affections  shallow, doubtless,
though they were  were, for the time at
all events, lavished on the foolish little
vicomte, who was more or less the
laughing-stock of the coterie in which
he moved. It was a very galling and
unendurable position this in which Paul
found himself  a deceived and injured
husband, compelled to keep silence over
his wrongs ; still it was only another
thorn added to the martyr's crown he
seemed destined to wear as gracefully
as he could. He must bow his head
under the constant laceration, and do

VOL. II. K

the work set before him as bravely as
was in his power. Yet the agony he
suffered when, during the watches of
the night, he lingered every now and
again by Marian's bed, no tongue can
tell.

Blanche d'Albin's rash words had
awakened slumbering memories in his
heart, memories which he hoped had
been stifled for ever, and they rose up
before him, taking very tangibly a
beloved form, as ever and again De
Gourlay's name passed Marian's lips in
her incoherent muttering.

So several nights passed, so several
mornings dawned ; for Marian's state
did not improve, and it seemed doubtful
whether she would ever rally.

A nurse had been sent for, more
doctors had been called in, and the
once gay little hotel in the Avenue
Montaigne had assumed the saddest and
most mournful of aspects. For hours
Paul would remain in his studio, gazing
on a canvas, but unable to paint a
stroke, a dark mood upon him preventing

him from going near the woman
whose own lips had testified to her
deception ; then kindlier, more generous
feelings would arise, and he would oo
into the sick-room where she lay tossing
fitfully and recognising; no one, till at
last among her meanings and muttering
he would hear a name that jarred upon
his nerves, and set the hot blood coursing
through his frame. Then he would
stroll away and leave her once more to
the care of nurses and paid attendants,
for Madame Cazalet had no relations in
Paris. As soon as Mrs Wallis had married
her daughter, she had gone off to
Australia to join her husband.

At last, after this trying state of affairs
had gone on for several days, Marian
got a little better, and, though very
weak, was calm and tranquil. There
was no more raving about De Gourlay
and her lost happiness ; and Paul Cazalet,
who dared for the present say nothing
of the subject which was nearest his
heart, for fear of producing a relapse,
kept as much as possible out of her

room ; on the plea that she was to be
kept very quiet this was not difficult
to effect without creating unpleasant
observation.

From the first moment he had been
introduced to her, Madame de Brissac
had been Paul's friend ; she was so now
most devotedly. She came every day,
sometimes twice, to see how Marian was,
and that the nursing and arrangements
were perfectly conducted, so as to be
no trouble to Paul ; and at last one
morning she came into his studio, where
he was, as usual, sitting staring at a
canvas, and gently told him the news
which would have made most men's hearts
bound with rapture.

'A little daughter had been born to
him, and both she and Marian were progressing
favourably ! '

The tears welled into Paul's eyes ashe
heard these tidings, and the little
colour his cheeks had worn of late forsook
them.

A little daughter ! ' he repeated ; * and
she is /r child. Oh! Madame de Brissac!'

and the strong man hid away his face, for
he could not suppress his sobs.

It was the first time Paul had made
any allusion to his unhappy marriage to
his old friend ; but she had been reading
very clearly between the lines of late,
and she knew almost as much as Paul
could tell her.

She grasped his hand warmly, and
bade him ' take heart, the event which
had just taken place must awaken new
feelings in Marian's breast, and for her
child's sake she would give up the gay
follies in which she had hitherto indulged,
and very likely become a thoroughly
practical, stay-at-home mother.'

Paul shook his head. He knew too
much to believe it possible that such a
change could be effected all at once.
For Marian to give up follies and become
a worthy wife and mother must,
he felt certain, be the result of little short
of a miracle. Perhaps Madame de Brissac
was really of the same opinion ; still, she
was not altogether striving to deceive Paul,
but was rather herself hoping against hope.

Will you not come to see your daughter
? ' she asked, after a few minutes,
when the first shock of his emotion was
over.

He bowed his head in acquiescence,
and followed her into the room, where
a tiny bundle of lace and soft muslin was
lying on the nurse's lap.

He took the infant up very tenderly
and gently in his arms, and gazing at
her fixedly for a few seconds, kissed her,
and gazed again.

Those around thought he was seeking
for a likeness, but, in truth, he was mentally
promising to himself and the child
that whatever difficulties or separation
might come between himself and Marian,
that delicate little being should never
suffer, nor know what it was to want a
father's love.

He returned the child to the nurse
and bade her to be very kind and
good to the tiny little creature, and that
he would know how to reward her
handsomely.

The nurse, who was accustomed to

much more effusion and warmth on similar
occasions, thought that ' ce monsieur'
looked far more as if he were presiding
at a funeral than at the birth
of his first-born ; but she set it down
in her mind to the fact of his being
half an Englishman ; and then she
began to croon and warble over the
child.

Paul meanwhile followed Madame de
Brissac, who led him to Marian. For
the first time since he had heard the
conversation in the garden, he leant over
her and kissed her brow, murmuring, ashe
did so, some kindly words, in which
he expressed a hope that the arrival of
their little daughter would be the commencement
of a new epoch of happiness
for them both, and that the union between
them, which they had promised to maintain
for aye, might be strengthened.

He would give Marian the chance of
becoming the good wife and mother of
which Madame de Brissac had talked ;
perhaps while she lay there quietly dawdling
back to convalescence, she might

think of those few words, and let them
take root in her heart.

For the present, all they seemed to do
was to astonish her. She opened her
eyes very wide and stared at Paul.

You always take everything so seriously,'
she said ; ' what on earth has that
little baby to do with epochs and unions ? '

Of course he did not answer her ; it
would have been unwise at that time ;
but, merely telling her to keep quiet and
get well, he went away back to the studio
to brood once more in solitude over the
events of the morning.

If the child had been a boy, Paul would
have been better pleased ; for though, like
most men, he had a predilection for little
girls, still he felt that a boy would have
been more in his own keeping, and he
dreaded the effect of Marian's influence
on the young life that had just come into
being.

It was scarcely possible, unless the
miracle was wrought, about which he
doubted more and more each time he
thought of it, that Marian would bring

up a girl to be the perfectly Ideal
woman Paul fondly hoped his daughter
would become.

But it was useless to speculate on that
distant future. Who knows what a day
may bring forth ? He must keep the
subject as much as possible from his
mind for the present, and when the
time came for his child's opening mind
to be affected by surrounding events, he
must himself keep the atmosphere in
which she dwelt as pure and free from
taint as he possibly could.

And Paul Cazalet, in striving to philosophise
about the future, showed his
wisdom ! Before the infant who had
been born that day was old enough to
toddle about his knees, and call him
father, circumstances would probably arise
that would place her education on a
totally different basis from anything that
Paul anticipated, as he sat gloomily analysing
his duty in the studio where, of late,
his palette and brushes lay unused, and
the dry paint on his canvas told a sad
tale of wasted genius.

Days passed on, and the grey, pained
look did not leave Paul's face, though
the lite daughter got plumper and
healthier as she grew, and the nurses
said she was the very image of her dear
papa.

Marian, too, was progressing towards
convalescence with marvellous rapidity,
and was as gay and insouciante as if the
severe hand of illness had never laid her
low. As for the scene in the garden
at Madame Greville's reception, the
chances are that Marian had entirely
forgotten all about it.

Prospects seeming thus fair in his
home, outsiders would have wondered
what cause Paul could possibly have for
yielding to so much grave thought.

And among those outside his life who
speculated about what made him look by
turns stern and sad, was Marian, when
occasionally it occurred to her to bestow
a little of her leisure on her husband.

Perhaps he had heard something about
Mrs Jocelyn, Marian suggested to herself;
for she could never divest herself of the

idea that she had cleverly stolen Paul
away from the woman he loved.

No explanation had taken place between
them, and the little daughter was already
six weeks old.

What was Paul's reason for thus waiting,
he who had been so very anxious
severely to reprimand Marian only a few
weeks ago ?

He was giving her a chance of redeeming
her ways ; if the birth of her child
would, as Madame de Brissac suggested
that it might do, stay her frivolity, and
awaken in her heart true and tender
maternal instincts, he would not for
worlds that one rash or ill-judged word
of his should counterbalance the natural
influences for good.

It was because he already stood trembling
with regret on the brink of a bitter
disappointment, that the dark, sad look
intensified on Paul Cazalet's honest, frank
face.

That this state of affairs cannot goon
long, he feels most keenly. He could
not live this life of domestic martyrdom

for years  it would kill or drive him
mad.

No sympathy, no reciprocity between
him and the woman who should be the
partner of his hopes and joys ; and he
who, regarding marriage as a sacrament,
had ever felt that it was a blissful and
honourable state, only to be approached
carefully and on bended knees ! What
a terrible, terrible mistake he had made
when, blindfolded by Marian's wiles, he
had been cajoled into believing she would
devote her life to making his happiness.

Could it be possible that poor Lili and
Le Vieux had both been as deceived ashe
was about the real character of this
woman }

On the morrow the little infant was
to be christened. Paul had suggested,
nay, almost begged, that she might be
called Lili, but Marian vowed she would
not have that name ; she was superstitious,
she said, and it would be almost
like asking for Lili's fate for their child.

Paul gave in with a sigh ; he felt he
could have loved the little being who

had such a tender claim on him with
even a deeper love if only she had
been called Lili.

He turned, with a feeling akin to loathing,
from the many euphonious names
Marian suggested, and found himself at last
compelled ungraciously to accept Ethel
Pauline Mary, as the names by which the
tiny bundle of shillings and lace was to beheld
at the font by her godmother.

We can call her Lina,' was all Paul
said, very simply, when the important
matter was at length decided, and, whatever
her mother might choose to designate
her, Lina his daughter was from
that day forward to Paul.

After the christening, of course, there
was to be a rdttnion.

Could Marian exist without collecting
people together on any possible pretext ?
Yes, the merry-ground was set in
motion once more, that Paul saw full
well. With the first symptoms of returning
strength, she had been out to
a ddjezlner and to the Concours Hip-pique,
' just,' as she said, * to see how

the world looked after having been shut
away from it for so long.'

Now that she was pronounced quite
well, and the baby was actually going
to be christened, of course she must
have a party.

Paul was a lunatic to expect she would
wish to do otherwise thany/r the birth
of her child. Added to which, she begged
him to understand, once and for all, that
she had no intention of being shut up.
If he expected that she was going about
at the heels of a nourricey wearing a
crown of ribands and long streamers
to her cap, and muffled up in a big
cloak, as the French women did, he
was mightily mistaken, for she should
do nothing of the kind. If the nomrice
could not be trusted, well then, they had
better get an English nurse to look after
her, or old Justine could do it. What
was the use of old Justine, if she could
not look after Paul's child 1

Paul staggered beneath this avalanche
of words, as it descended on him the
day before the christening.

Vainly had both he and Madame de
Brissac reckoned on Marian's reformation
; the advent of Httle Lina would
count for little in brinorino- it about.

And Paul's evil prognostications proved
all too true. The very evening of their
child's christening, the storm which had
been hovering on the matrimonial horizon
of late burst.

Since Paul had decided in his own
mind to let things take their course for
the present, and, for the sake of the little
creature who had just seen the light, to
bridge over, if Marian would have it so,
the chasm that lay between them, he
had, of course, made no objection to De
Gourlay's presence at the party which his
wife had elected to give.

But, naturally, he meant to watch the
occurrences at that party. It was the first
time, to his knowledge, that Marian had
seen the little vicomte since her illness,
and according to their meeting now, Paul
would know how to trust his wife's discretion
in the future. He might as well
have saved himself the trouble of both

hope and speculation on the subject, for
as to discretion, Marian did not possess
even a minimum. De Gourlay's compliments
and shallow character suited her
far better than Paul's graver and more
serious nature ; and every hour in the
day she wished she had become De
Gourlay's wife.

Strange that it was Mrs Jocelyn who
had unwillingly spoiled the one marriage,
and more or less brought about the other.

If the Vicomte de Gourlay had not been
temporarily mad on the subject of Nelly
Jocelyn, he would most certainly have
proposed to Marian and her money-bags.

It was too late now, of course, for a consideration
of these things ; but still Marian
clung to De Gourlay with a pertinacity
that showed  however much she might
glory in bearing the same name as the
great painter  she infinitely preferred the
shallow little vicomte. She received him
on the evening of the christening party
with an amount of effusion that absolutely
sickened Madame d'Albin, who was standing
near ; and she forthwith registered a

firm resolution that she would depart out
of that house as soon as it was possible to
get her carriage, and that never, as long
as Marian was its mistress, would she cross
its threshold again. How Paul could put
up with it, she could not imagine.

If she had known Paul better, or looked
into his eyes more carefully, she would
have seen that he had no intention of
putting up with it ; only he had a strong
power of endurance, and did not intend,
if he could help it, that his marital wrongs
should become a public scandal.

By two o'clock in the morning everyone
was gone, and Marian threw herself
listlessly into the corner of a large sofa
in the drawing-room, saying that she was
literally overcome with fatigue. This observation
was addressed to Paul as he was
coming into the room after speeding the last
guest. He answered her very gravely, 

I am sorry you are tired, Marian,
as I have a word or two to say to you
before you go to sleep.'

Tiens ! how wrathful and superb you
look ! What is it ? '

VOL. II. L

It is, that unless you and I are to
have a serious quarrel, these doors must
be closed on the Vicomte de Gourlay.'

Hein I jealous, par exemple. Why,
Paul, I should not have given you credit
for being so exceedingly foolish.'

The angry colour flushed up into Paul's
face.

'Jealousy means love,' he answered,
wrathfully and indiscreetly. ' We will
not discuss the subject of jealousy ; remember
only that I will not have my
name made the byword and laughingstock
of the whole of Paris.'

'And suppose I do not choose to
obey,  do not choose to give up my
friend M. de Gourlay'

There will be a rupture between us
that will be productive of happiness to
neither.'

You mean that you will turn me
out into the street ? Best to speak
plainly, Paul, while you are about it.'

The coarseness of her answer disgusted
him, but he replied very gently, 

No, Marian ; you are my child's

mother. I have no wish to part from
you, unless you push matters too far
for even my endurance.'

I can't even conceive what you mean,'
she said, shrugging her shoulders, and
trying a little braggadocio.

Then I had perhaps better explain
that I have been aware of your love
for De Gourlay ever since the night of
Madame Greville's soire, when I casually
overheard some of your conversation
with him in the garden ; that events
which have occurred since then have
necessarily tied my tongue you are
aware, but the moment has arrived when
it becomes incumbent on me to tell you
that you must give up the acquaintance
of this man. I do not wish for any
disagreeable discussion about the matter,
and leaving it entirely to your good
sense and good taste to act in accordance
with your wifely duty, I shall never allude
to it again, unless you compel me to do so.'

Thus speaking, he left the room, hoping
almost against hope that his words would
have the desired effect.

An eavesdropper and a tyrant  two
charming attributes for a husband. Good
gracious ! what is the use of being married,
I wonder, if one is not to be allowed
to flirt ? Notwithstanding your grand
stern airs, M. Paul Cazalet, it strikes me
I mean to do as I like,' was the murmured
soliloquy as he left her.

It would not have inspired him with
much confidence had he heard it.

A RETROSPECT.

Arthur BRAITHWAITE,

whose real name was Jocelyn,
had escaped from Portland.
The firm in which he had
carried on the swindling transactions which
had procured for him fourteen years of
penal servitude, traded under the name
of Braithwaite, Ferrier & Company. The
Company was generally supposed to be
John Wisden, but he had managed to slip
so neatly out of the whole transaction
that it was utterly impossible to obtain
any direct evidence against him. Nor
was Arthur Braithwaite's real name made
public, partly because John Wisden had

interested himself in keeping it concealed,
partly because, having no absolute connection
with the case, it had not been considered
necessary to drag a respectable
name into the mire of fraud.

Arthur Jocelyn, alias Braithwaite, had
married about two years before this trouble
had come upon him,  married pretty Nelly
Strickland, and every one thought what a
good marriage she was making  a Jocelyn,
and a man of independent means. Even
with her money  for Nelly had her own
little fortune, left her by her father, settled
on her when she married she was a fortunate
and a successful girl.

Mrs Strickland, dwelling in the old
house at Fulham, was well pleased with
Nelly's marriage, as in due course of time
she was with Dot's, only, as she frequently
said, she always liked Arthur Jocelyn best,
there was such a frank, honest look in his
face.

Poor, querulous invalid, shut up among
her ailments and medicaments, what did she
know of the workings of the great world as
it revolved at the very door of her house .-

She never was told that Arthur Jocelyn's
business name was Braithwaite, and when
the trial came on, she in no wise guessed
that these two men were one and the same
person ; but glancing over the newspaper
account, cursorily decided, in the off-hand
style in which people are apt to settle
other men's affairs, that this Braithwaite
had got his deserts, and so she left it.

Nor did she ever know aught to the
contrary. Nelly and Arthur were abroad
when a telegram from Joseph Ferrier bade
Arthur to come home without delay. He
did so, leaving Nelly to await his return,
or follow at her leisure.

The next she heard of him and his
affairs was from the lips of John Wisden,
who told her that the bubble had burst,
that both Braithwaite and Ferrier were
in custody awaiting their trial, and that
since the name of Jocelyn would probably
not transpire, Arthur wished his wife to
remain quietly where she was, and behave
as if nothing unusual was likely to happen.

Vainly Nelly implored to be allowed to
go to England to her mother ; John Wis-den

was positive that she must obey her
husband, and bravely wait in silence for
the result.

Oh, those weeks of solitary suspense
and almost mortal agony  for of course
John Wisden, having fulfilled his mission,
returned to England as fast as steam
could take him, and Nelly was left alone
in an Italian town, with no companion buta
maid she knew little of.

When she married Arthur Jocelyn she
had believed she loved him, and was
prepared to devote her life to him ; but
she had soon discovered that the man
her girlish fancy had dressed with the
raiment of the ideal was not worthy of
the garb she had given him, and so, her
feelings for him growing every day more
and more tepid, she could, at the moment
when these evil tidings reached her,
scarcely be designated as a happy wife.

Dreadful danger, such as Arthur Jocelyn
was then incurring, awakens, however,
some feeling, and thinking of the happy
days of their courtship, there were hours
when Nelly's heart would bleed for her

wretched husband, and she felt as if she
would willingly evoke the supernatural in
order to save him ; then a storm of angry
passion would succeed these kindly emotions,
 rage against the man who, knowing
himself to be a swindler and a thief, had
dared to blacken her fair life by bestowing
on her his foul name, would usurp every
place in her mind.

And so, wrestling with these contending
emotions, which well-nigh maddened her,
time crawled wearily on in the beautiful
sunlit Italian town, where all externally
looked so bright and fair.

No letters reached her, no English
papers except those that John Wisden
chose to send ; for no one, not even her
mother or Dot, knew where she was,
beyond that she was travelling in Italy
with her husband ; and she had promised
John Wisden that she would not write to
any one till the trial was over.

At last John Wisden came back, ashe
had promised he would. Ah, how
earnestly Nelly had looked for his arrival
longed for him ; for in those days she

believed in him as her husband's friend,
and, consequently, her own ; and with
almost a cry of joy she saw him enter
the room in the little hotel, where the
simple-minded Italians had been very good
to the desolate young wife.

Her note of joy was, however, speedily
changed into a sob of anguish, when
she was told that the man who, notwithstanding
his crimes and shortcomings,
was her husband, had been sentenced
to fourteen years' penal servitude, while
Joseph Ferrier, who John Wisden assured
her was the real swindler and by far the
greater blackguard of the two, had only
been condemned for five years. John
Wisden was very tender and regardful
of Nelly as he told her this terrible
news, so tender that she clung to him
even as she would have done to a
brother, laying her head on his shoulder,
and sobbing in the bitter agony of her
aching heart. She did not see the look
that beamed on John Wisden's face asher
hair almost brushed his cheek ; but,
knowing no guile, having no thought

but of Arthur's disgrace, how could she
guess at the wild love for herself which
John Wisden was allowing to agitate
every fibre of his frame. Nor did he
intend that she should discover it yet ;
he must see her through this trouble first,
and then ask for his reward.

He did not even speak, but let her
sob on till she was well-nigh exhausted ;
then and then only did he suggest a
solution of her oft-repeated question : 

What is to become of me ? What can
I do?'

Be brave ; play your part in this
wretched drama with courage, and you
will keep the world's respect and your
own position.'

What respect or position could she
ever have in the future ? '

John Wisden answered her querying
glances, speaking very seriously, 

Arthur Jocelyn is dead ! He has died
of cholera in a small town in north
Italy. It is easy to fabricate a certificate
of burial, should it be necessary ; three
days ago  poor Nelly  he was carried to

his grave. You must send for crape
and widow's mourning to Eno-land ; and
since no one connects Braithwaite with
Jocelyn, your tale will obtain full credence.'


But it is absurd,  a farce. I cannot
act a farce,  a life-long lie. Pray don't
put it before me, Mr Wisden.'

For your mother's sake, Mrs Jocelyn,
if not for your own, I think you will do
this, when you have got over the first
flush of your trouble, and cooler judgment
prevails ; besides, Arthur wishes it.
He bade me give you a message to this
effect.'

He  wishes  me  to  do  this ? '

He wishes that the name of Jocelyn
should, if possible, remain unsullied, since
it was his father's, and consigns it to your
keeping as a sacred trust from him.'

Nelly's sobs had entirely ceased since
this new licht was thrown on the future
she was bidden to frame in so strange a
mould ; and she sat, her clasped hands in
her lap, pondering over the matter from
every available point of reasoning.

Do not decide to-day,' John Wisden
urged ; ' only bear in mind that the
felon's wife will be avoided by every
honest man and woman, while Mrs Jocelyn,
widow, will be able to hold up her head
with the best in Europe.'

But if the lie should be discovered ? '

Impossible. If you deny all connection
with Braithwaite, it will be too
difficult to prove for any one to take the
trouble. Besides, as far as I can see, it
will not be worth any one's while.'

But in fourteen sears Arthur will come
to life again.'

In fourteen years ! You do look forward,
my dear Mrs Jocelyn. So many
things may happen in fourteen years ;
besides, Arthur could never appear again
as Jocelyn. Do, pray, leave the future to
chance, and be prevailed on to do the best
you can with the present.'

The present you suggest for me seems
to be surrounded with so much difficulty ! '

My dear lady, if you will only embark
on it, you will see how perfectly easy it
is!'

Alas, alas ! There does not seem to
be anything easy left for me,  nothing but
dark clouds all around.'

And laying her head on the cushion of
the sofa on which she was sitting, Nelly
once more gave way to a violent paroxysm
of weeping. The maid at this juncture
came into the room with a message, and
John Wisden seized the opportunity to
effect his object by a coup de theatre.

He saw full well that it would be sometime
before Nelly would be persuaded of
her own free will to decide for the course
he suggested.

Turning to the maid, who more than
half suspected that he was the bearer of
bad news, he said, 

We must do the best we can for your
poor mistress. Your master has died
very suddenly of cholera on his way hereto
join her.'

The maid, who was an Italian, exclaimed
in horror at the intelligence.
Nelly wept more vehemently as she heard
the startling lie uttered with such calm
assurance ; the Italian bent over her and

with low, cooing words sought to soothe
her, bathing her head with eau de
Cologne, and performing other kind
womanly offices. John Wisden said he
would write a few lines informing Mrs
Strickland of the sad fact, and requesting
her to send some proper mourning habiliments
for the bereaved widow.

And so, in a moment of such abject
misery that she scarcely knew right from
wrong, Nelly, at the instance of this
scheming John Wisden, was started on a
path from which she could never turn back
without covering herself with obloquy.

And wherefore John Wisden had done
this, what private object he could possibly
have, it would have puzzled most people
to discover. To Nelly in her simple-mindedness
it did not occur that he had
any beyond sheer friendliness to Arthur
Jocelyn's wretched, desolate wife.

A very short time revealed to her that
John Wisden was not so disinterested as
she had believed him to be.

Ever since Jocelyn, alias Braithwaite,
had first introduced his friend to his beautiful

wife, John Wisden's heart had been
filled with envy. That this man, whom
he knew to be as thoroughly and utterly
unprincipled as he was himself, should
have married this bewitching young
creature, who had not only looks but
money, was a piece of good luck that John
Wisden grudged him from his heart; and no
sooner was Jocelyn convicted than it struck
him what a clever elinor it would be for him
to possess himself of Nelly and her gold.

The message from Arthur telling her to
say that he was dead, in fact, the whole
plan and plot of the affair, he had concocted
during his journey to Italy to break
the news to her of her husband's conviction.

But John Wisden was reckoning without
his host. She had no deep love for
Arthur Jocelyn, it was true ; the little she
once had, or imagined she had, he had
long since taken every pains to kill ; still
from the first moment that John Wisden
began to make insidious love proposals to
her  proposals that in truth she barely
at first understood  she took him in utter
aversion.

He could not help seeing the effect of
his words, and being a careful man, he concealed
his intentions with more care,
hoping that Mrs Jocelyn's desolate state,
and the fact of her becoming accustomed
to his presence, for he remained in the
little Italian town, and was always hovering
about her, would at last make her
think that she could not live without him.

So days passed into weeks, and a
month might now be reckoned since
Arthur Jocelyn's reported death. Nelly,
instead of clinging to John Wisden, was
beginning to be terribly bored by his
presence. He was the only individual
who knew the lie she was living, and
for that reason, if for no other, she
hated the very sight of him, and would
most gladly have freed herself from
him for ever. In fact, she was already
making plans to leave Italy, and begin
for herself the new life, of which she
decided she would make the best, since
for that purpose she had taken such a
terrible weight on her shoulders. To
England she was resolved that she

VOL. II. M

would not go for the present. Since
she could not meet her mother and
Dot with clear eyes and open brow,
she preferred to remain abroad till she
had grown more accustomed to deception.
What she intended to do she
was probably revolving only very
vaguely in her mind : at all events,
she did not confide her views to John
Wisden ; when all on a sudden a storm
burst, and parting the clouds in the
dark firmament above her, a gleam of
light seemed to show her a pathway
out of her present difficult position.

She had dined tolerably early, as is
the Italian custom, and after dinner
been prevailed on by the man who
was each day becoming more and more
of a bete noire, to go for a stroll by the
clear blue Mediterranean, on which the
moon was pouring floods of lustrous
silver light. Had Nelly Jocelyn guessed
for a moment the vile proposal John
Wisden was going to make to her while
they meandered peacefully in that glorious
scene, very certainly she would

have declined to accompany him ; for
though Nelly had not had the strength
of mind to confront the world as Arthur
Braithwaite's wife, but had allowed this
man to shelter her from censure with
a lie, she was too pure-minded to listen
to the proposals of an avaricious sensualist.


What Nelly Jocelyn became in the
future, after she had made the first false
step and played a deceitful part for two
or three years, was very different from
what she was when she stood gazing
on the waters of the Mediterranean at
John Wisden's side, and told him the
black villain and traitorous friend she
thought him. But strong words and bitter
reproaches, however sarcastically delivered,
were not likely to thwart in his designs
a man of John Wisden's stamp. Nelly's
person, and, above all, Nelly's money,
were particularly pleasing to him ; and
if he only could persuade her into thinking
how far more safe and stable her
position would be as his so-called wife
he cared little for the terms of opprobrium

and hatred that she heaped on
him. But Nelly was already beginning
to learn that to act and not to talk was
necessary, if there was a purpose to effect.

Calmly and deliberately she made her
plans. She gave her coloured clothes to
the Italian maid, with a month's wages
in advance, and told her to go home to
her people, where she would let her know
when she wanted her again, as she herself
was going away on business for a short time.

Having got rid of the Italian, who
might have told tales and helped John
Wisden to trace her, she packed the few
mourning habiliments she possessed, besides
those she wore, and took the advantage
of Wisden's absence for twenty-four
hours to start off alone.

She would take a French maid as soon
as she had crossed the frontier, she decided,
and live so quietly and unobtrusively
for a while that John Wisden would
never find her.

In reckoning on so easy an escape
from him, Nelly Jocelyn would have found
that her calculations were utterly at fault

had she not been assisted by one of those
unusual freaks of fortune which are every
now and again the luck of some people.

Even while John Wisden was raging in
the first flush of his disappointment over
Nelly's departure, the news reached him,
that in consequence of a law suit entailed
by Arthur Jocelyn, alias Braithwaite's
conviction, his immediate presence in
England was imperative.

Without then even attempting to trace
the fugitive, whom it would not have
been so very difficult to find, John
Wisden started once more for London.

There business of a very troublesome
and bewildering kind put love and the
desire to obtain Nelly's fortune entirely
out of his head for a time ; then followed
a journey to America, in order that he
might be out of the way till affairs with
which he was connected were more
settled ; so that when he at last returned
to his old haunts, retiedged and able
once more to hold up his head, his fever
for Nelly had subsided, and the clue to
her whereabouts, which he might once

so easily have obtained, could not betaken
up without difficulty, since even
Mrs Strickland assured him that she did
not know her elder daughter's address.

Nor did John Wisden take much
trouble to discover it. He saw Dot
when he went to the ' Retreat ' to inquire
about the fictitious widow, and he
soon made up his mind that this would
be an easier conquest,  a real bond-fide
marriage, to boot ; for, of course, before
he thought of putting his head into the
matrimonial noose, he ascertained that
Dot's fortune quite equalled that of her
elder sister. Hence it came about that
from the hour Nelly Jocelyn left the
Italian town where she had awakened to
the misfortunes and horrors of her life,
she had never set eyes on John Wisden
till she met him on board the steamer on
her night journey from Calais to Dover.

LE DOCTEUR GO U JON.

HE result of Nelly Jocelyn's conversation
with Joseph Ferrier
was abject terror ; the outcome
of that terror was flight.
For at least an hour after her husband's
accomplice had left her, she sat without
moving, trembling from head to foot, an
ashen pallor on her face, of which the
very lips were white.

Her husband, the felon Arthur Braith-
waite, was free !

He might arrive at any moment, and,
claiming her for his wife, crumble into
atoms the false position in which she had
been revelling up to the present hour.

What should she do  what say ? Ah,
If she had not acted this deception at
John Wisden's bidding, how far more
peaceful, even as a felon's wife, would she
be now.

And ever and aealn the impose of Paul
Cachalot, even though she had bidden him
go and be happy with another, rose before
her eyes ; and the knowledge that erelong
he might know of her ignominy,
made a tenfold sense of horror crush her
even to the very earth.

What should she do ? What should
she do ? ' repeatedly she wailed.

Arthur Braithwaite was in England,
hiding in or about London,' so Joseph
Ferrier had told her, but that, considering
the comfortable little nest she had there,
he would advise his ' old pal ' to come to
Paris and assume his own name of Jocelyn,
the chances being that he would thus
escape detection for a long while.

Nelly was too abjectly frightened to
analyse this suggestion and prove to herself
that its practicability, without speedy
detection, was absolutely impossible ; hence

the man's words had, in all probability, no
other meaning than to lay her and her
feelings at his mercy, in order to extort
money.

That the storm should burst while she
was dwelling among her new acquaintances
in Paris, and the lie she had been living
for the last three years be laid bare for
their discussion and disapproval, she felt
she could not endure ; and she knew there
was no means of escape but flight.

While she was still contemplating the
exceeding difficulty and danger of the
situation in which she, by her own foolishness,
had placed herself, John Wisden,
anxious for news of her interview with
Joseph Ferrier, came in.

Nelly turned on him excitedly, and upbraided
him in no measured language for
the advice he had given her when Arthur
Braithwaite was convicted.

He was very gentle and considerate
with her,  told her he had done what he
could in her interest and for the best, and
did all he knew to soothe and console her
now,

It was very evident that John Wisden
was himself put on tenter-hooks by the
discovery that Arthur Braithwaite was at
liberty, and that while he smiled at Joseph
Ferrier's idea that he would dare to come
there and molest his wife, he was none the
less panic-stricken on his own account, ashe
contemplated what might result for himself
in the sudden escape from jail of his
old friend.

Nelly could not fail to perceive that he
was personally and selfishly anxious ; but
she was far from guessing how glaring the
revelations were that Arthur Braithwaite
could make on the subject of John Wis-den's
false friendship and swindling transactions,
if he only dared to open his
mouth.

Much, too, that had occurred since he
was in prison, he would find out now that
he was at large ; and nothing, Wisden
knew full well, could save him from a horrible
exposure, but the fact that Braith-
waite was in hiding. Under these circumstances,
he might find agents to do the
work of injury, and no one Wisden was

aware would be more bitter and relentless
than Joseph Ferrier.

That he and Dot should leave Paris
at once, he had quite decided before he
came to talk matters over with Nelly,
and that, by way of prolonging their
honeymoon, they would cross the Pyrenees
and visit Spain, was the route he
had selected. To judge from this selection,
John Wisden evidently did not feel
so very sure that a prison door might
not be opened for him if he did not
escape to a country beyond the radius
of the extradition laws.

It was some satisfaction to him to
learn that Arthur Braithwaite was not
in France ; nor did he very much expect
that he would appear there. The
French police were always too much on
the alert for Paris to be by any means
as safe an abiding-place as London ;
and, as for Joseph Ferrier's idea that he
would come and live peacefully in Paris
under his own name, he treated it with
scorn.

Yet when Nelly told him that she must

go away into some quiet country place
where no one knew her, and her acts and
looks would not be at the mercy of her
friends' remarks, he did not gainsay her,
for he felt that perhaps for a time it were
safer that she should be out of the capital.

Within a week then of the day when
Joseph Ferrier had stopped Mrs Jocelyn's
carriage in the Bois, Mr and Mrs John
Wisden started for Spain, and Nelly
shut up her apartment, and leaving it
in the charge of old Andre, with Marie for
her sole companion went a long journey
by train, and took possession of a desolate-looking
villa that had been for some time
to let, and which stood on a hill overlooking
a tiny village in the department of the
Puy-de-D6me.

One of Nelly's Parisian friends had told
her of this chalet one day in the course of
conversation as belonging to a cousin of
hers, and being a good spot for a summer
residence to any one who wished to explore
the volcanic country in the midst of which
it stood, but never for a moment imagined
that the fashionable, fascinating Mrs

Jocelyn would herself care to remain in so
far-away and desolate a spot.

Nor did Nelly's departure for Auvergne
pass without many a comment, Paul Cabaret's
name, moreover, being very freely mentioned
in allusion to this sudden flight.
But annoyed as Nelly under other circumstances
would have been at any action of
hers being ascribed to Cazalet's influence,
she would at the present moment have
preferred to have any amount of scandal
attached to her name, rather than that the
truth should be told.

In the Chalet Victor, where Mrs Jocelyn
exiled herself, but few voices, either breathing
of love or fate, scandal or commendation,
were likely to reach her. It was
situated in a picturesque country, and itself
almost buried among the thick foliage of
overhanging trees. All around it vegetation
was redundant; bubbling streams, somewhat
resembling Scotch burns, intersected
the pathways every here and there, and
the necessary damp being thus produced,
growth was more rapid and perfection
more speedily arrived at than in any

natural beauties Nelly had ever witnessed
before.

The house itself was a two-storied white
house with green persiennes, and Nelly
would sit for hours at one of the upper
windows gazing on the exuberant vegetation,
which seemed almost to grow even as
she watched it.

The interior abode too was pretty and
bright, somewhat scantily furnished, perhaps,
as though to remind you that the
dwellers there, as a rule, were mere butterflies,
who came to enjoy the brief pleasure
of the fleeting summer tide. And so in
fact they were. No one among the inhabitants
thought it strange that this Anglo-parisian
and her maid should come to the
Chalet Victor for a few weeks, especially
as there was a source of mineral waters in
the neighbourhood, whose lately-discovered
efficacy was being noted by the medical
profession, and the place had therefore
every chance of becoming fashionable. But
when the lazy summer months dwindled
into autumn, and ' la belle Veuve '  this was
Nelly's soubriquet among the country folks

around her home  gave no sign of moving,
but seemed likely to dwell on at the Chalet
Victor till the winter snows crowned the
surrounding heights, then surprise dwelt on
every countenance, and inquisitive people
asked each other what it meant.

Uiie Anglaise she is 2Lne Anglaise
they would answer with a shrug ;  ' bizarre
like the rest of her race ; no one else
would dream of living through a cold
winter in a summer-house like that. Why,
everybody went away, even the shopkeepers
and doctors. If she were ill, she
would have to cure herself, for no one
would be able to get to her for the
snow.'

But Nelly paid no heed to the many
warnings she received ; perhaps she
thought if no one could ore to her during
the winter months, neither could the evil
intelligence she was always dreading.

She had lived at the Chalet Victor in
peace, a fictitious peace, it was true ; still
she had no desire that the spell of her
repose should be broken. For nearly six
months had she dwelt there, and no sounds

from the outer world had come to trouble
her.

Once she had received a letter from
John Wisden, enclosing a few affectionate
lines from Dot, telling her they were
delighted with Spain, and meant to winter
there ; but there was no allusion in John
Wisden's letter to the dreaded subject that
lay so near her heart.

As for Joseph Ferrier, she had heard
nought of or from him since she gave
him the money he demanded, and she
concluded either that he had lost all trace
of her, or that, for reasons of his own,
he had judged it more advisable to leave
Paris.

Why, then, she asked herself, having
succeeded in obtaining the peace she
craved, should she wantonly throw it
away, and, like Eve of old, seek for the
very knowledge that would bring despair
and death in its train ?

Of course, if she emerged from her solitude
she might learn that Arthur Braith-
waite had been retaken, and she was once
more free for awhile, or that he had gone

to America, and while seeking to oain an
honest HveHhood, promised never to molest
her more.

But this was very problematical, and
Mrs Jocelyn dreaded problems. Another
reason, too, as powerful as her fear of
meeting Arthur Braithwaite, kept her in
seclusion at the Chalet Victor. What pleasure
could it be to her to return to Paris
and meet Paul Cazalet at every turn, with
Marian on his arm,  hear of nought from
every acquaintance who came in to see
her but the new Cazalet 77ienage.

No, she would stay where she was, 
send to Lyons for a supply of books,
materials for work, and some paint and
paint-brushes  a piano she already had 
and ' the world forgetting of the world
forgot,' she would have the doors and
windows made as air and water-tioht as
the exigencies of the place would permit ;
get in a large supply of wood, a good store
of all sorts of provisions, tinned meats incase
of prolonged snow, and, with Marie
for her sole companion, and cheery-faced
Philippine, a fillette du pays, to do the

VOL. II. N

work, she would make herself as proof as
possible against the inclemency she might
have to endure.

The hand of God was ever kinder than
the hand of man, that she had long since
discovered.

And thus it came about that Mrs
Jocelyn stayed on during the dreary
winter months at the Chalet Victor ; nor,
stranger to relate, did she find Marie
especially averse to the place ; the fact
being that Marie had not allowed the
grass of Auvergne to grow under her feet,
but had attracted the attention of a young
carnpagnai'd, whose father was the proprietor
of a large vacherie about three
miles off, and who was therefore one of
the h&s,t partis in that part of the country.

If Marie could peep into the future
with those sharp little eyes of hers, this
was not the last winter she should pass in
Auvergne, she thought to herself, when
madame told her that she thought of staying
on at the Chalet Victor.

So the time passed with scarcely as
much monotony and dulness as Nelly

had expected. She soon discovered
Marie's flirtation, and that served to
amuse her at odd moments ; besides,
Nelly Jocelyn was naturally far too 
an individual not to find
an abundance of occupation. The unforeseen,
too, which plays so conspicuous
a part in every life, helped her in the
new career on which she had entered.

Eccentric as the aborigines evidently
thought it was of her to remain in her
present quarters for the winter, she had
a neighbour who was no mean match for
her, if eccentricity were the question.

This neighbour was a man and a
Frenchman. During the summer months
Mrs Jocelyn had not even known of his
existence ; but when everyone was gone,
and the place began to look cheerless and
forlorn, with closed persiennes to all the
chalets around, she inquired who inhabited
the villa that seemed almost to hang on
the side of the hill, high up above her
windows on the opposite side, and where
every shutter was left open, every gleam
of light was courted with enipressement.

Oh ! that is the Chalet des Oiseaux
was the answer, as though that announcement
of itself spoke volumes ; but to Nelly
the book was closed.

Who lives at the Chalet des Oiseaux ? *
Mais le Docteur" Goujon!

Still Nelly was at fault.

Who is the Docteur Goujon } '

Madame, ne contain pas le Docteur
Goujon ? '

'Mais non!

Well then, madame, he is the eccentric
du pays!

In what way is he eccentric ? '

He lives all alone in that chalet  all
alone, that is to say, as far as human beings
are concerned ; but he is surrounded
with birds, dogs, cats, rabbits  every kind
of domestic animal, in fact.'

Ah ! How I should like to see them ! '

Never, madame, never. Le Docteur
Goujon is parfait with his animals, but
he is a regular tyrant and misanthrope
with the animals who can speak and think.'

I cannot believe that a man who loves
animals as you describe can be ill-natured

and unkind to his fellow-creatures,' said
Nelly dubiously.

Still, madame, it is even so.'

Who helps him in his work ? Does
he clean and feed the animals himself ? '

He is assisted In his labours by a 
boy.'

This is Indeed a curious history,' said
Nelly, whose interest in Doctor Goujon
was awakened from the very first moment
that she heard it ; and though she made
no desperate endeavour, no plans even, to
enter his dwelling by force or stratagem,
still her eyes were perpetually straying
in the direction of the Villa des Oiseaux,
and instead of steadily pursuing the occupation
on which she was supposed to be
engaged, she was ever watching the signs
of life at the opposite villa, and taking out
her opera-glasses to see if there was any
symptom of this wonderful Doctor Goujon
walking about his garden. But not a sign
of him could she discover : it was evident
that he hermetically sealed himself within
the four walls ; and yet the snows had not
yet descended.

What was he like? If she could only-see
him once she would be satisfied, but
an arm at a window arranging a curtain,
or placing a cage so that the sun's rays
should not fail to reach it, was all Nelly
Jocelyn occasionally saw of Doctor Goujon ;
and, after all, it might be the arm of his
deaf-and-dumb servant.

The pertinacious secrecy in which he
dwelt was really most irritating, and yet
it afforded Nelly an amount of speculation
and interest of which without it her life
would have been terribly void.

So excited was she in watching Doctor
Goujon that for a time she almost forgot
the existence of her own troubles.

Was he old ? Was he young ? Had
he had troubles that had turned him into
a misanthrope like herself ? Why, she
could almost write a book about all she
imagined Doctor Goujon's life to have been
and to be ; still never a clue was given,
never a sign of him appeared. And so
the chill autumn months slipped away,
and the storms of winter began to howl
among the leafless trees ; the snows which

had already for weeks capped le Ptcy de
Dome were beginning to be thick on the
lower lands.

Christmas was approaching, and by
Christmas, the country folks said, all communication
would be cut off with the surrounding
districts, for even the oxen-drawn
cigarette would not be able to get through
the heavy snow.

Still, dreary as the prospect seemed
before her, Nelly clung on to the Chalet
Victor and her occupation in watching, or
rather trying to catch sight of, her opposite
neighbour ; and none of the dire tales they
told her of what the approaching severe
weather would bring appeared in the very
least to terrify or even trouble her.

The flakes that had been coming down
thickly all day, and the familiar objects
she was wont to gaze on from her windows
had nearly all merged in a vast, shapeless
white arena, even the chalet on the hill was
scarcely discernible as evening approached,
so entirely a part of the snow-clad mountain
had it become.

Shut the persiennes, Marie, draw the

curtains close, put on some more logs, and
bring the last box of books that arrived
from Lyons to me here by the fire,' were
Mrs Jocelyn's orders as, standing by the
window being no longer of any avail, she
resolved to make herself as thoroughly
comfortable as the circumstances of her
present situation permitted ; and Marie was
nothing loth to obey her, for the dismal
appearance the exterior world presented
was assuredly most depressing.

So the chalet was rendered warm and
snug, and Mrs Jocelyn, as she lay back in
her chair by the fire, assured herself that
she was quite as comfortable and happy
there as she would be in her apartment in
Paris ; then she fell into a train of thought
in which Paul Cazalet took a very forward
place, and she decided that she would give
worlds to see him painting once again in
the atdlier in the Rue Mignon, and to
know that that marriage with Marian
Wallis had never come off

Even as she arrived at this conclusion,
and was kicking the logs in front of her
abstractedly with her foot, the front doorbell,

which even in the summer months
had been but seldom heard, awakened
the echoes with a vigorous peal.

Nelly started up from her chair, a
sudden fear taking possession of her, and
causing her to tremble in every limb. She
heard Marie undo the big bolts which she
had shot into their places above an hour
previously, she heard and even felt the
gust of cold air that entered as the door
was opened, yet she was powerless to
move or call out, as she would gladly have
done,  ' Keep the bolts drawn  let no one
in.'

Another second and Marie was advancing
into the salon, a smile on her face.

'Madame, it is le Docteur Goujon who
particularly wishes to speak to you.'

THE STRICKEN WAYFARER.

F Mrs Jocelyn in her many day-dreams
about Doctor Goujon
had pictured him to herself as
being an Adonis, what a shock
she must have received when he made this
sudden descent into her salon.

He was a Httle man, considerably below
the average height, and wore, as indeed the
weather necessitated, an entire Mackintosh
suit, surmounted by a cap, the flaps of
which were tied down over his ears, nor
did he attempt to remove it, though it gave
him an absolutely comic appearance, which
was considerably increased by his being the
possessor of a nose of abnormal dimensions.

Mrs Jocelyn did not speak, but left him
to state the reason of his visit ; in all probability
it would have taken her some
minutes to sufficiently recover her breath
to be able to utter a sound. Doctor Goujon
proceeded to state his case succinctly.

'I have come somewhat unceremoniously
to ask you for assistance, madame ; a very
distant cousin of mine, whom I have not
seen since he was a boy, has crossed the
mountain in this storm, and arrived at my
back door in a fainting condition. I am a
man of feeble resources, as far as food is
concerned, being myself a vegetarian, and
I have nothings nourishing to olive him 
can you help me } '

With pleasure, monsieur,' and Mrs
Jocelyn, who had quite regained her usual
composure and good manners, was about
to call Marie, and tell her to give Doctor
Goujon whatever he wanted, when his
next words fell upon her like an electric
shock, and made her stagger as she seized
the back of a chair.

It is kind of you, madame, very, very
kind, but I do not think my poor cousin

Joseph Ferrier will trouble you long ; I
doubt if he has very long to live.'

'Joseph Ferrier!' gasped Nelly. 'Joseph
Ferrier is your cousin . '

'Yes, madame ; you seem surprised ; do
you know him, by chance?'

Mrs Jocelyn instantly regretted that
she had betrayed herself. Save for her
incautious words, this man might have
come and gone, that is, if he had not
died, and no one in the neighbourhood
would have had the slightest suspicion
that she was acquainted with him.

As people very frequently do when they
have made one mistake, she very foolishly
made another.

I do not know him exactly ; that is, he
was an acquaintance of my husband.'

So much the better, you will take more
interest in helping me to nurse him.'

Oh ! that I cannot do : nursing is quite
out of my element ; but I will give you
anything I have.'

Tiens I A woman and not a nurse,
what an anomaly ! ' muttered the funny
little doctor to himself.

The insinuation scarcely pleased Mrs
Jocelyn, but to nurse Joseph Ferrier would
be a tax on her powers of endurance that
she did not think anyone had a right
to put upon her ; enough that she should
provide him with the necessaries of which
le Docteur Goujon seemed to think he
stood so much in need.

She called Marie and bade her get
from her well - appointed store - closet
some tinned meats  Brand's essence 
and a bottle of calf's - foot jelly, the
doctor grumbling meanwhile about how
very little good these nutritious aliments
were likely to do his unexpected
visitor, unless he had a woman to nurse
him.

I thought he was only knocked up, and
in want of food, after a long tramp through
the snow. What does he want nursing
for, Doctor Goujon ? '

He is dying, madame, dying, I tell you;
it is just a chance if I find him conscious
on my return. I poured some brandy
down his throat, and left him to the mercies
of my assistant, who is very clever about

doctoring animals, but a human being,
allez ! '

Meantime the parcel was being packed
up, and the little doctor, whose streaming
mackintosh had created quite a little pool
on the well-kept parquet floor, was preparing
to take his leave.

If the man is dead, I will send
you back your eatables,' he said, somewhat
brutally, giving Mrs Jocelyn a
nod as he proceeded to take his final
leave.

He will not die. Joseph Ferrier has
nine lives, like a cat. You need not be
alarmed on that account'

I tell you I think he will die. But I
have no time to dispute the matter. If
it should be imperative that I should have
a nurse, since you will not come yourself,
you will send your maid. These 
are too rough.'

He did not wait for a reply to this
suggestion, but, opening the front door,
he let in a strong gust of wintry, sleet and
air, and in another second it slammed to,
and he was gone.

Nelly Jocelyn had looked for an adventure
to enliven the dismal loneliness
of her exile ; but she had got it in a manner
that was scarcely satisfactory to her
feelings.

That Joseph Ferrier should put in an
appearance in the wilds of Auvergne was
a fact for which she was in no wise prepared
; and that she should have been
sending him soup and meat to lure him
back to life, was most extraordinary, considering
that with all her heart she should
rejoice to hear that he was dead. The
Docteur Goujon, had assured her that he
could not live ; but that Joseph Ferrier
should die just at the very moment when,
by his living, he could make the revelations
she dreaded, and from the fear of
which she had run away from Paris, was
far too lucky a chance for her to believe it
possible.

She sat down once more by the logs that
still blazed cheerily on the hearth, and tried
to feel as if this sudden invading of her
premises had never taken place. But it
was of no use ; memories from the still un-killed

past would throng persistently about
her brain, and she tangled up this story
she had just heard about Joseph Ferrier
having arrived, for some still inexplicable
reason, a wanderer in his cousin's house,
with her wretched husband hiding in holes
and corners from the relentless hand of
justice, till she felt she should go absolutely
mad.

It was not that she retained any very
strong affection for Arthur Jocelyn  the
way he had treated her in the past had
long since nipped in the bud all the
affection she once had, or fancied that
she had, for him ; still she could not help
feeling the horror of his present situation,
and a desire to ameliorate it, if it were
possible, came over her in a desperate
longing while she sat by the fire thinking
over the occurrences of the day.

Doctor Goujon had invited her to go
and nurse Joseph Ferrier  that she could
not do. Was he not the man who had
first tempted her husband to sin, and then
when he had succeeded in making him his
tool, had left him to suffer as his victim.

No, with this man's weal she would have
nought to do, save by sending him the
viands Christian charity absolutely demanded
; still would it not be as well
to see Ferrier and gain some tidings of
Arthur ?

Was it altogether kind and wifely to
turn away like a frightened cur and cut
herself off from all communication with
the poor wretch, who, after all, was her
husband, though a criminal ?

To have a few words with Joseph
Ferrier seemed to be her only chance of
hearing ausht of Arthur's whereabouts.
Yes, she would nerve her courage to
a meeting with this man,  get Doctor
Goujon out of the way, and, under pretext
of watching him for a while, learn
all he had to tell about the escaped felon
in whom she was so deeply interested.

She got up, drew the thick curtains apart,
opened the window, and threw back the
persiennes; the snow had ceased to fall,
and the moon, just escaping from a coursing
cloud, shone full and cold above the
overhanging Chalet des Oiseaux, which

VOL. II.

it thus brought into strong relief. Dark,
though, was every window of the chalet 
there was not a Hight visible anywhere.

What was going on in there ? Mrs
Jocelyn wondered. Was it life or death
that was hovering within the dark-looking
abode 1 Even while she watched, a voice
whispered to her that it might be death,
and if she wished for tidings, not then
to delay her going till the morning.

It was a part of Mrs Jocelyn's character
that when a desire for action entered into
her mind, action must forthwith be proceeded
with. She should not close her
eyes in sleep if she had not seen Joseph
Ferrier, she decided; best then go at
once and have her interview with him
without delay.

To Marie's intense surprise, she bade
her bring her thickest boots and a large
warm cloak with which she had armed
herself against the exigencies of the
weather, and gave it as her intention that
she would visit the Chalet des Oiseaux
ere she slept.

Marie seemed vastly amused at her

mistress's determination to lose no time
before she penetrated into Doctor Goujon's
mysterious abode ; but then Marie knew
nought of the ghastly manner in which
her mistress was connected with this
cousin of the doctor's who had arrived
in so sudden and unexpected a fashion,
and her amusement very speedily turned
into intense surprise when she perceived
how really flustered Mrs Jocelyn was,
how utterly incapable of controlling the
state of trembling excitement into which
the visit of Doctor Goujon had thrown
her.

Of course madame will take me with
her,' said Marie, as soon as she had fully
equipped her mistress for her walk in the
snow.

No, no; quite unnecessary. It is
enough that one person should run the
risk of catching cold on this errand.'

Mais, madame  '

Nonsense, Marie. The doctor's door
is not five minutes' walk from here ; and,
besides, the moon is up.'

Mrs Jocelyn was very decided. She

had not the least intention, if she could
possibly prevent it, of allowing Marie to
learn the dark secret of her life.

Up the hill-side then opposite her dwelling
she started, but never having been
there before, she had somewhat miscalculated
the distance, and found that the pathway
leading to the Chalet des Oiseaux
twisted round and round by many a circuitous
route, and that what looked so near
was, in fact, at a considerable distance, so
that it was quite half-an-hour before, wet
and weary from the toil of walking up hill
in the heavy snow, she arrived at the doctor's
door.

The chalet looked very dark and dismal ;
still in an upper room Nelly thought she
could discern a feeble, glimmering light ;
doubtless in that room the sick man lay.

She rang the house bell, and stood waiting
for the door to be opened ; but no one
came. Again she gave a loud peal, and
again she had to wait. A third time she
rang, and was about to go down the hill
again in despair, when a head appeared at
the aforesaid upper window, and the doctor's

voice demanded who was disturbing
the tranquil repose of night.

It is Mrs Jocelyn. I have come to see
if I can be of any use.'

Dieu des Dieux ! is it possible to comprehend
the caprice of women ? ' grumbled
the doctor ; * first you will not come, then
you arrive.'

And, fastening up the window, he came
down to let Nelly into his strange abode.

And a very curious interior it was in
which she found herself as soon as the
door was opened. There was no hall to
the doctor's house ; the door opened at
once on to a large salle, into which all the
dwelling-rooms on the ground floor had
been thrown.

This salle was given up to the use of
the doctor's animals, and there they lived,
or rather at that moment slept, in a happy
family concord, which could only be accounted
for by the fact that the doctor
possessed the gift of soothing and taming
the brute creation in a rare and wonderful
degree. If he had only had the same
amount of power over human beings, how

many quarrels and useless words might
he not have saved ?

Mrs Jocelyn could not take in at a
glance and in the semi-darkness that
prevailed  for the doctor only held a
shielded candle in his hand  what an
unusual concourse of feathered and hairy
creatures were there assembled ; but a
general movement and flutter gave her
the impression that the salle was absolutely
alive ; and in a less excited moment of
her own life she would probably have
been greatly disappointed not to have
investigated to the fullest this strange
house which the doctor had arranged for
his pets.

As it was, she smiled at his remark, 
Hush, do not wake my babies!'  and
followed him up a staircase, which led out
of the salle to the upper rooms of the
chalet.

Even on the staircase there were roosting
three or four favoured specimens of
the feathered tribe, but in the gloom
Mrs Jocelyn failed to discover whether
they were pigeons or cockatoos. She

had no time for speculation on any minor
matters. She was ushered into a small ,
evidently the doctor's sanctum,
and devoted, like the rest of the house,
to his love for animals, since cages, and
hutches, and feeding-troughs, and the like,
were scattered about it in much confusion,
though the chief occupants of the
room were books, most of them, however,
relating to the rearing and habits of the
doctor's pets.

He threw an armful of pamphlets from
a chair to the ground, and motioned to
Mrs Jocelyn to seat herself, then proceeded
to disembarrass her of her wet
cloak, while he said, 

You shall have a glass of hot wine
to ward off the cold, and after that to
business.'

This delay, which he seemed bent on
occasioning, provoked Mrs Jocelyn. She
had come there with a specific object, and
she wanted no dallying.

'Joseph Ferrier,' she inquired, a little
testily, ' is he conscious ? '

'Thanks to a draught I have given

him,' answered the doctor, ' he sleeps ; but
when he wakes  '

His sentence finished with a shrug.
Evidently Doctor Goujon had but little
belief in Joseph Ferrier's state.

You think he will not know any one, 
that he will not be able to speak ? ' asked
Nelly rapidly.

 1 do not say so for certain, but I have
my doubts. You are, then, very anxious
for a conversation with M. Joseph Ferrier,
eh, Madame Jocelyn ?'

And the little doctor looked at her
keenly with his small sharp eyes, which
somewhat shaggy eyebrows at times almost
concealed.

Nelly saw that she must be careful, if
she did not wish to throw all her cards
on the table before this stranger.

I came here,' she answered, a little
untruthfully, ' not to talk to M. Joseph
Ferrier, but to help you to nurse him,
as you have taught me it is a woman's
duty to do.'

Tenez, I am glad you are so apt a
scholar : I should not have believed it.'

By this time the cloak was removed,
and Nelly had drunk the wine he had
forced on her.

A moan from the adjoining room, of
which the door stood open, made her start,
while it told her that in that room the
sick man lav.

The doctor went to the door, and
looked in.

Only restless, not awake,' he muttered ;
I daresay he will moan and toss all
through the night, notwithstanding the
potency of my draught.'

Nelly, curious to judge for herself
whether what Doctor Goujon told her
about the exceeding precariousness of
Joseph Ferrier's state was not exaggerated,
followed him.

From the post of observation she took
up behind him, looking over his shoulder,
she could distinctly see the sick man's bed,
and his face, as he lay there sleeping a
fitful, unsatisfactory sleep.

When she saw him she gave a gasp
that was almost a stifled cry  it made the
doctor look round.

Her face was as ghastly white as that of
the sufferer she had come to contemplate.

She did not lose her self-control however,
but to the doctor's query as to what
was the matter with her, she replied, speaking
nevertheless with some difficulty, 

He looks so ill, so fearfully ill  he
quite frightens me.'

A nice woman you are for a sick nurse !
You were right, you should not have come ;
go and sit down in my chair, and drink
some more of that wine.'

Nelly obeyed him as far as sitting down
was concerned, from the fact that she
would have fallen if she had attempted
to stand any longer.

And for a second or two he left her
alone  something in the inner room demanded
his attention ' more than Mrs
Jocelyn's vapours and folly,' as he was
pleased to consider the state of collapse
into which the sight of his patient had
thrown her. He did not guess that Nelly
Jocelyn was a woman with a strong nerve
that nothing but an overwhelming blow
would be likely to fell.

That she had received that blow he
could not have helped recognising if he
had remained watching her for a few
minutes.

She sat with her hands clenched tlsfhtlv
together in her lap, a look of stony horror
in her eyes, while her white, quivering lips
repeated over and over again, 

Arthur  Arthur Jocelyn  here under
this roof! '

EVEN UNTO DEATH.

HAT Arthur Jocelyn's arrival at
le Chalet des Oiseaux was a
mere coincidence, his wife could
not for a moment bring herself
to believe.

She decided, and she decided rightly,
that, having discovered his whereabouts in
Auvergne, he had used the almost forgotten
cousinship that existed between Doctor
Goujon and Joseph Ferrier to arrive therein
safety by assuming the name of his friend.
But whether his intentions were friendly
or hostile towards the wretched woman
who sat there shocked and horrified by
the sight of him, who could say ?

Arthur Braithvvaite, alias Jocelyn, had
been either unconscious or delirious ever
since Doctor Goujon, hearing a large St
Bernard dog that Heed near his back
door bark uncomfortably, went out to
see what was amiss, and found this man
groping his way half blinded by the
drifting snow. He had only sufficient
strength left to gasp out that he was
Joseph Ferrier, the doctor's cousin, come
to renew acquaintance, ere he literally
fainted in the doctor's arms, and thus
compelled the little old man to carry
him into the house as his guest, whether
welcome or unwelcome ; but being a man
of humane proclivities, he decided to nurse
him, and, if possible, to induce the English
widow who lived opposite to assist him
in the work. To Nelly, sitting trembling
in the doctor's chair, nothing could be
more terrible than the task she was calledon
to perform.

To nurse her husband under any circumstances
she considered her duty, whatever
sin he had committed, but whether
or not to acknowledge that this man washer

husband was the question that was
troubling her at this moment, till it almost
succeeded in maddening her.

How severely Nelly had suffered for
the lie that, in a rash moment, she had
consented to live, no one save herself
knew ; and her very soul revolted at the
idea that she should be compelled to continue
this lie to Doctor Goujon, while her
heart yearned to tell him the real facts
of the case, and beg him to help her, as
she felt certain that he would do.

Then came the consideration  had she
any right to betray the man whose moans
from that inner room fell every now and
again on her ear ? As Joseph Ferrier he
had come there to seek shelter, for aught
she knew to the contrary, from the outstretched
hand of the police, and had she
any right to tell Doctor Goujon who he
really was ?

What did she know about this strange
little doctor whom she had never seen
before to-niorht ? He miorht send at once
for the police functionary of the district,
and give this unhappy man up without delay.

No ; Nelly decided there was no other
course open to her but silence ; however
heavily that silence might weigh, she
must be prepared to carry the burden.

Her somewhat rambling and disconnected
ideas had scarcely formed themselves
into this resolve when Doctor Goujon,
having finished his ministrations to the
sick man, came back to where she was
sitting. With a mighty effort she threw
off the oppression that hung over her,
and asked if his patient was better.

Humph ! I can't say much for him.
Must have led a very hard life for sometime
to have brought himself into this
state. And you  have you got over your
shock at the first sight of him ? '

Oh, yes. I am very silly  don't you
think so ? But I am going to make up
for it by helping you to nurse him in
real earnest.'

That's all right. Between us we may
pull him through, but I am half afraid.'

Has he spoken at all since you first
saw him,  said anything coherent ?'

Barely. He was too ill, poor fellow, 

told me he was my cousin, Joseph Ferrier,
packed some papers into my hand to
that effect, and that was about all.'

And you recognised him at once ? '

I did not recognise him at all. How
could I, when I had not seen him since
we were boys ; but, of course, I believe
he is my cousin  why should he say soif
he is not ; and, whether or not, Christian
charity must make one see him
through this frightful crisis.'

Of course ; and it is very kind of
you to let me contribute to the good
work by helping you.'

He bowed and smiled, while he said, 

It occurs to me very forcibly that the
best way you can contribute to this work,
is by going home to bed.'

Indeed, indeed, I shall not. I intend
to sit up with  with your patient all night.
I have come fully prepared to do so.'

My boy Jean is by his bedside watching,
and will wake me if he sees anything amiss.'

'No, no, Doctor Goujon; let me watch
him. It is not often I have the chance of
doing a good work. Send Jean to bed.'

Doctor Goujon looked questioningly at
Mrs Jocelyn. Her sudden and anxious
desire to tend this sick man rather puzzled
him. Whatever her motive, he decided
that it could scarcely be a bad one ; and,
moreover, not having had much experience
in contradicting women, he determined
to let her have her way.

Meanwhile he intended to keep his eves
open  as, in truth, he always did  in order
to discover, if possible, what object she
had in so suddenly wishing to make herself
energetically useful. So in the course
of the next ten minutes Jean, nothing loth,
was sent off to bed ; Nelly Jocelyn was installed
by her husband's pillow; and Doctor
Goujon went into his own room, promising
himself that he would pay tv/o or three
visits to the sick chamber before daylight,
even if Mrs Jocelyn did not call him. It
would be rather interesting, he thought,
to see how things were progressing
there.

By the time all these preliminaries were
arranged, and each one had taken up a
position for the night, an old - fashioned

VOL. II. P

grandfather clock that stood on Doctor
Goujon's staircase struck twelve.

Arthur Jocelyn was sleeping peacefully ;
the good little doctor's soothing potion was
taking satisfactory effect.

There was but little light in the room
only a shaded candle, and the flickering
fire which the intense cold of the night
necessitated, but Nelly could see each line
on the troubled face that rested on the pillow
beside her. She could see, as Doctor
Goujon had seen, what a hard life this man
had been leading of late, and that it had
reduced him to a mere shadow.

As she contemplated his thin white
hands, from which the thick knotty veins
were starting, she could not help shuddering
as she thought of the starvation and
horrors he had encountered ere he was
reduced to so low an ebb.

What a contrast between what Arthur
Jocelyn was when she had married him,
and what, as Arthur Braithwaite, he had
become now !

Alas, alas ! To note such a change
would fill even the most callous soul with

sadness ; and Nelly, though her love for
this man had long ago been killed, yet
sorrowed for him from her very heart, and
prayed with a fervour she had but seldom
felt of late, that some at least of the bitter
cup he had prepared for himself to drink
might be spared him.

She had drawn her chair round, so that
in the firelight she could contemplate his
features. Perhaps she felt that unless she
looked at him thus, and reminded herself
how low he had fallen, how deeply he was
in want of her assistance, much of the
bitterness she had felt towards him of late
would surge up once more in her heart,
and render her incapable of doing her duty.

She had sat thus for about an hour, the
sick man only moaning and tossing at times,
when suddenly he opened his eyes, and
looked at her with evident recognition in
his glance.

She trembled as she had trembled when
she was first aware that he was under that
roof.

Nelly,' he whispered, very softly.

She did not attempt to answer him :

words were absolutely out of her control ;
but she laid her hand softly on his, and
by a slight pressure showed her sympathy.

I am dying, Nelly,' he went on, in such
low tones as to be scarcely audible ; * you
will not be troubled with me long. I have
travelled all this way from Portland, chiefly
on foot, enduring privation, and hardship,
and fear, to see you once before I die.
Kiss me, Nelly, and tell me you forgive
me all the trouble I have caused you.'

Oh, Arthur, I wonder we were born,
either you or I, since life is such a heavy
burden.'

Ay, the burden will be laid down soon,
the terrible conflict will be over. Kiss me,
Nelly, kiss me.'

She leant over him, and as he desired
pressed her lips on his forehead, already
damp with the gathering sweats of death.

The end was approaching more rapidly
than even Doctor Goujon in his science
had expected.

As Arthur Jocelyn felt his wife's kiss
on his brow, all the strong love for her
that he had felt when they first married

and which had been well-nigh extinct for
years, seemed to revive, and making one
supreme effort for strength, he caught her
in his arms in a long, tender, yearning
embrace.

Then he fell back on his pillow, and
it seemed as if with that embrace  that
had startled Nelly into a state of violent
excitement  the last ray of reason which
had been bestowed on the wretched man
had departed.

'You will not betray me, Nelly? You
will not tell the police that I am here  or
curses from hell will  '

Hush, hush, Arthur, do not talk like
that ; you are safe  quite safe with me.
Try to sleep, dear  you will be better in
the morning, and then we will see what
is best to be done.'

She tried to be calm and to control herself
for his sake, but her voice shook so
that its tones were strange. Had she been
less overcome by her own emotions, she
would probably have heard a footfall on the
parquet floor in the adjoining room, and
been aware that the little doctor had been

a witness of the entire scene ; but she
heard nothing, neither his retreating footsteps,
nor his muttering to himself as he
said : 

So, so, our cousin Joseph Ferrier is
more closely connected with madame than
one was led to believe. She called him
Arthur, too  strange ; there is a mystery
which will doubtless unravel itself, if only
one's eyes remain tranquilly open ; but to
be betrayed  police ; que diable, what does
it all mean ? '

Still it did not occur to the little doctor
that staying longer out of his bed would
help him to find out the secret, which he
made no doubt the morning light would
reveal, so he left Nelly to continue her
watch by the sick-bed, and resolved not
to return thither unless he was summoned,
or it was the usual hour for the house to
be on the alert. The summons came
sooner than he expected it. Just as the
first cold grey streaks of morning were
breaking over the snow-clad earth, a piercing
scream awakened the lightly-sleeping
doctor.

In another minute he had sprung from
his bed and was in the room where his
soi-disant cousin lay.

Nelly, with extended arms, was thrown
across the bed, and it took Doctor Goujon
only one second to lift the candle from
the side-table on which it stood, and throwing
its light on the face of his guest to utter
the word : 

Dead ! '

Ay. Arthur Jocelyn was dead !

What passed between the husband and
wife in the last hour, before Nelly uttered
that piercing scream, probably no one
would ever know, or whether reason once
more returned to the dying man.

In all probability it did, since not many
weeks after Arthur's death Nelly sent a
five-pound note to Ned Blowers at Dale-stoke
Farm ; but she drew a veil over her
husband's last hours, and never could be
induced to withdraw it.

Suffice it that he was dead, and she was
free ; no more playing at widowhood and
starting aghast at every shadow that suggested
the existence of a husband. She

could hold her head up with the proudest,
and had no longer any cause to desert her
pretty Parisian home.

But not of this was Nelly Jocelyn thinking
when Doctor Goujon found her lying
athwart her husband's body, but of the
terror of death that had invaded the
apartment,  of the early happy days when
she and Arthur had first loved and married.

Doctor Goujon raised her and conducted
her into the sitting-room, once more placing
her in the chair where he had administered
the hot wine on the previous evening.

The enemy has come sooner than I
expected,' he said, speaking with a slight
tone of sarcasm in his voice. ' You too
are more affected by the arrival. Altogether
my calculations are at fault'

Oh, Doctor Goujon, what shall I do ? '

Go home and go to bed, about the only
thing for you to do, I should imagine.'

Do you know who he is ? ' she asked,
pointing mysteriously to the door the
doctor had closed.

My cousin Joseph Ferrier, as I have
been led to understand,'

She did not speak again for some
seconds, during which time she was evidently
thinking hard, then she said, 

I believe you are a man who can be
trusted, and I think it right you should
know the whole truth. It cannot injure him
to tell you now. He is beyond the reach
of any harm betrayal of a secret can produce.'

The doctor, who was greedy of knowledge
in connection with the mysterious
stranger, who had hailed him as cousin, drew
a chair up close to Mrs Jocelyn ; but, notwithstanding
his impatience for intelligence,
he was good-hearted enough not to wish
to force her into a confidence for which
she looked almost unfit.

He begged her to take a few hours' rest,
and then let him come to her house and
listen to what she had to tell ; but if time
went on she might not have the courage to
relate her tale, she said, and then she should
ever feel that a great wrong had been done.

Succinctly then did Nelly Jocelyn give
Doctor Goujon, open-eyed and wondering,
the details of her life up to the present hour,
that is, of course, as far as she herself and

the man who had just breathed his last
were concerned, for to Paul Cazalet no
allusion was made, and yet what an effect
on her character and conduct had Nelly
Jocelyn's acquaintance with the great
artist had.

If Doctor Goujon had not been a humane
man his love for the brute creation would
scarcely have been as fully developed as
it was.

Mrs Jocelyn's story aroused all the
kindliness that, as a rule, slumbered
whenever his own species was concerned,
and without stopping to argue the matter
out with himself, he resolved to take her
under the shadow of his protecting wing.
He knew full well that in doing this he
was exposing himself to a good deal of
annoyance and some little danger, since to
keep Mrs Jocelyn's secret meant to give
a false certificate of identity in registering
the death of the felon who had just passed
away under his roof. But this woman's
strange position must be respected, so he
decided ; he must act as though she had
not made him a confidant.

He took both her hands in his as she
finished her story with a convulsive sob,
and told her to have no fear for the future.
Joseph Ferrier, his cousin, should be
quietly buried in the village cemetery, and
as far as she was concerned no questions
would be asked. Nelly's tears spoke the
thanks her grateful lips refused to frame,
and after a while, when she grew calmer,
at Doctor Goujon's urgent request she prepared
to return home, but not before she
had once more entered the dark chamber,
and gazed for a while, with something like
her old affection, on the face of the man
who had so wantonly blighted her life.

Then wrapping herself with a shiver in
the large cloak Doctor Goujon held out to
her she went downstairs, where life, not
death, was instinct ; and it was a strange
contrast to hear the glad notes of the
birds, the satisfied murmur of the animals
as they awakened in the slowly broadening
lioht of the winter's morning.

But for contrasts and comparisons Nelly
Jocelyn's heart was at that moment scarcely
attuned. She passed rapidly out of the

house she had for so many months surveyed
with curiosity, and having let herself
into her own chalet by means of a key she
carried, without waking Marie, she went
straight to bed, not, however, to sleep,
but to think over all that had occurred,
soothed meanwhile into peace by the 'doux
chaleur de son lit'

Nor was the resolution to take a speedy
departure from Auvergne the outcome of
Nelly's thoughts; on the contrary, Paris,
with its frivolities and its heartburning
would, she felt certain, be most distasteful
to her. She had worn the outward garb
of widowhood long since, now she would
respect the memory of the dead by enduring
a term of forced seclusion. For that
Arthur Jocelyn had once been dear to her
she could not deny, and in truth some of
the old love had returned since she had
seen him once again ; of Paul Cazalet in
this supreme hour Nelly did not think,
or if for a moment his image crossed her
mind, she chased it forthwith away.

He was happy and prosperous,  another
woman's husband  what place had he in

her henceforth solitary Hfe. Yet If all
this had happened but a few months ago,
how different might both their lives have
been. Now they would meet some day,
she supposed, as mere acquaintances, he
being the happy married man, she the
desolate, mourning widow.

If Nelly Jocelyn had been endowed
with the gift of second sight, and
could have peeped into the wretched
77ie7iage in the Avenue Montaigne, would
her halting steps have lingered in Auvergne
?

It were difficult to say, for certainly at
that hour thoughts of Arthur Jocelyn, not
of Paul Cazalet, directed her actions.

And for many months, long after Doctor
Goujon's cousin had been buried, and the
country folk had ceased to talk of the poor
gentleman who came to the Chalet des
Oiseaux to die, Mrs Jocelyn dwelt on,
with Doctor Goujon for her Intimate
friend. In the peaceful retreat she had
chosen. The snow had melted ; the early
spring, lovely in pale tints, was deepening
into gorgeous summer, still Mrs Jocelyn

was at the Chalet Victor, and no voice
from Paris had reached her with any
tidings of her friends that could produce
even the most transient emotion, till one
morning she received a telegram from
John Wisden.

Dot is very ill. We have taken
possession of your apartment. Come at
once.'

The term of peace and solitude was at
an end  back once more amid the gossip
of the capital, what revelations are in
store for Mrs Jocelyn ?

END OF VOL. II.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

'V,

'

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/nellyjocelynwido03midd

BY

JEAN M I D D L E M A S S,

AUTHOR OF

'DANDY,' 'SACKCLOTH AND BROADCLOTH,'

'GIRL IN A THOUSAND,'

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. III.

LONDON:

F. V. WHITE & C O.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

1887.

fall Rights reserve.]

COLSTON AND COMPANY

PRINTERS

CONTENTS,

Crown 8t/<: clothe 3-. 6/. each.
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS AND BOOKSTALLS.

By FLORENCE MARRYAT.

THE HEIR-PRESUMPTIVE. HER WORLD AGAINST A LIE.

THE HEART OF JANE WARNER. PEERESS AND PLAYER.
UNDER THE LILIES & ROSES. ' FACING THE FOOTLIGHTS.
MY OWN CHILD. [ A BROKEN BLOSSOM.

MY SISTER THE ACTRESS.
By ANNIE THOMAS (Mrs Pender Clip).
HER SUCCESS. I Juniper.

KATE VALLIANT. | ALLERTON TOWERS.

FRIENDS AND LOVERS.
By LADY CONSTANCE HOWARD.
MATED WITH A CLOWN. I MOLLIE DARLING.

ONLY A VILLAGE MAIDEN. | SWEETHEART AND WIFE.

By MRS HOUSTOUN, Author of " Recommended to Mercy."

Barbara's warning.

By MRS ALEXANDER FRASER.

THE MATCH OF THE SEASON. | A FATAL PASSION.

A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.
By IZA DUFFUS HARDY.
ONLY A LOVE STORY. | NOT EASILY JEALOUS.

LOVE, HONOUR AND OBEY.

By JEAN Middlemost.

POISONED ARROWS.

By MRS H. LOVETT CAMERON.
IN A GRASS COUNTRY. | A DEAD PAST.

A NORTH COUNTRY MAID.
By DORA RUSSELL. I By LADY VIOLET GREVILLE.

OUT OF EDEN. i KEITH'S WIFE.

By NELLIE FORTESCUE HARRISON, Author of " So Runs my Dream.
FOR ONE man's PLEASURE.

By EDMUND Leather.

THE A C T O r's W I F E.

By HARRIETT JAY.
A MARRIAGE OF CONVENIENCE.

CHAPTER I.

CONSOLE YOURSELF.

HE Grand Prix is over, the
Paris season is virtually at an
end, and the stream of carriages
which of late, from four
P.M. till midnight, has flowed ceaselessly
along the Avenue des Champs Elysees,
has considerably lessened ; and, save fora
few grand marriages which have yet to
take place, there would not be a so-called
fashionable left in the French capital, on
which the sun is shining in terrible earnest,
rendering the heat almost tropical.

VOL. in. A

In the Avenue Montaigne everything is
being packed for departure. Paul Cazalet
had not, till he married, been wont to
study season and climate ; and many a
time when Paris was at its emptiest, he
had dwelt on in the Rue Mignon painting
his hardest, and enjoying the unbroken
quietude.

But Marian was far too great a lady,
far too much inclined to follow fashion's
crowd, to think of remaining in town
when her acquaintances had taken flight
into the country.

If Paul chose to stay on, like the old
bear he was, shut up in his studio, while
everyone else was enjoying fresh air, he
was quite at liberty to do so  she did not
care ; but, for her part, she was going
away.

For a few hours Paul felt inclined to
accept her offer of freedom ; then a
sense of duty intervened, and decided
for him that he ought to go with his
wife to sea or country, whichever she
selected  even as he had gone about with
her into society, striving by his presence

to protect her name from the tongue of
scandal.

When Paul announced to Marian that
he had made up his mind to leave the
Avenue Montaigne for a while, and that
doubtless a change would be beneficial
both to her and to little Lina, very perceptible
signs of irritation came over her
countenance, and Paul must have been
exceedingly obtuse if he had not remarked
that she was evidently in no way pleased
at the idea of having to suffer his society
in a country retreat.

Retreat! Paul was utterly mistaken if
he thought Marian had any idea of going
into retreat. Trouville, Deauville, or
Dieppe at their fullest were the places
she had under consideration when she
discussed her plans with her female acquaintances
; and dresses and hats and
bonnets were all being bought and packed,
with the obvious intention of continuing
at one of these gay watering-places her
Parisian triumphs.

Poor Paul! How he pitied himself
when he thought the matter over in the

retirement of his own sanctum ; how his
friends pitied him when they discussed
the matter in confidential intimacy, and
some wiseacres even went so far as to
predict what the end of this miserable
state of affairs would be.

Meantime, how much did Marian Cabaret
see of the Vicomte de Gourlay ? As
far as Paul knew, the acquaintance had
ceased. It was not on account of her
continued flirtation with De Gourlay that
Paul had any cause for unhappiness.
Marian's general frivolity and folly was
what worried him, and made him feel
that it was incumbent on him to keep an
eye on her, rather than from any cause
he had for complaints about one special
individual.

But, then, Paul Cazalet was only a
man  he had taken no woman into his
confidence ; and men, as a rule, are exceedingly
shortsighted where the tricks
and intrigues of women are concerned.

Marian had told the little vicomte every
word that Paul had said to her about
having him excluded from the christening

party, and they had gone Into the question
in detail ; after which this worthy
pair had come to the conclusion that
it were politic to seem obedient to
Paul's wishes, and that their meetings
should henceforth be of a clandestine
character.

At Madame Cazalet's dressmaker's was
a favourite place for their rendezvous ; in
the Pare Conceal was another, and at
times they even desecrated a little church
in the Quartier Latin, by betaking themselves
there with a very different object
than prayer.

Twice or thrice Marian had been out
all day in the country with a certain
Madame Villebois, who had become one
of her intimates ; but if Madame Villebois
had been put on the rack and forced to
answer truthfully, she would have been
compelled to acknowledge that she had
not seen Madame Cazalet on either occasion.
But though there were several
people in Paris who were tolerably au
courant with the details of Marian's intrigue
with the little vicomte, since it

was utterly impossible for them not to
be met together every now and again,
yet Paul remained in perfect ignorance
of what was going on, and absolutely, in
his own mind, scored Marian's obedience
on the matter of De Gourlay as one to
the good for her in the reckoning that
there was between them.

Having once made up his mind to
leave Paris for a time, Paul was beginning
to look forward to the holiday with
some degree of pleasure. Marian and his
child would surely be more completely
his when away from the turmoil of the
gay capital ; and if he could only, by dint
of kindness and attention, bring Marian's
heart back from these wanderings after
pleasure, which he trusted were only
temporary, and make her really love
him, he felt that the happiness after
which he so yearned would not be
wholly lost.

Of course he heard many a gay 
discussed as their probable destination,
but Paul had but little knowledge
of the doings of watering-places, and

classed them all with the Breton village
where he and Le Vieux had Crone to
mourn in solitude, and where Marian
came and found them. And a bleak
promontory, a wild sea-girt shore, were
scarcely in accordance with Paul's feelings
at that juncture ; he would have preferred
a fair landscape, where roses ran riot, and
Lina could roll about on Nature's verdant
carpet, and smile up at the blue sky which
formed a canopy over her head. Of just
such a spot  a painter's dream of beauty 
he heard one day from a brother artist,
who said the people to whom it belonged
wished to let it for the season. Without
consulting Marian, Paul paid a sum down
to secure the place, which was about three
miles from Fontainebleau, and then, radiant
at the idea of his own success, he went
home to the Avenue Montaigne to tell
her, and he trusted to be repaid with smiles
and joyful exclamations.

Alas ! alas ! for the unrealised hopes
that meet one at so many stations on our
life's course !

Paul reached the Avenue Montaigne

about six in the evening. Lina, in her
perambulator, had just arrived at the door,
and held out her arms as soon as she saw
her father, who she already knew was her
devoted slave. He took her up at once
and carried her into the house, shouting
meanwhile to his wife to come and meet
them.

Signs of an approaching departure were
visible everywhere, but of this Paul Cabaret
thought not. Were they not all going
to bask among the roses ? But he was
a little astonished that no answer came
from Marian. He went into her bedroom ;
there utter confusion reigned, the signs of
packing were evident and to the point.

The thought for a moment flashed
through his mind that it was strange she
should pack so resolutely when the spot
to which they intended to wend their
steps had not even yet been selected positively
; but it passed away forthwith, to be
speedily succeeded by another and a far
bitterer one.

'Has madame gone out?' he inquired
of the bonne, who had followed him, thinking

he would speedily grow tired of
carrying little Lina about. She had not
time to reply to his question before his
eyes fell on a note that lay among a chaos
of chiffons on the dressing-table.

He took it up. It was addressed to
himself in Marian's handwriting.

Dear Paul,  I know you will not
mourn for me. We made a mistake when
we married. Life has been intolerable of
late to both of us, I fancy.

By the time you receive this I shall
be at Havre, on my way to America.

De Gourlay is my companion, so your
jealous suspicions were correct.

Console yourself for my departure as
well and as speedily as possible, and please
don't make any scene or attempt to overtake
me. Marian.'

The bonne was standing there while
he read this heartless letter, and noted
no change in him save that perchance
he grew a little paler. He sat down, the
child still in his arms.

You can go,' he said to the nurse ;
I will keep the baby with me for awhile.'

She obeyed him, and Paul sat on there
still holding the letter in one hand, while
the other was round the child on his
knee.

Lina, however, was not accustomed to
this sort of inattention from her father ;
and young though she was, she was quite
ready to resent it.

She pouted her ruddy lips, ready fora
cry, and began to dab at him with her
baby fists, thus compelling him to attend
to her. He put Marian's letter into his
pocket, and hugged the child up close to
his great manly breast, thus consoling herat
once, for she began to crow and laugh.

And not one word about you, my
darling ; not one word about her child. I
could have forgiven her for abandoning
me; but you, poor, little, deserted, motherless
babe '  and the big scalding tears fell
on the baby's upturned dimpled face as
she smiled with a look of something almost
amounting to wonder in her large wide-open
eyes.

Sensitive to look and tone, as is ever
the very youngest child, little Lina evidently
did not approve of the expression
of her father's face ; for the smile disappeared
like magic ; her lip fell, and she
burst out crying. Paul caught her up in
his arms, kissed and fondled her, and in
his endeavours to quiet Lina, for a time
almost forgot his own grief, especially
since she clunor to him as though something
had caused her a sudden terror.

In clinging to him thus for protection,
as it almost seemed, a new bond was
riveted between him and life. Left wholly
alone after Marian's departure, he would
probably have thrown down the oars and
left the boat freighted with his future to
glide where it listed, if with the dark
current that conducts to annihilation, so
much the better ; but with Lina in his
arms, he swore to do the best he could
with the talent and energy that were left
him, and to row on carefully and resolutely
to the end.

When after more than half-an-hour the
bonne came back to see if her master

was not tired of keeping the child, she
found him still sitting there hugging little
Lina, who was by this time fast asleep.

The woman's entrance roused him from
a sort of dream into which he had fallen,
and he looked at her askance.

Give her his child ? no, certainly not.

He had never liked this flaunting bonne
who was of Marian's choosing, and a
revulsion came over him at the idea of
letting her do as she pleased with little
Lina.

That something was wrong, every servant
in the house had by this time decided,
and that probably their mistress
had gone away for good, they divined.
They knew far more of what had been
taking place of late than Paul did, but
they were none of them, least of all the
nurse, at all prepared for their master's
next step.

Tie on the baby's bonnet, and go and
get her warm cloak ; I am going to take
her out a little way,' said Paul, after he
had surveyed the intruding nurse, without
speaking for some seconds.

She obeyed him forthwith, at the same
time returning herself equipped for a walk.

I do not want you,' said Paul roughly ;
I can take the child myself

The bonne was too much astonished to
expostulate, and it was only after Paul
had really gone dinnerless out of the
house, carrying little Lina himself, that
she went into the kitchen to inform the
cuisiniere and the valet de chancre what
had occurred, and to join with them in
the suspicion that madame had eloped,
and monsieur had gone out to drown himself
and the baby.

Should they inform the Commissaire de
Police ? For a time they were almost
inclined to do so, but they decided that
it were perhaps wiser to attend to their
own business ; so they sat down to their
evening meal, during the digestion of
which they discussed their master's affairs
with freedom.

Nor did anything arrive to prevent
them acting as they pleased, for neither
Paul nor little Lina returned that night,
and at last, after waiting up till midnight,

they went to bed, resolving to communicate
with the police in the morning if M.
Paul Cazalet did not put in an appearance.

Meantime Paul, whose chief object was
to get away from the Avenue Montaigne,
where he had never felt at home, hailed
a carriage as soon as he reached the
Place d'Alma, and, still with Lina sleeping
in his arms, drove straight to his old
quarters in the Rue Mignon. He knocked
with his double fist at the kitchen door,
which was at once opened by Justine.

She knew Paul's knock full well, since
he frequently came to have a chat with
her ; but she cried out in astonishment
when he put the tiny burden he was
carrying into her arms.

She is yours now,' he said, ' to rear
and bring up as you brought up her
father, for her wretched mother has gone
away, never to return any more.'

The child woke up and cried, for Justine,
who was naturally no favourite with
Marian, was a stranger to her ; but she
was speedily pacified when she saw Paul,
and soon seemed quite at home with her

new nurse, and in her new home. Paul
would go back no more to the Avenue
Montaigne, he declared, save to dismiss
the servants and sell the furniture.

Back in the old familiar quarters, with
little Lina growing up by his side, perhaps
the cunning that his right hand had
lost somewhat of late would return, and
the genius that had partially forsaken him
in affluence be, in comparative poverty,
restored to its throne.

To have her Paul back again was
doubtless the greatest happiness that could
befall Justine ; yet she had a few grains
of natural vindictiveness in her character,
and she could not help wishing that the
woman who had wrought this devastation
in his life should be punished.

You will never let her get off without
a word, or even an utterance of complaint,
M. Paul ? You'll send some one
after her to punish her and her guilty
accomplice ? ' she said, when Paul had
translated Marian's letter to her.

But he shook his head.

" Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith

the Lord." She is gone, and make sure,
Justine, that her sin will find her out without
my interference. I would rather pray-that
the wretched woman may not have
too great a meed of punishment, than strive
to add my mite to what she will have to
endure.'

Justine looked at him with brimming
eyes.

You were always a great man, my Paul,
are greater even in suffering than you
were in prosperity, I think.'

He patted her kindly on the shoulder.

Don't let your own good heart deceive
you about my worth, Justine. Believe
only in my mediocrity, and the difficulty I
have in enduring disappointment, and thus
help me through one of the most critical
stages of my life.'

And so Paul Cazalet came back to the
Rue Mignon, from which some strange
instinct had prevented him from wholly
rending himself ; and Lina was to grow
up under old Justine's grandmotherly care.

Before the servants in the Avenue Montaigne
had time to go and consult the

police on the subject of their master's
strange conduct, he appeared among them
and gave them notice to quit, telling them
the effects would be sold in a few days,
and the house given up. An hour or two
later saw the canvases which, to please
Marian, had been transferred to the well-appointed
tier, taken back to the real
workshop across the Seine, accompanied
by such few articles of luxury as Paul
had a personal regard for ; the rest
were all destined to the auctioneer's
hammer.

In moving the canvases and re-arranging
them, Paul stumbled on the unfinished
picture of La Veneziana, which he had not
seen for months, and a great thud made
his heart leap as he beheld it.

Nelly Jocelyn ! How long, long ago
it seemed since they two had met ; and
she had left Paris, as Paul believed, because
he had married.

Would they ever meet again in this
world, he wondered, or would their paths
always be divided 1

Doubtless ; since as long as Marian

VOL. 111. B

lived, though absent, she would ever stand
between them.

And thinking more tenderly of Nelly
Jocelyn than he had ever thought of any
other woman, he sat for a long while
gazing on her face as he himself, with
magical skill, had depicted it. If he could
have known all that divided him from
Nelly in the past, and what had occurred
during the last few months, what conflicting
emotions would have filled his
mind at this moment !

But Paul knew nought save that Nelly
herself had insisted that the barrier he
had himself set up should remain between
them, and had then gone away and left him
to do the best he could with the future in
which she declined to have a share.

While he was still sitting staring on
Nelly's face, Justine came noiselessly into
the studio behind him. She stood for a
second or two, her eyes fixed, as his were,
on the picture, before he even knew that
she was there.

For Justine, Mrs Jocelyn had ever had
a strange fascination, though she always

feared that, in his friendship for her, Paul
would find unhappiness. That her fears
had been realised, she felt sadly certain.
It was neither over Lili's early fate nor
Marian's flight that Paul, from the depths
of his heart, really sorrowed, but that a
perverse fate should have separated him
from Nelly.

And now ? What would happen now ?
Justine wondered. Should she tell him
what she had heard only yesterday, a few
hours before he had put little Lina in her
arms,  tell him that old Andre  who, from
coming backwards and forwards occasionally
with messages, had struck up a sort
of acquaintance with Justine  had been
there, and that he had told her that Mrs
Jocelyn, who had been absent from Paris
for many, many months, had arrived in her
old apartment, having been suddenly recalled
to the capital on account of the
illness of her sister.

No, Justine judged it would be more
expedient to pause for a short while before
she ventured to make this communication
to Paul.

BROUGHT HOME TO HER.

HE John Widens were a far
happier couple than Nelly, from
her previous knowledge of John,
had ever believed possible ; and
Dot was so unreservedly fond of her husband,
 so glowing, both on paper and in
conversation, about the superlativeness of
his charms, that  although she could not
forego the loathing for him that she personally
felt  Mrs Jocelyn's regrets over
the marriage were well-nigh dying out.

She had thought it expedient to let John
Wisden know the truth about the death
that had taken place in Auvergne, and

the announcement had speedily brought
him from his self-imposed exile.

Back to England he intended to go and
settle down as a respectable married man ;
but Dot begged so hard for a halt of a
few weeks in Paris that, as he could refuse
Dot nothing, he consented, and so fascinating
was the French capital, that weeks
grew into months, and they still lingered
there in Mrs Jocelyn's apartment, which
she had lent them on hearing of Dot's
wish to remain in Paris.

Just about the time that they were really
and absolutely thinking of starting off to
England, Dot became ill, so ill that for
some days her life was in danger ; and,
of course, the natural thing was that her
sister should come and nurse her.

Since Arthur Jocelyn, alias Braithwaite,
was dead, there could be no further danger
in any of the trio going where they listed.
The ground under their feet was perfectly
solid, and neither John Wisden nor Nelly
suspected for a moment that there were
any quicksands to be afraid of

They seemed totally to forget that there

was still one dangerous person left to fear,
that Joseph Ferrier, though supposed to
have died at the Chalet des Oiseaux, was
still in the flesh and in possession of the
whole history of the past.

Whether they imagined that all his teeth
had been drawn, it were difficult to say,
since neither Nelly Jocelyn nor John
Wisden ever mentioned his name.

When they first met in Paris they were
too much taken up by Dot's serious state
to talk or think of any one but her ; and
when at last convalescence dawned, they
both had an instinctive dislike to broach
disagreeable subjects.

That the past might be buried for ever,
they both most fervently wished, John
Wisden principally on Dot's account,
Nelly on her own.

Her life was marred, and the future had
nothing in store for her, she would have
told any one who asked her. She had
only an earnest craving for peace, and
peace she believed she had obtained since
the cessation of the wearing fear that had
devoured her very life till Arthur Jocelyn

died. Nelly had yet to discover that,
with her return to the capital, peace had
vanished, and that, if not, perhaps, altogether
on account of her own position 
though that was scarcely as firm as she
imagined  the amalgamation that would
arise would scarcely be productive of
tranquillity.

She had been ten days in Paris, Dot
was already passing into a convalescent
stage, and Paul Cazalet's name had never
been mentioned.

John Wisden, although he had been intolerably
close attendance at his wife's sickbed,
had been more or less at those places
of public resort where men congregate,
and the voice of gossip is not wholly
hushed. He knew full well, almost a
few hours after it occurred, of the catastrophe
that had taken place in the
Avenue Montaigne, but, after his usual
reserved fashion, he had allowed things
to drift, always expecting every day that
Nelly would ask him for the information
he made little doubt she was yearning
to obtain. But if the return to the old

home had brought Paul Cazalet back to
Nelly's thoughts, she never dreamed of
asking questions about him, since she considered
that she had given up all claim
to holding even a place in his friendship
on the day she bade him go and marry
Marian Wallis ; and she sat by Dot's bedside
as seemingly indifferent to Paul
Cazalet's fortunes as she had been when
in retreat at the Chalet Victor.

Dot was now creeping back to health :
it could not be long before some news
of Paul must reach Nelly.

It came in a rougher form than if her
brother-in-law had chosen to break the
tidings to her gently.

No longer tied by duty so closely to the
house, she went out one hot, sultry evening
to obtain, if possible, a little fresher air
than her apartment afforded. By a chance
that almost amounted to intuition, she
strolled down the Avenue Montaigne.
A huge yellow-covered cart, on which the
word ' Dmmagemet ' was inscribed in
gigantic black letters, stood before a door,
and into this cart articles of furniture were

being rapidly packed ; the footpath was so
encumbered by them that Mrs Jocelyn
was forced to stand for a second or two
till the way was cleared for her to pass.
During that second she looked up at the
house, in the next she hurriedly asked
one of the men to whom it belonged.

To M. Paul Cazalet, the painter,' was
the answer.

A dd7nhiagemeiit  is any one dead ? '

No  no, not dead ; only the vicinage
has come to an end.'

I do not understand.'

It is clear enough and common enough
answered the man, laughing. * Madame
has grown tired of monsieur, and has gone
off with some one she likes better.'

Tired, tired of Paul  that vulgar upstart
Marian ! But it is impossible ! '

Mrs Jocelyn, however, had sufficient control
over herself not to speak this thought
aloud. She managed to utter merely a
short ' Oh ! ' and pass on a few paces, not
before the man, who was of an observant
disposition, had noticed the change that
came over her countenance. Setting

down a small ormolu table he was carrying
he looked after her, partly struck by her
beauty, and partly by the strange manner
in which she had received the intelligence
he had bestowed. The faintness, however,
which this somewhat rude shock had produced,
could not, notwithstanding her
courage, be set on one side as easily as
Mrs Jocelyn desired. It overcame her
before she had got well past the removal
van, and she was compelled to clutch a
paling that was near her, or she would
have fallen to the ground.

The man who was watching her was of
a benevolent as well as an observant disposition.
Seeing her tottering, uncertain
gait, he imagined she was, perhaps, some
relation to the young person who had
foolishly left her home, and taking up the
very arm-chair that had been bought by
Marian for Paul's especial use, he placed it
close to Nelly, just at the very moment
when she would otherwise have landed
on the pavement. She did not attempt to
investigate who had done her this kind
action, or from whence the chair had come,

but she sank back into it with closed eyes,
and a sad, weary look on her beautiful
pale face.

Having accomplished this much, the
man could do no more, but stood gazing at
her as though she were the most beautiful
object he had ever beheld, as, indeed, she
probably was, only the realisation of the
fact was terribly mixed up in his mind
with a feeling as to what on earth he should
do if this ravishing individual did not
speedily get better, and rouse herself out
of her lethargic position. His companions
in the work of clearing Paul's deserted
house had not yet remarked the occupation
on which he was engaged, but at any
moment one of them might do so, and
there was little doubt but that jeers and
rough remarks would assail him on all
sides.

Just as he was beginning to think he
must tear himself from the contemplation
of this wondrous beauty, and leave the
lady to recover as best she could, a smart-looking
victoria drew up exactly opposite
Mrs Jocelyn's seat, and a well-dressed

Frenchwoman sprang out of it, and uttered
a cry of * Nelly,' that made the contemplative
ouv7ner jump and take himself off
before he had time to see what effect this
lady's sudden appearance would have on
his {2AX\l\x\ protdg'ee.

Mrs Jocelyn opened her eyes forthwith
when she heard her own name, and looked
with some wonderment into the face of
Madame d'Albin.

My dearest Nelly, what are you doing
here ? I am so glad to see you again,'
cried the irrepressible, chattering Blanche ;
but, tell me, why are you sitting among
the debris of Paul's fortunes ? It is picturesque
and sentimental, and all that sort
of thing, but surely it is scarcely coiiven-
able!

I did not think  I did not know,' said
Nelly, attempting to rise. ' I felt ill, and
there was a chair  that is all,'

You did not know that that wretched
cousin of mine De Gourlay has carried
off la belle Marian, and left Paul desolate,
with a baby daughter of a few months
old?'

De Gourlay ! ' repeated Nelly, more as
though an automaton had been set in
motion than that a Hvino human beinor-
was speaking.

Madame d'Albin saw, what a woman
with more tact would have known before
she did it, that she had made a mistake
in alluding thus rashly to Paul Cazalet's
misfortune. She strove at once to remedy
the evil.

Come with me in my carriage, we can
talk better there. I'll take you home, or
for a drive, or whatever you like to do.'

She held out her hand to help Nelly to
rise, and it was not altogether unnecessary,
for Nelly's step was very halting, and she
staggered rather than walked to the carriage,
into which the friendly oiivi'ier saw
her get with some disappointment, as from
the house door he watched her departure.

The compulsory movement, and Blanche
d'Albin's presence, speedily restored Nelly's
courage and power of calm endurance, and
she made an effort to speak and act as she
was wont to do.

She must learn more of the terrible evil

that had befallen Paul, and in order to do
so, she must strive to appear as though
his fate were a matter of indifference to
her.

Strange,' she said, rallying her senses
with a vigorous effort, * that the heat should
have overcome me just at that door. I
did not even know that it was M. Cazalet's
house. I went away into Auvergne before
they married, you know.'

Yes, I know,' answered Blanche d'Albin
shortly, and she could have added, * I also
know the reason ; ' but she wished to befriend
and not to irritate Nelly, so she
finished her sentence, after a short pause,
by saying, ' I am truly glad you have come
back acrain. Madame de Brissac and I
have talked about you so often. But what
a time of year to return to Paris, just when
every one is leaving it.'

It is owing to my sister's illness that
I came here. I lent my apartment to
her and her husband, and she is still
lying there very ill.'

Ah ! Do you mean that charming
little Dot who was at the charity ball .- '

Exactly. But tell me about the
Cazalets, of whom I have not heard a
word for months.'

Well, you know M. Cazalet married
that pert little upstart Marian Wallis, for
some inexplicable reason, when he might,
we all thought, have done so differently ? '

And Madame d'Albin looked very meaningly
at Nelly, who coloured slightly, but
said nothing, so Blanche was compelled to
go on with her tale, which she did with
considerable detail, both true and untrue,
and without sparing in her strictures
either Madame Cazalet or the Vicomte
de Gourlay, reprobating the conduct of
both in the most unmeasured terms.

As for Nelly, she never once interrupted,
merely asking her, when she
had quite finished all she had to say, if
she could tell her where Paul Cazalet
had gone, since the place to which he
had betaken himself was a piece of information
Blanche d'Albin, with all her
chatter, had forgotten to tell.

To the Rue Mignon, of course, and
thither he has taken the little Lina. We

will go there at once now, if you like,
and see how they are getting on.'

'I go to Paul Cazalet's house under
existing circumstances ! No, indeed !
Madame d'Albin, you must be mad to
believe such a thing possible ! '

Pardon that I should for a moment
have forgotten the dignity that you always
assume ; but to be natural for once, my
dear Nelly, tell me, do you not love this
great big genius Cazalet, and would you
not give ten years of your life to see
him again, notwithstanding that you ran
away from him in such a cowardly-manner
? '

Mrs Jocelyn for a moment turned red
with rage, then white with the effort to
subdue it ; and assuming all the dignity
for which Madame d'Albin had given her
credit, she said, 

Whether I do or do not love M.
Cazalet is a question which I do not
consider that either you or any one else
has any right to ask ; therefore, I do not
intend to answer it. All I will tell you
is that I have not the slightest wish to

see him, and shall take every means I
know of to prevent an interview.'

'Tiens ! You English people are cold,
if that is the way you treat an old friend
when he is down. Now I should rush off
to the Rue Mignon at once, and offer
every form of consolation it was in my
power to bestow.'

Please, Madame d'Albin, do not let
us talk about the Cazalets' affairs anymore
; we shall never agree as to how much
I have to do with them, which, according
to my view, is nothing at all.'

Blanche d'Albin shrugged her shoulders ;
she was forced to be silent for the time,
but that she would return to the charge
at the very earliest opportunity she
was fully resolved, and also, if it were
possible, induce Madame de Brissac, who
had not yet left town, to assist her.

That two people who really cared for
each other should be separated for ever
because Paul was tied by law to a woman
who had deserted him, was an absurdity
which Madame d'Albin's lax code of morals
utterly pooh-poohed.

VOL. III. c

If Mrs Jocelyn had sought to destroy
a happy home, she would certainly have
censured her ; but now that the home
was desolate, to be restrained from seeing
Paul out of sheer false sentiment, indeed 
indeed she must be talked out of that
nonsense, free-and-easy Madame d'Albin
decided, as for some seconds they drove
along in silence, which was broken at
last by Nelly asking to be taken home,
as Dot would be wondering at her absence,
and where, on their arrival, they
found John Wisden standing in the
doorway.

No sooner did he see the two ladies
together than he was quite certain that
Nelly Jocelyn had heard all there was
to be heard about Paul Cazalet, and that
the impression it had made on her was
a very strong one.

She spoke but very little during the
few civil amenities that passed between
John Wisden and Madame d'Albin ; but
no sooner had her friend departed than
she turned, in a frame of mind that was
little short of fury, on her brother-in-law.

Why did you subject me to this ?
Why did you, who must have known,
let me learn by accident what is the
common talk of the whole town ? '

I suppose you mean about Paul Cabaret.
I was silent in order to spare your
feelings ; but suppose I had told you,
in what way would you have acted differently
? '

I should not have come to Paris at
this moment, or if, on account of Dot's
illness, I had been compelled to do so,
I should have remained carefully incognita.'


Indeed ! And I now presume you
have already seen, or will not be long
before you see, this wonderful hero, who
seems in the most extraordinary way to
have turned your head, sister mine.'

I have not seen him, and will most
persistently refuse to see him. The barrier
that exists between us is as strong now
as it was when Arthur Jocelyn lived.'

John Wisden sneered ; he, like Madame
d'Albin, had but a faint belief in the existence
of morality when love was strong.

You have not shuffled your cards very
ably,' he said ; * in more ways than one
you have made a mess of your affairs. If
you had trusted me more fully, things
would perhaps have turned out better
for you now.'

Pray do not torment me about trusting
you ; the past is past, do not let us attempt
to recall it.'

There are some transactions in life which
follow the actors in their persistency to the
the end. You know one Varley, I think,
who lives in London, in a side street off
the Strand } '

Arthur knew him,  had occasional
business negotiations with him. Why do
you allude to him now ? '

Arthur was not the only individual
bearing the name of Jocelyn who had
business negotiations with this Varley.'

'Ah!'

You told me, I think, that you had no
diamonds. Yet a set of diamonds known
to have passed through Arthur Braith-
waite's hands has been traced to you.'

Will the troubles about Arthur's affairs

"

not even cease with his death ? By whom
have these diamonds been traced ? '

Through Varley, by Joseph Ferrier,
who demands hush-money.'

Mrs Jocelyn looked utterly bewildered
and perplexed.

I got rid of the diamonds she said,
because I was afraid to keep them. I
wish I had thrown them into the sea, as
at one time I thought of doing.'

I wish you had, since now I fear they
will get us all into trouble ; if you had only
answered me truthfully, and followed my
advice  '

She turned away impatiently. It was
always difficult for Nelly to follow John
Wisden's advice.

Has Joseph Ferrier again appeared on
the scene ? ' she asked.

Yes ; and strangely enough knows nothing
of Arthur's death, or of his having
assumed his name  that is a point gained,
at all events, unless Doctor Goujon tells
tales.'

Doctor Goujon is as true as steel
have no fear on that account. As for

the diamonds, you must square the
matter.'

Not so easy, my dear Nelly. It will
require a larger sum of money than either
you or I possess.'

The sum I received from Varley for
them is intact. I guessed they were stolen,
and would never touch it.'

Stolen ! That is a harsh word. Your
husband was a misguided man, but not a
common thief.'

Well, they had been received for money
owing by some poor hard-pushed wretch,
to Braithwaite, Ferrier & Co. It is all
the same thing. If I knew to whom the
diamonds belonged, I would go and give
up the three hundred I received, and make
a clean breast of the whole matter.'

You would do nothing of the kind, unless
you were a madwoman.'

How so ?'

The owner of these diamonds is none
other than the Vicomte de Gourlay, who
has eloped with your friend Paul Cazalet's
wife ! '

Great heavens ! It is impossible.'

Impossible or not, it is true. He had
money relations with Joseph Ferrier, who
promised to raise the wind for him on
these diamonds.'

But De Gourlay must have seen the
diamonds round my neck

He is too big a fool to recognise them ;
but they were his, nevertheless.'

AN AFFAIR OF DIAMONDS.

Implications and worries
were by no means at an end for
Nelly Jocelyn, and she deeply
regretted that she had left her
quiet retreat in Auvergne and returned to
Paris ; for at the Chalet Victor the knowledge
of what was going on would probably
never have reached her. Now she felt it
would be utterly impossible to retrace her
steps ; peace of mind would have deserted
her dwelling-place, and anxiety would reign
there too absolutely for her to be able to
endure the absence of daily, nay, hourly
intelligence.

She would not seek Paul Cazalet  of

that she was quite resolved ; but she might
hear of him from time to time if she remained
in Paris, and perhaps learn that
he was not altogether brokenhearted and
crushed b} what had occurred. For there
was no doubt that Nelly's thoughts were
far more engrossed by Paul Cazalet and
his affairs, than by the difficult position in
which she had placed herself by her foolish
tampering with diamonds which, since she
had become thoroughly acquainted with
the character of her husband and his associates,
she had every reason to believe
that Arthur Jocelyn had not become possessed
of in legitimate and straightforward
business.

Perhaps, as it turned out, these diamonds
could scarcely be said to be stolen,
nor could their being traced to Nelly's
possession put her in any more unpleasant
position than that of revealing the fact
that she was Arthur Braithwaite's wife ;
but then no revelation could possibly be
made that would give her more annoyance
and pain, and the very dread of it
would have almost bereft her of reason, if

her thoughts had not been dwelling in so
concentrated a manner on the trouble that,
partly through her advice, as she thought,
had fallen on Cazalet.

Thus, frequently, does one trouble
balance another in this world, making,
perchance, the really greater of the two
less difficult to bear.

But while Mrs Jocelyn gave herself upto
what was, in truth, little more than a
sentimental dream anent Paul Cazalet
and his affairs, the false step which she
had taken about the diamonds had led
her into a labyrinth, the pathway out of
which it would not be so easy to find.
John Wisden was doing his utmost to
settle matters satisfactorily, but John Wis-den
was not omnipotent, and so difficult
was it, so provoked was he with Mrs
Jocelyn for what he justly condemned asher
utter foolishness, that had it not been
for his own little wife's sake, he would
probably have left her to get out of the
trouble she had brought on herself as best
she could. She had become acquainted
with Varley from his having been one of

Arthur Jocelyn's associates, as she had
told John Wisden ; and very certainly
Nelly, when she went to him, did not
know what an utter vaurien was the man
with whom she saw fit to deposit diamonds
which, from John Wisden's remarks, she
knew it was more or less dangerous to
keep.

The fact was that this Varley was very
closely mixed up in all the troubles which
had fallen on Braithwaite and Ferrier; but,
like John Wisden, he had managed to
escape publicity. Unlike John Wisden,
however, he had not resolved to turn over
a new leaf, and avoid dark episodes for the
future ; and no sooner had Joseph Ferrier
obtained his liberty than the relations between
them, though carried on with careful
secrecy, recommenced in all briskness.

Joseph Ferrier handled once more the
Vicomte de Gourlay's diamonds, which
had been worn by Mrs Jocelyn for a
time, simply because her husband liked
the swacraer which he considered that his
wife's appearance in diamonds reflected on
himself. He had always intended to sell

them after a while if De Gourlay did not
redeem them. But the sudden collapse
and incarceration of the worthless firm left
them in Mrs Jocelyn's hands, her undisputed
property as she considered, for she
knew nought of their history.

John Wisden could have told her ; but
till some months after they parted in Italy,
John Wisden was not aware that these
diamonds were in Mrs Jocelyn's possession.


Knowing her husband was at Portland
for a specific charge of fraud, amounting to
felony, and that many other charges could
have been proved against him if only they
had been brought, that she should dream
for an instant of selling these diamonds to
Varley was so insane an act that John
Wisden could scarcely believe she was in
her senses when she committed it ; for
such a paltry sum, too, as three hundred
pounds. Why, they were worth ten times
that amount; and Varley would have realised
it long since, only he was more careful
than Mrs Jocelyn, and was afraid to
show the diamonds till all the little unpleasantness,

as he called their history,
should be forgotten.

That he and Joseph Feller between
them would persecute and make money
out of Mrs Jocelyn, John Widen did not
doubt for a moment ; and her seeming impassibility
on the subject irritated him almost
as much as the fact of her having, in
the first instance, got herself into such a
terrible mess.

Give them the three hundred back, and
finish the business,' was all Nelly could
suggest.

How giving them back the three hundred
will finish the business I cannot possibly
think,' John Wisden grumbled. ' It
will not remove the knowledge that these
diamonds were once in your possession,
unless, in consideration of receiving back
the money, I can get Varley to sign a
paper saying he received the diamonds
from Arthur. Perhaps he is rather hard
up for the ready.'

No. I will have no more lies. I have
suffered enough from the lie I, at your
suggestion, have been living for years.

Arthur Is dead. I am really a widow
now, and I will take no more lies on my
shoulders. I hate them.'

Still, you will scarcely prefer that these
men should publish the fact that you were
the wife of the felon Braithwaite.'

Rather that than more lies. I will
brave them. Shuffling and prevarication
have been productive of nothing but annoyance.
Suppose we try the opposite
plan and make a stand.'

I do not understand. Go into details.
What would you do ? '

Hold the three hundred pounds for the
Vicomte de Gourlay ; tell these men I
will give them nothing, and that the first
annoyance to which they subject me I will
make M. de Gourlay acquainted with all
the facts, and strongly urge him to take
proceedings against them for the restitution
of his property.'

By Jove ! I do not know but that you
are right. A plucky proceeding on your
part, though ; because, remember if it is
an unsuccessful one, all the truth will come
out.'

Well, let it. I am sick of bowing my
head in fear and trembling before what
some wretched swindler may dare to say
of me. For the right to walk along with
no dark past to weigh me down, I would
give ten times the value of these diamonds.'


'You had perhaps better consider the
matter for a while,  whether you will really
risk the honourable, fair position you hold
in society and dare these blackguards, instead
of trying to pay them off  '

I will not consider it for another half-hour.
No amount of money will pay them
off, whereas the daring policy may answer;
that alone were a sufficient reason for trying
it, if I were not also weary of subterfuge.
The only thing that really troubles
me is the existence of that three hundred
pounds, which surely belongs to De
Gourlay.'

Not in the least. It is as surely yours
as any money you ever possessed.'

*How so?'

Do you remember a thousand pounds
that was paid to Arthur at the time you

married, in order to cover the expenses
of taking and furnishing a house ? '

Yes. And what became of it I have
often wondered, for the bills were never
paid.'

That money went to De Gourlay, I
well know ; and in return, your husband
received those diamonds for realisation in
eighteen months from the date at which
the thousand was made over to him, and
a bill at six months for five hundred more.'

'What nefarious, iniquitous dealing! And
to think I was the wife of such a man !
Yet, seeing Arthur on his deathbed as I
saw him, I cannot believe that he was
wholly vile.'

There are green spots in the worst
characters, my dear Nelly, of that you
may be very sure. Arthur was more
weak than bad. Joseph Ferrier was his
monitor ; he was the utter blackguard
who prompted the dark schemes, and induced
Arthur, under the delusion that
he would make an enormous fortune, to
march steadily on to his own ruin. You
see, from what I tell you, that you need

have no scruples about keeping that three
hundred pounds

Mrs Jocelyn shuddered.

I will never touch it,' she said, ' even
if I am reduced to wanting a crust. For
the present, let it remain where it is, until
the tongues of these wretches are silenced,
and the affair at an end. Later it shall be
given to the poor.'

Then you authorise me to tell them
you will not be bled, but offer threat for
threat. If they expose your connection
with Arthur Braithwaite, you will have the
whole affair of the money in connection
with these documents in a court.'

Exactly. And I fancy both Varley
and Joseph Ferrier are mixed up with
too many dirty transactions to risk, for
the sake of the few pounds they might
get out of me, to have daylight thrown
on their deeds.'

I think you have come to a wise conclusion,
 especially as De Gourlay, since
his liaison with Madame Cazalet, has
wealth at command.'

Mrs Jocelyn turned away with a shrug

VOL. III. D

of disgust. The whole business was
utterly repulsive to her, and she did not
like John Wisden any the better for
treating her to this flying shot, which it
meantime pleased him not a little to find
had taken aim. This conversation with
John Wisden over, the affair of the
diamonds was at once dismissed from
Mrs Jocelyn's mind.

She knew that her brother-in-law, if
scarcely trustworthy, was nevertheless
exceedingly clever ; and, having every
reasonable expectation that he would
bring the matter to an advantageous
conclusion, she resolved not to trouble
her head about it, but to give herself up
entirely to the unhappy thoughts in which
Paul Cazalet played so prominent a part
even her devotion to Dot came second
to her yearning after Cazalet. For determined
though Nelly was that she would
avoid in every possible way all communication
with the man of whom night and
day she had never ceased to think since
she heard of Marian's flight, yet very
certainly the longing to behold him once

again filled her heart, and though she
would have repudiated the assertion with
anger, it rendered her absolutely unfit to
give her attention to the ordinary details
that everyday life demands. Well was
it that Dot had become sufficiently convalescent
to forego much of the care that
had till now been imperative. Nelly
was already beginning to wish that
Dot and her husband were gone, so
that she might be left to enjoy in solitude
the painful pleasure of her own
thoughts.

Dot, who had been kept in happy
ignorance of all the dark and agitated
history that enshrouded her sister's life,
even including the episode in connection
with Paul Cazalet, naturally ascribed the
change, which she could not help noticing,
in her sister's manner to every cause except
the right one.

Poor Nelly was utterly tired out by
nursing,' she repeatedly told John Wisden
when they were alone, adding that it was
quite time they took their departure, and
left Nelly undisputed mistress of her own

OiliVJ-K*"'

apartment, where Dot said they had already
encroached too long.

By-and-by, when you are stronger,
love,' John Wisden would reply, ' we will
go to England and see your mother. Perhaps
Nelly will come with us,' he would
add, with a significant smile.

John Wisden knew as well as Dot did
that Nelly was pining to get rid of them,
and he also knew that nothing would persuade
Nelly to leave Paris as long as Paul
Cazalet was in the Rue Mignon ; but it
pleased him to dawdle over the situation,
so as, if possible, to find its Issue ; and,
moreover, the business of the diamonds,
about which he could not talk to Dot, was
not, as yet, by any means fully settled.

So active over it were both Varley and
Joseph Feller, that John Wisden was
almost beginning to fear that the Vicomte
de Gourlay would have to be taken into
confidence, and the preliminaries of a suit
instituted ; for In a subsequent talk he had
had with Mrs Jocelyn on the matter, she
had positively told him she would pay no
hush money, so that, if these men decided

to do their worst, she would meet it without
flinching. Thus days became weeks.
August  fortunately not a hot one  had
dawned, and Paris, so to speak, was absolutely
empty.

Madame d'Albin, after many futile
attempts to induce Nelly to accompany
her, had gone to Deauville ; Madame de
Brissac was at a property she possessed in
the neighbourhood of Chantilly, and also
sent Nelly several pressing invitations,
which were equally unaccepted.

The doctor declared positively that the
time had come when Dot must have a
change. So the journey to England was
chalked out, and the day for departure
fixed.

Nelly, as John Wisden fully expected
even while he suggested it, said she could
not possibly accompany them to the Retreat.
She must have some rest and quiet.
These she would obtain in empty Paris
better than anywhere They were to give
her dear love to her mother, and say
she hoped to come and see her in a
month.

In a month ! What a volume of events
might happen in a month !

So at last they were all gone, and Nelly
was left to the solitude she so ardently
craved. The diamond question, which
was really a most important one, was not
settled ; but it did not trouble Nelly by
any means as much as it ought to have
done. She was too much occupied in contemplating
the depth of the chasm that lay
between her and Paul Cazalet to regard
aught else very closely, and, moreover,
John Wisden had told her he would possibly
be able to settle this question more
easily in London, where he would see
Varley, and explain to him how prejudicial
it was to his own interests not to be
silent in this matter, since Mrs Jocelyn
was utterly callous whether he exposed
her or not, only, if he did so, she was
determined to have her full meed of
revenge.

Oh, John Wisden would make it all
right, she decided ; nothing from that
quarter would arise to worry her ; and
now that everybody was gone, she would

enjoy the perfect peace for which her
soul pined.

And truly in Paris in August Mrs
Jocelyn's solitude was wellnigh as undisturbed
as it had been at the Chalet
Victor ; but why her mistress did not
return there and combine country air with
solitude, Marie was at a loss to understand
; there must be something the matter
with her, she could not help fearing, and
yet she was not what may be called ill.

In a very short time Marie could not
help seeing that morbidness was the
disease from which Mrs Jocelyn was
suffering, and that the solitude she indulged
in in Paris was very different from
what was called by a similar name in
Auvergne.

There it was in healthy active pursuits
that Mrs Jocelyn passed the solitary days ;
while here in Paris she would sit for hours,
her hands folded in her lap, neither reading,
working, nor speaking, but absolutely
absorbed by her own unhappy thoughts.

If she does not have some occupation
she will go mad,' Marie decided ; and she

almost regretted Mrs Wisden's convalescence,
as she recollected how busily employed
Nelly had been during at least the
earlier stage of her sister's serious illness.

Nor could Marie in the least imagine
what had occasioned this strange change
in her mistress. She had of course heard,
as others had done, of Madame Cazalet's
elopement with M. de Gourlay. Old
Andre had been most prolix on the subject,
but in no way did Marie connect
this event with her mistress's present
state.

If it had been suggested to her that it
had aught to do with it, Marie would have
reasoned, and with some justice, that since
Mrs Jocelyn had shown no signs of such
inertia when M. Cazalet married, why
should his wife's desertion of him have
reduced her to this lamentable pass ?

Yet, in spite of logic, so it was ; but
then when has logic ever had anything
to do with the workings of the human
heart ?

Not that Nelly for a moment would
have acknowledged that she was in love.

She was simply disgusted with the difficulty
there was in bringing life's issues
to anything like a satisfactory conclusion,
and sorrowing over the hard fate that
assailed others as well as herself; at least
this is what she would have said in explanation,
had she vouchsafed to give one.

But she did not ; she sat nearly speechless,
only occasionally giving a monosyllabic
order, till Marie resolved that
if a change did not come over her mistress
soon, she would communicate how
affairs were progressing to Doctor Goujon,
since Marie rather suspected that he had
more influence over Mrs Jocehn than
most people.

A change, however, took place without
Doctor Goujon's intervention, a change for
which Marie was utterly at a loss to account,
but which was merely a new phase
in the malady from which Mrs Jocelyn
was suffering.

Suddenly from passive cold indifference
she passed into restless excitability ; became
feverish in her demeanour, and was
most capricious and irritable. She was

scarcely ever in the house, but spent long
hours wandering about the streets going
no particular whither, but simply walking
on as it seemed for walking's sake, in
order, if possible, to weary herself, and
produce the sleep that, since she had heard
of Paul Cazalet's trouble, had wellnigh
deserted her pillow.

An expert in this sort of malady would
have said the change was a good one,
since she would thus, in all probability,
wear out the annoyance that was undermining
her existence, and in time she
would return to her usual habits ; but to
Marie the sight of her mistress in this
condition was almost more painful than
in her former passive one, and she had
actually sat down to indite a few respectful
lines to Doctor Goujon on the subject,
when fully two hours earlier than Mrs
Jocelyn now usually returned, she heard
the key turn in the lock of the apartment,
and, on listening for a second or two,
discovered that Nelly was talking to someone.
Naturally the little sottbixtte, full of
curiosity, went to see who it was.

An old woman and a child.

Rapid at jumping at conclusions, Marie
took in the situation in a moment.

She had never seen Justine in her life,
but she had heard of her from Andre.
Of course, madame's visitor was Justine,
and the child was M. Paul Cazalet's.

Marie, with much discretion, went into
her own room, and shut the door ; but she
put aside the letter she was writing' to
Doctor Goujon, and decided that for that
day at least it should not be sent.

AN UTTER VAURIEN.

T is brilliant summer weather,
and a bungalow which has been
built among sweeping trees
close to the Thames is instinct
with life.

Waltz tunes are being played on a piano
by fingers that could never have been
taught to handle Chopin or Mendelssohn ;
and whenever there is a lull in the music,
noisy talking and loud laughter somewhat
jar upon the quietude that  until these
new occupants arrived  reigned in this
secluded spot.

Outside the window of the room from
whence this somewhat overstrained mirth

proceeds, a man is sitting on a garden-chair
smoking. He is sufficiently near
his comrades within to have many a remark
and joke thrown to him, but they
meet with brief, almost surly, replies.

He is obviously in a bad humour, and
the badinage in which the atmosphere of
the drawing-room abounds, irritates rather
than amuses him.

He is a little man, too insignificant in
appearance, one would think, for his anger
to command much weight ; the first impulse
on seeing him being, as a rule, a
strong temptation to laugh.

For this little man is quite the king of
dandies, and as he lounges in the verandah
on this hot August afternoon, he is clothed
in a most effective and sumptuous garment
of golden brocade,  wears a large red rose
in his button-hole  a rose which he has
carefully matched to the colour of the
Eastern cap on his head. This style of
dress he considers perfectly irresistible,
and probably believes to be in strict keeping
with the life he is at present leading,
which is unquestionably of the dolce far

niente order. It never would occur to
this little dressed - up jackanapes for a
moment that he would look far better ina
suit of flannels.

No, let other men wear such ordinary
apparel if they see fit, and find their pleasure
in making themselves hot and uncomfortable
by rowing on the river in the
broiling sun if they will. His vocation is
to lounge gracefully at the rudder, but
always in clothes that will attract the
attention of the passers-by. Men's clothes
are as a rule, by society's mandates, so
offensively hideous, that every opportunity
should be embraced of wearing that which
is pleasing to the eye and becoming.'

These strictures on dress, given at considerable
length whenever anyone was
weak enough to listen to them, proclaimed
at once that the speaker was a sybarite and
an egotist, a man who would never be
capable of performing a noble action, or, in
fact of ever acting at all, except in full accordance
with his pampered tastes, and in
gratification of his uncontrolled and selfish

o

passions.

And this worthless little object was FeHx
de Gourlay, for whom Madame Cazalet had
wickedly and foolishly given up not only
her place in an honest man's heart, but a
refined and luxurious home, and the pleasure
and joy it should have been to watch
her child's budding intelligence and become
the first recipient of her developing love.

But essentially coarse in type, Marian
had soon discovered that a man like Paul
Cazalet was stupendously her superior, and
that it was impossible for her to ascend
even one rung of the ladder on the top of
which he stood as by right. His nobility
of nature, his goodness, his very perseverance
in ever striving to please her,
annoyed her each day more and more,
partly because she could not help feeling
how unworthy she was, but chiefly because
this perpetual reminder of her own worthlessness
wounded her self-conceit and made
her hate Paul, whom she most unjustly
accused of seeking to lower her, in order to
exalt himself This phase of mind, which
perchance, by dint of Paul's patience and
unflagging devotion, might have passed

into a healthier mood, was unhappily
strengthened and fostered by M. de Gourlay's
love protestations and endless regrets
that he should not have been in time to
prevent her most unfortunate and unhappy
marriage with Paul.

Truly did Felix de Gourlay regret it ;
most assuredly he was not uttering the
usual conventional lie into which his lips
were frequently twisted when he spoke
this assertion.

He regretted it because, forsooth, Marian's
ample fortune would have patched
up the deficiencies of his own ; and he
was furious with himself for having allowed
the prize to slip through his fingers.

More furious against Paul Cazalet,
whom he hated, as a despicable man ever
hates the individual he regards as a successful
rival.

And had not Paul, according to De
Gourlay's belief, supplanted him not only
with Miss Marian Wallis but in the affections
of the beautiful Mrs Jocelyn. No
matter that Nelly Jocelyn would have
stared with astonishment, and then

laughed heartily at the bare idea that
under any circumstances she could have
loved the Vicomte de Gourlay, he
believed it none the less thoroughly on
that account.

Mrs Jocelyn had more or less passed
out of his life since she had gone to
bury herself among the volcanoes of
Auvergne ; but Marian was ever there,
absolutely his tool.

Clever naturally as Marian was, as
far, that is, as worldly knowledge was
concerned, still De Gourlay led her just
as he listed ; and when at the end of
the Paris season he suggested that she
should come with him instead of going
to the sea with Paul, she made but a
very feeble resistance.

So utterly infatuated was she, that had
she known De Gourlay's real true reason
for asking her to forsake her home on

o

his account, she would even then have
consented to follow his fortunes.

Essentially selfish, as a man must always
be who makes a woman a proposal
of this nature, in De Gourlay's case the

VOL. III. E

selfishness was twofold. His own money
resources were at their very lowest ebb ;
not another man of the class to which
Varley and Joseph Ferrier belonged
could be found to provide even the
smallest sum, when a happy inspiration,
as he profanely called it, came to this
utter little vaurien. He would possess
himself of the fortune from which he
considered that Paul Cazalet had unjustly
robbed him, and vent the full meed of
his vengeance on his old rival by carrying
his wife and her money away from
the Avenue Montaigne for ever.

No sooner had he decided on this
course, than he doubled the assiduities
with which he surrounded Marian, and
in an unhappy moment, when her weakness
for him and disgust at her husband's
virtues became more than usually apparent,
he propounded the evil question
of an elopement.

Even when their wretched plans were
all arranged, and Marian wrote her last
heartless letter to her husband, she could
not be truthful, but told him she was going

via Havre to America, whereas M. de
Gourlay had hired, by means of a friend of
his in England, the bungalow on the
Thames, which had been unlet for sometime.


To elude the fearful fuss and scene Paul
Cazalet was sure to make, was the reason
Marian gave herself for this deceit, but
even now she did not know or understand
her injured husband.

Once she had left his roof he showed
no sign ; whether she was in America or
England he did not know or inquire ; the
only active measure he took in connection
with the unhappy business was to inform
the bankers that, as far as her own fortune
was concerned, Madame Cazalet's cheques
were to be honoured. In fact, he withdrew
his own account from that particular
bank, so that no mistakes might occur,
and then he settled down as well as he
could in the Rue Mignon, with Justine and
Lina for his sole companions.

The church in which Paul Cazalet had
been brought up forbade divorce, or rather
re-marriage, even if the law permitted it ;

and he, therefore, never for a moment considered
this mode of obtaining his freedom.

That Paul could behave with such calm,
princely scorn was an enigma to a woman
of Marian's low calibre, and, truth being
told, she was not a little disappointed at
being let down so easily. To her, storm
and commotion, though she had begged
him to be quiet, would have been far more
palatable than silence.

She had, at De Gourlay's suggestion,
provided herself with a good sum of money
before she took the fatal plunge ; it was,
therefore, some time before money became
a necessity. When at last they had exhausted
their last sovereign, and Marian,
urged by De Gourlay, wrote in much fear
and trembling to the banker for a further
supply, and it was sent without the slightest
demur or comment, her astonishment at her
husband's conduct became so great that she
almost began to regret that she had left a
man who had a mind of such magnitude
that he never condescended to a meanness.
Joy, however, at possessing the wherewithal
to continue her life of sin and folly

very soon made her forget to think about
Paul ; and, indulging in a career of reckless
extravagance for which they would
discover erelonor that Marian's fortune was
wholly inadequate, the ball rolled freely
along.

The bungalow which was their temporary
home was sufficiently near London
for very frequent visits to the metropolis,
to the pleasures of which Marian had
hitherto been a stranger ; and in most
of their expeditions they were accompanied
by some of De Gourlay's male
friends. Ladies naturally excluded themselves
from Marian's society ; or, at all
events, ladies of the class with whom
Madame Cazalet had been in the habit
of associating.

Yet, notwithstanding the noisy round
of pleasure in which they lived, and the
money  far greater in amount than he
had been in the habit of touching for
years  Felix de Gourlay was by no
means contented. He objected, even
more thoroughly than Marian did, to the
silent contempt with which Paul Cazalet

treated the subject of his wife's elopement.
De Gourlay Heed a fuss ; he did
not care that his deeds, even his bad
ones, should be hid under a bushel ; and,
moreover, he had very tangible reasons
for wishing that Paul Cazalet had been
more actively irate, as, in that case, he
would probably have procured a divorce,
and Felix de Gourlay, whose religious
faith was of the laxest, would most assuredly
have taken advantage of it, and
married the divorce, solely to possess
himself of her fortune. For De Gourlay
had no belief in Marian  how could he
have, since her fickleness was obvious ?
She had deserted Paul Cazalet for him,
was it not therefore quite on the cards
that she would take a fancy to some of
the men who formed their coterie, and
leave him in his turn in the lurch ?

So firmly impressed was De Gourlay
on this subject, that he had serious
thoughts of closing his doors to all
his acquaintances, only his utter selfishness
stepped between him and his
aims.

He could not live without society, 
should die of ennui if he were condemned
to live in that bungalow with
no companion but Marian.

While he sat on the verandah smoking
his cigar, he was groaning to himself
in utter discontent, and vowing deeper
vengeance than ever against the man
who still continued to stand between him
and the fortune that, in eloping with
Marian, he thought he had effectively
grasped.

In judging Marian thus, De Gourlay
was somewhat severe. She really cared
for the little worthless individual, whom
it had been well if she had never seen,
cared for him far more than she had
ever cared for Cazalet ; and it did not
for a moment occur to her to bestow a
thought on any of De Gourlay 's male
acquaintances, either French or English,
who had the run of the house.

Even now when, from the tone of his
voice, she heard that the little vaurien
was not in the best of humours, she got
up from the piano and came out on to

the verandah to see if it was not possible
to wile him into a good temper.

Nor would her endeavours perchance
have been wholly unsuccessful, had not
an old Parisian chum bestowed on him
the well-worn appellation of the 'papillon
triste' an appellation which never failed
to put De Gourlay in the vilest of
humours.

He turned on his chaffing friend with
such fury that he judged it expedient
to beat a retreat, and to join one or two
of the others in the boat on the river ;
and the house was soon cleared of everyone
save Marian and the still wrathful
Felix de Gourlay.

She sat down on a low seat at his
feet and sought to lure him back to
good humour, when, coming through the
gate at the end of the lawn, they saw
the postman bringing the second post.
Marian jumped up and got the letter ;
not that she expected anything save
perhaps a communication about some
pleasure party.

The letter was addressed to her, and

was from Paris. There was just a slight
nervous twitching about her fingers as
she opened it.

She read it through at a glance ; De
Gourlay, who had taken the cigar from
his mouth, watching her the while.

He saw there was something wrong,
and hoped that Paul Cazalet was at last
going to show fight.

Marian's exclamation speedily showed
him that the trouble came from a very
different quarter.

My father  ruined ! ' she cried.

De Gourlay jumped up.

'Sacred nom ! You don't say that your
father is ruined ? '

No  no, not my father ; but we are
ruined ! Oh, Felix ! '

Speak, Marian ; what has happened ? '

My father has stopped the payment
of my allowance,  will not pay me another
farthing, because I have left Paul.'

I thought your money was absolutely
your own.'

No, no ; tied up. It goes to my
child.'

But Cazalet evidently wishes you to
have it.'

My father denies his power to do soin
fact, refuses to pay the interest on the
sum agreed on. There ! read the letter.'

De Gourlay, whose English was very
imperfect, was some few minutes before he
took in every detail of the letter Marian
had just received. When he did so, his
anger was boundless. He threw away
the cigar he was smoking, and began
to walk rapidly up and down the verandah,
swearing volubly in French the
while, altogether, in his extraordinary
costume of golden tissue, presenting a
most comic appearance, at which Marian
would very likely have laughed had she
not been really frightened by his wrath,
as well as terribly upset by the news
that all the supplies had been cut off

Vainly she sought to tranquillise him
by saying perhaps her father would relent
; he could not see her starve. Felix
de Gourlay only raged the louder, and
cursed the day when he had been fool
enough to entangle himself in her affairs.

As for his love for her, he did not
allude to it any more than if it never
existed, which is probable ; and at last
brutally told her that since they could
not live on air, he saw nothing for it
but that she should go back to Paul and
crave his forgiveness.

Such a proposition as this astounded
and shocked even Marian, low though
she had fallen.

No, Felix,' she said, with some little
show of dignity, ' a woman who has
taken the step that I took can never go
back. You may desert me if you will,
but I shall not go back to Paul.'

De Gourlay saw that he had made a
mistake by his suggestion, and said,
speaking a little less surlily, 

Well, I am sure I don't want you to
go back to Cazalet or away at all, if
only we have enough money to keep
things going  the life here suits me well
enough. Perhaps something may occur
to mend matters. At all events, we will
say no more about it for a day or two.
These fellows are coming up from the

boat ; just as well they should not know
we have become paupers.'

Marian did not answer him, but, turning
away, went upstairs into her room,
and sitting down with the bankers
letter in her lap, burst out crying.

They were the first tears that had
fallen from her eyes since she had left
the Avenue Montaigne.

Was it the loss of money only that
had effected this, or did Marian fear that
loss of money would probably bring about
De Gourlay's desertion '.

She would scarcely have failed to do
so had she seen him after her departure ;
he picked up his cigar, relighted it,
settled himself so as to look composed
when his companions should return, and
grumbled between his teeth even as they
were walking over the lawn.

Quel chance that Cazalet did not
divorce her. To marry a woman without
a sou would be a madness which I have
happily escaped.'

BLINDED BY A FALSE BELIEF.

H I LE events are proceeding with
an utter disregard to honour and
virtue in the bungalow by the
Thames, the misery ever entailed
by a complete absence of decency
and order is descending with a heavy hand
on those whom Marian has left behind her
in Paris.

Paul, once more thoroughly re-established
in the Rue Mignon, has, to all outward
appearance, resumed his old habits. He
works steadily and hard during the hours
of daylight, rising sometimes as early as
five o'clock.

He has little Lina to work for now, he
tells himself.

And seldom, if ever, does he go out of
the house.

Even in the evening, when his painting
blouse is thrown off, he will sit and brood
over some of his favourite books, and brood,
rather than read, for his thoughts are very
frequently far, far away.

To Justine, who watches him when he
least suspects it, Paul's mood is a sad trial,
the more so since she feels she can do
nothing to remedy it, and blames herself
constantly for having been anxious that he
should marry Marian. She will take him
little Lina every now and again, just to
brighten his solitude a bit, as she tells him;
but though he invariably leaves off his work
to kiss and fondle the child for a while,
there is such a sad, bereft expression on
his face when he returns her to the old
servant that it makes Justine's heart bleed.

If only he would go out and see some
of his friends,' she suggests.

All in good time,' Paul will reply, striving
to smile in order to please her. 'There

Is no one left to 2:0 and see in Paris in the
dog days. When people return to town
no doubt the house will be gay enough.'

But Justine does not wholly believe him.
She fears that the winter will still see him
the same morose, solitary hermit.

And yet Justine wonders why Paul
should be so changed, since she is absolutely
certain that he never had any
strong love for Marian. She fails to
understand that he is sorrowing over his
missed happiness,  the overthrow of the
ideal which in life's morning march he had
pictured to himself.

Though how Paul could ever have expected
to arrive at the ideal with Marian
Wallis, it would have puzzled cleverer
heads than poor old Justine's to have
understood.

All Justine did comprehend was that
Paul was very unhappy, and that she
would give the most valuable thing she
possessed in life to bring back the brightness
to his eyes, and hear the old house
resound with one of his erst honest merry
laughs.

But she felt utterly powerless. All she
could do for him was to see that his
creature comforts were provided for, and
be as loving to his child as she had
been to himself when he was her tiny-fostering.


But old Justine was doing better work
than she imagined. By her quiet, unobtrusive
sympathy she was humanising Paul,
bringing gradually back to him the belief
that there was some goodness and truth to
be found in the world after all ; that he
must not, as, in the first flush of his disappointment
and anger, he had been more
than half inclined to do, set down the
whole of womankind as false and infamous
because it had been his ill-luck to take a
viper to his breast.

But of the thoughts that passed in
Paul's mind Justine had no opportunity
of judging, for he never spoke much, and
when he did, it was entirely on matters
relating to household affairs. When a
necessity for action did arrive, it came ina
by no means agreeable form,  an angry
telegram from Mr Wallis, to be succeeded

by still more angry letters and numberless
lawyer's communications.

That all this annoyed Paul Cazalet
very much goes without saying ; but it
did him good ; it took him out of the
groove into which he had, as it were,
become fixed, and obliged him to use
his intelligence and come to decisions on
weighty points.

That he would seek no divorce he was
resolved, though his father-in-law urged it
strongly ; but at the same time, that he
would never see Marian again he was
equally resolved, nor touch a penny of
her money. He would have preferred
that Lina should not have done so either,
but been dependent solely on him for
fortune ; but on this point Mr Wallis
was positive.

The child was his grand-daughter, and
should have her rights  rights which he
considered her mother had forfeited by
her late act.

If Paul declined to take for himself and
Lina the half-yearly sums to which Mr
Wallis considered they were entitled, they

VOL. III. F

should accumulate, for Marian should not
have one penny ; a little starvation would
teach her what the word duty meant.

He forgot, or rather put the recollection
out of his mind, that at his death Marian
must inherit the money settled on her
when she married.

Being a hale and hearty, and by no
means an old man, his death was a period
too far off for present consideration.

During the negotiation of these affairs
several weeks passed, and Paul was too
much engrossed by the annoyance it occasioned
him to notice a decided change
which had come over Justine. She was
no longer the free, frank, honest old body
she had ever been, but, on the contrary,
seemed to be afraid of meeting Paul's
eye ; and when she would bring little
Lina to him, as a now established custom
compelled her to do, she would walk away
to the window and look out into the street
while he was playing with her.

To honest-hearted Justine deception
was a crime, and she knew that she
was deceiving Paul.

Very frequently now, when she took the
child out for an airing, they went to see
Mrs Jocelyn. Ever since the day Nelly
met them by accident in the street she
had become as much devoted to Paul's
child as though the baby had been Paul
himself; but she had laid a special and
strong embargo on Justine never to tell
Paul of these visits. She would once
more go right away from Paris, never to
return, rather than Paul should know that
she was so deeply interested in Lina.

And Justine felt bound to obey her, not
perhaps wholly on account of her distinct
orders on the subject, but because she
feared Paul's displeasure if he should
learn that Lina paid almost daily visits
to Mrs Jocelyn. Why Justine should take
her there, and at the risk of getting herself
into an interminable amount of
trouble, she wondered to herself very
frequently when she thought the matter
over. The fact was Justine was strangely
fascinated by Nelly Jocelyn. Her beauty
had ever acted as a charm on the old
woman ; and she had constantly regretted

of late that Nelly had not become the wife
of her well-loved Paul, instead of Marian
Wallis, in whom old Justine had never had
the slightest faith.

But now that it was too late for such
a marriage ever to come about, Justine
felt that she was acting very foolishly in
creating even the slightest link between
two people who should be estranged forever
; for although she had been told
nothing, Justine knew as well as if full
confession had been made how real and
strong and inextinguishable was the love
that existed between these severed hearts.

It was this knowledge, and a fear as to
what would be the result of her own
behaviour, that made her shy and ill at
ease whenever she was in the same room
with Paul.

Days and weeks passed on. The
question of Madame Cazalet's money had
been long since settled, and so far Paul
was left once more at peace ; but autumn
was drawing towards winter, and the
Parisians were returning to their homes.
Hence the solitude in the Rue Mignon

was not as absolute as heretofore, and
Justine's terror lest some busy tongue
might wag to her master of little Lina's
visits to Mrs Jocelyn increased daily.

Madame de Brissac and Madame d'Albin
had both come back, and had both been to
the atdlier, and had a long talk with Paul
so long, that Justine, conscience-stricken,
thought they must be telling him about her
taking the child to see Mrs Jocelyn, and
she worked herself up to such a degree
that it was with much difficulty she could
prevent herself from rushing into the room
and acknowledging her fault ; at all events
she would tell Paul the very moment they
were gone, for she could carry the burden
of this secrecy no longer.

At last she heard the could with the two
ladies drive from the door, and in pursuance
of her determination, she was about
to go into the studio to Paul, leaving
Lina asleep in her cradle in the sitting-room,
when the door of communication
between the two rooms opened, and Paul
came out.

You will be surprised, Justine, and I

think pleased, at something I have promised
; so I have come to tell you.'

What is it ? What is it, M. Paul ?'

I have actually promised to go to
Madame de Brissac's first weekly reception
this evening.'

I am glad  very, very glad.'

And yet it scarcely gives me satisfaction.
I would far rather be left in
peace to enjoy my solitude. I wonder
why all you women are so anxious to
drive me out of it.'

Because your health will suffer if you
do not have society.'

Society ! Now, I ask you, who that
is congenial to me am I likely to meet
at Madame de Brissac's to-night .- There
was a time that  but no, that time is
best forgotten. I will try not even to
think of it when I enter her salon!

M. Paul '

Well, Justine ? Why, what is the
matter '. You are as red as a peony,
and  dites donc nothing is the matter
with my Lina .' '

The matter, no ! Look at her as she

lies sleeping there ; she is the picture of
health, but  '

But what, Justine ? '

Justine had knelt down by the cradle,
and was kissing the child, who just at
that moment elected to wake up. She
pushed Justine's face away when she saw
her father, and the old nurse, instead of
being jealous was delighted, and taking
her up put her in his arms. As she
crowed and laughed to him, Paul forgot
Justine's 'but;' and the old woman for
some reason did not see fit to repeat it.
So the opportunity was allowed to slip,
and Mrs Jocelyn's name still remained
unmentioned between them.

Madame de Brissac's Thursday !

It was at one of Madame de Brissac's
Thursdays that Paul had first met the
beautiful English widow. She might be
there to-night.

So Justine had thought while she kissed
little Lina. If she told him now of her
visits to Madame Jocelyn, perhaps he
would stay at home to-night, from the
fear of meeting her.

And Justine was woman enough to
think that she would Hke the old friendship
between Paul and Mrs Jocelyn to be
renewed.

Surely,' she argued, ' it would be better
to have Nelly for a friend, than to pass
the rest of his life in the dreary misery he
had been enduring of late.'

Ah ! Justine was totally incapable of
calculating what a far greater amount of
misery a meeting between these two might
entail. Had she been able to consider
the matter, she would probably have
spoken the words which would have kept
Paul Cazalet from going to Madame de
Brissac's soire ; for, even as she had
imagined likely, Nelly was there, her
beauty intensified by being, from suffering,
of a more chastened type.

Paul had not been five minutes in the
room before he saw her sitting at its
farther end.

Prudence suggested that he should turn
and fly ; but second thoughts decided that
the act would be cowardly, and would probably
call forth more remark than would

be occasioned by a little common-place conversation
with a lady with whom the whole
of the assembled quests knew him to be
acquainted.

He walked straight up to her, and held
out his hand.

How do you do, Mrs Jocelyn ? '

The sentence was common-place enough,
had been spoken to her a thousand times
by the merest acquaintances, yet the words
fell on Nelly's ear as though she had never
heard them before.

Spoken in that tone, she certainly never
had. She placed her hand in his extended
one, and merely uttering the word
Paul ! ' in a soft, low voice, there was
silence between them for a second or
two.

He was the first to break it, for Nelly
seemed so utterly overcome, that he feared
some notice miorht be taken of her trench



bllng condition, and the half - hysterical
twitching of her face. It was scarcely
kind of those who had arranged this meeting.
If Paul and Nelly were to meet
again, it should not have been in public.

With a mighty effort, Paul mastered his
own emotion, and said, 

I am very glad to see you again. You
have been away from Paris for a very longtime,
I believe ? '

Yes, a very long time ; scarcely long
enough though, I am afraid.'

Still Nelly spoke so low, he could only
just catch the words.

He must, he felt, struggle on with platitudes,
if he would cover her confusion, and
restore her composure.

Everybody is coming back now,' he
replied ; ' and all your friends have missed
you greatly.'

Have you ?'

And she suddenly looked up at him with
her large eyes, troubling him as they had
troubled him that winter's day in the atdlier,
now so long ago that it almost seemed as
if its events had taken place in another
century.

Have I ? ' he repeated, struggling with
his bravely fought for composure. ' You
know I have ; there are some voids in life
which nothing can fill up.'

Ah ! my poor friend, you have indeed
a knowledge of such voids as these.'

I was not thinking of my own trouble,
but of your long disappearance,' he remarked,
dropping into a chair which had
suddenly become vacant close to her ; ' but
now you have returned, the sun will shine
on the French capital once more.'

You will really let me help to console
you ? '

Why not ? Did we not long since tie
the knot of eternal friendship ? '

And I who have been striving carefully
to avoid you ! '

To avoid me, wherefore ? Have I
become dangerous because I have been
betrayed and deserted ? '

No, no ; but I thought perhaps you
would not care to  '

To hold your hand in mine, and feel it
is the hand of sympathy. Believe me,
Mrs Jocelyn, I would not cast away such
a good thing for all the world. Even if
for myself I could afford to disregard
friendship, I cannot forget that I have a
child.'

Ah, yes  your child. How pretty and
engaging she is. I have already learnt
to love her.'

You know  have seen  my little Lina ?'

Oh, do not be angry with Justine! I
implored her not to tell you  it is my fault.
I was afraid you would be angry.'

I do not understand.'

I met her with the baby one day in the
street close to my house. I persuaded her
to come in with me. Since then I have
received several visits from them both,
but always begging Justine not to tell
you.'

Paul Cazalet looked at her in sorrowful
surprise.

How unkind of both you and Justine
to have done what would give me the
very greatest pleasure in life, and not
let me know that it had happened.'

You are glad that I have become
acquainted with little Lina ? '

So glad that, dearly as I love my child,
I shall love her more still now that I know
you too have some affection for her.'

They were rash words, so rash as to be

wellnloh unanswerable. Paul was evidently
in a reckless mood to-night. He
had kicked over the traces,  left solitude
behind, and on seeing Nelly once again
felt inclined to let the only gleam of happiness
he had seen for months deepen into
sunshine.

They neither of them spoke again for
some little time, their hearts were full to
overflowing, and there was a greater fund
of gladness to be obtained from the silence
in which they sat and gazed into each
other's faces, than in the disjointed conversation
the exigencies of society enforced.


At last Paul said, 

You will come again to the atdlier and
let me finish La Veneziana. My fame will
not reach its apogee until your portrait is
on the walls of the Salon!

Is it well and wise that I should come
to the Rue Mignon } ' she would have
asked, but she feared to make him think
she was afraid of him.

Why should they not be friends ? she
reasoned.

The barrier that prevented them from
forming any closer tie was as formidable as
ever, but to friendship there was no barrier.

At the sight of Paul Cazalet all Nelly's
scruples and good intentions had been
swept away, over-ruled by the longing to
retain his dear companionship. And yet
if she had questioned herself closely, she
would have acknowledged that she was
sorely afraid of him  ay, and afraid of herself
too.

But she declined to question herself on
the subject, only did as many another
woman has done before her, determined
to let events take their course ; and in so
resolving, weighted herself with such an
amount of difficulty and care, that it was
doubtful if she would be strong enough to
carry it.

That Paul Cazalet, ever scrupulous on
all points in which honour was concerned,
should almost invite her to this dangerous
task, was strange, but he, too, was blinded
blinded by a false belief in his own
strength.

And so, before their first meeting was

over  a meeting which they had both
dreaded more than they cared to acknowledge
 they had cast off the shackles of
Prudence, and resolved to walk, heads
erect, side by side, as friends along the
narrow pathway which should be bounded
on each side by Integrity and Honour, nor
give any heed to the clamorous tongues of
slander and scandal which would ever and
again let fall venomous diatribes as they
passed.

And for the false position in which erelong
these two trusting friends would
doubtless find themselves, would not those
who had almost forced them into this
meeting be more or less responsible ?

BREAKERS AHEAD.

Once more the atdlier in the Rue
Mignon is gleam with Hight
for Paul.

La Veneziana is on the easel ;
he is working at it with a desperate assiduity
that amounts to enthusiasm, for Nelly
is, as of yore, reclining in the chaise tongue,
and he has only to take his attentions off
the beautiful and faithful representation of
her face that he himself has produced, in
order to turn them on the fair and dear
original, to gaze, and gaze again, into the
beloved eyes as they laugh up into his
own.

Both the man and the woman are rejoicing

in the happiness of the passing
hour, crying out in their hearts, 

For to-day only will we live, and take
no account of tomorrow.'

The relations that exist between them
are absolutely sinless ; intellectual proximity,
and a dear bond of sympathy, links
their lives into an unchangeable friendship,
and in meeting thus frequently as
friends, what evil or unhappiness can the
union of these two affectionate hearts reflect
on any other one.

Mrs Jocelyn is free, perfectly free ; and
as for Paul, well, he scarcely feels that
Marian will be injured by Nelly's presence
in his studio ; there will be no jealous,
tortured heart to break.

And so they revel in present joys, without
ever making allusion to the past.
Marian's name lias not been mentioned
between them ; and as for the secret tie
which had prevented Nelly from taking
her true place by Paul's side, she has never
spoken of it.

How could she bear to break the charm
of their intercourse by telling him she

VOL. III. G

was a felon's widow ? that when months
ago he looked into her eyes and told her
he loved her, she was even a felon's
wife ?

Still it was not pride that withheld her
from making this confession, but fear. She
read in Paul's somewhat haughty, honest
brow a horror of crime, and she trembled
lest, thinking she must be contaminated
by her connection with Arthur Braith-
waite, he would turn away from her in
disgust, and rend for ever asunder friendship's
golden chains that bound them so
pleasantly together.

Paul Cazalet was too devoted to his
art to be a curious man, else this secret
of Nelly's might not have been so easily
guarded. He had never asked her aught
of her past ; sufficient was it for him that
she was there for him to gaze on in the
present.

To-day, however, while he was putting
a few last touches to La Veneziajia, he
said suddenly, 

You have never spoken to me of your
husband, Nelly. Was your life with him

very unhappy that you never allude to
him ? '

Nelly's breath for a moment or two was
wellnigh taken away when she heard
Paul's words, and she felt the same sort
of spasm of agony that she had felt when
she had first seen Arthur Braithwaite
lying with death on his face at the Chalet
des Oiseaux.

She succeeded in sufficiently controlling
her emotion to say, 

'It is so long ago  so much has happened
since then.'

So long ago ! Why, how long has
Jocelyn been dead ? '

She dared not answer, 

The year of my real mourning for him
has not yet expired.'

So she said evasively, 

Well, you know pretty well, since you
must remember when we first met at
Madame de Brissac's.'

Ah, yes, you wore a sort of mitigated
widow's garb ; but it seems to me that
you wear the same sort of raiment now 
that long veil with which the bonnet lying

on the chair is decorated, surely might be
given up. Are you always going to wear
mourning for your husband, Nelly ? You
must have loved him very dearly ? '

Long veils are picturesque, and so
are long trailing mourning skirts ! ' she
answered, striving to laugh, but it was a
ghastly effort. ' I should not be the same
Nelly, Paul, if you were to see me in a
bright blue dress and a small bonnet, my
gaudy auburn locks no longer hidden by
a veil.'

So it is simply out of vanity, and because
you think subdued beauty is your
style, that you go on wearing mourning.
Why, Nelly, I did not think you such a
coquette.'

No, not altogether that ; but, Paul,
what can it matter what I wear. It is
such a nuisance to be tormented about
dress  black is the least trouble.'

That is another light on the subject.
It is very obvious you mean to mourn
for Jocelyn beyond the usual term allotted
to grief. Tell me, unless it will pain you
very much, something about this man who,

though dead, still appears to live greenly
in your memory.'

How can I tell you ? What can I
tell you ? He was Arthur Jocelyn, the
son of Air Jocelyn of Garrow. My father-in-law
was member for the county for
some years, and was a grand old man.'

The place Garrow did not come to
your husband ? '

No ; it went to his elder brother.
Arthur and his elder brother where not on
speaking terms for years. I knew nothing
of him.'

And this Arthur  your husband  was
he good to you ? '

Oh, yes ; I believe he was very fond
of me.'

Paul looked at her searchingly for a
minute ; she coloured up, and her eyes
sank under his gaze.

He could not understand the past altogether
; he decided there was something
he had not unravelled. However, he supposed
that the man was a brute, and had
ill-used her, and she was too loyal to telltales
; but he would go on a little with

his cross-examination. He put one or
two more touches with his brush on La
Veneziana while he was thinking, then
he stepped back to look at the effect, asking
as he did so, 

What was this husband of yours  his
profession and calling, I mean ? '

For a second or two there was a deep
silence, then Nelly answered, the words
coming forth with a painful effort, 

I believe he was connected with some
business in London  in the City. He
died before I had time to know much
about his business.'

In London, did he die ?'

'No.'

She did not wish to tell falsehoods to
Paul if she could possibly help it. Why
would he ask these terrible questions ?
Impressed with the idea that he would
learn the truth  perchance, who knows,
some innuendoes about Mrs Jocelyn's husband
might have reached him  he persisted
in his questioning, making it, too,
all the harder for Nelly, because it
was entrapped in such interest in her

affairs, such an amount of tenderness for
her.

Poor Nelly,' was his reply to her brief
denial. * I wish I had known you when
you were married to Jocelyn. If I had
been your friend then I might have
helped you through a time that I am
afraid was one of misery and sorrow.'

You could not, Paul, indeed you
could not. You could have done
nothing.'

Who was with you when Jocelyn
died?'

Oh, Paul, do not  do not ask. That
terrible time. I cannot  cannot talk
about it. If you care for me, you will
never allude to it ; only to think of it
sometimes keeps me awake for nights.'

Paul Cazalet put down his brushes and
went away from his picture, seating himself
on the window seat, thus almost
fronting Nelly.

I am sorry, Nelly, very sorry that
in the dead past I have so formidable
a rival in your affection. I had once
hoped  but no matter ; you were right

when you told me just before my
marriage to pray God that He would
keep our lives as far asunder as the
poles.'

Nay, Paul  Paul, you do not know
you cannot understand. It was not
because I did not love you that I said
we must be parted, but because I loved
you too well. Oh, God ! why have we
been parted thus, and, if parted, why
are we together now ? '

Why indeed ? '

But, Paul, we have sworn to befriends,
 nothing more than friends in the
future. For your child's sake we must
keep our oath. Let us ever think of
Marian, and be ever resolute and staunch
in our friendship.'

Think of Marian ! It is well to put
the onus of all that divides love from
friendship on Marian. Is there no one
on your side, Mrs Jocelyn, that creates
as impassable a barrier between us as
does the wretched Marian ? '

No one, Paul  no one. So help me,
God, I swear it.'

If Marian were dead, you would consent
to be my wife ? '

If Marian were dead I would consent
to be your wife.'

Then followed a silent pause, broken
at last by Nelly, who got up from her
chair and held her hand out to him.

Banish suspicions from your brain,
great Paul ; devote yourself to your art ;
put me only in the second place. We
have determined to invest friendship with
the ideal ; do not let us feel compelled
to fall from our high estate, and acknowledge
that the work we have jointly
undertaken is too difficult for our feeble
strength.'

Paul Cazalet took both her hands, and
looked meantime fixedly in her face 
love and admiration beaming in his eyes.

'Yours is a noble nature, Nelly; true
true as steel, my friend. A man were
a villain indeed who could doubt you
even for a moment.'

Mrs Jocelyn's eyes sank beneath Paul's
riveted glance, and her cheeks became
crimson.

It was indeed an ordeal to listen to
such unmerited eulogium  ' true  true as
steel.' How could she stand calmly
there and allow Paul to bestow such
praise on her  she whose life had for
years been an acted lie ? She bore it
shrinkingly, certainly, but she did not,
nevertheless, contradict him, only wrestled
with him to get her hands free ; and
having done so, she went back to her
chair in which she had been sitting, and
dropped into it heavily, as though exhausted
with the struggle. He watched
her in evident astonishment, wondering
what there had been in his words to
trouble her.

When next she spoke, it was in an indifferent
tone.

The picture is finished, is it not Paul,
will be the success of the year in
the next Salon ? '

I hope so  I hope and believe so.'

The picture then being finished, the
sittings are at an end,' and so saying she
reached out her hand and took her bonnet
from the chair on which it was lying.

That does not mean that you will
come here no more. You are not going
to desert me again, just when I was beginning
to feel thoroughly happy and
contented ? ' he asked impressively.

I have come here too often, since
you are forgetting the compact,' she answered,
 ' forgetting that we are only
friends, and drifting into the lover at every
moment.'

No, no, Nelly ; do not say it. I will
be more careful. I will put such a
check on my looks and words that you
shall have no cause for complaint ; only
do not leave me, do not say you will
come to the atelier no more.'

And Paul as he pleaded was almost
abject in his demeanour.

What shall I do without you ? ' he
went on, 'how endure life? It is not fair
to hold the goblet of bliss temptingly
to a man's lips, and then to dash it to
pieces on the ground. What, too, will
Lina do ? She loves you so dearly now,
as much as if you were  '

Hush, Paul ! is this ouardinor your

lips and eyes ? Our conversation must
in the future be solely on artistic and
general subjects, if you would retain me
for your occasional companion. I will
be staunch and true to you as a friend,
if you will keep your position carefully,
nor encroach on forbidden ground. For
remember I could never bear to feel
that I was being pointed at by the finger
of gossip, or had descended by one inch
from the height of the pedestal to which
I hope I have climbed in the opinion of
my Parisian friends.'

'So I knew I had a rival. If not a
human being, still vox populi is my rival,
and God knows it is substantial and living
enough.'

You are absurd, too absurd, Paul, to
be thus jealous of my care for my good
name ; you should be the first to guard
and protect it. Since you decline to do so,
I suppose I must take the care entirely
into my own keeping.'

And while she spoke the bonnet was tied
on, and the long black gloves were being
carefully pulled up on the rounded arms.

Nay  nay, Nelly, you mistake me. I
have every respect for your good name ;
but I cannot see how it is injured by your
being kind and generous in your behaviour
to me. How on earth can people know
whether we discuss love or friendship during
our tete-d-tetes ? '

They must have no chance given them
of imaginings we are aught but friends ; and
that they may not have that chance, we
must only be friends. But it is a hateful
subject, Paul. Do not let us discuss it.
You know my feelings and opinions, only
strive to act up to them, and let us have
no reason for self-reproach in the future.
Now I must go home, for Blanche d'Albin
is coming to see me, and I would not have
her think I was absenting myself on your
account.'

Blanche d'Albin ! Always someone
between you and me,' grumbled Paul behind
his brown beard.

Oh, that the desert were my dwelling-place,
With one fair spirit for my minister,
That I might all forget the human race.
And hating no one, love but only her.'

It was Nelly who quoted these lines,

somewhat mockingly, a smile upon her
face as she held out her hand to him.

Never mind, Paul,' she went on, * since
we cannot play at twin-born happiness ina
desert, we will make the best of life as
it is. Come tomorrow at nine for a cup
of English tea, and I'll ask a few of the
most congenial spirits I know in this most
pleasant of capitals ; and we will have a
real causerie after the true old home
fashion. Aic revoir till then, mon cher,
au revoir

Yes, the tables of late appeared to be
strangely turned. Mrs Jocelyn, notwithstanding
the strong love she had for Paul
Cazalet ever since the evening of their first
meeting, had her feelings more under control
than he had, who had been fighting
and struggling against his love for years.

The fact was, that, having at last been
forced to acknowledge to himself that his
love was stronger than the power to conquer
it, he had given himself up to its influence
; and ever since he had met Mrs
Jocelyn again, he had not attempted in
any way to coerce his affections.

With woman's true instinct, Nelly had
at once perceived the change that had
come over Paul, and the knowledge had
made her resolve to set a double watch
over her own reputation and his honour.

As she wended her way homeward after
the sitting in which La Veneziana was
supposed to be finished as far as her
presence was required, she, for the second
time in their acquaintance, decided that
she must go to the Rue Mignon no more,
but must limit her interviews with Paul to
those occasions when he had an hour or
two of leisure to pass in her salon.

And that Mrs Jocelyn was right in this
decision no one can gainsay ; only was
she in time ? Had not the coterie to
which she belonged already been indulging
in a little of that so-called harmless
gossip which not infrequently mars a
life?

But of this she was not thinking as
she tripped swiftly along, but of how
she was to manage Paul so as to keep
him at arm's-length. for a friend.

Her meditations on this subject were

brought to a somewhat abrupt conclusion
on her arrival at her own door, by old
Andre's appearance with a telegraphic
message in his hand. Mrs Jocelyn did
not open it till she reached her own
rooms. Frequent as are the transmissions
of telegrams, the dread of them having
well-nigh died out ; yet she felt that this
one boded no good, and she would
therefore learn what it had to convey
in private.

It was from John Wisden, even as
she had feared, and ran in English as
follows : 

No present chance of a compromise.
Little vicomte bolted, leaving Marian
penniless.'

Annoying and worrying as was the
trouble about these diamonds, which she
had hoped by this time had been arranged,
the flight of De Gourlay, and Marian's
penniless condition, affected Nelly for the
moment far more nearly.

She sat down for a while, her head



leaning on her clasped hands to think
the matter out in all its details.

Should she tell Paul, and, having told
him, what course of action would he consider
himself called on to pursue ?

VOL. III.

H

THE VOICE OF Scandal,

ALWAYS said she was an
adventuress, and now I feel
absolutely certain of the fact.'
If every woman who flirts
with a married man is to be dubbed
adventuress, then I am afraid Paris cannot
boast many xdX envies die vionde'

Oh, you always threw the mantle of
your protection over her, and never
would even condescend to tell us where
you had made her acquaintance. For
my part, I felt certain from the first that
she was an individual to avoid, not to
cultivate.'

Too beautiful ! Yes, no doubt she is

too really lovely not to have many enemies,
especially among women.'

And you, Madame d'Albin, can afford
to be more generous than your sisters.'

A lions, allons, my dear Madame de
Reps, do not let us engage in a word
quarrel on the subject of sweet Nelly
Jocelyn ; positively you are quite mistaken
in the view you take of her. She
is no more of an adventuress than I am.'

I am glad to hear you defend your
friend, but I am not in the least prepared
to agree with you.'

This conversation was taking place at a
matilda, between Blanche d'Albin and a
certain Madame de Reps, notorious for her
sharp, unmanageable tongue. It was somewhat
arrested in its course by the arrival
of a benevolent-looking, middle-aged man,
who inquired of what the ladies were talking
that they were so excited.

Madame de Reps, without giving Madame
d'Albin the chance of making any
reply, began to give Nelly's history, as
it appeared from her post of observation.
We are discussing Mrs Jocelyn, who

arrives in our midst from no one knows
where ; makes her way solely by her
beauty and her impudence ; dares to
outrage the laws of conventionality by
a risky flirtation with the painter Cabaret,
who is decidedly outside the pale ;
and still, infatuated by her beauty, no
one ejects her. She goes off with Cabaret
to England ; when she comes back
is still received. For my part, I say that
society has gone mad.'

Pardon, Madame de Reps  '

One instant, Madame d'Albin ; let me
finish. M. de Cinque does not know
this story, it is as well that he should
be made acquainted with it. Cazalet, as
everybody knows, grew very tired of the
English widow  that is, if she really is a
widow, for he returned to Paris without
her, and very soon took refuge from her
in a marriage with a young Australian
possessed of a considerable fortune. This
Madame Jocelyn, however, about whom
the world raves, could not even now give
the poor man any peace. She followed
him and persecuted him  '

Why, she went away to Auvergne for
months ! ' cried Blanche d'Albin, most in-indignant
at the utterly distorted story
about poor Nelly that Madame de Reps,
in her spite and ignorance, was relating.

She would not allow herself to be
contradicted.

Exactly, exactly. We all know she
went away ; but I hear, on the best
authority, that she wrote endless letters
to Cazalet, till she entangled him into a
regular correspondence, which his poor
unhappy wife at length discovered ; and
being made utterly miserable and wretched,
she imprudently poured the tale of her
despair into the ear of M. de Gourlay,
thus bringing about her own ruin, of which
most assuredly Madame Jocelyn was the
cause.'

It is not true !  not in the least true ! '
cried Madame d'Albin. ' I don't believe
Nelly ever wrote one word to
Cazalet.'

The gentleman they called M. de Vin-queen
laughed and seemed highly amused
at the brush between these two ladies,

and rather encouraged Madame de Reps
to go on.

She was nothing loth to do so, and
treated Madame d'Albin to something like
a sneer.

'Ma pauvre cherie, you are too kindhearted
 too easily gulled. I tell you
this woman ought never even to have
shaken hands with you. Do not believe
for a moment that she has not been
carrying on an intrigue with Cazalet for
months ; and no sooner does she hear
of Madame Cazalet's departure, and the
painter's return to the Rue Mignon, than
she re-appears in Paris. And now, may
I ask you, what do you think of her
conduct now ? '

What has she done ? Long, long ago,
Paul Cazalet began to paint her portrait
for a picture to be called La Veneziana.
A death in his family took him into
seclusion, followed by another death 
that of his old father. The picture was
never finished, and Mrs Jocelyn has
lately been sitting for it. This is the
whole tale of which so much has been

made. As for Nelly having gone with
Cazalet to England, or having written to
him from Auvergne after his marriage,
they are lies. I do not care who utters
them, they are lies.'

It is praiseworthy to defend your absent
friend, since this unworthy woman
appears to be your friend ; but in doing
so you have no right to give me the
lie,' said Madame de Reps angrily. * If
we were men, a duel would be the certain
consequence ; being women, I have
no doubt we shall be able to retaliate
in mutual spite.'

Mesdames I mesdames' cried M. de
Cinque, ' this is growing a little trop
fori.'

But he laughed, even as he sought to
soothe.

This ladies' battle, in a room where
there were not a few witnesses, was
somewhat of a new excitement. It
seemed, too, likely to spread, for several
people who had been engaged in conversation
at a little distance had left off
talking to listen ; and to every one in

the room Mrs Jocelyn was more or less
known, so that there was nobody uninterested
in the scandal the discussion
of which seemed likely to become general.
Madame d'Albin was too much engrossed
by her defence of Nelly to care
for the fiery Madame de Reps' remarks
about herself, and in no way daunted by
them, she repeated, 

It is a lie! I say it is a lie! Nelly
Jocelyn is as pure, and true, and honest
as any one in this room. She is too
scrupulous, if it be possible, and neither
in word nor deed has she strayed from
virtue and duty.'

Brava I Madame d'Albin ; well spoken
up for your friend.'

If ever I get into trouble, I'll come toto
you to help me.'

You are the right sort of woman, and
no mistake about the matter,' were remarks
a perfect chorus of which was
showered on Madame d'Albin, but no one
put in a single word in Nelly Jocelyn's
defence.

It seemed as if they either feared Madame

de Reps, or took a delight in planting
their feet on Nelly's prostrate form.

INIadame d'Albin, who apparently cared
as little for their flattery as for Madame de
Reps' threats, looked round at the knot of
people who had gathered about her chair.

Is there no one but me to utter one
good word for ]airs Joocelyn,  no one
among those who have overwhelmed her
with compliments, who is ready to defend
her now ? '

The case between her and Cazalet looks
rather grave,' was the only answer, uttered
by a voice in the distance.

Before, however, Madame d'Albin
could utter another indignant protest, or
Madame de Reps deliver herself of anymore
well-known facts, a curious little
man, who had been hitherto standing on
the hearth rug speaking to no one, and
whom no one in the room seemed to
know, pushed through the idlers round
Madame d'Albin and took a first place,
almost confronting the somewhat virulent-looking
Madame de Reps.

This action, from his being an utter

stranger to all present, took every one by
surprise.

The house in which this conversation
had arisen  and seemed likely to be carried
on with unusual excitement  was
that of a celebrated lawyer, whose wife
held the usual weekly receptions which
have become the fashion of late years, and
of which, owing to her husband's extensive
practice, the habitudes by no means belonged
to any clique or coterie.

To see an eccentric individual like the
man who had, till now, been standing on
the hearth rug was so very common an
occurrence there, that no one especially
heeded it ; but for an outsider, a mere provincial,
to take the initiative in any matter
so purely Parisian as the discussion of a
woman's character, was, to say the least,
somewhat startling.

For this eccentric-looking individual was
by no means contented with pushing his
way to the front row, he had no sooner
arrived there than he said, addressing
Madame de Reps, 

Allow me, madame, to suggest that

you should learn the real facts of the case
before you attempt to traduce a character.
Madame Jocelyn Is a personal friend of
mine, and I am in a position to assert that
the statements which have been made
against her are without foundation.'

Such a bold assertion, coming from the
mouth of this little eccentric, produced a
giggle from several of the bystanders,
while Madame de Reps merely sneered.

It did not better Mrs Jocelyn's position
in her estimation that it should be defended
by such a little oddity as this ; and
merely fluttering a fan she held in her
hand, she turned her head slightly towards
someone who stood behind her, and
asked, 

Who is he .' Who is this stranger ? '

A shrug was the only reply, for the new
arrival was unknown, except, of course,
to the lady of the house, who was at that
moment talking to some distinguished
foreigners at the other end of the room.

Madame d'Albin was the first person
who addressed the champion who had
elected to come forward in Nelly's cause.

Merci. monsieur ille fois merci' she
said ; * it is kind of you to say a good word
for my friend.'

Madame Jocelyn should need no
good words,' he replied; 'her own sweetness
and rectitude speak for themselves.
I am astonished that anyone should
doubt her.'

Pardon, monsieur, but may we ask who
the individual is who fancies he can see so
much farther into the depths of a character
than we poor, short - sighted women are
capable of ? '

Of course it was Madame de Reps who
asked this question tartly.

If it is about my birthplace and calling
that you are anxious to learn particulars,
madame, the information is at your service.
I am le Docteur Goujoii. I inhabit a small
house called Le Chalet des Oiseaux, in
Auvergne. Not many yards from my
gate is the Chalet Victor, where Madame
Jocelyn has resided for more than eighteen
months.'

Ah ! I am glad to hear that during that
time you became so thoroughly well acquainted

with her that you are au courant
with all her secrets, and know for certain
that she never had a hankering for M.
Paul Cazalet.'

Doctor Goujon was far too shrewd an
individual not to see that Madame de Reps
was sneeringly poking fun at him ; his
anger was roused, and he answered, speaking
sharply, 

I have had a good deal of experience
in character-reading, and I know an evil-tongued
woman when I see one, as readily
as I can vouch for an honest and true one.'

Bah ! Facts are sterner than mere
motive reading,' replied Madame de Reps,
rising. ' Go back to the slumbering volcanoes
of your native Auvergne, Monsieur
le Docteur, and do not attempt, during a
transitory visit to the capital, to defend the
undefinable.'

So saying, Madame de Reps swept
away from him, feeling certain, in her
wicked, spiteful heart, that she had got
the best of the situation ; for she was
quite clever enough to know that scandal,
being an ill weed, grows apace, and that

the story of this afternoon's discussion
would, by the telling and re-telHng, in nowise
contribute to the stability of Nelly's
position in society.

In reality, Madame d'Albin and Doctor
Goujon would have been more really her
friends had they been silent, since, by attempting
to defend her, they had fanned
Madame de Reps' first spiteful words into
a fearful flame.

What has Madame Jocelyn done to
her ? ' asked Doctor Goujon of Blanche
d'Albin as Madame de Reps stalked away,
said a few sugared words of au revoir to
the mistress of the house, and disappeared
out at the door.

'Que saisje, ?nos?' was Blanche d'Albin's
answer ; ' she is in love herself with Paul
Cazalet, I should imagine.'

 So, then, even you imagine there is
some foundation for talk ? ' asked the
doctor gravely, but in so low a tone that
no one save the lady to whom he was
talking could hear. In fact, most of the
listeners had strolled away when, with the
departure of the chief performer, Madame

de Reps, they imagined the play was
over.

That Nelly Jocelyn loves Paul Cazalet
I know,' replied Madame d'Albin, almost
in a whisper, ' but I am equally certain
that she has never been guilty of the
slightest indiscretion ; feelings cannot
always be kept under control, M. le
Docteur, but our acts are generally
amenable to will.'

Exactly, exactly ; and Madame Jocelyn
has a well-regulated mind, so  she loves
this painter Cazalet, you say ? '

Even while the words were falling from
his lips, it was obvious that Doctor Goujon
was thinking of something else ; in fact,
that the knowledge of Nelly's love for
Cazalet astonished and annoyed him.

Could it be possible that Doctor Goujon
himself had an incipient penchant for
Nelly, which had impelled him into following
her to Paris, and that he had
suddenly found a rival in the man whose
name, passing from lip to lip throughout
France, had not failed to reach Doctor
Goujon in the Chalet des Oiseaux, but

whom he had never expected to meet in
the flesh ; least of all as the preferred one
of the fair widow of whose history he
had accidentally and strangely become the
confidant.

'You are a friend of Mrs Jocelyn. I
have heard her speak of you since her
return to Paris in terms of the greatest
regard. Something must be done to stop
the unpleasant rumours that are in circulation.
Will you put her on her guard ? '

Her guard against what and whom ?'

Cazalet, of course.'

I do not knows Cazalet : how can I
interfere in his affairs ? '

'In his affairs ! No ; but you can
explain to Mrs Jocelyn that she must be
careful how and when she sees him.'

'It is not an enviable task you would
impose on me, madame ; and though I
will not at once refuse it, yet I trust I am
wise enough not to enter blindfold in this
business. I must investigate the matter,
and get some data to go on ere I act. Of
one thing you may be sure, I will staunchly
remain Mrs Jocelyn's friend.'

Have you seen her since you came to
Paris?'

No, nor does she know I am here. I
came up suddenly last night on business,
and am staying here in this house.'

How glad Nelly will be when she
knows you are here.'

You think so ? I am glad.'

And the little eyes twinkled. For the
moment he had forgotten Paul Cazalet in
his delight to think that Nelly would be
pleased to see him.

A few minutes later and Madame
d'Albin took her leave. Doctor Goujon,
with ultra politeness, insisted on accompanying
her downstairs and putting her
into her carriage.

The truth was, he wanted an opportunity
for escape, that he might take a solitary
stroll and think of Nelly and all he
had just heard.

That there was a foundation for some
of the gossip in circulation he was afraid,
but true or untrue, he was none the less
resolved to stand by Nelly through thick
and thin.

VOL. III. I

He would go and see her on the
morrow, and learn from her own lips
what griefs and joys had crowded about
her path since they parted in Auvergne.

He had scarcely arrived at this decision
when whom should he see approaching
him but Nelly herself with extended
hands.

Doctor Goujon ! my dear, good friend
Doctor Goujon ! Above everyone on
earth, I have been longing for you. You
are the only human being who can counsel
and help me in a time of pressing perplexity
and difficulty.'

I WILL GO.

RS JOCELYN's reception of
Doctor Goujon pleased him infinitely,
and even if he had not
intended to stand her friend,
the perfect confidence which she seemed
to repose in him would entirely have won
his interest in her cause. And assuredly
to take the direction of Nelly Jocelyn's
affairs at this juncture required no little
skill, being a service of much greater
magnitude than Doctor Goujon in the very-least
expected when he mentally undertook
to clear her character from the undeserved
reproaches which he believed
mere gossip to be heaping on it.

Still he was not likely to flinch even
from a difficult task, where Nelly Jocelyn
was concerned.

The street in which they had met was
not many yards from the one in which
Mrs Jocelyn lived, and Doctor Goujon at
once agreed to accompany her to her residence,
and there learn in what way he
could be of service to her.

Doctor Goujon, owing to the episode at
the Chalet des Oiseaux, knew more of
Nelly's affairs than any living being, John
Wisden excepted. Who, then, better than
Doctor Goujon to give her advice about
these diamonds, which, much as Nelly
might strive to put them out of her mind,
and think only of the terrible strait to which
Marian had reduced herself, nevertheless
pressed very sorely upon her ?

Doctor Goujon was Joseph Ferrier's
cousin. Doctor Goujon might consequently
be able so to work on Joseph
Ferrier that the longed-for compromise
might be brought about.

She installed the little doctor in the
most comfortable arm-chair her luxuriously

- furnished apartment afforded, and
insisted that he should stay and dine with
her, bringing so much fascination to bear
in the matter that she made him write a
note to the friends with whom he was
staying to tell them that pressing business
would detain him for some hours.

These preliminaries arranged, Doctor
Goujon was most careful not to tell Mrs
Jocelyn one word of what he had heard
during the afternoon, but to leave her
unblessed freedom of statement. That it
would begin and end with the name of
Cazalet he fully expected, and more than
half dreaded.

But it was not exactly of Cazalet that
Nelly wished to speak, though naturally
his place in the conversation, if incidental,
was tolerably conspicuous. The dread of
the exposure her own deceitful career had
rendered imminent was Nelly's trouble,
which she hoped Doctor Goujon was sufficiently
powerful to remove.

He listened to her tale about the diamonds
and her appeal for his assistance,
read the teleo-ram that had arrived from

John Wisden, and felt very sorry for the
unhappy woman who, through no absolute
fault of her own, had such a burden of
difficulty to carry.

What was to be done, though, he
scarcely knew. From what he had learnt
about Joseph Ferrier during the last few
months, the cousin he had lost sight of for
years was apparently a man with whom,
for his own credit's sake, he should have
as little as possible to do ; yet, at Mrs
Jocelyn's bidding, he would seek out this
most objectionable relation, and either
coerce or wheedle him into submission to
his will. On the subject of these much
discussed diamonds Doctor Goujon was to
all intents and purposes a disinterested
man  that is, he was always ready to place
his medical experience, and, to a certain
extent, his purse, at the service of anyone
he felt was in absolute want of assistance ;
but, personally interested as he was in
Nelly, he could not help asking himself
whether he should be acting the part of
a wise or a clever man if he mixed himself
up with this exceedingly objectionable

business, and receive no benefit in
return.

He sat musing for a while ; Nelly
thought he was thinking how he could
best assist her ; and so he was, but in a
totally different way to what she suspected.

He was wondering if he could not
effect a compromise  that is, whether, if
he undertook to save her from scandal
in the matter of these diamonds, she
would undertake to shield herself from
the remarks her friendship with Paul Ca-valet
was creating to her disadvantage ?

At last his decision came out terse and
strong.

If I undertake to help you in this
matter, you must also help yourself.'

Of course,' answered Nelly, still little
comprehending his meaning. ' I will do
whatever you tell me.'

You are fully aware that in coming
forward as your friend in this business I
am voluntarily mixing myself with a set
of people who may, probably will, subject
me to a great amount of trouble and annoyance
? '

Oh, Doctor Goujon, I should be so
sorry if  '

To prove your sorrow, and your appreciation
of any sacrifice I may make for
you, you must also make a sacrifice forme
; that is, for yourself.'

How  how can I do that ? Only tell
me, and you shall see how ready I shall be.'

He looked at her very shrewdly and
scrutinisingly for a second or two, as
though inquiring if she were really sincere
; then he said, to Mrs Jocelyn's no
small astonishment, 

You must give up your friendship with
M. Paul Cazalet, and thus stop remarks
that are being made about your intimacy
with this married man.'

Who  who has dared to say a word
about me and Cazalet ? ' cried Nelly,
almost hysterical with surprise and annoyance.


But Doctor Goujon shrugged his shoulders
; it was no part of his business to
widen the breach between her and society
by telling her who were her enemies. But
Nelly went on; talking very rapidly, 

Tell me, tell me,' she implored ; * what
have they been saying ?  what have you
heard ? Though, after all, I do not know
why I should mind. Nothing has passed
between me and Paul Cazalet of which
I need be ashamed. I have been sitting
to him for a picture ; that picture is
finished, and I shall go to his studio no
more.'

That is well,' remarked Doctor Goujon
briefly.

With the shrewdness for which he was
renowned, he wanted to make Nelly talk,
so that from her own lips he might learn
in how small or great degree she had
compromised herself. The brevity of his
remarks was successful, for it seemed, as he
intended, further to irritate Nelly.

Still, if I chose to go to M. Cazalet's
studio every day of my life, what right has
anyone to speak ? Surely a painter's studio
is neutral ground ; it is not like going
into a bachelor's quarters. Ladies go continually
into painters' studios, eh, Doctor
Goujon .- Why don't you answer ? '

I am not sufficiently mi fait with the

convenances society demands, to be able
to give any opinion on the subject,' he
replied, a little coldly ; ' you know I live
buried in the depths of Auvergne.'

Still in the depths of Auvergne you
have managed to hear them speak evil of
me. What have I done, I ask again, that
my name should be branded ? '

Branded, Mrs Jocelyn ; that is rather
a strong word. It is to save your name
from being branded that I have ventured
to speak to you to-day. Since, however,
my remarks have only served to irritate
you, I am sorry I have made them.'

You have not irritated me, Doctor
Goujon ; you have always been most
good and kind to me, and, as I said
before, I will do anything I can to testify
my regard for your exceeding kindness.
Still, you must acknowledge that it is
irritating to be made the subject of public
remark, when one feels there is no just
cause.'

But is there no cause ?  no cause at
all why people should couple your name
with that of Cazalet ? '

We are friends, of course ; but what
of that ? You and I are friends, yet no
one would think of saying things about
us ; why should they, then, about me and
Cazalet ? '

Doctor Goujon winced ; the comparison
scarcely pleased him, and he answered a
little bitterly, 

The friendship you have for Cazalet
is probably of a very different order from
that you are kind enough to bestow on
me ; besides, Cazalet is a fashionable
notoriety, I am only a retired provincial
doctor.'

Never mind what you are ; you are
one of my dearest and best friends, and
I am quite sure you would not speak tome
on this subject unless you felt that
you had very good cause.'

A la bonne heure, a la bonnie heure,
now you are beginning to be reasonable, 
we may, perhaps, be able to arrive at an
understanding.'

Have I not been reasonable from the
very beginning } '

No, indeed, since in your heart you

know there is cause for some blame in
this matter, and yet you do not choose
to acknowledge it.'

That I have done anything blameable,
or even foolish, I will not acknowledge ;
that I have the very greatest regard,
even love, for Paul Cazalet, I am
ready to acknowledge to you ten times
over.'

And under the circumstances in which
you are both situated, ought not this
love and regard to have separated you
from him more than from any living man ? '

God only knows how I have striven
to keep out of Cazalet's way. Did
I not bid him marry Marian Wallis, 
be faithful and true to her, while he
never attempted to see me again ; and, to
show that I was sincere in the matter,
I betook myself to the Chalet Victor out
of harm's way.'

And you never wrote a line to him
during the time you were living at the
Chalet Victor 1 '

Never ; not a single word. What
makes you think that I did ? '

'Oh, I was only inquiring. It is always
wise to ascertain the exact truth.'

You believe me, Doctor Goujon.
Of whatever deception I may have been
guilty, I have never lied to you.'

If I had no confidence in your answers
I should not put questions. Of
that you may be fully assured. But
what I should like to understand is why,
as soon as the unfortunate Madame Cabaret
left her home, did you appear on the
scene ? '

I came to Paris, as you know, to nurse
my sister, knowing no more about the
Cazalets than you did yourself. It was
not till I reached Paris that I heard
what had happened ; and some time after
my arrival here I met Paul Cazalet at
Madame de Brissac's.'

And it was a pleasure to meet him
again ?'

Yes, one of these pleasures so fraught
with pain that one can scarcely call ita
pleasure. Even when I met him, my
first impulse was to fly. I almost wish
that I had followed it.'

And now you have no inclination once
more to leave Paris and put yourself without
the pale of temptation ? '

I do not acknowledge there is any
temptation. To lose my virtue would bethe
greatest calamity that could befall
me. I know well how to safeguard it.'

Then why do you wish you had fled
when you first met Cazalet again ? '

Because, while I was in Auvergne, I
had, to a great extent, forgotten my love
for him ; the meeting him again revived
it with an intensity quite equalling its
old ardour.'

And you call yourself safe from temptation
? Never did a woman stand so
near the edge of a precipice.'

Nonsense ! I have looked down many
a precipice and never fallen over.'

The time perchance has come when
you will receive a push that you little
expect, and the result will be perdition.'

I do not understand.'

Well, to leave metaphor, there are
people in this capital who are discussing
the good or evil of this friendship of

yours for Cazalet ; putting constructions
on it which you would not care to hear ;
embellishing it with details that are
probably the offspring of their own corrupt
imaginations ; no matter, you are
the sufferer, and if you are a wise woman
you will put an end to the whole talk
by disappearing from the scene.'

But I tell you there is nothing, absolutely
nothing, in what they say ! '

Nothing or something I care not ; but
I absolutely decline to assist you in the
affair of these diamonds, unless you consent
to return to Auvergne, and do not come
back to Paris without my permission.'

You are a hard task-master, Doctor
Goujon.'

'I am an old medico, and I know that
some wounds will not heal unless a knife
is applied to their very root. Does Cabaret
know about these diamonds, or aught
of your husband's unfortunate career 1 '

'Not a word. He believed me to bea
widow when we first met. That he
should not learn the deceitful role I was
playing, has been my chief aim and

trouble ever since. What would an honourable,
truthful man like Cazalet think
of me if he knew ?'

Then to save him from the knowledge
now, you must return to Auvergne.'

You are not threatening me, Doctor
Goujon ?  you will not tell Cazalet, if I
refuse to obey you ? '

No, Mrs Jocelyn, baseness is, I hope,
not one of my attributes ; but I will
decline to help you, and then I am afraid
the murder will out.'

And you can help me, you can silence
these brutes who have got me in their
power.'

I can and will, on your promising to
return to the Chalet Victor as soon as you
can conveniently make arrangements todo
so. Wait quietly there till I am able
to communicate to you the result of my
negotiations.'

Nelly Jocelyn thought for a minute or
two, then she said, 

I will do as you wish, but existence
henceforth will be a living death.'

Trust and hope. One never knows

how soon the clouds may Hft and the sun
appear.'

She shook her head sorrowfully.

If ever Nelly had any hope of deriving-happiness
from her intimacy with Paul
Cazalet, Doctor Goujon was killing it now.

Scarcely either would she have given
in to his wishes, but that, womanlike,
she rapidly surveyed the situation, and
decided that if through Doctor Goujon's
intervention her last deceit escaped detection,
there might be the remotest chance
of a hope, though she could not define in
what form it would be realised, that she
and Paul Cazalet might meet again.

But what urged her to accept his terms,
was the feeling that she could not bear
Paul Cazalet to know all the details of
her past career, and if this was to be the
alternative of her refusal to quit Paris,
the case was decided for her out of
hand.

Naturally she did not wish Doctor Goujon
to think she had any hope in the future ;
it would cause the sacrifice she was making
now to appear so much the lighter.

VOL. III. K

With a dejected mien, then, she repeated
the answer.

I will go, and trust to you to clear the
briars out of my path, and eventually to
bring me back to a garden of fair flowers.'

Nought but fair flowers should strew
your path if I could have my wish,' he
answered gallantly, and there was a lookin
his eyes which for the first time told
Nelly that the secret of her love for
Cazalet, which she had just revealed to
him, could scarcely be pleasurable hearing.

It made her almost doubt the sincerity
of Doctor Goujon's scheme, and momentarily
she felt inclined to bid him do his
worst, for no one should come between
her and Cazalet ; but then, as in a
crowd, came a thousand conflicting emotions
 the old sense of fear that nothing
could annihilate, the knowledge that viperous
tongues were defiling her fair name,
and, above all, the recollection of her
last interview with Cazalet in the atelier,
and how dangerous for them both anymore
of such meetings might become.

Yes, it was better for her to go, if

only for a time, till events had taken
somewhat of a tangible shape.

Now, however, the conversation must
be changed ; there must be no opportunity
for love-making given to Doctor
Goujon  that would be too sickening.

How long Marie is before she announces
the dinner,' she said, plunging
at once into a material subject she thought
would interest the doctor. * You must be
starving while we are discussing these
miserable subjects. Let us forget them
while we eat. After dinner you shall
tell me how you intend to settle the
diamond question.'

No, no. When it is settled you
shall know ; till then, you must give me
free scope to act as I list.'

Tyrant,' she replied, laughing ; but
Marie's announcement of, 'Madame, est
seTvie,' put an end to any talk save on
general subjects.

Nor was there any further chance of
resuming the confidential talk. Some
visitors, to whom Mrs Jocelyn had given
a general invitation to come when they

liked to tea at nine o'clock, put in an
appearance, decidedly to the satisfaction
of Doctor Goujon, who having said all
he had to say, and received the promise
he was so desirous to elicit, judged
further discussion most unnecessary.

How soon Nelly intended to depart
he had not yet discovered, but as , she
would doubtless render the day as early
a one as possible, he did not enter into
the question of dates, but took his leave
while she was chatting with her unexpected
guests.

What turn events would take before
Mrs Jocelyn again set her foot in the
Chalet Victor shrewd though Doctor
Goujon was it would have taken a
shrewder man than he was to guess, or,
at least, a man more versed in woman's
wiles.

I have promised to go into Auvergne,
but I have not promised not to see
Paul again,' she murmured to herself,
when at last she was once more alone.
It would be mean and cowardly to go
off without giving him warning.'

And without bestowing on the matter
further consideration, she wrote a hasty
note, bidding him come to see her as
early as he could in the morning, since
she had something important to communicate
; and handing it to Marie, she
desired her to send Andre with it as
soon as she was up in the morning.

THE LETTER.

After the excitement of the day-was
over, and Nelly was quietly
in bed, having given her note
to Marie, she regretted having
written it, and felt more than half inclined
to wake Marie and give her a counter
order.

But that, she decided, was useless, since
she was not in the least likely to go to
sleep, and could therefore call Maria as
soon as she heard her moving in the
morning.

Nelly had not calculated on the utter
exhaustion that was the result of this over

excitement ; true, she tossed about restlessly
for several hours, but towards morning
she fell into a heavy slumber, which
lasted on till long after old Andre had
gone with the letter.

No help for it then ; the meeting that in
the dead of night she had resolved to
forego by taking herself off to Auvergne
that very day, she would have to go
through, for that Paul Cazalet would without
delay reply in person to her letter she
did not for a moment doubt.

And so in truth he did, sooner than
even Nelly expected him. He had been
fretting over her absence from the studio
ever since the evening when she said
she would come no more, now some days
ago, since when he had only seen Nelly
in the presence of others, and such restrained
meetings as these by no means
satisfied Cazalet's yearning towards the
beautiful widow who had usurped so
important a place in his life.

In the importance of what she had to
say to him he did not place much belief,
thinking it was only her way of saying : 

Come, and come quickly.'

Still for the nonce casting paints and
palette on one side, he doffed his velvet
blouse and betook himself to obey Mrs
Jocelyn's summons, arriving in front of old
Andre's lodge just as an adjacent church
was striking twelve.

Directly he was ushered into Nelly's
presence he saw there was more important
matter in hand than he had anticipated.

What is it ? What has happened ? ' he
asked eagerly.

I did not like to go away again without
bidding you farewell. I am going
back to the Chalet Victor tomorrow.
Marie is now packing the boxes.'

'Impossible! Wherefore? What has
occasioned this sudden resolution ? '

I have told you often, Paul, that I
cannot bear reproach ; the opprobrium
heaped on me by the voice of scandal
would kill me. The world is reproaching
me now ; I have no alternative but
flight.'

What have you done ? I do not comprehend.'


Been your friend, my dear Paul, when
the barrier that exists between us should
have reminded us that to meet for us was
out of the question.'

And Is this all ? But this is an old-time
story, Nelly. You surely have not
sent for me here to-day solely to tell me
that you are weak enough to run away
because people envy us the friendship
which is the right and strength of our lives.
You have some far stronger reason that
you are hiding from me. Speak ; what
is it?'

Her answer was naturally an evasive

one.

What stronger reason can I have, Paul,
than the wish to save my reputation from
rough handling ? '

It Is all nonsense ! What can people
say ? We have done nothing that all the
world may not know ; but since the value
you set on your reputation is greater than
your love for me, and you have the honesty
to speak out in the matter, I will take the
initiative, for it is my place to absent
myself, not yours.'

No, no, Paul, not yours. Your fame,
your glory depend on your remaining in
the Rue Mignon, standing at your work.'

He looked at her very questioningly fora
second or two, then he asked, 

And you really think, Nelly, that I
can let you go forth leaving me here quite
alone, and settle down to my solitary work,
a whistle of satisfaction on my lips, a
pleasant expression in my eyes ? You
certainly can care very little, if you believe
this sort of thing to be possible
for me.'

I do care ; I do care, Paul,  more
than you or any one can guess ; but I
must go ; indeed, indeed I must. I cannot
explain everything ; but if you knew
all, you would say I was following the
only path left open to me.'

Indeed ! And why should I not know
all ? What secrets have I kept from
you ? '

Trust me, Paul ; trust me, and believe
that I will never keep anything back from
you that is wholly my own property to
tell.'

Paul Cazalet was evidently by no means
satisfied with the turn this conversation
with Mrs Jccelyn had taken of late, for,
after a short pause, he merely said, 

You are right, Nelly, quite right ; it
is best that we should part, and for aye.'

Why do you speak in bitterness ? ' she
murmured. ' Have I been false to you In
the past, that you cannot trust me in the
future ? '

There is no question of trusting in the
matter, since we are about to part, and
for ever.'

Not for ever, Paul. I am only 2:oino;-
into Auvergne for a while, till the evil
words society has chosen to heap on my
good name shall be forgotten.'

Still, Nelly, I assert that it is rather
my place than yours to go.'

No, no, Paul, think of your child ;
your place is with your child  gaining
riches and renown for her.'

My child, my poor little deserted
Lina ! '

And the sense of his loneliness comines
him as a sort of shroud, he hid his

face in his hands, and leaning his head
on them wept as if his very heart would
break.'

It was the first time in her life that
Nelly had ever seen a man shed tears,
and the sight stirred her heart to the
depths. Yet what could she do ?

She had given her word to Doctor
Goujon that they should part, and even
if she were base enough to break it, the
difficulty would not be removed, since
Paul would learn how unworthy of his
confidence she really was.

What shall I do ? What shall .J
do ? ' she murmured.

What she really did do was to give
way to weakness ; for she knelt down
beside Paul, and wound her arms about
his neck.

My love, my love,' she said, ' be brave
under the dark cloud ; there is still the
silver lining. A few short years will soon
pass, and, who knows, freedom may come ;
till then, you have your child, and the content
of a good conscience. You are better
off, after all, than I am ; for what have I

on earth but you, and I am forced to give
you up.'

Better off than I am ? At least you
are free ! '

Have you heard aught of Marian
lately ? ' asked Mrs Jocelyn, suddenly
remembering the telegram to which she
had never alluded in any conversation
vith Paul.

Nothing,' he answered, his head still
buried in his hands.

She is still with De Gourlay . '
 I presume so ; but why do you
ask ? '

I was wondering  if  if De Gourlay
were to desert Marian, whether you would
take her back ? '

The head was raised suddenly from the
hands now, and he looked round, almost
fiercely, at Nelly.

For whom do you take me, to imagine
I would ever take back into my heart a
woman who had once deceived me ? '

She shivered, and turned away ; to her
sensitive ear his words had a strong
double meaning.

You are very severe, Paul. I did not
think you were so hard.'

The interview had been a painful one,
and was growing into a long one, yet as
far as their future course was concerned,
nothing was decided.

Nelly, whose one arm still rested on
Paul's shoulder, began with the other hand
softly to stroke his hair.

' You will let me have my own way,
won't you, dear ? Say, without any bitterness
of spirit, that I may go to the
Chalet Victor for a time, and then when
the sun once more peeps from between
the clouds, we will meet again, and the
voice of scandal will not dare to bandy
our names in scorn ! '

Yet it is hard to let you go. Oh,
Nelly, you little know what you are tome!'


If it was hard for him, how much harder
was it for her to leave him when she saw
the light of love shining so gloriously in
his eyes, and knew that he was her all in
life,  her handsome, loving Paul. Almost
probable is it that she would have cast her

good name and her promise to Doctor
Goujon recklessly to the winds, and given
herself up wholly to his love ; but it was
his opinion rather than that of the world
that she feared.

He would no longer care for her if he
knew her to be a debased and abject
thing, or if the secret that was hidden
in her past should once stand out in bold
relief.

She went on then talking softly to him
in her low, pleading voice, 

Only for a little time, Paul. Even if
nothing disturb the current of events, I
will promise to return erelong ; but something
tells me we are on the eve of a
change, and that it will not always be
necessary for you and me to be estranged.'

And you will write if I let you go ?
You will not leave me wholly to my sad
and bitter solitude ? '

No, dear  no ! I will write. I will
let you know how each monotonous day
succeeds Its companion. But don't be
down-hearted, Paul. I am only going
for a little change of air,  to see how

things are progressing in my country
home.'

'Never, Nelly, never! To-morrow
will not be as to-day  the present is
dead ! '

You very, very foolish, superstitious
Paul ; but you really must go now, my
dear friend, for I expect Doctor Goujon,
and I would not for worlds he saw you
here.'

Ah, Doctor Goujon! Is he my rival,
Nelly?'

She laughed with as much gaiety as the
sadness at her heart would allow her to
assume.

You have never seen the funny little
doctor, or it would not occur to you fora
moment that he could \> your rival.'

Ah, well, I suppose I must believe you.
Yet this is not farewell ? '

No  no, of course. I shall see you
again before I start. Now go back to the
atdlier, Paul, and do some good work before
the daylight departs.'

M. Cazalet took up his hat, and, somewhat
consoled by the idea that this was

not an absolute farewell, after a very little
more conversation, which Nelly hurried to
a termination as quickly as possible, he
took his departure.

The fact was, Nelly had been acting a
part she did not feel ; in order to inspire
Paul with courage and nerve him to let
her go. If he stayed much longer she
felt that she should break down ; and she
was most anxious that Paul should not
know how very severely she felt this
necessary separation. She had made a
bugbear of Doctor Goujon to get rid of
Paul, for she did not at all expect to seethe
little doctor again till they met in
Auvergne. To enable her to guard the
great acted lie of her life, Nelly had long
since discovered that it was necessary to
utter many a minor untruth ; that she
expected a visit from Doctor Goujon being,
perhaps, scarcely as grave a one as
the promise that she would see Paul
again before her departure. No sooner
was she alone than she sank down on
the sofa almost prostrate.

Yes, Paul, you are right,' she mur-vol.

III. L

cured breathlessly ; ' the present is dead,
tomorrow will not be as to-day.'

Then she sat with clasped hands, thinking
for a while, till Marie came for orders,
and this roused her from her lethargy.

Quickly, quickly,  yes, the things must
be packed, and she must go, or the courage
perchance would fail her after all. Striving
then, as she had often striven before, to
think as little as possible of Paul, she
busied herself with the everyday matters
that a love of comfort enforces.

She would go by an early train on the
morrow, and so when Paul came to see
her late in the day, with the idea of perchance
accompanying her to the station,
he would find she had already taken flight,
having left him a pretty letter of farewell,
in which she would tell him how much
pain it would save them both to have no
parting scene. All this Mrs Jocelyn had
planned, and she was already beginning to
grow anxious to be off ; the mental tax of
late had been almost too much for her
physical capabilities.

If anyone calls this evening, I am

not at home,  at home to no one, Marie ;
no exceptions, remember, in favour of
intimate friends.'

Bien, madame.'

But the order surprised Marie not a
little, as, in truth, did this fresh flight,
which would also, perhaps, have somewhat
annoyed her, but that Marie had annexed
an adorer in the volcanic region, and she
had a strong suspicion that adoration would
end in a rich marriage.

If her marriage depended on Marie's
speedy return to Auvergne, she might be
disappointed ; for it was seldom that the
current of events, as far as Mrs Jocelyn
was concerned, ran on a smooth course.

Just as the shades of evening were
deepening into night, there was a ring
at the bell of the apartment. Old
Andre had come up with a letter marked
Preside!

M. Cazalet's writing,' thought Marie
to herself, with the aptitude all sureties
have for knowing from whom letters
come.

She took it into her mistress forthwith,

and handed it to her with a grin
of satisfaction.

It was scarcely with satisfaction, however,
that Mrs Jocelyn received it.

That something was wrong,  some fresh
obstacle to be thrown in her path, she
was terribly afraid, or Paul would scarcely
have written now.

Marie, curious though by nature she
was, had the discretion to leave the room
ere Mrs Jocelyn opened the missive.

Well was it that she did so !

No sooner had Nelly broken the seal
for, with unusual care, it was sealed
with black wax  than she uttered the cry
of one receiving a deep and painful
wound ; and she clutched the back of
a chair near which she was standing,
in order to give herself momentary
support.

Not as Paul usually began, when he
addressed a few lines to Nelly, did this
missive run ; for, in fact, it had no formal
beginning at all.

Can it be possible that from the very

first moment we met you have been deceiving
me? Indeed, it is time that we
should part, and for ever. By the time
you receive this, I shall be far away.
In another land, among strangers, I shall
hope to learn forgetful ness. Oh, Nelly,
and I trusted you so implicitly !

Paul Cazalet.'

What had he heard ? Who could have
told him of her past ? were the first
questions that rose in her mind as soon
as she recovered from the first shock the
reading of this letter had occasioned.

If she could only find out who the
mischief-maker was, she would thus ascertain,
to a great extent, how much Paul
knew. That Doctor Goujon had turned
traitor she never for a moment suspected,
nor was it likely that John Wisden would
venture on war with her, now that he
was Dot's husband and they were the best
of friends.

Who, then, could the traitor be ?

But speculations were wellnigh useless.
Paul knew the truth she had so carefully

striven to hide, and had gone away from
her for ever ! All the discoveries and
wondering she might make would not
alter that fact, or prevent her from being
perfectly and utterly miserable. Even
while she was speculating, she tied on
her bonnet, and without even speaking
a word to Marie, ran down the stairs,
got into a coupe, and drove straight to
the Rue Mignon.

Justine met her with the tears in her eyes.

Yes, it was quite true, M. Paul was
one! He started for the Gare St lazar
about an hour ago, saying he should
not be back for weeks, perhaps months,
and had left la petite in her charge.'

But where has he gone, and why ? '

Justine knew no more ; nor did she in
any way connect Mrs Jocelyn with Paul's
flight, which she entirely ascribed to something
he had heard about Madame Cazalet.

'Has not M. Paul written to madame .' '
Justine asked.

Only a line to say he has gone. Oh,
Justine! what shall we do without him.-*
How difficult and hard to bear is life ! '

And Nelly, incapable of any longer
controlling her emotions, began to weep
as Justine never remembered to have seen
any one weep before.

La paiivrette, how she loves him ! '
murmured the kindly old bonne, as she
stood and gazed at her, little Lina in
her arms ; while the child, young though
she was, looked utterly perplexed at the
sight of Mrs Jocelyn's sorrow, and finally
began to cry too, and held out her arms
to Nelly to take her.

Another second, and Nelly was pressing
her to her heart.

Paul's child ; till he comes back to claim
her, she shall be as mine ; but oh, Justine,
do you think Marian will return .'*'

She shall never lay her finger on that
baby as long as I am alive to defend her ! '
cried old Justine.

Yes, take her, Justine. You alone are
worthy of the charge, till Paul comes back.
Till Paul comes back. My God, Justine,
suppose that he should never come back
any more ! '

The journey to Auvergne then was no

longer necessary. Mrs Jocelyn would wait
the issue of events in Paris. What cared
she for the voice of scandal now, or for
Doctor Goujon's negotiations about the
diamonds ? It mattered little what befell,
since Paul was lost.

A SNAKE IN THE GRASS.

Upton CRESCENT is
scarcely a part of London that
anyone accustomed to the
luxuries of life would choose
for a dwelling-place. Yet there, in a
miserably-furnished parlour, is seated by
the window a woman on whom the hand
of Time has as yet pressed scarcely at all,
but whose eyes are dim, and her cheeks
are wan from trouble.

She has never been, strictly speaking,
beautiful, but in the days when health and
happiness bloomed on her countenance
there was a brilliancy and a dash about
her which had their power of pleasing,

especially men. She is dressed in the
very height of the fashion, in clothes that
have once been luxuriously elegant, if
perhaps a little outre in taste ; now they
are smeared and draggled from much
vear, the absence of good taste in their
choice has become accentuated, and seems
to increase the forlorn, dejected mien
which is portrayed so vividly on their
wearer's face as she sits there, her hands
clasped in her lap, looking vaguely into
the street.

Nor is there any very stirring sight to
attract her there. The rain is pouring in
torrents, and few people are about, except
those whose business compels them to be
a-foot in such weather, chiefly hawkers offish,
costermongers pushing hand-barrows
with vegetables or crockery in front of
them, and such like.

But the lady in the dismal parlour
scarcely appears to know, even while she
is looking at them, whether or not there
are people in the street, so utterly absorbed
does she seem to be with her own
miserable thoughts.

After a while she takes a smart-looking
purse from her pocket, and tosses its contents
into her lap.

Not much to toss, as it would seem.
Two sovereigns and a few shillings ; and
Heaven alone knows where more than that
meagre sum is to come from.

Yet there was a time when this forlorn
individual wallowed in wealth, and gold
was to her even as dross. What had she
done to deserve so severely at the hand
of Fate ? She had challenged retributive
justice almost to its utmost, for at the call
of sensuality she had allowed frivolity to
triumph over reason and feeling, and had
deserted her hearth and home, her husband
and her child.

Now she in her turn has been deserted
by the man she had elected to trust, and
Paul Cazalet's wretched wife is drinking to
its very dregs the cup of misery she has
prepared for herself. As she sits there
waiting and lamenting over her lost life,
it is of Paul, not of the ' butterfly ' De
Gourlay that she thinks.

Will Paul forgive ? ' is ever her cr)-.

Paul, who was always so generous and
good, will surely not desert her now, 
leave her absolutely to die of starvation ?
for that is, practically speaking, what it
must come to when the two sovereigns
are expended.

She looks at her hands ; there are two
or three rings which may bring a few
pounds ; beyond that there is positively
nothing left. The trinkets she took with
her when she left the Avenue Montaigne,
De Gourlay has long since appropriated.
Yes, she will part with these rings to the
best advantage, and then betake herself
back to Paris and try to make peace
with Paul ; and if not peace  well, a
compact that will at all events prevent
her from dying of want and enmii.

Enmii I That a thought of ennui should
cross her mind in such an hour was worthy
of Marian Wallis. No consideration of
the injury she had done to Paul, no yearning
after the child she had forsaken ; only
a selfish longing to dwell once more in the
lap of luxury, and to be saved from ennui !

And shallow-hearted, regardful of the

/ o

feelings of others as she herself was, she
had the audacity to imagine that Paul
would have such a fund of love for her
still dwelling latent in his heart that he
would neither have the strength of character
nor the inclination to refuse her
petition.

Marian, while she was telling herself
over and over again that she had failed
till now to appreciate Paul's great, generous
big-heartiness, was, perchance, either
setting too high a value on her own attractions,
or too low a value on her husband's
loyalty to himself; since she fancied that
she had only to return with a meek show
of penitence, in order to be received with
affectionate consideration.

That Paul was weak, weak as water,
where kindness was concerned, she had
had every opportunity of learning ; nor
did she forget that it was her father, not
Paul, who stopped the resources on which
she and De Gourlay had reckoned for
carrying on their infamous liaison. Now
that she had left De Gourlay, of course
Paul would provide her with the means

of living as his wife ought to Hve, for she
fully intended to make a virtue of her
separation from the little vicomte. It
vould answer better to do this, she decided,
than to acknowledge the truth,
which was that De Gourlay, finding that
Marian's cheques were no longer honoured,
had basely deserted her.

Alas ! alas ! for Paul, if Marian was successful
in the schemes she was weaving as
she sat contemplating the muddy, sodden
street. Noble by nature though he was,
in the hands of a designing woman he was
a mere puppet ; and, despite his strong
resolve to have nothing more to do with
the faithless Marian, when she began to
bring her crafty machinery into play
would he not be too ready to remember
that she was the mother of his child ?

Writing, Marian decided, when she
had thought the matter out, was useless ;
she must go to Paris herself and see Paul
if she expected to succeed in tempering
his wrath. Yes, I shall have to get rid
of these rings  hateful work ; besides,
I would rather keep them ; but two

sovereigns will not take me to Paris, even
if I went off without paying the landlady,
which I should not much mind, as I am
sure to get money from Paul. What
horrid weather ; tramping about in the
wet is exceedingly disagreeable, and my
shoes are only fit for driving. Marian,
what a fool you have been to reduce yourself
to such a pass as this ; but when a
sinner like me marries a saint like Paul,
disaster is sure to be the result of the
union.'

Even while she was thus soliloquising,
she tied on her bonnet, and put on a long
ulster, which she thought would cover her
crumpled finery. She was stowing some
things into a handbag, when a sharp,
decided rap came at the parlour door.
The bedroom was the back parlour,
and the door of communication stood
open.

Bother take it ! it is that landlady,
and I thought I should have oot out
without meeting her,' was Marian's rapid
thought, even while she said in her
sweetest tone, ' Come in, Mrs Willoughby.'

A slatternly - looking person, in curl
papers, made her appearance.

Would you oblige me, ma'am, with
that twenty-two shillings as you owes me,
for the man he 'av called for the water-rate,
and times is bad. I have no money
in the house.'

Now that is very tiresome,' said
Marian, as readily as if she had indulged
in money quibbles all her life. ' I was
just going out to get a cheque cashed. I
have been watching the weather all the
morning, but it does not seem likely to
give up raining, so I thought I would
go.'

The landlady, who was herself acting a
part,  for there was no tax-gatherer in the
house, only she was becoming a little
anxious about her money,  was for a moment
taken aback by Marian's plausibility.
Suddenly, however, her eye fell full on the
handbag.

night,' she thought ; ' that's what
she's after. I thought she was a bad
un.' Then aloud,  ' Please, ma'am, I
can't keep that there man waiting in the

passage, nor yet have my things took
when there's money due to me.'

The woman's manner, which till now
had been most obsequious, showed Marian
fully that she was doubted, and that there
would therefore be no chance of getting
away without paying, so she took the
high ground.

Of course, of course, Mrs Willoughby,
if you want your money you must have it.
I only wished to put off paying you for a
few hours till I made sure of getting my
cheque cashed ; here you are  twenty-two
shillings, I think you said  give me a receipt,
and understand that I leave this
evening.'

This evening, ma'am ! I shall be very
sorry to lose you,' said the woman, whose
faith in Marian rose, now that she saw the
colour of her money.

Yes, I shall go to France, where I
have relations. I only came here for a
short time on business.'

The matter settled with the landlady,
Marian's next object was what she vulgarly
called to ' raise the wind.'

VOL. III. M

London was not a city with which she
was particularly well acquainted, still she
had been there with her parents on more
than one occasion, and remembered, when
a child, accompanying her father to the
office of a man called Varley, who, she
had since learned, was a money-lender
and dealer in jewels.

Thither she thought she would go now ;
perchance from old associations she would
be able to make better terms with him
than with a stranger. She knew sufficient
of the locale in which he lived to be
able to find the place on foot, so taking a
cab to the Charing Cross Station, from
thence, as Mrs Jocelyn had once done before,
she started in search of Varley's office.

Mr Varley was at home, and recognised
her at once as the daughter of his dear
friend Wallis.

What could he do to serve her ? He
was indebted largely to Mr Wallis for
favours in the past, he said.

Without blinking at the facts which had
placed her in a false position, Marian told
him her story from first to last ; in doing

so, the name of Mrs Jocelyn was mentioned
incidentally more than once, never,
as Marian could not help remarking,
without a peculiar smile coming over Mr
Varley's features.

Do you know Mrs Jocelyn?' asked
Marian at last, with intense curiosity.

I have that honour ? '

Gracious ! Well, I should have thought
she was the very last person who would
know you.'

The speech was one of Marian's usual
tactless ones, and it served to annoy Mr
Varley.

And why, pray ? Am I so very black
and infamous, or is Mrs Jocelyn so irreproachable
? '

'Well, a little of both, I suppose,'
replied Marian, laughing.

So she poses for a saint, does she,
in Paris ? Perhaps she would not much
care for her antecedents to be published
?'

My husband, Paul Cazalet, was awfully
in love with her. I can't think v/hy he
did not marry her instead of me.'

For the very best reason in the
world  because she had got a husband
living.'

Mr Varley, you do not mean it ? '

It is as true as gospel. Still I do
not know if I should have told you
this, only Mrs Jocelyn has been giving
us a great deal of trouble lately, and
daring us to tell her history.'

But where is her husband ? Why
does she not live with him ? '

Till very lately he was a convict
at Portant ; a few months ago he
escaped, and there is a rumour that he
is dead.'

Merciful goodness ! what would people
think in Paris if they knew this ! What
would Paul say ? '

They will think and say a good deal
about it ere long,' Varley muttered to
himself. ' Nothing like making a confidante
of a woman if you wish a secret
to remain no longer a secret.'

And so taken up was Marian by the
information Mr Varley had given her
about Mrs Jocelyn, that she wellnigh

forgot the pressing business that had
brought her to his office.

She cross-examined him in every detail.
as only a curious woman knows how,
and learnt all he knew or chose to tell.
If she could not use this information to
her own advantage it would be funny,
she thought. Why, it was more valuable
than its weight in gold. Gold, however,
nevertheless she must have ; and that
brought her back to the rings which
were lying before her on the table.

Lend me as much as you can,' she
said. ' I will repay you with a margin,
as soon as I get some money from
Paul'

Mr Varley gave her quite what the
rings were worth, not because he believed
in her getting money from Paul,
but because he felt she was his instrument,
and would circulate vilifying reports
against I\Irs Jocelyn, who had so
utterly disregarded his attempts to levy
blackmail.

Well pleased with her morning's work,
Marian gathered up the sovereigns Mr

Varley meted out to her, and prepared
to take her departure.

Her plans would be somewhat changed
by what she had just heard. She would
put up with Mrs Willoughby's insolence
for twenty-four hours longer, and fire
off a shaft or two before she left
London. But although Marian had been
told enough to make a vast amount of
desperate mischief, the subject of the
diamonds in connection with the Vicomte
de Gourlay had not been mooted.

Mr Varley had obtained these diamonds
at too moderate a price for him to give
any prominence to the fact of their existence
if he could help it.

She was well content, however, with
what she had learnt, and tripped down
the stairs with much more alacrity than
she had mounted them. To let Paul
knew what she had just ascertained was
what she intended to do forthwith ; for
she reckoned upon his being more amenable
to her wiles during the first agony
of a shaken faith in Nelly.

Nevertheless how she was to accomplish

this required immense consideration.
She could not, of course, write to her
husband herself, nor was she sufficiently
an expert to be able to send an anonymous
letter in a feigned hand. Someone
then must be trusted ; who the someone
was to be, puzzled Marian not a
little.

The rain had cleared off by the time
she left Varley's office ; but the streets
were very muddy and uninviting-looking
yet she wandered up one and down
another in the hope that some idea
would suggest itself to her mind.

Mark Aldrich,
Law Copyist,

on a small metal plate, took her attention,
after she had strolled along in a
desultory manner for some little time.

I wonder what sort of man Mr Mark
Aldrich is ? ' she wondered.

And then she went up to the top
storey of the house in the back street

where she had seen the plate, and rang
the bell.

The door was opened by a man considerably
past middle age, with such a very
evil type of countenance that Marian at
once set him down in her mind as one
capable of any iniquity. And she was
right ; the astonishment was, that a young
person of Marian's youth and education
should venture without shrinking into Mr
Mark Aldrich's den.

You are a copyist, I think,' she said,
seating herself on a chair he offered her,
and which was the only one, placed beside
a deal table, that the room afforded.'

My handwriting is my bread,' he answered,
with a flourish.'

I want a letter written. I wonder if
you would do it ? '

A love letter ? '

Oh, no ! A letter on a very serious
matter. I myself spell very badly, and
write a shocking fist, so I thought I'd
come to you to have it properly done.'

I shall be proud to do anything so
charming a lady requires.'

What do you charge ? ' asked Marian,
with her usual eye to the main chance.

That depends entirely on the style and
length ; five shillings for a short letter, ten
for a long one.'

Well, I daresay we shall not fall out
about the price. Begin ; I'll dictate.'

Mr Mark Aldrich looked round a little
hopelessly.

Oh ! I see, you want this chair ; all right,
I can stand.'

A box was, however, found, on which
Marian seated herself, and the dictation
and writing commenced.

Sir,  Although personally unknown to
you, I think it is only right that the scales
should be taken from your eyes ; and
though the task is an invidious one, I feel
that I must undertake it from conscientious
motives. A lady in whom you
have been interested for years has deceived
you grossly from the first moment
you met her. She posed for sympathy,
and took Paris by storm as Mrs Jocelyn,
widow, whereas, she is the wife of the

convict Arthur Braithwaite, alias Jocelyn,
of the firm of Braithwaite, Ferrier and Co.
I need add no more, since, if you take the
least trouble to make inquiries, you will
find that my assertion is absolutely correct.
I am, Sir, yours faithfully,

** Melissa Croton.

12 Petersburg Terrace,
Liverpool."

The letter written was placed in an envelope,
and addressed to M. Paul Cazalet,
in the Rue Mignon, Paris; for Marian
knew that Paul had vacated the little hotel
on the Avenue Montaigne.

That letter is worth half a sovereign,'
said Mr Aldrich, as he closed the envelope,
'but I'll take v shillings, and your real
name and address.'

Bless the man, you don't suppose I'd
give a false name. Melissa I was
baptised and christened ; and Croton I
took when I married my man, who is in
the shipping line.'

And he does not know about this
letter . '

'Of course not. It's a bit of spite, as
you may suppose. Mrs Jocelyn baulked
me once when we were girls, and I said
then as I'd be even with her. Here's
your half sovereign, and hold your
tongue.'

Silent is the word. Besides, the
parties are unknown to me,' said honest
Mark Aldrich, as he pocketed the money
and showed the lady out.

Not that he believed in her statement
that she was Mrs Croton, of Liverpool,
any more than in his own that he did not
know the parties. An ex-felon himself, he
had more knowledge of Braithwaite and
Ferrier than Marian would have cared to
discover.

She dropped the letter to Cazalet into
the first pillar-box she passed, and then
hailed a cab to take her back to Burton
Crescent.

Her next halting-place, she decided,
should be Avreux ; from whence, after a
day or two, she would write a pleading
letter to Paul. The old memories the
name of Avreux would awaken must

powerfully assist her cause with a man of
Paul Cazalet's temperament.

Twenty-four hours after Marian left Mr
Varley's office, two men went up the
dusky staircase that led to it. They were
Doctor Goujon and Joseph Ferrier. If
they had anticipated Madame Cazalet's
visit by twenty-four hours, instead of succeeding
it, at what a different issue would
affairs have arrived.

BAPTISTS IN THE CAPITAL.

Once more Marian is wandering
on the Avreux heights, but as
she gazes on the sea that is
dashing against the rocks below

o o

her with Httle less fury than it did on the
day that Paul Cazalet recalled to consciousness
the half-drowned Baptiste, she is
watching it with no feelings of either awe,
wonder, or delight.

In truth, the chief feeling in which
Marian is indulging is spite. She has
rashly and wickedly put herself in a very
false position, and she feels spiteful
against, and at odds with, the whole human
race.

The sea, as in turbulence it breaks over
the promontory, irritates rather than
soothes her ; for to her perturbed mind
it seems to mock at her annoyance and
triumph over her disappointment.

On Marian's arrival at Avreux she took
up her quarters in the same cottage where
she and her mother had dwelt before
her marriage ; and she at once wrote a
pathetic letter of appeal to her husband.

No need to call in outside assistance,
for Marian was thorough mistress of her
pen, and knew better than most people
how to introduce telling sentences. A
month had passed away since she wrote
that letter, and not a line of answer had
she received. She was most grievously
disappointed. That Paul would take her
back, she in her most rational moments
scarcely believed to be likely, but that he
would send her some money and not leave
her at Avreux to starve, she had felt
absolutely certain.

How could she guess that she herself
had over-reached her mark ; that the information
she had given him had so upset

his faith in all women, that he had deserted
his place in life, and gone forth a wanderer
from his home, striving amid fresh scenes,
if it were possible, to forget.

The contrite, pleading letter on which
Marian had bestowed so much pains, and
which she had posted so full of hope, lay
unopened on Paul's desk in the sitting-room,
side by side with a few notes of invitation,
business documents about pictures
which interested Paul no longer, et caetera.
Justine looked each morning at the little
heap, and wondered if they would ever
reach her master's hand ; then she would
sit down and shed a few genuine tears of
regret over any share she might have had
in bringing Paul's happiness to so low an
ebb.

If I had only set my face against the
wily Marian, and put a word in for the
widow, how different it might all have
been,' she would repeat over and over
again ; ' but, allez, how can an ignorant
woman like me expect to read character
as if I was clairvoyante!

Meanwhile Marian raged and fumed ;

but raging and fuming were useless. It
would be many a long day before Paul
would be induced to send his address, so
that letters might follow him, and she
herself was alone to blame for his silence ;
for though very certainly right-minded
Paul would never take Marian back again
into his house as his wife, still money he
would have assuredly sent her, nor allowed
her to reap the true deserts of her
sin by undergoing a severe punishment
of misery and starvation.

The great power of retribution came,
however, between Marian and Paul Cabaret.
It is one of the laws of the universe
that suffering should be the result of ill-doing.
Marian was not to be the exception
to the general rule.

As she stood on the heights at Avreux,
gazing on the sea, so desolate and forlorn
was her state, that had she been less of
a coward she would have taken a fatal
plunge into the waves below her, and
cast her burden of life upon the waters.
But she dared not. There was the great
Hereafter to be faced, the Hereafter about

which she had thought so Httle during the
passionate episode with De Gourlay, but
which a certain amount of superstitious
awe  the feeling could scarcely be dignified
with the name of religion  taught
her she must approach carefully ; that a
season of penance and contrition and
prayer would bring her to it eventually,
without so much fear as she now felt in
its contemplation. But there was time
enough for all that : later on, when she
was older, she would ' faire son sahU,' as
people called it. Now she must think
of life, not death, and in order to live
money was necessary, and Marian's fortunes
where once more reduced to a very
low ebb. She been to regret she had
not stayed in London, where Varley
would perhaps have helped her. Surely
there were many things she could have
done to make herself useful to a manlike
Varley. Vain, however, to think of
returning there, since she had not the
wherewithal left to pay her fare. Who
would help her ? What should she do ?
were questions she asked over and over

VOL. III. N

again, while she stood meditating on the
edge of the cuff.

No one among her old acquaintances
in Paris would send her a hundred francs
note, of that she felt very certain ; and as
for De Gourlay, on whom she considered
she had some claim, he had set off for
America a few days after he discovered
that Mr Wallis had stopped the finances,
and had left no address.

Oh, that she had never trusted his
false promises! If ever he crossed her
path again, she would make him pay for
what she had suffered.'

But the wretched Marian must live,
and how } The only person who had
held out a friendly hand to her since
loneliness and desperation had overtaken
her, was Baptiste.

Baptiste, who, ever grateful for Paul
Cazalet's kindness, would have gone
through fire and water for Marian, who
told him she was Paul's wife. Even with
Baptiste Marian could not be straightforward,
but puzzled the good, honest,
simple-minded fishers brain by telling

him Paul had deserted her, and left her
almost penniless.

M. Cazalet, Baptiste's hero, the man
he regarded almost in the light of a god 
that he should commit such an act ! No,
Baptiste could not understand it : there
must be something wrong somewhere.
Ah, if he could only find out the where,
what a far happier man he would be.
For perplexing himself with the solution
of this riddle was telling on Baptiste's
spirits, and making him by turns irritable
and morose.

But except in showing sympathy for
her misfortunes, it was little enough
Baptiste could do for Marian ;  bring her
some fish sometimes when he had a good
haul, but beyond that he was of little
practical use ; and meagre though the
expenses were at Avreux, Marian was
rapidly drifting into the same position as
when Mrs Willoughby, of Burton Crescent,
positively demanded her rent ; only the
Avreux landlady was of a very different
type, and would probably have allowed the
unfortunate lady, whom she had known

under happier auspices, to have dwelt
there for aye, without demanding a farthing
of her.

This state of affairs could not go on
for ever : something Marian must do, but
what ?

An urgent appeal to her father and
mother, but they were both in Australia ;
and, moreover, her father was not likely
to help her, since he was a rigid stickler
for morality and straightforward behaviour,
repeating frequently that people could not
be too severely punished if they wantonly
forsook the path of duty.

She must go herself to Paris, make a
descent on Paul, and see what personal
influence would effect ! But to do even this
she must have money. None of the fisher
folk at Avreux could lend her any. She
would write to Varley ; and, failing him,
make an appeal to Nelly Jocelyn. Surely,
out of sheer womanly kindness, she would
help her.

It was so like Marian to believe in other
people possessing the goodness of heart of
which she herself was utterly void. She

had done her best to ruin Mrs Jocelyn's
reputation, yet to Mrs Jocelyn she would
appeal for help ; and even expect her to
hold out a hand to her to reinstate her in
her old place by Paul's side.

The reasons for which she expected this
were, of course, extremely illogical ; but
then Marian was, from first to last, even
more illogical than most women. As
usual, the unforeseen asserted itself. Even
as Marian, wandering along the overhanging
cliff, was calculating the odds as to
whether Mrs Jocelyn would or would not
be her friend, fate was advancing to meet
her in a very different guise from any on
which she had in the very least reckoned.
Too much engrossed by her own miserable
mental speculations, she had not taken any
special notice of the state of the elements,
or she could not have failed to see that a
storm was impending. Before she was in
the least prepared for it the wind blew in
ousts, and the rain descended in absolute
torrents ; no place of shelter was at hand,
and Marian, clad only in a thin, flimsy
gown, with merely a sunshade in her hand,

which the wind prevented her from holding
up, was speedily drenched, wet through to
the skin.

It was more than a mile from where the
rain overtook her to the cottage in which
she was dwelling, and the wind and rain
almost baffling her at every step, more
time even than usual did the homeward
journey take.

Nor till she got quite close to her own
abode was there a single place where she
could obtain temporary shelter.

The good wife who was mistress of the
tiny cottage was horrified when she saw
Marian's dripping condition, and advised
her to eo to bed, where she would brine
her a warm cup oi tisane ; but Marian was
obdurate, she would neither have the tisane
nor go to bed, but, after putting on some
dry attire, wrapped herself in a dressing-gown,
and sat down by the window to
gaze at the surging sea. Discovering that
all her wise counsels were unavailing, the
good wife left Marian to her own devices ;
and when she returned into the room some
two hours later, it was to find her with a

deep crimson spot on each cheek, shivering
from head to foot as if she had the ague.

The landlady was really frightened, and
insisted on her going at once to bed, a
piece of advice which Marian at last found
herself compelled to follow, and had not
been lone between the blankets, in which
Madame Bobin carefully enveloped her,
before fever set in ; her pulse raged at a
hundred and forty, and by the time the
shades of evening crept up, she was quite
delirious. A similar attack to the one she
had had in the Avenue Montaigne a few
months ago had seized her ; only, perchance,
it was in an aggravated form.
Now she screamed to Paul to come to
her ; now she hurled violent epithets on
Felix de Gourlay. Fortunately none of
the Avreux fisher-folk understood English,
or they might have been more enlightened
in Marian's affairs than would
have been altogether advisable.

Madame Bobin passed the night beside
her bed, and was utterly terror-stricken as
she listened to her ravings. She had
never seen anyone in such an excited

state before, and there being no doctor
in the place, she was at her wits' end
what to do. As soon as it was dawn she
sent for Baptiste, who, she knew, took a
lively interest in Paul Cazalet's wife, and
he at once volunteered to go off for the
same doctor who had been called in to Le
Vieux. This he did forthwith ; but as the
distance was great, and the only conveyance
he could obtain was a rouorh cigarette
that had come to Avreux laden with wood,
and was about to return to the distant town,
it would be quite evening before the medico
could arrive. During the early morning
hours the fever subsided somewhat, and
Marian had an hour of sleep ; but as the
day wore on it increased in force, and
by the time Baptiste returned with the
doctor, she was once more raving wildly.
Nor was it surprising, considering all she
had gone through of late, and the severe
chill she had taken as a climax to excitement.
When the doctor saw her he looked
exceedingly grave, said her state was most
critical, and that her relations ought to be
communicated with at once.

So she was Madame Cazalet. Yes, he
remembered seeing her when Le Viettxds
ill. Well, where was M. Cazalet ? What
was she doing there all by herself? Had
a little tiff with her husband, eh ? Well,
tiffs should be made up when danger was
to the front. Best telegraph at once to
M. Paul Cazalet. Did anyone know his
address ?

Baptiste produced the piece of paper
Paul had given him when he left Avreux ;
it was, of course, that of the Rue Mignon,
and the doctor telegraphed, 

Come at once. Madame Cazalet seriously
ill'

It was in time for that night's delivery,
and each person concerned had every expectation
that Paul would arrive early on
the morrow.

Another terrible night, during which
Madame Bobin again remained beside the
patient, whose state, as before, became
somewhat ameliorated at dawn, when she
slept for several hours, after taking one of
the doctor's draughts ; only, however, to
wake again as feverishly excited as ever.

And so the morrow wore on, but it brought
no Paul  no answer to the telegram. The
doctor, who, late in the evening, drove
over to see his patient, shook his head
and said there was decidedly no improvement,
 that if the fever did not abate soon
he would not answer for her life, and that
her friends, if she had any, ought to arrive
without delay.

Madame Bobin felt herself oppressed
with the burden of a great responsibility,
and would gladly have removed its weight
on to other shoulders ; but the doctor did
not seem inclined to interfere in Madame
Cazalet's family affairs, and took his leave,
promising to return in the morning.

Madame Bobin and Baptiste were left
to wonder how they could get at M. Paul,
since telegrams failed to reach him.

At last M. le curd was asked his advice.
All the Avreux people loved the curd, and
looked upon him as an oracle ; and well
they might, for he was a shrewd, straightforward,
honest man, who never cheated
them or himself by walking in what he
was inwardly convinced was a false track,

or acting under a false plea. He, of
course, had known Paul Cazalet during
his visit at Avreux, and also, for the
matter of that, had been acquainted with
Miss Marian Willis, as she then was.

With his accustomed shrewdness Monsieur
le ac7'e had taken their measure
justly, by which means he had discovered
all the good there was in Paul, and, to a
great extent, the evil there was in marian,
for whom he naturally had no particular
esteem.

Called then bv yladame Bobin to o-ive
his opinion as to what was to be done, on
hearing that Paul had deserted his wife,
he at once stated that he did not believe it
to be possible, from what he knew of Paul's
habits and opinions.

Nor I, M. le C2i7'e. I cannot believe
that M. Paul would desert any one who
was bound to him by strict ties,' cried
Baptiste. ' Ndayirnoins, since madame
says so  '

The C2tr did not answer. It was not
in his calling to make uncharitable remarks
to one of his flock ; and what, injustice

to Paul, he was inclined to say of
Marian, would not fail to savour of want
of charity.

Suppose you were to go to Paris,
Baptiste.'

Moi, M. le curd, moi, Baptiste, ct Paris?'

Yes, yes. Why not } You have a head
on your shoulders, mon jargon. Would
not lose it even in Paris ; and you might
find and bring back M. Paul Cazalet.'

But the money, M. le curd, the
money ? '

A few francs will take you to Paris,
troisieme classe, which I will give you ;
also a letter to an old friend of mine, a
curd in Paris, who will, I know, take you
in and see that you get into no difficulties.
Will you go ? '

Yes, M. le ciird, I will, and do what
you tell me, and everything I can for M.
Paul'

Well then, get ready at once, and come
to my house for some money and the letter
which I will write.'

The hour was late, and no train left
Avreux for the capital till five a.m., so

there was time enough for Baptiste to
make himself as spic and span as he knew
how, and even to snatch a few hours' sleep
before he started.

The train, when it did start, was a slow
one, and it was nearly two o'clock before
Baptiste found himself at the Gare St
Lazar, terribly bewildered by the buzz
of busy life in which he found himself
plunged for the first time.

He hailed a voiture, as he had been instructed
to do by the czir, who thought
that omnibuses and trams would be quite
beyond the comprehension of the raw
Avreux fisher, and he drove straight to
the dwelling of the priest for whom he
had brought a letter, which was on the
St Germain side of the Seine, not very
far, in fact, from the Rue Mignon.

Le Pere Corneille was at home, and
ready to do anything he could to please
his oood friend the curd of Avreux, being,
as he said, also acquainted with M. Paul
Cazalet.

After a hasty repast, which he insisted
on Baptiste taking before he proceeded

any farther, he, being himself engaged,
sent a young man who came in daily
for a few hours to act as his servant,
to show Baptiste his way to the Rue
Mignon.

That is the atdlier door, and the house
door is round the corner,' the young man
said, as they approached.

'Best go to the house door,' answered
Baptiste.

And so they did, and rang the bell,
which was answered by Justine, who recognised
Baptiste at once.

Diet des Dieux! M. Baptiste. Whoever
expected to see you in Paris ? ' she
exclaimed, the moment she set eyes on
him.

Baptiste briefly told her the object of his
coming, and begged her to take him at
once to M. Paul.

But Justine shook her head.

'Pas facile, mon garon, since I do not
know where M. Paul is to be found. But
come in.'

He followed her into the sitting-room,
where on the table lay all the letters and

telegrams that had been sent to Paul since
he went off so suddenly.

Beside the table sat a lady with a child
on her knee.

They were Nelly Jocelyn and little
Lina.

As soon as Nelly Jocelyn heard Baptiste's
tale of Marian's sad plight, she gave
the child to Justine, and saying, ' I will goto
her at once,' rose, and began to make
instant preparations for departure.

BACK TO AUVERGNE.

AS it an act of penance, or one
of mercy, that Mrs Jocelyn was
about to perform when she hurriedly
decided that she would goat
once to Marian ?

To a great extent, the former, seeing
that the feeling that impelled her was a
desire to do what she could for Paul, in
order, if possible, to redeem to some extent
all the past contained that was false
and deceitful. It is doubtful whether,
had circumstances in connection with Paul
been other than they were, she would have
gone herself to Marian, though the womanly
kindness that overflowed in Mrs Jocelyn's
nature would not have permitted her to let

another woman, even though she were an
enemy, be unassisted in the pHght Baptiste
had described Marian to be.

Scarcely time for deep reflection did
Nelly take, but hurried home forthwith to
give a few orders to Marie, and collect
some necessaries, both of wearing apparel
and accessories for the sick-room. She
would then start by the first available train
for Avreux, and derive a sort of mournful
pleasure in doing her duty, and being useful
to Paul.

Arrived at her own abode, she was
about to enter hastily when she was
stopped by old Andre with the information
that ' un monsieur ' wanted to see
her, and had gone up into her rooms to
wait for her. The arrival of anyone at
this moment was especially annoying to
Mrs Jocelyn, and she resolved to despatch
him about his business as quickly
as possible.

Somewhat to her astonishment the monsieur
turned out to be Doctor Goujon.

'Ah!' exclaimed Nelly, when she saw
him ; ' you have come to reprimand me for

VOL. III. o

not going to the Chalet Victor ; but since
M. Cazalet had left Paris there was no
occasion, as I told you in my letter.'

No, no, madame, I have not come to
find fault, but to tell you that I have been
to London in your service.'

To London !  you. Doctor Goujon !
but this is indeed zeal'

He bowed his head, and smiled.

Still you do not ask me if I have been
successful in my enterprise.'

Since that terrible letter was written
to Paul, the worst has happened. I care
little now what they do.'

So in the whole wide world there only
exists M. Paul Cazalet for you ? '

Pardon me. Doctor Goujon ; I am
wretchedly ungrateful, I know. Tell me,
have you succeeded '. Am I free from my
persecutors ? '

I have done all that lay in my humble
power. I believe and hope so.'

She held out her hand to him.

You are my only true friend.'

He grasped it warmly, looking meanwhile
in her eyes.

There Is still something that excites
and annoys you. What is it ? '

Briefly she described to him all she
had just heard from Baptiste of Madame
Cazalet's state, and finished the account
by expressing her determination to go to
Avreux at once. Doctor Goujon listened
very attentively till she announced that
she was going to Avreux ; then he said
hurriedly, 

No, no, certainly not. It must not be
done. How foolish women are ! Thankful
I am in time to stop such nonsense.'

What do you mean ? ' asked Nelly
in an offended tone ; * why should I not,
go?'

'Have you no common sense  you
cannot have, or you would see that the
place of the woman who loves Paul Cazalet
is not by perhaps the deathbed of Paul
Cazalet's wife. '

What detestably plain speech. So I
am to let that poor woman die alone and
without money because  because Paul and
I  Oh, Doctor Goujon, I did not think
you were so hard-hearted ! '

Not a bit of it  not a bit of it. Send
her money and assistance, if it pleases you ;
only, if I can prevent it, you will not leave
Paris.'

And suppose I insist on going to
Madame Cazalet ? '

Then, madame  ' and Doctor Goujon
took up his hat significantly.

'No, no ; I do not mean that I am
really going to thwart you. I suppose I
must give you credit for being a man of
sense.'

A la bonne heure, marine. Now
perhaps we shall understand each other
better.'

But though I will not thwart you, I
should like to convince you that it is my
duty to go to Avreux.'

Never ; you can never convince me
that it is a woman's duty to commit a
foolish act. Just bring a little reason to
bear on the subject. If Madame Cazalet
is conscious, you are the very last person
she would care to see sittings beside her
bed ; while all the Parisian gossips will
chatter like magpies over your journey, 

put all sorts of vile constructions on it,
even if they do not go as far as to say you
have been to Avreux to help Madame
Cazalet out of the world.'

Oh, Doctor Goujon, you are really too
bad!'

I observe human nature, that is all ;
and I am your friend.'

Well, then, what would you have me
do ? Shall I send Marie ? '

Millefois non. Keep out of it altogether,
as far as the world can see. I will
go, if you like ; but since it is M. Paul
Cazalet who is wanted, I do not quite see
how I shall replace him ?'

You simply object, you suggest nothing,'
said Nelly, with some irritation.

Send a couple of hundred francs, if
you like, for pressing emergencies, and sit
down satisfied in your arm-chair by the
window.'

I may sit down, but I shall not be
satisfied.'

Dieu! what queer creatures women are ;
que diable is this Madame Cazalet to you
that you are so interested in her ? She has

courted her fate, why can't you leave her
to suffer it ? '

If we all met the fate that by our shortcomings
we court, alas ! for most of us,'
answered Mrs Jocelyn, meanwhile taking
a roll of notes out of a bureau and handing
them to the little doctor for Marian's
pressing wants.

She had not placed them in his hand
before Marie came into the room.

Une ddpeche, madame!

Mrs Jocelyn snatched it eagerly.

The dispute is at an end. It is over.
She is dead. Poor Marian  poor, misjudged,
erring Marian ! '

And there were tears in Nellie Jocelyn's
eyes as she read the few lines Justine had
sent her enclosing a telegram from the
curd at Avreux.

Doctor Goujon, in whom the spirit of
cynicism was ever strong, smiled when
he beheld Mrs Jocelyn's tears, and said
briefly, 

Paul Cazalet is free ! '

Mrs Jocelyn did not answer him. What
was Paul Cazalet's freedom to her at this

juncture ? She was sadly impressed by
the news of Marian's lonely death, and she
thought with some irritation that Doctor
Goujon was a brute for reminding her of
Paul Cazalet just at the moment of all
others when her feelings for him should
have been put out of the question.

But the truth being told, it was of himself
and not of either Mrs Jocelyn or Paul
Cazalet that Doctor Goujon was thinking
at that moment. That is of himself in
reference to Mrs Jocelyn.

Doctor Goujon had been frequently
seeking of late to analyse his feelings
for Mrs Jocelyn, and the want of success
he had experienced in proving that
she was absolutely indifferent to him,
annoyed him not a little ; and over andover
again he dubbed himself a fool for
having allowed this woman to attract him
away from the Chalet des Oiseaux and
induced him to run about the country
settling her affairs as if he were a mere
carpet-knight instead of the little ugly
cynical doctor he had hitherto chosen to
consider himself.

And all for what ? Of course she
would marry Paul Cazalet, since Paul
Cazalet was free !

A few seconds, amounting even to
minutes, were passed by both Nelly and the
doctor in meditation, though of a very
different character. Nelly was the first
to break the silence.

That money must still be sent to
Avreux. Will you send it to the curd, M.
le docteur ? '

Wherefore ? '

That this poor unhappy woman maybe
decently buried. Since Paul cannot
be found, what else can be done ? '

True. In M. Cazalet's absence you
must be his banker.'

And you his representative ! ' answered
Nelly, determined she would not notice
the bitterness with which the last sentence
was uttered.

But do you really mean, honestly and
positively, that you do not know where
Paul Cazalet is ? '

For whom do you take me ? ' she
asked, with some dignity ; then changing

tone,  ' Ah, I forgot that a woman whose
h'fe has been one long living lie can
scarcely expect her word to be taken ? '

Forgive me, Mrs Jocelyn. I intended
no insinuation of the sort. I merely
thought it strange that you should not
know whither Paul Cazalet had betaken
himself, and I wished to understand if it
were really so.'

I have no more idea in what part of
the earth Paul Cazalet is dwelling at this
moment than you have yourself, Doctor
Goujon.'

Still when you and he meet again you
will marry.'

Paul Cazalet will never marry a woman
in whose word and honour he cannot
believe.'

And Marian ? ' asked the little
doctor, with a sneer ; ' you surely do not
wish me to understand that she was endowed
with a superabundance of these
qualities ? '

Mrs Jocelyn coloured up.
Because he was deceived in Marian
is more reason why he should not allow

himself to be so a second time ; besides,
I am a worse woman than poor Marian
was.'

You ! '

Yes. She never tried to make people
believe that she was anything but a
shallow, silly flirt. Paul was deceiving
himself  it was not her fault if he believed
otherwise; while I, oh, Doctor Goujon,
I feel horrified with myself when I think
of what a vile wretched lie I have been
acting for years, passing to the world asa
woman with strong pretensions to honour
when I have been nothing but a miserable
sham ! '

Don't give way to disparaging reflections
about your own acts, chere inadanie ;
you could not help what happened : it
was fate. Over scrupulousness is a heinous
mistake.'

Over scrupulousness ; why, Doctor
Goujon, you must be joking when you
apply that word to me ; however, I am
determined that my life from henceforth
shall be spent in expiation of my past
sins.'

I am very sorry to hear it ; at your
age, there is only one verb you should
conjugate  to enjoy.'

All enjoyment has passed out of my
life for ever. To live in penance and to
endure to the end is all that is left
now.'

Humph ! ' said the doctor, half-speaking
to himself; 'a decided case of monomania
 must see if we cannot set this
to rights.'

Mrs Jocelyn, although her spirits were
absolutely at zero, could not help smiling
at his remark.

'How do you intend to set about it?'
she asked. ' What course of treatment
do you intend to prescribe ? '

Come down to the Chalet Victor and
you will see . '

Exactly what I intend to do ; strange
that your views should correspond so
entirely with mine.'

You intend to come back to the Chalet
Victor .? '

Yes ; after what has happened, I would
rather leave Paris. M. Cazalet must

return, sooner or later, to see his child.
The news of this death will reach him. I
would not now cross his path for worlds.'

Why not now, oh most incomprehensible
of women.'

Have you forgotten that he is free ?
And yet since he knows what a sham he
has once loved, the barrier between us
is as great as ever.'

I have forgotten nothing, but I simply
do not comprehend. The form of mania
in which you indulge, with all these quirks
and fancies, is almost turning my brain, let
alone yours.'

Perhaps when we are back in the
solitude of Auvergne we shall both be
cured.'

Perhaps ! '

And the intense look Doctor Goujon cast
on Mrs Jocelyn's face as he uttered this
one word, in a strange tone, puzzled her
not a little. Several things Doctor Goujon
had said and done of late had made her
pause on her onward course, and wonder.

Could it be possible that she had
awakened feelings of love and longing

>

in the heart of this shrivelled-up piece of
parchment, who went by the name of
Doctor Goujon ? Impossible; and yet 

Even as she stood there planning a
speedy return to the Chalet Victor, because,
as she went on saying, it was
most expedient for herself, and kinder
to Marie, since Marie had annexed a
lover in the wilds ; even as she was
talking. Doctor Goujon, who drank in
the pleasant tones of her voice without
the actual meaning of her words, was
thinking if Paul Cazalet would only stay
away long enough, or be bear enough
to return unforgiving, there was no saying
but he might have the chance of
keeping la belle veuve  veuve then no
longer,  down among the extinct volcanoes
for aye.

If Nelly could have guessed his
thoughts, she would probably have
laughed outright  that he knew ; but
none the less on that account did he,
believing himself to be a good judge
of women, imagine that a disappointed one
was not always so very difficult to win.

By which reasoning it may be seen
that the standard from which Doctor
Goujon regarded himself was a low
one, since, in order to obtain Nelly,
he was reckoning on Paul Cazalet's
neglect of her.

But to win Mrs Jocelyn, at any price,
was Doctor Goujon's idle fixe at that
moment.

If she had had the slightest knowledge
of it, probably she would have
o-one off to England, and paid her
mother a visit at the Retreat, where
John Wisden and Dot were established,
and so have been free from all the
torments her residence in France seemed
to be casting about her. But then if
she had done that, the end, as fate
had written it, would never have come
about ; no, she must go with a brave
heart into Auvergne, and meet her
destiny.

Meantime there were matters taking
up her immediate attention in Paris.
She did not wish her contemplated
sojourn among the extinct volcanoes

to look like another flight ; so having
passed all the arrangements in connection
with Marian's sad death into
Doctor Goujon's keeping, she decided
to behave as though neither the matter
nor manner of the death of Paul
Cazalet's wife affected her in the very
least.

She gave out that she intended very
soon to go back to the Chalet Victor fora
time,  even went so far as to invite
Madame d'Albin to come and stay with
her, a suggestion that, notwithstanding
her love for Nelly, was received by
the fair Blanche with a very wry face
indeed.

Bury herself at the Chalet Victor ;
no, not if she knew it. When it was
necessary to have a change from Paris,
either Trouville or Deauville were
the only places worth going to. Why
could not Nelly go with her to one of
them 1

But Nelly shook her head. She
must have quiet, she felt ; still she
was sorry Blanche d'Albin would not

accompany her. She felt as if she
wanted the society of a female friend,
to protect her, perchance from herself.
Not that when Nelly had a female
friend she was especially communicative
to her ; for the first conversation about
Marian's death took place one morning
when Blanche d'Albin arrived at an unexpectedly
early hour in Nelly's apartments.


Only fancy, Madame Cazalet is dead !
Died at Avreux. I wonder if that
wretched little Vicomte poisoned her ? '

I thought he had deserted her,  gone
to America and left her to starve.'

Dieu ! Who told you that . '

Justine.'

Did you know that Marian was dead ? '
A short pause, during which Mrs Jocelyn

was thinking. * No, there should be no
more lies.' Then she answered, 

Yes, I was told of her death. The cu7'd
of Avreux sent a fisherman to fetch M.
Cazalet. Marian had told the people at
Avreux that Paul Cazalet deserted her.
Of course Justine put all that right.'

What a little viper she was ! Well, I
am glad she got her deserts.'

Peace be with her ashes,' said Nelly, ina
low tone. ' Do not let us ever speak of
her again.'

Blanche d'Albin had evidently been
taking lessons in tact of late, for she did
not make any allusion to Paul's newly-acquired
freedom, only putting her arm
round her English friend, kissed her and
said, 

What a charming world this would be,
Nelly, if everyone in it was like you ! '

A compliment which Mrs Jocelyn's sense
of justice made her very much inclined to
resent.

And so, with but one regret at leaving
the gay capital, Nelly Jocelyn started once
more for Auvergne. The one regret, that
amounted almost to pain when the time
for parting came, was that she must leave
little Lina, since if she meant to wrench herself
for ever from Paul and his fortunes, she
must not cling to his child, who, she was
well aware, would never want a mother's care
while old Justine lived. Still, with many

VOL. III. P

tears, the separation was effected, and,
sick at heart, accompanied by the beaming
Marie, she was at last standing
on the platform at the Gare de Lyons,
ready to step into the train which was
about to bear her away from all she held
most dear in life, and carry her towards
an unknown destiny that she could not
help approaching with dread.

WITH THANKS.

ND SO, in outward seeming, life
in Auvergne went on for the
inmates of the two opposite
chalets much as it had done of
yore. But that it was only in outward
seeming each one of those concerned
knew only too well. Reciprocal attentions
passed daily between the Chalet
Victor and the Chalet des Oiseaux, yet
there did not seem to be the ring of true
friendship about them.

Mrs Jocelyn took an enormous interest
in Doctor Goujon's pets ; entered, to all
appearance, con amove into the subject of
their treatment, their habits, and, in fact,

appropriated the affections of one or two
of them entirely to herself ; still what real,
absorbing pleasure did Mrs Jocelyn take
in birds and little hairy quadrupeds ? She
was only striving to quiet her own heart
with the belief that she was so fond of
watching life in the lower creation that it
had taken the place of all higher intellectual
aims, that all aspirations  ambition,
love  were dead in her for ever.

Doctor Goujon, who was watching her,
noted with admiration the vigorous effort
she was making to conquer herself ; but
still with sorrow he could not help recognising
the fact that her efforts were unsuccessful,
 she was fretting.

What man of observation, devoted to
Nelly as Doctor Goujon was, but must remark,
notwithstanding her brave assumption
of cheerfulness, that her face increased
in pallor as the days went on, and that it
was even becoming thin and drawn, while
she herself was losing all her roundness
and plumpness of form.

If time went on treating Mrs Jocelyn
in this fashion, who would recognise her

portrait when la Veneziana adorned the
walls of the Salon ? '

All this Doctor Goujon saw and recognised
in its fullest extent, but he said nothing.


And he too was changed, so changed
that he almost failed to believe he was the
same man who, quoted as a cynic throughout
the country side, had lived happy
in his cynicism for many years till Mrs
Jocelyn came to destroy his peace.

In physical cures Doctor Goujon when
in full practice had had enormous renown ;
but when patients had consulted him with
some mental worry, he had laughed and
pooh-poohed them. He never allowed
anything to interfere with his sleeping and
feeding, he told them  nothing but physical
pain, which an anaesthetic would lull ;
as for mental pain, the cure for that was
courage.

Yet Doctor Goujon's courage had been
slumbering ever since the night when
Arthur Braithwaite died, and Nelly sat in
the chair in his sitting-room and told her
miserable tale of suffering and self-reproach.

Perhaps, for the first time, Doctor
Goujon believed that there existed mental
agony which was not a mere fancy ; and
in believing he caught the infection. That
he, in his middle age, having escaped all
danger until now, should have became so
infatuated about a woman that he could
not bear to be out of her sight, was past
all credence, he averred, as he argued the
matter out with himself,  a woman too who
cared no more for him than for one of the
pins with which she fastened up her rich
auburn hair. Why had Providence given
him intellect and ability, gifts which so
many men would have envied, and withheld
what to him would have been far
dearer, the power to please and make
women love him ? And, such being the
case, was it not an inconceivable thing
that he himself, after so many years passed
in a virtuous contempt for the whole
feminine race, should on a sudden become
as bewitched as though he were a young
puppy of twenty-one.

Then he would sneer at himself, and,
wandering up and down the road in front

of his chalet, try and arrange the odds as
to which would conquer  his commonsense
or his almost insurmountable love
for Nelly Jocelyn.

For days together he would look with
callous indifference on her pallid features
and languid mien. Waiting would wear
her out at last, he supposed ; and since
this proud, much-injured Paul Cazalet
would not return, when she was at her
last gasp of loneliness and despair, his hour
of triumph would dawn ; and he pictured
her holding out her long hands, grown
'thin and transparent of hue' to him, while
she said, 

You only, Richard Goujon, have been
true and faithful ; take the rest of my
life into your keeping, and bring back
the lost happiness to my heart, the roses
and brightness to my cheeks.'

So the erst scoffing, cynical man would
reason, building up castles for himself and
Nelly to dwell in, which, in his more lucid
intervals, he knew were only of cards.

Then suddenly he would dash them to
the ground with a brave resolve that

he would see and think of Nelly no
more.

When these moody fits were upon him,
he would leave the care of the animals to
the dumb boy, and go away on a walking
tour for days among the pics with
which his house was surrounded, to come
back after a while, in a softer, more
humane frame of mind.

Nelly Jocelyn was always sorry when
Doctor Goujon went away on these mountainous
expeditions. She missed his companionship
; for though at this time of year
the surrounding chalets were peopled, and
she had many friends in Auvergne, still
Mrs Jocelyn had grown so accustomed to
the little doctor, that there was a void in
her life whenever he betook himself into
hiding.

He was fully aware that she missed
him, and that when he returned back
she rejoiced over his coming ; but solitude
had always more or less the effect of temporarily
curing him, and though after these
absences he was more tender and kindly
to Nelly than he was at other times, yet

he never deceived himself into the belief
that her pleasure at seeing him again was
due in any way to awakening love.

But watching Nelly as Doctor Goujon
did, reading clearly, as he fancied he
could, between the lines, he yet failed
utterly to learn how far deeper each day
was growing her despair over Paul Cabaret's
protracted absence and silence.

She had been more than two months
in Auvergne, and not a word about Paul
Cazalet had reached her. Whether he had
heard of Marian's death no one knew.
During the first few weeks of her residence
at the Chalet Victor, she had received
several little ill-spelt but welcome
notes from Justine, giving her details
about Lina's progress in teething and
walking ; but of late these 
missives had ceased, and with their
cessation Nelly had become so fretful and
irritable that Marie declared it was well
she was oroinor to be married ere honor
else madame's whims and caprices would
worry her into her grave.

If her love affair with the eldest son

of the Mettre vacher had come to sudden
grief, the chances are Marie would not have
borne her disappointment with anything
Hke the amount of fortitude that Nelly was
ever striving to display. But Marie was
intolerant. Happiness, alas ! not unfrequently
has the power of making those who
enjoy it intolerant of another's sufferings.

Marie's annoyance over madame's whims
and fancies became at last a positive outcry,
when Nelly, able to bear the dead
silence no longer, arranged in her own
mind that she would send Marie to Paris,
under the pretext of getting her some
articles of wearing apparel that she needed,
in reality that she might go to the Rue
Mignon and find out why Justine did not
write, and whether little Lina was well.
In fact, in a round-about way, Nelly hoped
that she would thus obtain some tidings
of the absent Paul.

Marie was, of course, obliged to go when
she was bidden, or she would probably have
forfeited the handsome wedding-present she
expected from Nelly; besides, she was really
attached to her mistress; still, she could not

forego a few remarks to her Jacques about
the absurdity of being sent up to Paris now,
on a wild goose chase in search of a man
who was not there, and never meant to be
found any more, when madame had the
dear Httle doctor at her feet, and would
make him as happy as the day was long,
if she would only give up thinking of that
sombre M. Paul, and let the doctor take
the place of her first husband, ce pauvre
monsieur, who had died before Marie
entered madame's service.'

By which it will be seen that Marie
was a young person of great perspicacity.
She did not know all Nelly's secrets, but
she had been more clever than her mistress,
for she had discovered Doctor
Goujon's, while Mrs Jocelyn certainly
had not ; but probably it was because
she had been too much taken up with
the morbid state of her own feelings to
have any attention to bestow on analysing
the condition of another mind.

From the moment she had decided
that she would send Marie to Paris,
she could not rest till she had got her

off ; and no sooner was she gone than
her excitement became so much more
intense as almost to amount to mania.
Doctor Goujon was seriously disquieted
about her ; but he judged it most expedient
to take no notice of her state,
for she herself had told him nothing
about Marie's departure for Paris ; all
he had learnt about the matter came
from the confiding abigail herself.

The truth being told, Doctor Goujon
was wellnigh as excited as Mrs Jocelyn
was about the result of Marie's mission.
And though he uttered no word, he
watched with vigilant keenness, in the
hope that she would give some sign by
which he could discover what she had
heard from Marie. But no sign came,
except of increasing irritability, produced
by the fact that Marie did not write. She
had only gone to Paris for two or three
days, it is true, and Mrs Jocelyn had
given her no orders as to sending letters
perhaps she did not care to show as
much interest as she really felt,  anyway,
no letter came ; and not a word

was heard till on the morning of the
fourth day from her departure, Marie,
having travelled all night, arrived at the
Chalet Victor. Mrs Jocelyn had not
long been up, and was sitting en peignoir
by the window waiting for her.

It would almost have seemed that Marie
had been reading up the part of the nurse in
Romeo and Juliet, so prolix was she ; so
ready to tell of the fashions, the trouble
she had had with this tradesman and
that, and a hundred other nothings, before
she could be got to the point of
what Justine had said to her.

Then at last came the crushing answer, 

She had not seen Justine !

Not seen Justine ! Why, what on
earth, then, did you go to Paris for ? '
cried Mrs Jocelyn, in her disappointment
letting out all the truth.

Since Justine was not in Paris, certainly
my journey was useless,' answered
Marie, whose garrulity had turned into
taciturnity, now that she was forced to
speak on this subject.

Where has she gone ? Whom did

you see ? Is Lina well ? Has M.
Paul Cazalet come back ? '

The questions stormed out impetuously.


I saw no one who could tell me anything
about la famille Cazalet except
Andre, madame.'

Only Andre !  well, and what did he
tell you ? '

That Justine had come in one evening
about three weeks ago and had some chat
with him.'

Yes ; well, go on.'

That M. Paul Cazalet was then in
Paris.'

'Ah!'

That he had not heard of Madame
Cazalet's death till he came to the Rue
Mignon, when he at once went off to
Avreux to see that everything had been
arranged properly, and had given a handsome
present to Baptiste. On his return
from Avreux  '

Go on.'

Well he gave Justine this petit paquet,
which she was to confide to old Andre's

keeping till you came to Paris, when he
was to hand it over to you.'

Notwithstanding Marie's presence, Mrs
Jocelyn in her impatience tore it open.
Notes! The money returned which she
had sent to Avreux to pay for Marian's
burial! Not a word, not a letter  nothing
! Yes, inside the paper which enclosed
them, was written, almost illegibly, 

*With thanks. P. C

'With thanks!'

So their love, their bygone deep interest
in each other's welfare, all was to end in a
cold ' with thanks.'

Nelly had sufficient control over herself
not to let Marie see all she felt.

'Of course, of course; the money I
sent,' she said, trying to look collected,
while she thrust the notes into her pocket.
Well, go on. And after ? What happened
after ? '

M. Cazalet has shut up the apartment
in the Rue Mignon for an indefinite time,
and taken Justine and la petite demoiselle
away with him into the country.'

Ah ! for the summer. Yes, it will do
little Lina good to have some country
air. Do you know where they have gone,
Marie . '

To a place somewhere near Fontainebleau
that monsieur took a great fancy to
some months ago. Andre fancies they are
going to live there altogether, and never
coming back to Paris any more.'

Good, Marie ; very good. You have
fulfilled your mission excellently well, ma
fille. Now go and have some dejeuner
and a rest, for I feel sure you must require
both.'

Marie at once obeyed, in a great measure
because she felt that her mistress were
better left alone for a while after the information
she had been compelled to give
her about M. Cazalet.

For an hour  perchance an hour and a-
half  Marie, busied with other matters, did
not return into the room where her mistress
was. When she at last did so, she
found her sitting in exactly the same posture
in which she had left her  apparently
she had not even moved.

If Doctor Goujon had seen her then,
what hope would he have fostered for his
own chance of success ?

Since, when the desire to win Nelly was
strongest, he trusted entirely to every link
with Paul being broken for ever, perchance
he would have counted the odds
with rapture, and believed that he was
already clasping her in his arms.

Nevertheless the expression of Marie's
face, when she came back and saw Mrs
Jocelyn sitting back in her chair, in what
she at first took to be a dead faint, was
anything but one of rapture.

Marie had been for some lone time with
Mrs Jocelyn, and had never seen her like
this before. She was frightened, and not
without cause. Mrs Jocelyn had not fainted.
When Marie touched her, she looked at
her sadly ; when she spoke to her, she answered
in a low, lifeless tone.

The irritable phase that uncertainty
about Paul's behaviour produced had entirely
passed away, to be suddenly replaced
by one of calm, unruffled despair.

What cared Nelly now, how the tide of

VOL. III. Q

life ebbed and flowed. Paul was lost to
her for ever ; the sooner the dark waters
of death closed over her the better.

When Marie touched her she discovered
that though the day was a hot one, she
was as cold as stone. Obedient as a child,
she acquiesced in Marie's suggestion that
she should go to bed. She even drank
some hot tisane without a murmur.

Sleep and warmth would restore animation,
Marie hoped. And so she left
her once more to struggle back to hope
and life as best she could. Every now
and again she went carefully and on tiptoe
to look at her. Each time she imagined
her to be asleep, whereas she was
only lying still in a state of half consciousness
resembling coma.

At last Marie grew alarmed at this long
sleep, and taking a dainty dish, which the
campagnarde had prepared under her orders,
she roused up her mistress, and tried
to tempt her to eat. But Nelly could not
eat. To be left alone was all she asked, 
alone with the overwhelming despair to
which Doctor Goujon had been looking

forward, and perchance even craving for
so honos.

Throughout the day he had not come
nigh the Chalet Victor ; and Marie had
not judged it expedient to send for him.
She knew full well what had produced her
mistress's indisposition. She must rally
somewhat before she would consent to
give her hand to Doctor Goujon, Marie
thought.

Towards evening the doctor arrived.
He, too, was most anxious to learn the
result of Marie's journey to Paris, though,
naturally, he did not wish to appear so.
Marie opened the door to him herself, and,
to his inquiry about her mistress, told him
she was ill, and not well enough to see
him.

Not well enough to see a doctor !
Best comique fa, he answered, smiling.

Best leave her till the morning, monsieur
; she has gone to bed, and I believe
sleeps.'

No need for Doctor Goujon to ask
any questions ; he knew without the telling
that Marie had brought no hope of

Paul, and that Nelly was passing through
the throes he himself had felt so frequently
of late. He made no further
comment to Marie, except that he would
call again in the morning, and went away
chuckling with a sort of fiendish delight
that he had waited for some purpose,
since he had won.

Chuckling brutally over his gain in her
despair, Doctor Goujon, whom she had
thought her friend !

On the morrow, when he returned to
the Chalet Victor, Nelly's door was again
closed to him, by her own express orders ;
she would see no one, she told Marie.
The following day the same answer was
given, and the little doctor grew desperate.

Tell madame,' he said, ' that if she
refuses to see me when I return this
afternoon, I will telegraph to Paris for
Doctor Sennegon, an old confrere of mine,
to come and take the case in hand.'

This message had the desired effect ;
in the afternoon, Nelly, en peignoir, received
Doctor Goujon in her drawing-room.
Instead of approaching her chaise

longue he stopped half way between her
and the door, and stood gazing at her.

Never could he have believed in such
a change. Pale and transparent Nelly
had looked of late, but to think that he
should live to see her with such a cold
death stamp on her brow, was torture.

Nelly  the beautiful, fleshly, highly-tinted
Nelly Jocelyn, about whom men
raved, and said she should have sat to
Rubens for a model : to think that in a
few short hours she should have grown
a haggard, worn, pallid woman. God !
it made his heart stand still to think of
it. Only to throb more wildly the next
moment, as he longed to take her in his
arms, and recal her to hope and beauty
by the power of his own strong love.

Nelly, who little guessed the tempest
of stormy thoughts that her appearance
had awakened, held out her hand to her
old friend.

I am feeling very ill,' she said ; ' but
as I did not think you could do meany
good, I did not send for you professionally.'


I am sorry, very sorry,' he stammered,
striving with much difficulty to steady
his voice. ' You have been shutting yourself
up too much, I fear. Come over to
the Chalet des Oiseaux : your pets there
have missed you.'

She shook her head.

I do not think I could walk so far. I
am afraid, Doctor Goujon, that my death-warrant
has been signed.'

Your death - warrant, and you can
speak of it thus coolly ! But what is
the matter with you ?  the nature of your
ailment ?'

She turned her head away from him,
as though ashamed to name the disease
that was killing her ; then she answered,
in a very low tone, 

A broken heart'

Mon diet ! Madame Jocelyn ; you know
my theory, that a maladie de coeur, unless
it be physical, cannot kill. You are only
saying this to try me.'

She did not contradict him, only looked
round at him once more and smiled sadly,
as though telling him tacitly how terribly

mistaken he could be,  that this one case
would probably overset all his former
experience.

And so, in truth, as far as his knowledge
of women was concerned, would it
most assuredly.

He remained with her for a while,
stilling as best he could the raging of
his own feelings, which seemed to increase
in turbulence by comparison with
the almost deathlike composure of her state.

As he went out he questioned Marie,
and learnt all the truth from her.

Amuse your mistress  make her talk.
She will be better in a day or two ; this
phase will pass  of course it will pass : it
cannot last long.'

And he went away, trying to convince
himself against his own conviction that
Nelly, as every other woman under
similar circumstances had done before her,
would soon revive, and laugh at herself
for being such a fool as to care seriously
for a man who could part from her under
any pretext whatever.

Not altogether satisfied with his own

decision, Doctor Goujon might be seen
wandering about the road in front of the
Chalet Victor, till the peasants going to
their work in the morning looked at him
in wonder.

As soon as he dared, he presented
himself once more at Mrs Jocelyn's house.
She would see him as soon as she was
down, Marie said ; and again that day,
and during several days, Nelly received
him en peignoir lying on the chaise longue.
Having once admitted him, she did not
seem to care whether he came or went ;
she spoke but little when he was there,
and scarcely at all when he was absent.
Only for life to ebb slowly away she
craved, since there was nothing hemming
her in on all sides save despair.

So a week passed, Doctor Goujon's
state of feverish excitement being little
less dangerous than Nelly's coma, yet
she did not heed it, or know that he was
excited ; her one absorbing thought was
of Paul,  Paul, who was leaving her to
die alone and uncared for. It mattered
little what another man did or felt.

And so, when after a while Marie told
her that the doctor had gone away on
one of his walking expeditions among
the mountains, she scarcely heeded her,
and Marie went on, 

'II a la tete si Garde. I am afraid
some terrible accident will befall him.'

But Mrs Jocelyn only answered, 

Oh, he will come back as he has
come back before. He has an excitable
brain, which open air and solitude will
calm and strengthen. Have no fear,
Marie, our little old friend knows how
to take care of himself.'

IN THE MOONS RAYS.

WEEK was dawdling into a
fortnight, and Doctor Goujon
had not returned!

Even Mrs Jocelyn had sufficiently
roused herself out of her lethargic
condition to become anxious.

The little doctor had never been
away for so long before, and she was
beginning to agree with Marie that
some terrible calamity must have befallen
him.

Marie's fiancd, who knew the country
well for miles round the Chalet des
Oiseaux, was called into counsel, and

undertook to set inquiries afoot which
it was hoped would result in some tidings
of the absentee ; but it was all absolutely
useless  no one had seen or heard of
him. The general opinion was that he
had gone to Inspire, some ten miles
distant, and there he had taken the
train, though for what place he had procured
a ticket no official could say.

All inquiry then proving useless, Mrs
Jocelyn could do nothing but wait patiently
till some tidings should arrive.

But patience was a commodity with
which she was not very richly endowed.
If Doctor Goujon's absence had had no
other effect, it had roused her from her
torpor, and she was now as restless as
she had before been lethargic

In fact, so much red-hot interest did
she manifest, that Marie felt very certain
if the doctor were only to return safe
and sound that madame would be so
delighted to see him that she would reward
him for coming back by giving him
her hand to retain as his lawful possession
for ever.

But the doctor had evidently no intention
of putting in a speedy appearance ;
he was, perchance, seeking to starve out
the citadel that he had been for so long
endeavouring to take.

So the days passed, and suspense was
becoming almost intolerable to Nelly
Jocelyn  it was wearing her to a very
shadow, though on her cheeks burnt two
ominous red spots, which if the little
doctor had seen would have made him
look very grave indeed.

The shades of evening were already
beginning to close over the earth ere
the day's work was fully done. Marie
was busily engaged superintending some
arrangements in the kitchen, and had not
yet brought in a lamp, and Mrs Jocelyn,
her heart full of sad thoughts, was lying
back on her sofa bewailing the hard fate
that bereft her one after another of all
her friends.

From where she lay she could clearly
see the Chalet des Oiseaux, as it seemed
to frown on her in cold silence from the
opposite height.

She started up.

Surely all was not so still there as it
had been of late. The persiennes had
been opened ; there was some one moving
within.'

Then she lay back once more, overcome
by despair.

Nothing  no one ; only Jean settling
in for the night the tribe of animals  dumb,
like himself.'

There was an early moon on this fair
October night, and already it was rising
in beauty over the chalet, bathing the
surrounding landscape in a flood of light ;
even where Mrs Jocelyn sat by the window,
it fell full on her face, and seemed
to bring with it a sensation of peace
and calm which Nelly's troubled spirit
had been very far from feeling of late.
Wondering, as she lay there, why the
sight of the moon should make her
feel happier, she heard the click of he
latch that fastened the little gate of
the garden that lay in front of her
dwelling.

Who was it ? Some one coming in

at the gate  a man  Doctor Goujon, of
course ; she always knew he would come
back when he was tired of wandering.
Too bad of him to have given her such
a fright. She would not go out to meet
him ; the door was open, he could come
in without her assistance.'

So, her heart beating very fast, much
faster than it had been ever known to
beat at Doctor Goujon's approach, she
sat there waiting till he should come
into the room. He opened the house
door ; then there was a short pause, though
the passage was not a long one.

What can he be waiting for ? Speaking
to Marie, no doubt : Marie is always
in the way. No, here he comes ; but
his step seems to have grown heavier
and more decided.'

The drawing-room door is opened ; the
moon's rays have not penetrated to the
farther end of the room, so Nelly feels
rather than sees his arrival.

Nelly, will you forgive me ?'

With a wild cry of surprise, she bounds
from her chair.

Paul ! '

He advances towards her, and, clasped
in his strong arms, they stand together in
the moon's rays. The existence of Doctor
Goujon is as totally forgotten now as if
he had never had one ; yet five minutes
Mrs Jocelyn was hoping and longing for
his return. Forgotten, absolutely forgotten
 passed out of her life for ever.
Yes, he knew it well,  had known it many
weeks ere his departure, when he watched
Nelly wasting away to a very shadow, 
knew it full well now, as from the road in
which he was standing he could see Nelly
in Paul's arms, with such a radiant,
gloriously happy look on her face, as it
was upturned to gaze in Paul's eyes,
that it seemed scarcely possible to believe
that earth could produce such
happiness.

Still the question has not been answered,


Can you forgive me ? '

Not answered, that is, in words ; nevertheless,
Paul scarcely felt that it was necessary
to repeat it.

Some explanation was, however, necessary
as soon as the first flush of joy
over their re meeting had expended
itself.

It was Nelly herself who sought it.

How is it that you have come at last,
Paul, now, after this long delay ? '

Because, thanks to a good friend,
Nelly, I have learnt what a life of suffering
you have endured, and what a monster I
have been to doubt you.'

Who is this friend, Paul ? '

Doctor Goujon.'

Ah yes, he alone knew all the
truth.'

And yet, for the moment, while she was
wondering who the friend might be, Nelly
never thought of the little doctor. She
seemed in some extraordinary way to
be blinded in all that regarded him,
and never to have been able to see
down into the depths of his affection for
herself.

He came and sought me out at Fontainebleau,'
Paul went on, ' and told me
how bravely you had fought for your

position, how heroically you had nursed
and sheltered your husband on his dying
bed. My poor Nelly, you  '

Hush, Paul, the whole sad past is not
to my credit, whatever Doctor Goujon in
his kindness may say. I acted a living lie
for years ; and, however strong the pressure
that had induced me to undertake it,
I alone must bear the blame of a gross and
unworthy deception.'

Yet I have come to ask for forgiveness
for having blamed you.'

She put her hand in his.

If you can forgive, I will follow your
good example.'

He sealed the compact with a kiss, and
both tacitly resolved that the book of the
past should be closed for ever. In the
book of the future, which they opened
together that evening, it was inscribed
that their lives should lie apart no longer ;
that as soon as a decent term of mourning
for Marian was over, Nelly should become
Paul Cazalet's wife, and take the charge of
little Lina into her own keeping.

Ah ! the happy days that were in store

VOL. III. R

for them in the dear old atdlier in the Rue
Mignon ; for though they might be compelled
to live elsewhere, the quarters there
being too small for them, yet the tier
should never be given up, Nelly declared.

All this and much more they talked
over standing together in the moon's rays.
For an hour at least they lingered there,
no thoughts for any one but themselves
coming to intrude on their mutual happiness.
Little did they guess that Doctor
Goujon never left the gate nor took
his eyes off the pair he had been
instrumental in bringing once more together.


Nelly Jocelyn would never know the
limitless love the little doctor had conceived
for her  a love even so great that
he had sacrificed himself for the sake of
her happiness ; and as he stood there
watching the work he had brought about,
he scarcely knew whether the feeling
awakened in his heart at the sight was
one of intense pleasure or pain.

The most thrilling hours are, however,
not eternal. Marie brought in the lamp,

an evening meal had been prepared for
the newly-arrived guest, and sentimental
must give place to material enjoyment.

Then followed the cry, 

Where is Doctor Goujon ? Bid him
come and sup.'

But Doctor Goujon could not be found;
he had strolled away from the gate when
Marie closed l\\ persiennes.

If they could sup and sip their frothy
Pompey, it was well ; but, as for him,
he had not yet reached that condition of
tranquil complacency.

But Nelly was resolved that Doctor
Goujon should be sought, and she laid
the office of scout on every available person.
Escape  since he had not strolled
many yards  was impossible. It was
Paul himself who found him ; he could
not refuse to go with Paul and drink old
age to the happiness he had so zealously
promoted.

He was dragged then somewhat unceremoniously
into the Chalet Victor,
where Nelly received him with extended
hands.

My best, my truest, my only friend ! '
she cried.

He need have no fear now that Nelly
would die of a wasting sickness : the true
cure had been found, and the remedy was
alike rapid and infallible.

A few happy days to be passed in
Auvergne, where Paul was Doctor Goujon's
guest, and then Nelly returned to
Paris for the winter.

Early in the year, when

Consenting Spring
Sheds her own rosy garland on their heads

the marriage took place, and the Madeleine
was thronged with Nelly's numerous
Parisian friends, among whom Madame
de Brissac and Madame d'Albin were
foremost.

Doctor Goujon was best man : about
that Paul Cazalet was positive  he would
take no denial ; nor was the little doctor
very energetic in his refusal. It flattered
his vanity that he should be of consequence
; and though he could not have
Nelly for his very own, it pleased him

that he should play an Important place
in the great ceremony. Nor did he intend
that they should enjoy themselves
in the capital while he was left dwelling
among the Auvergne snows. He would
be up there very frequently to see how
they were getting on, he told them ; the
happy family in the Chalet des Oiseaux
could very well be confided every now
and again to the care of Jean.

Of course, Mr and Mrs Wisden came
over early in the winter and stayed for
the wedding. Nelly's mother would have
accompanied them if she had not been
too great an invalid, therefore it was
decided that jM. and Madame Cazalet
should pass their honeymoon in England
and visit her.

Never till Nelly saw John Wisden did
she remember aught about the diamonds ;
later events had driven the recollection
of them entirely out of her head, especially
as she had had no annoyance on
the subject.

Seeing John Wisden alone one day
about a month before her marriage, she

asked him what had been done. He
referred her to Doctor Goujon. But
from Doctor Goujon no reply was to be
obtained, except that it was all right. So
Nelly was forced to be satisfied.

Not till her wedding-day was her curiosity
gratified ; then a casket of some
value was presented to her as a bridal
gift from Doctor Goujon, and on opening
it, she perceived the diamonds.

In order to save Nelly from annoyance,
and her good name from being roughly
handled, he had paid a high price and
possessed himself of the jewels.

But the Vicomte de Gourlay ! What
of him?' Nelly asked, as she contemplated
them.

It was John Wisden who answered her.

He will not cross your path. Utterly
ruined, he has accepted a stipend from
his family, to be paid monthly, on condition
that he never shows his face in
France again.'

It was the first time De Gourlay's name
had passed Nelly's lips since her engagement
to Paul. It was also the last.

Never, they both resolve, during the
long years of wedded happiness that await
them, will they refer to the past, heavily
freighted as it has been with misery to
both.

