CHAPTER I.

Kindness in vomen, not their beauteous looks, shall win my love.

Shakespeare.

LOW, oak-panelled apartment,
which may be described either
as a long room or a short
gallery. It is narrow for its length, and
one side of it is taken up by tall Gothic
windows, set in deep embrasures, furnished
by window-seats. Dark wooden
rafters intersect one another across the

VOL. I. B

roof, forming square frames to the carved,
and once gilt, crests and monograms which
ornament it.

Whatever the apartment may formerly
have been, it is evidently a class-room
now ; for on the wall facing the windows,
the panels, which bear marks of having
once been graced by portraits, are fitted
up with the most modern and commonest
of book-shelves ; while along and across
the room, at right angles to one another,
uncompromising deal tables are set, reminding
one of pens in a cattle-market.
The floor is of polished oak, and rugs
and pieces of carpet are spread beneath
each table.

It is now about five o'clock p.m., and
a cold winter's evening, so the heavy stuffs

curtains are drawn close, giving an air
of comfort to the room, especially as beneath
the high and magnificently carved
chimney-piece, which figures at the further
end of it, a blazing fire is burning, beside
which two ladies sit, with a tea-table
cosily drawn between them. These ladies
are evidently sisters, for they are dressed
exactly alike  in black. They wear their
own silky grey hair, parted down the
middle, and drawn smoothly back, beneath
pretty white caps  real caps, not plates
trimmed with lace, but old-fashioned, full-bordered
caps, tied beneath the firm round
chins. The expression of the ladies' faces
is benevolent and motherly, but the
younger one seems the shrewder of the
two.

B 2

The sisters are drinking tea and eating
muffins  a pleasant enough occupation,
and calculated, one would have thought,
to chase away for a while, anxiety and
annoyance ! But, alas ! it is not so tonight
! The Misses Woodcock's tea has
not to-night been brewed with the waters
of comfort ! In fact, the two old ladies
are ' put out ' ; and not without reason.
So let us draw near, and hear the cause
of their evident uneasiness.

Is Lady Balbirnie coming to-night T
asks Miss Barbara, the younger of the
two.

No,' answers Miss Woodcock ; ' she
writes that she is starting suddenly for
the Continent, in consequence of Lord
Balbirnie's ill-health.'

And what does she say about Deronda?'
Miss Barbara anxiously asks.

She expresses herself more than satisfied
that I have done my best for her
daughter, and adds ' (rather touchingly)
 that ' all she can now hope for is  our
silence !" I am very sorry for her ! But
it was my duty to write and tell her all ;
indeed, I do not see how I could have
acted differently.'

But, Janettata, do tell me about it !
You see, being away all the time, and
only returning yesterday night, I know
nothing but the bare outline of the story.
Tou ought to have told me your trouble,
and I would have returned at once.'

Dear Barbara, I could not bear to
curtail your short holiday, but it will bea

great relief to tell you about it now ; so
listen, while I relate the circumstances as
shortly as I can.

'About a fortnight ago (on the third
of the month), the money for the household
expenses, as you know, became due ;
so in the evening, after dinner, I retired
to my sitting-room, and wrote the
usual cheque. I had, however, hardly
signed my name, before I was suddenly
called away by one of the girls, who
told me that the little maid Sarah had
fallen downstairs, injuring herself seriously.
I hurriedly locked up my cheque-book,
put the newly-written cheque into
an envelope, placed it between the leaves
of the blotting-book, and left the room.
I must have remained absent for about an

hour (helping to undress Sarah, putting
her to bed, fcc), and when I returned,
after writing to the doctor, desiring his
attendance, I for the first time remembered
the cheque ! I looked for it in the
writing-book  not there ! I opened every
box and drawer ; I emptied the wastepaper
basket  no use ! the cheque was
nowhere to be found. I was much disturbed,
and not the least unpleasant part
of it was that, not having made up my
mind as to whom (in your absence), I had
better entrust the casino; of so arose a
cheque, I had made it out " to Self or
Bearer," so that any unprincipled person
could obtain the money.'

Poor Janettata !'

While I was still sitting disconsolately

at my writing-table, Dorinda suddenly
appeared (you know the way lie has of
doing so, no one knows how or whence),
and she asked me kindly '* why I looked
so flurried  was Sarah very ill ?" I told
her at once of my loss, and she seemed
really sorry, offering to aid me in the
search, &c. She also volunteered the
statement that soon after I had been
called to Sarah, she (Dorinda) had come
into my sitting-room to fetch a book, and
found Mary the housemaid there, making
up the fire and tidying the room ; that as
Mary was passing the writing-table, her
gown accidentally brushed the blotting-book
and its contents on to the floor,
scattering all the papers in it, some of
which fluttered into the waste-paper

basket. Mary picked up and replaced
the blotting-book, but threw some of the
papers into the fire. Dorinda said she
advised her at the time to destroy nothing,
but as the girl answered rather
pertly that " she knew her own business,"
she did not like to say any more.

On hearing Dorinda's account I sent
for Mary, and questioned her. She contradicted
part of Dorinda's statement,
declaring that that young lady was already
in the sitting-room when she entered it.
It was true," she said, ' that the writing-book
was thrown down, but not by her,"
for, as she opened the door to enter the
room, Dorinda was standing at the writing-table,
and she either dropped the book or
knocked it over, she was not sure which.

Mary confessed to having burnt a few
pieces of paper, and amongst others a pink
envelope, which was, she declared, already
in the waste-paper basket, so torn and
crushed as to be unable.

After hearing Mary's account, I felt
sure the cheque had been destroyed ; for
I remembered, as she was speaking, that
the envelope in which I had placed it was
pink, and the only one I possessed of that
colour.

I had not time to unravel the discrepancies
between the two girls' statements,
for a few minutes afterwards I was
again called to Sarah's bed-side, she being
in a high fever and delirious ; and for ten
days the poor girl lay betwixt life and
death ; and what with sending for her

relations, and nursing her night and day,
the cheque went completely from my
memory, more especially as I felt convinced
it had been burnt in the pink
envelope, so I foolishly neglected to warn
Mr. Lucas at the bank of my loss, as I
should have done.

But now comes the painful part of my
story. One day last week Mr. Lucas
called, begging to see me privately, and,
to my surprise, bringing his head-clerk,
Mr. Hay, with him. Upon seeing me, Mr.
Lucas produced a paper from his pocket,
and spreading it before me, asked '* whether
I recognised it." Barbara! It was the
cheque ! The old gentleman then proceeded
to cover it with his hand, requesting
me to mention its date. I answered

Deronda.

without hesitation that 'rit was the third
instant, for it was the same date as Sarah's
accident." Upon this Mr. Lucas turned
to Mr. Hay, and desired him to relate his
own story, which was as follows :

Justice ! Find the girl !

Shakespeare.

X the thirteenth instant, a
young woman in deep mourning,
and with a crape veil
over her face, came into the bank, and,
handing Mr. Hay a cheque, stated in
broken English that she was a friend of
Miss Woodcock's, and had come, at her
desire (in consequence of Miss Barbara's
absence), to get it cashed. Mr. Hay recognized

my signature, but fancied the
date had been tampered with ; so, with
much presence of mind, he begged the
lady to sit down while he " fetched the
money," but in reality while he took the
cheque in to the manager to be inspected.
Mr. Lucas' opinion so entirely coincided
with Mr. Hay's (it being evident to them
both that the date had been altered from
the third to the thirteenth) that he expressed
a wish for an interview With the
mourning lady before entrusting her with
the money. Mr. Hay accordingly went
to summon her into his chief's presence,
but to his surprise the bird had flown, and
on questioning one of the junior clerks, he
said that the lady had waited patiently for
some minutes after presenting the cheque,

but that then she became apparently uneasy,
and, coming forward, begged that
the money might be brought at once, as
she was in a hurry. She was told that
for some reason the cheque had been
taken in to be inspected by the manager,
at-which she looked annoyed, became
rather agitated, but, recovering herself,
said she had " to go to a shop a few doors
off, and would return for the money ;" but
she never did so !'

'Then she never obtained the money
after all, Janet ta ?'

No ! She evidently got alarmed  and
decamped ! I asked Mr. Hay whether he
could identify the foreign lady, and he
said he thought he could, for she took off
her glove to open her sorte-monnaie, and

he noticed a curious mole upon her irish  in
the shajye of a star P

*Good heavens, Janettata ! That wretched
Dorinda ! how dreadful !'

'Well! but listen to the sequel. As
Mr. Hay was speaking, some of the young
ladies crossed the lawn, and he started,
and, pointing to Dorinda, said, " That
young lady walks so like the foreign lady
a sort of queenly walk  that I could
almost swear it was she !" Upon hearing
these words, Mr. Lucas looked hard at me,
and, seeing my agitation, said, drily, to
his clerk : " Ah ! fortunately ' almost ' does
not count ; but now that you have told
your story so well, Mr. Hay, pray don't
spoil it by such Ridiculous suggestions ;
and" (added the old man) "I daresay Miss

Woodcock will detain you no longer, for
she and I can consult over what steps (if
any) should be taken to discover the
delinquent."

 The young man, who seemed an innocent,
shy individual, accepted the hint and
bowed himself out ; and, as soon as Mr.
Lucas and I were alone, I thanked him
warmly for his reticence before his clerk,
and implored him to advise me what to do
how to screen the wretched girl ! I
confided to him how I had taken her into
my school without any recommendations,
except her mother's, and that she had
often proved herself false  untrustworthy ;
but that she should be capable of anything
criminal was a fearful revelation.
Curiously enough, Barbara, it never
VOL. I. c

seemed to enter my mind or Mr. Lucas's
to doubt her guilt. I was much overcome
while pleading for Mr. Lucas' advice and
leniency, and so was he, poor old man !
thinking, no doubt, of his own daughter,
who is just Dorinda's age,  and he comforted
me by saying that as Dorinda had
not obtained the money, and that the
story was only known to himself and his
clerk, he thought it could be hushed up ;
but he insisted upon seeing Dorinda in
my presence, to put forcibly before her
the risk she had run. So I sent for her,
and, in order to give her a salutary shock,
directly she appeared, I introduced her
to 'the manager of the bank, come to
see Miss Stratton upon some unpleasant
business." '

'And how did she look, Janettata?'

I thought she changed colour momentarily,
but she bowed to ]mr. Lucas with
great dignity, putting on an air of haughty
surprise.

1 was too distressed to speak, but Mr.
Lucas began, by asking her " how old
she was?"

She calmly begged to know '* what
right he had to ask?"

He answered kindly that she " seemed
so very young for the accusation he was
about to bring forward ; and having a dear
daughter of his own  about the same
age "

Dorinda stopped him, by saying that
'' she could not see, because he had a
dear young daughter of his own that

c 2

had got into some scrape, why he should
think that all young girls of his dear young
daughter's age should do the same !"

Mr. Lucas hereupon turned very red,
and answered, with some heat, "that he
had never said his daughter had got into
a scrape, but that he had only compared
her with Miss Stratton as to age  not as
to scrapes !" Then seeing, I suppose, that
he had no milk-and-water young lady
to deal with, he deemed it prudent to
drop argument and recrimination, and
proceeded to place before Dorinda the
facts concerning the cheque, and dwelt
strongly on the circumstantial evidence
against her.'

Well, and what did she say T

She boldly denied everything, treating

the accusation with bitter irony and contempt,
and even hinted that some member
of the school had endeavoured to personate
her at the bank ! Seeing, however,
that her denial failed to convince Mr.
Lucas, she became excited, and rather
theatrically raised her hand to register
an oath of innocence. As she did so, the
fatal blemish upon her wrist became so
visible,  thus dumbly but incontrovertibly
giving the lie to her solemn asseverations,
 that the world-wise old banker was
again seized by a mighty fatherly pity
for the reckless girl,  so young,  so imperfect
as yet in the lesson of deceit, and
'so eager to be undone"! So, placing
his hand upon her shoulder, he said
sternly, but with much emotion,  at the

same time touching the tell-tale mark
upon her wrist  " Girl ! for the love of
God, flee the path you have entered upon !
There is yet time. Remember the merciful
words of Him who said to an erring
woman, ' Go, and sin no more.' "

'As he said these words, I fancied they
struck some hidden chord in the depths
of Dorinda's being ; for she turned scarlet,
then deadly white, and silently covered
her face with her hands ; and Mr. Lucas,
seeing her humbled attitude, and hoping
that, in her softened mood, she might
be induced to confess, when alone with
me, left the room.

I waited for a few minutes before disturbing
her ; but, as she remained motionless,
I approached her, and speaking very

gently, urged her affectionately to make
a friend of me,  to confess her fault, adding
that, if she had been tempted by
any money difficulties or petty debts, I
would try to relieve her.

She seemed still weeping, I thought 
keeping her face covered by her hands ;
and when I would have put mine kindly
upon her bowed head, she suddenly shook
it off, with the gesture of a savage lioness,
the violence of the movement scattering
her thick, brown-gold hair all over her
shoulders, and sending the comb flying at
my feet !'

Lor, sister !'

 And, With the most ferocious expression
in her eyes, she rose  came close
up to me, and, snapping her fingers within

an inch of my nose, exclaimed, "That!"
(snap !) " for the manager and his * circumstantial
evidence!' That!" (snap again!)
for his dear, young, scrape daughter !
and that !" (snap ! snap !) " for the beastly
cheque ! Oh ! it is considerate of you.
Miss Janettata !" she said, ironically, " to
say you will hush everything up for my
sake! Hush what up? I should like to
know ! What have you proved against
me? What about your pretty, larky
little maids and their latch-keys? and"

(mysteriously) 'about the other stories?

By all means hush them up !  But, mind,

it will be for yours and the school's sake,

not for mine ! not for mine !" '

'How insolent! But did not you ask

her what she meant ?'

No  I really did not dare, she looked
so savage. Then she reminded me that
during the last week my gold thimble
had disappeared. I interrupted her by
saying "it was found ;" she asked "where
and by whom ?" I answered, " In your
work-bag, Dorinda, by Mary ; it fell out
while she was dusting it."

Barbara, she actually laughed and said,
'* Of course Mary found it, as she had put
it there." Then, with an accent of great
contempt, she asked, '' Was 1 not shrewd
enough to see that there was a party in
the house bent upon injuring her?  for
did I think (had she stolen anything) she
would have been fool enough to put it
into an open bag ? Xo, no," she pursued,
laughing, " the stories of the thimble and

the cheque were trumped up to injure
her." She assured me all in the house
were jealous of her. "Not you, Miss
Janettata," she was pleased to say, "for
you and your sisters are past being jealous
of anything young ; but I mean the
girls, and probably, amongst them, the
scrape Lucas girl." She added she had
long known there was a thief in the house,
and if they flattered themselves she was
going to be their scapegoat without a
struggle,  well, they were mistaken.

She spoke so volubly that I could do
naught but stand and listen ; but, as soon
as I could get a word in edgeways, I
warned her of the danger of accusing
servants (as she had done by suggesting
that Mary had taken the thimble and put

it in her bag) ; for, as their bread depended
upon their characters, they would not
stand suspicions being cast upon them.'

Did you tell her you had communicated
with her mother, Janet ta ?'

Yes, I told her yesterday that her
mother knew the whole story of the
cheque, that I had hidden nothing, and
that " from Lady Balbirnie's answer she did
not seem to insist on her daughter's innocence."
But this had not the least effect
upon Dorinda ; she only sneered and said,
So like Lady Balbirnie ! so like one's
affectionate family !" Oh ! Barbara, I am
so glad she goes away to the Abbey
tomorrow !'

Yes  what a good thing, and what a
mercy that it is the end of the term, so

there will be no necessity for the exposure
of sending her away !'

Oh !' answered poor Janettata, * I should
never have dared do that, anyhow ; for
she has such a clever, such a wicked
tongue ! and she is always hinting she
could injure us somehow.'

'Ah!' said Barbara, nodding her head
sagely, ' I always said we were foolish to
receive Dorinda without first finding out
why she left Miss Smith in such a hurry.
I am sure it was for something bad ; and
it was sheer nonsense to believe what
Lady Balbirnie said about Miss Smith
disliking to have a Roman Catholic  for
Dorinda's religion would come in nobody's
way. As the arithmetic-master said,
"You might put Miss Stratton's religion

in your eye, and see none the worse for
it"'

Maybe, sister,' answered Janettata, rubbing
her nose, irritably, ' but it is no good
going back to all that.'

 And,' persisted Barbara, ' she certainly
bribed that Jane to let her go out of an
evening when we thought she was safe in
bed!'

*Well, well,' said Janettata, half-crying,
we did our best ! We made Jane emigrate
(paying her passage), and now
Dorinda is leaving us ; so we can't do
more. Besides, Dorinda's threats and innuendoes
can't have to do with that story,
for it would tell against herself!'

One never knows,* returned Barbara,
moodily. ' She lies so impudently,  turns

the tables so cleverly upon any who assail
her; and she has any amount of moral
courage.'

Im  moral, you mean !' returned Janet
; ' anyhow, she will require all her
spirit to-night, I am thinking, and she will
have plenty of mortifications to encounter;
for, though the girls know nothing of the
cheque story, they know all about the
thimble, and they actually sent me word
that if Dorinda was permitted to act in
the tableaux they would not perform.
I had to tell her so, and I offered to
manage her departure for the Abbey
before the party  if she preferred it ; but
she flushed up angrily, and said, "She
would not sneak out of the house  as if
she were really a thief !'

Just like her ! How did she get to
know the De Brokess, Janettata ?*

She asked me, some time ago, to get
leave for her to play the organ in the
Abbey Church, and one day Sir Jasper 
who is blind, and passionately fond of
music,  was passing, and heard her practising
; so he entered the church, accompanied
by his sister, and was charmed at
her talent (she does play beautifully), and
when she ceased playing, he introduced
himself. He came several times after that
to the church, and finally asked her to the
Abbey, saying he had known her parents
years ago.'

 Well, I am delighted she is going.
Have you ordered her conveyance for tomorrow
morning ?'

No, I offered to do so, but she answered
coldly that she " had made her own arrangements,
and that I need not trouble myself
about it at all, as Lady Balbirnie had
settled everything with Sir Jasper and his
sister, Miss Henrietta Maria de Broke"'

So much the better. Does the Duchess
of Cheviotdale come to-night ?'

'No, but Lady Margaret Saville does,
(with her old governess), and after the
holidays she will come to us for a term or
two

At this moment a maid-servant tripped
into the room, saying the men had come
to clear the gallery for dancing ; so the
old ladies hurried off to dress.

A gray House, sitting by the sea ;
Grayer  older  than you or me !'

Before continuing our story,
we must look a little into the
interior of the Misses '\(\"ood-
cock's home and history.

The family consisted of three sisters,
Janettata, Barbara, and Lucinda. The two
first-mentioned ladies' aoes ranged from
between forty-five to fifty, while Lucinda
was much younger, being about thirty-five.


VOL. I. 1>

Some years ago, the eldest Miss Woodcock,
chancing to be on a visit to a friend
in the neighbourhood, was so charmed by
By-these and its surroundings, that she
purchased the pleasant residence called
Nun's Court,' and soon afterwards, with
the aid of her sisters, opened an establishment
for young ladies of good family.

Nun's Court was an ancient, manageable,
gray stone building, forming three
sides of a square, built round a courtyard,
(which had been turfed, and turned into
a croquet-ground), and situated on the
outskirts of the before-mentioned primitive
and picturesque little sea-side town of
By-these. The house stood facing, but
some hundred yards removed from, the
Glitterseaea Road, and attached to it, at the

back, was an old-fashioned garden (which
was square, and surrounded by a high
wall) and two or three fields.

Nun's Court had at one time been inhabited
by much grander folk than its
present owners, and the building always
reminded one of some solitary scion of an
aristocratic but broken-down family, whose
riches and glamour have long since passed
away, but whose dignity remains.

At one time the small town of By-these
boasted of but one street, in which all
its shops were located ; but ei revanche
it possessed an unique inn and posting-house
called the ' Blue Pig,' of which it
was justly proud, for it had been honoured
by several visits from the Archaeological
Society.

d2

Several new buildings, however, lead
sprung up since the Misses Woodcock's
advent, notably, a bank, a town hall, a
bathing establishment, and a hair-dresser's
shop, kept by a Frenchman of the name of
Lamenotte, an individual who spoke
English perfectly, was a naturalised
Englishman, and who not only cut and
curled the heads and shaved the faces of
the By-these inhabitants, but also managed
their postal arrangements. He was a
great favourite, being a chatty little man,
with insinuating manners, twinkling eyes,
and a jet-black beard and moustache. He
had a marvellous talent for never being
out of the way when wanted, and no one
knew how he managed it, for his time must
of necessity have been much spent between

By-these and Glitterseaea, as he kept another
and a far grander shop at the
latter-mentioned place than at By-these.


Glitterseaea was a vulgar, flashy, monied
sea-side town, a few miles distant, to
which By-these always gave one the impression
of being a fairer, and less worldly
sister.

By-these s principal street (aptly called
Hill Street) was built on a steep incline,
leading to a pretty, yellow-furze-fringed
common, beyond which rose the woods
belonging to Sir Jasper de Broke's residence.
Broke Abbey; while the ancient
ivy-crowned church, called the Abbey
Church (to which the aborigines repaired
on Sundays), was, with its picturesque

parsonage, situated at the extreme edge of
the common, and just outside the Broke
Abbey Park fence. But revenons a nos
Woodcocks.

The Misses Woodcock were thoroughly
kind-hearted, common-place women, with
not the faintest idea of the management of
young girls, especially should any difficult
characters present themselves. Their one
idea was to daub their pupils indiscriminately
and all over with a whitewash which
they designated  education,' the same
quality and quantity being used for each
young lady of whatever capacity.

The youngest sister, Lucinda, whose
tender nature bordered upon imbecility
(tempered at times, and at unexpected
moments, by the cunning of an idiot),

administered the first coating, consisting
of a judicious mixture of the Psalms and
Mangnall's Questions, moistened by tears.

Barbara (the second and most worldly-wise
of the sisters) gave the next, and it
consisted in an aggravated repetition of
the before-mentioned ingredients and treatment,
but with some additions, such as a
preparation on Tuesdays in English-French
by Miss Barbara for the French mistress,
whose French-English was impossible to
understand Ashen she came on the Thursday
; and other studies equally exhaustive
and exhausting.

Finally, Miss Janettata, taking for granted
that the work was all right underneath,
varnished the Avhole by imparting what
she called, ' The graces of aristocratic life,*

the pupil being taught to 'enter' and
 leave the apartment ' as unnaturally as
possible ; to express pleasingly sentiments
which were not felt, and to suppress those
that were ; to be presented to Her Gracious
Majesty in great dignity  and a tablecloth
; to paint roses and jessamine on
bazaar articles ' ; to crocJieter ' mats ;' and,
finally, to sit the rest of the day Men
ganiee, reading Thomson's ' Seasons.' All
very innocent and proper occupations, no
doubt, but liable at times to drive a high-spirited
girl to the verge of madness  or
mischief.

(Our readers will kindly bear in mind
that this story is of many years ago ; the
present ideas concerning girls' schools and
feminine occupations are no longer the

same ; they have become more decided,
in fact, more manly in their tone.)

To do the Misses Woodcock justice,
they conscientiously performed their duty
according; to their lists, and became

O ill

heartily attached to the girls under their
charge, who, on their side, seemed to
appreciate the affection of their simpleminded
instructresses, and generally, with
few exceptions, turned out well.

For the last fortnight previous to the
conversation recorded between Janettata
and Barbara in the class-room, the excitement
at Nun's Court had been great ;
for the Misses Woodcock had announced
their intention of breaking up their establishment,
and retiring into private life;
as they could now command a handsome,

well-earned competency. And they would
have carried out their intention, had not
their kindest and most useful patroness,
the Duchess of Cheviotdale, requested
them, as a personal favour, to continue
on their establishment for two more terms,
so that they might give the finishing
touch to her niece. Lady Margaret Saville,
a charming and beautiful girl, who was
motherless, and just budding into womanhood.


The three sisters agreed to this request,
feeling they owed their success almost
entirely to the duchess ; but, as many
of their pupils had decided to leave that
term, they thought it as good an opportunity
as any for a grand Farewell Entertainment,
and they desired the pupils to

decide amongst themselves what form it
should take, intimating that they wished
no expense spared to make it worthy the
occasion.

Two or three of the leading spirits of
the school thereupon proposed tableaux
to be followed by a ball and
supper, to all of which the complaisant
Woodcocks joyfully assented, giving liberal
orders that any necessary costumes, &c.,
should be provided from Glitterseaea, and
that Monsieur Auguste Lamenotte should
attend, to curl, powder, paint, and bewig
the fair performers, and generally superintend
the tableaux.

The long-looked-for day had come at
last, and the whole of Nun's Court was ina
pleasurable commotion. No room was

available for meals, or indeed for anything,
except the long class-room, which
could be cleared in a few minutes for
dancing. The coiffeur had arrived, laden
with boxes and parcels, and Miss Lucinda
had been selected to do propriety
in the ' green-room ' (as her sisters had
agreed she would be worse than useless in
making arrangements for the reception of
the guests) ; and a miserable time the poor
lady had of it in that mystic chamber, getting
into everybody's way, being snubbed
by the young ladies, and anathematized
by the coiffeur,  whose one object
was, of course, to get rid of her, and who,
discovering that all her knowledge of the
French language consisted in ready-made
phrases culled from the ' Petite Grammaire,'

amused himself by talking volubly to her
in that tongue (to the pupils' immense
delectation), and apostrophizing her as his
belle because, or his vieille because, as the
fancy took him, and according to the
amount of aggravation which he was experiencing
towards her at the moment.
At last the poor lady, suspecting that the
Frenchman's gestures of respect and admiration
were too exaggerated to be entirely
genuine, took refuge behind a curtain,
and would have been totally forgotten by
her cowardly tormenters, had not a
smothered exclamation of ' Lor !' (her
favourite ejaculation) every now and then
betrayed her presence.

CHAPTER IV.

Soft strains of music, wild and sweet, are floating through the

carved hall.
Which glitters with a thousand lights, while flowers deck the

wall ;
The dames in hoops and farthingales, with powder, patch, and

jewel bright.
Tread minuets with gallants  all in gold and velvet dight.'

HE company had now arrived,
and had been seated as consistently
with their rank as
could be managed, although there had
been some difficulties here to contend
with ; for the Smiths, Joneses, and Robinsons
would come early, and got the best

seats, and the Ladies Algeria and Belinda
would come late, and got the worst ones ;
but Miss Barbara's worldly tact, and Miss
Janettata's geniality, had smoothed the
ruffled feathers, and everyone now looked
contented,  and eager for the curtain to
rise.

Suddenly the green-room door was
cautiously opened, and Lucinda issued
thence, her usually placid (not to say
vacant) countenance indicative of disaster.
Curiosity and forebodings of ill at once
seized the audience, and the hubbub of
conversation  which had gradually become
deafening  ceased in a moment.

One stentorian voice alone  whose pedantic
owner was standing, with studied
cynicism, with his back to the prospective

amusements, being consequently unaware
of Lucinda's disquieting advent,
and totally unprepared for the sudden
lull  bawled out, with a condescending
complacency (born of a patronizing amiability,
prepared to condone everything) :

Years ! years ! very worthy women 
all three ! Good women of their sort 
very ! But their name's against them 
pore things ! Woodcock ! Ho ! ho ! years,
years !' (The individual's own name was
Boggs.)

Some acquaintance having mercifully
pinched the offender into silence, he turned
round, and at once, we are rejoiced
to say, felt that he had made a fool of
himself, and committed a gaucJierie.

Although Lucinda, as she entered, was

the observed of all observers  with the
gimlet eye ' (Dickens) of a multitude of
vdde-awake beings fixed anxiously upon
her, as it never had been before, and
probably never would be again  she took
it into her empty little head that it would
look girlishly innocent and piquante-\j
graceful, should she approach the assembled
company upon tip-toe, as though
the room were occupied by a sleeping
baby; while, with some mincing little
gestures, and her finger on her lip, she
beckoned to Janettata, and whispered to
that perturbed lady :

Lor, sister ! Monsieur Auguste says
some one must play an appropriate air
for each tableau on the pianoforte ! But
who is to play ? I can't ; and I know

VOL. I. B

neither you nor Barbara can. What is
to be done ? He positively refuses to
begin without music !'

Dorinda, who was sitting unnoticed ina
dark corner by the door, laughed at
hearing the hurried consultation that ensued
; for she and Monsieur Lamenotte
had pre-arranged the embarrassment.

I really don't know who to ask said
the perplexed Janettata, looking piteously
around.  Where is Barbara ?'

But Barbara was deep in supper mysteries,
and in all the despair of hot soup
which hould get cold, and of ices which
would get hot, and was not to be seen.
So, after enjoying her instructress's discomfiture
for a few minutes, Dorinda came
forward, and said, calmly.

I will play, if you like, Miss Janettata.'

You !' exclaimed Janettata.

Lor !' said Lucinda.

Miss Janettata was irresolute  annoyed ;
for the dilemma was great, and the need
immediate. Dorinda, she knew, was a
perfect musician ; but, on the other hand,
the feeling against her among the pupils
was so orreat that she feared the effect of
accepting the tempting offer.

'What shall I do?' reiterated poor
Janettata. ' Do you think,' whispering to
Lucinda, ' that the girls will act if Dorinda
plays T

Lor, sister,' said Lucinda, her cunning
rising to the occasion, ' they needn't know;
for, although the company can see who
plays, the performers can't.'

E 2

SSi*''-'

This decided Janettata.

Put the pianoforte close into the side,
round the corner, it runs easily on casters
so ; and now, Miss Stratton ' (turning to
that damsel), ' if you will be so kind.'

Dorinda would have given empires to
refuse, and, as she elegantly termed it,
leave old Janettata in a hole;' but for her
own reasons she could not do so ; therefore,
coldly bowing, she took her place at the
instrument and began to play.

She was glad thus to check the dreaded
remarks, and inevitable questionings which
she had foreseen must arise amongst the
guests, as to why she was the only useless
member of the community ; so she had
manoeuvred with Monsieur Auguste (who
was by no means a near acquaintance of

hers, and who since her residence at Nun's
Court, had had one or two private transactions
with the young lady, in the way of
aiding her correspondence, &c.) to avert
the danger. The Frenchman, who, of
course, was not possessed of the astute
damsel's complete confidence, was shrewd
enough to perceive there must be some
reason for ' mademoiselles ' excessive
eagerness to take part in the evening's
performance ; but he deemed it wise to
ask no questions, for, besides not being
displeased at placing so lovely a lady
under obligation to himself, he knew his
monde.'

All was now ready, and at a given
signal Dorinda struck up the National
Anthem, playing with such spirit that it

electrified the audience, bringing them to
their feet, and eliciting a hearty cheer for
the Gracious Lady of the realm ; then, after
a brilliant prelude, the curtain rose.

The story of the Sleeping Beauty was
illustrated in six tableaux and with each
scene Dorinda's thrillingly descriptive
music entranced her hearers. In the
first, the infant beauty lay in the cradle,
watched over by the queen, her mother ;
and here Dorinda improvised a lullaby of
excessive softness, which changed presently
into a weird and startling melody,
emphasizing the advent of the wicked
witch god-mother, who, by some sudden
effect of light, magically appeared, leaning
over the unconscious Baby.

We will not tire our readers by describing

each tableau ; suffice it to say, that a
lovely girl enacted the part of Beauty to
perfection, and when, in the last scene,
the young prince appears on his knee by
the couch of the waking princess, Dorinda
surpassed herself in the melting
strains of an amorous ditty.

At the conclusion the performers were
enthusiastically called forward, and then a
cheer was raised for the fair pianiste, upon
which Dorinda smilingly issued from her
obscure corner.

As she did so, the performers were full
of impotent rage at the trick of which
they considered themselves the victims,
and the Woodcock sisters had great trouble
to soothe their indignation, and only succeeded
by reminding them that necessity,

not choice, had forced her to accept Dorinda's
offer, also that the girl was leaving
the next day  for good.

The Misses Woodcock were amazed at
Dorinda's appearance when she came forward
to bow her acknowledgments to
the cheering guests, for hitherto they had
had neither the time nor the light (the
room had been darkened, and the light
concentrated on the stage) to remark it.
They had always been aware that Dorinda's
beauty was of no ordinary kind,
for pretty, very pretty, had she ever been
in her little well-fitting cotton school-frock,
set off by the spotless linen collar
and cuffs ; but they were not prepared for
the change and improvement wrought in
her by faultless dressing !

She was clad in some diaphanous material,
purely white, and made simply a la
Vierge, without ornaments, save one  a
curious, ancient, green enamel girdle, set
with precious stones of all colours. Xo
gloves covered her hands and arms, which
were beautiful in the extreme. She was
always rather pale, but she was especially
so to-night, which made her appear transcendently
fair. Her eyes were very
large, and of a peculiar, steely-blue grey,
while the lashes and eyebrows were
slightly darker than her gold-brown hair,
which was thick and very long, and
gathered up in a wavy mass at the nape
of the neck. She was rather above the
middle height, and full of grace and

dignity.

With wide-open eyes and gaping mouths
the three Woodcocks watched the lovely
vision, and, truth to tell, were offended at
the sight ! They had agreed among themselves
to be gracious to Dorinda,  to try,
just for that evening, to set her at her
ease,  to make her feel her disgrace less
in short, to condescend to her a little;
but when they saw her calmness, her air
of superiority, they were mortified, nonplussed.


It is not quite good taste to dress herself
out so !' exclaimed Janettata, anxious
to find fault, but scarcely knowing whereto
begin.

And yet,' answered Barbara, ' nothing
can be simpler, but  where did she get it
all from ?'

Lor !' said Lucinda.

These simple women knew nothing of
Dorinda's ways and means, nor of the element
of arrogance in her character ; and
they would probably have been even more
mystified and uneasy, had they known that
Monsieur Lamenotte had brought among; his
many cartons, one or two specially' addressed
to Dorinda in a male hand, and that they
did not originally come from Glitterseaea.
Years after, Dorinda was known to laugh
and say that ' poor Auguste had been
(even before the memorable tahleau-mt)
one of her most useful, most willing, and
most devoted of slaves.' Useful he had
often been, but unfortunately he became (as
she said) devoted also,  and consequently
dangerous ; for our heroine did not deign

to remember that even hairdressers are
flesh and blood, as other men; and she
also was unaware that the differences of
caste did not appear as hopelessly impassable
to a republican French mind, as they
then did  (alas ! that it should be less so
now!)  to the English aristocratic mind;
and it is doubtful whether Monsieur
Auguste Lamenotte would have felt quite
as humble, quite as devoted, had he seen
the ineffable scorn which curled Dorinda's
scarlet lip, as she accepted and bent over
the costly bouquet which the coiffeur of
Glitterseaea had ventured to present to her !
This sort of useful slaves may be content
for awhile to be now petted, now scorned,
to suit their employer's ends; but they
are apt to get sick, from hope deferred,

then mutinous,  then dangerous, and
to turn up, maybe, at awkward moments-for
their own.

Dorinda seemed thoroughly to enjoy
herself at the ball, but she did not care,
she said, for dancing. She ' liked watching
it,' with a companion ; so she sat out
many dances, but mingled in very few.

Well, I declare !' exclaimed Janet ta, in
the course of the evening, ' if Dorinda has
not got hold of Julian de Broke, Sir Jasper's
nephew!'

Ay, and his heir too,' put in the worldly
Barbara ; ' how did she get to know
him?'

I don't know,' returned Janettata ;  did
not you introduce him ? I left all that
part of it to you.'

I introduce him !' grumbled Barbara,
crossly. 'Why, he is a terrible mauvais
sujet r

I know  I know,' said Janettata ; ' but
I was obliged to ask him, to please Miss
de Broke; she asked me to invite him,
and, as I wrote his card, I felt like bringing
a wolf amongst lambs.'

'And he does look so beau-tiful  and
when he smiles  well ! oh, lor !' sighed
the gentle Lucinda, who, though past the
age of innocent-lambhood, was a very
silly old sheep, and as liable to be fascinated
by the wolf, as any frolicsome
lambkin.

Many were the whisperings and surmises
of the different mothers and chaperons
as they noticed the attentions paid

by the principal cavalier in the ball-room
to Dorinda Stratton,  attentions which
the fair damsel received with calm complacency,
as if they were her due ; thus
exasperating her school-companions so
severely, that it was with malicious satisfaction
they beheld the young man bid Miss
Woodcock farewell, very early in the evening,
and depart, without taking any further
notice of Dorinda.

After Mr. de Broke's departure, Dorinda
noticed that the ' young ladies ' treated
her \'ith even greater coolness than before,
for jealousy was now added to their
previous dislike ; and, although she held
her proud head high, apparently ignorant
of the undisguised contempt which was
evinced towards her, she felt it keenly, and.

if she could have compassed the destruction
of the whole school by a word, that
word would have been unhesitatingly pronounced
by her, even though she (Samson-like)
were involved in the ruin of her
tormenters ! As it was, she simply determined
to bring the evening (as far as
she personally was concerned) to as speedy
a close as she could, without incurring
the taunt  which she knew would be
ready  ' that, now Mr. de Broke was gone,
the attractions of the evening were over
for Dorinda Stratton !'

So she waited for the conclusion of one
or two dances, then boldly and unconcernedly
walked across the room (feeling
that all eyes were upon her, which did
not in the least discompose her, or mar

the queenliness of her gait), and linking
her arm unceremoniously into that of
poor Lucinda,  who was standing in everybody's
way in the door way, and who
was much too nervous and irresolute to
decide for herself whether the distinction
thus publicly forced upon her by so
'tabooed' a personage as Dorinda were
an honour or the reverse,  whisked her
off unresisting into the supper-room ;
and after plying the not unwilling spinster
with champagne and lobster salad, and
freely helping herself to the same, our
heroine left her victim upon the sofa ina
seemingly comatose state, and re-entered
the ball-room. Approaching Miss
Janettata, she bid her and her sister
good-night (making the excuse that, as

VOL. I. F

she must leave Nun's Court betimes next
morning, lie should retire early to rest),
and shaking hands cordially with them
both, (impossible to express the sisters'
relief at her departure !) she disappeared ;
but, as she left the room, Lady Margaret
Saville, who was sitting near the sisters,
overheard Janettata say :

There she goes !  as proud as a peacock
!'

Ay,' returned Barbara,  and as dishonest
as a magpie, without its innocence !
I should like to have a private view of
her nest. I fancy yours would not be the
only gold thimble there,  nor her own the
only money !'

Oh, hush, Barbara ! people might
hear.'



And Lady Margaret did hear, and, what
is more, never forgot what she heard ; but
we will now take the liberty of following
Miss Stratton on her way from the ballroom.


f2

CHAPTER V.

And she has hair of a golden hue 

Take care !
And what she says it is not true 

Beware, beware !

She is fooling thee !'

OING upstairs towards the
sleeping apartments, Dorinda
paused on the first landing, 
cast a furtive glance around,  then, pushing
aside a window-curtain, seized a soft
white shawl which lay concealed beneath
it, and, throwing it over her pretty

shoulders, opened a side sang-door, ran
lightly down a flight of stone steps, and
let herself out into the croquet-ground.
Skirting the opposite wing of the house,
she opened a gate leading into the flower-garden
; then, stopping for a moment to
take breath, swiftly crossed the grass,
and, guided by the light of a melancholy
lamp burning over the door, entered a
green-house, in which were displayed
some chairs and couches, (turned out of
the house for the ball),  some broken
flower-pots, and  a young man.

It was Julian de Broke who greeted
her. He was a tall, fine-looking, well-made
young fellow, with broad shoulders,
long shapely limbs, and a curiously firm
tread, which told of a determination (one

fancied) to crush any or all obstacles
which might cumber his way. He had
that peculiar-coloured hair which his enemies
called red, but which in reality was
a rich warm auburn, and the crisp curls,
tipped with gold, were shorn close to his
beautifully-formed head. His eyes were
changeful  now hazel, now green as any
viper's, and deep-set beneath stern, overhanging
brows, which, as well as his eyelashes
and the moustache upon his upper
lip, were many shades darker than his
hair. His expression, as he waited for
Dorinda (for, of course, the meeting was
not accidental) was lowering, downcast,
hard ; but the moment she appeared his
whole face lit up with the most fervent
admiration, and there was no lack of gentleness

now, as he drew her towards him
and tenderly kissed her hand.

How good of you to come, darling !' he
whispered, as, slipping his arm round her,
he stooped and jDi'ssed his lips to her
ivory shoulder, half-disclosed, half-hidden
by the shawl she had hastily thrown over
her, but which he eagerly unwound,
allowing it to fall unheeded to the
ground.

 And oh, how beautiful you are !' he
exclaimed, gazing at her; 'and I am so glad
the things arrived in time, and were what
you wished.  And oh, Dorinda,' gently
pulling her down to a sofa by his side, ' I
really could not talk calmly and coldly to
you this evening, as if  as if we were
strangers, so I came here and waited.'

Yes,' answered Dorinda, calmly disengaging
herself from her lover's encircling
arm, ' you were foolish, Julian, to run
such risks, dancing and talking to no one
but me,  that is, if you are anxious to
keep our engagement secret. But why 
why should it not be declared ?'

Not yet  not yet, dearest, it would not
do ; for I have been reckless  extravagant,
and I wish  first  to retrieve my character.
You see, my Uncle Jasper is noble
and good, and if I go away and try to do
something useful, and endeavour to pay
my debt to him, then he will be inclined
to help us,  you and me, Dorinda,  then
he will believe my wish to reform. I have
a plan, Dorinda, and I asked you to meet
me here to explain it to you, and then 

then  when I have told it to you, dearest,
I must  say good-bye ! for, oh ! my love,
my sweet one, I have done what I told
you I should,  and I oo tomorrow.'

Again he took her hand, and would
have drawn her towards him, expecting
her to experience a shock at the news of
his intended departure, (news which he
had so dreaded breaking to her !) but she
calmly though gently pushed him away,
saying,

To-morrow  did you say, Julian ? And
where are you going?'

Dorinda, Dorinda !' exclaimed the
young man, in a pained voice,  I have
told you so often, and yet you never
know. The fact is,' throwing her hand
roughly away, and hiding his eyes with

his own, 'you don't care  you don't
care!'

Oh, yes, I do,' answered Dorinda,
rather irritably, ' and I am sure I have
proved it often enough by meeting you at
great risks; but I am not good at geography,
and never could learn the difference
between Botany Bay, Port Philip,
Barbadoes, &c., &c.'

You have no heart !' said Julian,
angrily, * and you are breaking mine ! I
know I am a fool to live in a fool's paradise
as I do,  and I tell myself so fifty times a
day !  but,' (passionately), 'you are my life,
my soul, my all, and  but you are laughing
! By G  d, Dorinda, I will give you
up !'

Not so,' laughed Dorinda, ' that would

never do now.' Then, more kindly, she
added : 'I am not cold, Julian, or heartless,
but I am so fearful of being: discovered
here ! You men are so selfish ! This
meeting is fraught with no danger to you,
but it is to me ; so be quick and tell me
your plan, and what it is you wish me todo.
We really must be practical, you
know, and I am sure it would be better to
declare our engagement.'

Julian shook his head, and, endeavouring
to speak calmly, said :

'Now, listen, Dorinda. I have told you
a dozen times how recklessly extravagant
I have been ; well, I spent so much money
that I took to gambling, thinking to regain
what I had spent ; but I lost a large
sum instead, and, getting frightened, I

told my uncle (who was very fond of me),
and lie generously paid my debts, and
extracted a promise from me that I would
never gamble again ! I broke that promise,
Dorinda, and once more my uncle
paid my debt, but would not forgive my
breaking faith with him ; so he refused to
see me or even to let me write to him ; and
nothing I could do now would make him
trust me ; if, however, I go away and
work, he must believe in my wish to repair
the past. Now, what I want you todo
is this : when you go to Broke Abbey,
you must, by your sweet looks and gentle
words, soften my uncle's never very-hard
heart ; and when he loves you, which he
must do, then tell him of our engagement.
Tell him,' continued poor Julian, with

ever-increasing eagerness, 'how I love you,
and how I long to lead an honourable life

for your sweet sake, to be worthy of you
and, indeed, darling for you I would
work  slave  die ! Tell him my faults
are only those that he knows ; but that I
have never been guilty of the sin he most
loathes  faithlessness to a woman ; for I
have never loved anyone but you, and mil
be true to you till death,  if he will help
me to be so ! And, oh I my love,' cried
the young man, losing all control over
himself at the bitter thought of parting 
throwing himself at Dorinda's feet, and
burying his face in her lap, ' I do love you
so ! and you love me too  a little  do you
not?'

Appealingly he spoke ; then, casting his

arms impetuously around her and pressing
his cheek to hers, he whispered, passionately,


 You do love me ! You dare not say
you don't! You have proved it to me,
and I am not ungrateful.'

Well, of course I love you,' quietly
returned Dorinda, turning pale, and firmly
pushing her lover from her ; ' but you are
so excitable, Julian. Do calm yourself,
and I promise you I will do my best with
Sir Jasper.'

'Thank you  thank you, dearest, and
forgive my agony of love ; but I never
think you care for me as I do for you ;
and then I get jealous,  miserably jealous,
 and oh, my dear one, don't laugh
at me, but  you will see my brother at

the Abbey  a good, simple fellow, but
so handsome, and everybody thinks so
much of him, for he will be so rich,
and '

Rich !' repeated Dorinda. ' Why, you
never told me you had a brother !'

Did I not ? I suppose I was always
so occupied with you, and our meetings
always seemed so short ; but he is my
twin, and we are so alike, though he is
much better-looking than I, and  you
won't fall in love with him, will you, nor
let him ?'

Psha ! Julian !' answered Dorinda, impatiently,
' what nonsense ! You know I
care only for you ; but I can't quite see
why you dread Sir Jasper's anger so much ;
for he can't injure you permanently, as

the place is entailed, I suppose, and you 

being the heir '

The heir !' said Julian, laughing. ' Oh,
darling ! for your sake I wish I were ! Why,
my brother Julian is the heir, and I, your
poor lover, am only " Jock, the laird's
brother." But we are so alike that weare
always being mixed up. My poor
mother, when she gave birth to twin sons,
from a foolish whim, called the elder
"Julian Edward," and the younger, (my
humble self,) "Edward Julian," and to
make " confusion worse confounded," we
have both been called " Julian " at home,
"Julian the first and Julian the second";
but  ho ! ' exclaimed the young man, ' help !
She is fainting ! Good God ! what is the
matter ?'

Dorinda did indeed look ghastly.

Hush, you fool,' she said, angrily, ' that
is  I beg your pardon  a sudden faintness
 it will pass ! I thought I saw someone
peering at us through the glass. Oh,
Julian  Edward ' (' or whatever his horrid
name is,' she said sotte voce and grinding
her teeth), 'leave me, for the love of
heaven, or  I shall die !'

The ojirl burst into an ao;onv of tears,
and her lover looked at her in amazement,
for she violently dashed his arm away ashe
would have supported her,  then a
savage glitter, not good to see, shot from
his eyes, and, with a low whistle and a
smothered oath, he said :

'Oh! that's the secret is it? At last
I see ! You thought I was the heir, and

VOL. I. G

that some day, ere long, I should make
you mistress of Broke Abbey ; and you
have discovered your mistake ! Oh ! fool !
fool ! that I should have been so deceived !'
iHe deceived !' thought Dorinda. ' I like
that! What am //') 'But hearken,
young lady. I am not a man to be put
on, taken off, and cast aside  like a pair
of gloves ! 1 have loved you with every
desire of my soul  every fibre of my body
whatever your feelings for me may have
been ! For your sake I have relinquished
everything a young man holds dear ! My
quondam pleasures have become a weariness,
 my former pursuits, a pain,  because
unconnected with you ! For your
sake I am leaving my native land, working
my way out as a pauper,  determined

to earn a living  perhaps riches and
luxury  only to cast them into your
lap ; and that, because I believed in your
love, your disinterested love I But the
play is out ! The masks (worn innocently
by one at least of the actors  myself I)
are torn aside, and we now appear in
our natural characters ! But, Dorinda,
remember, that when I love  I love, and
when I hate  I hate ! And I will see
you dead at my feet rather than belonging
to another ; so beware !'

Dorinda quailed beneath J julian's gaze ;
then, mastering herself, she said, in apparent
indignation, and vith an assumption of
great dignity :

How unmanly to threaten a woman
so, Julian ! You know that, rich or poor,

g2

I love you only ! What made me feel
faint was, that I fancied (as I told you)
I saw some one looking in at us, and
it terrified me. Be sure, darling,' she
continued, placing her hand caressingly
on his shoulder, ' I will do my best with
Sir Jasper ; and if you will only go to
wherever it is  and make enough for
us to live on, all will be well. Only don't
get disheartened, and  don't come home
too soon ; and don't terrify me with such
wicked threats ! Oh, how cruel you are !'

In an ecstasy of repentant emotion, and
of shame at his violence, Julian once more
seized her hand, and said, in a broken
voice,

Do you really mean it, Dorinda? What
a brute I have been ! But I thought fora

moment you meant to throw me over,
because you found out I was poor ; and
God knows I have never tried to make
you think otherwise !'

He would have said more, but, seeing
her glance nervously around, he drew her
down on the couch and whispered, hurriedly,


I embark tomorrow night,  a sailing
vessel,  touches nowhere till we arrive,
which we may not do for months. I will
write by the pilot as he leaves us. Oh,
Dorinda ! you have it in your power to
plead my cause with Sir Jasper, and your
love and truth will make a good man of
me. Don't forsake me. For your sake I
go, and I may never return ; so, for the
last time, lay your head on my shoulder

SO. Now look me straight in the eyes
so. Now repeat these words after me
Julian, as God lives, I love you, and
Avill be true !" '

As God lives, Julian,' echoed the girl,
I love you, and will be true !'

'Then,' said the young man, solemnly,
and with deep feeling, ' may God deal with
us as we do by one another''

For one moment he buried his face in
her bosom ; then, pushing her from him,
he staggered to his feet, opened the glass
door, and passed out into the night.

After his departure Dorinda rose from
the couch and stood as though bewildered,
covering her eyes with her hands ; and
when, some minutes later, she removed
them, a devastating storm seemed to have

passed over her face, depriving it of all
womanliness, all softness. Her eyes were
hard and pitiless, her mouth compressed,
and she looked almost old.

'Ah! Edward  Julian,' she whispered,
with bitter emphasis on the name, ' I have
been the fool this time ! Who will be the
next, I wonder ? I rarely make blunders,
but I have made one this time, and no
mistake. Oh !' (with a bitter wail) ' what
have I not risked and lost ! What, ivhai
shall I do now !'

Slowly, and looking cautiously around,
she left the green-house, recrossed the gardens,
and entered the house; then, gliding
upstairs, undressed and went to bed, but not
to sleep ; for, hours later, she overheard the
girls laughing and talking as they mounted

the stairs (when the ball was over), and, long
after they and the whole house were wrapped
in silence, she alone remained awake,
tossing and turning, and muttering to
herself,

 What, ivliat shall I do now!'

CHAPTER VI.

/
She has two eyes, so soft and brown,

Take care !
She gives a side-glance, and looks down.

Beware ! beware !

Trust her not,

She is fooling thee !'

pHE next morning Dorinda rose
early, having decided to leave
Nun's Court as soon as possible
; and great was the surprise of the
whole establishment when, about ten

o'clock, Sir Jasper de Broke's family coach
drove to the door, with be-wigged coachmen
and two powdered footmen, each
of the latter carrying a gold-headed
cane. One of these splendid individuals
having descended from behind the coach,
proceeded to assault the Nun's Court
knocker and bell with dignified ferocity,
and informed the breathless Rhoda that
he and his colleagues had been despatched
by Sir Jasper's orders to escort Miss
Stratton to the Abbey.

Dorinda, who had been anxiously
awaiting the carriage, now tripped downstairs,
dressed most becomingly, and
beaming with smiles. She bid each
gasping Woodcock a condescending farewell,
first seizing Miss Janettata's unwilling

hand, and saying, in Ler clear, ringing
voice, so that all present might
hear:

'Farewell, Miss Woodcock, I am infinitely
obliged for all your kindness ; and I
regret that latterly a cloud should have
risen between us ; but I have no doubt
that Time and your own good sense will
disperse it !'

Humph !' was all Miss Janettata could
answer, being completely staggered at
Dorinda's cool assurance and the turn
things had taken.

Good-bye, dear Miss Barbara,' our
heroine also smilingly said, as she approached
that lady; 'I trust you are none
the worse for the thee-arming party you
gave us last night ; and that Miss Lucinda '

(condescendingly patting the latter on her
shoulder) ' is not suffering from  the
champagne and lobster salad which she
seemed so to enjoy !'

Good-bye, Miss Stratton,' answered
the boiling and bubbling Barbara, *and
should you, by chance, in your excessive
hurry to decamp, have accidentally (of
course !) carried off anything  not your
own  no doubt you will honestly return
it!'

Indeed, yes !' retorted Dorinda ; ' and
should you chance to hear from your
pretty and " larky " little maid Jane (who
you so obligingly aided to emigrate),
perhaps you would kindly send me her
address, as she might want my help and
advice ! She had many enemies, and I

know she had some idea of going to law.
Good-bye !'

In a moment, with the aid of the footman,
Dorinda ascended the carriage steps,
the door was banged-to, the coachman
tickled up the horses, and waving her
hand gracefully, our heroine and the whole
paraphernalia vanished.

Just for all the world like Cinderella's
pumpkin coach,' said the servants, who
from their regions beloAV had witnessed
the triumphal departure.

Insolent monkey !' said Barbara.

Lor !' ejaculated Lucinda.

In spite of this brilliant wind-up to
her school-days, Dorinda felt ill at ease,
and her short journey to Broke Abbey
was not one of entirely pleasurable anticipations.

She felt as though she were putting
her foot out into the dark ; but as she
drove through the magnificent park, and
marked the proudly-stepping deer, and the
grand old house in front of her, she sighed 
an impatient covetous sigh,  and wondered
whether she should find Julian Edward as
impressionable as Edward Julian !

I will not  mil not think of the past !'
she thought, as she drove beneath the
gothic archway. ' Courage, courage !' she
whispered to herself; ' Le veii vaut la
chaldee f

As she alighted, however, she experienced
some nervousness, and on entering the vast
hall, with its groined roof, its stained glass
windows, (which cast prismatic colours all
around,) and the ancient banners which

waved majestically overhead, the place
reminded her of a cathedral, and the
sacredness of those terrible words, ' May
He deal icith us, as ive do hy one another's
ranpj in her ears like a curse ! Chiding
herself, however, for such superstitious
folly, as she designated it, she asked the
graceful groom of the chambers, as that
piece of perfection was picking his way in
front of her :

Can I see Miss de Broke ?'

Ho ! yes, mim, suttinly, mim !'
answered the enchanting official, ' but Sir
Jasper's borders was, that you was to be
shown into 'im, mim !'

'Very well,' said Dorinda, feeling relieved
for she never dreaded the male
sex, ' pray do so.'

Her conducted now led her through a
long corridor, ornamented on each side
by statues, gilt figures supporting lamps,
and cabinets full of exquisite china; at
the end of which he threw open a door
and announced,

'The Honourable Miss Stratton.'
With trepidation, Dorinda entered
the room, and was suddenly dazzled
by a flood of sunlight, which, pouring
through a gothic window of painted
glass, seemed to bathe her in the halo of
a rainbow.

A good omen !' the girl ejaculated; then
looking across the room, which vas spacious
and lofty, she beheld her host, Sir Jasper
de Broke, who had risen from his seat to
receive her. Being quite blind, he did not

advance, but stood with his hand courteously
stretched out in welcome.

Dorinda hastened towards him. and put
her hand in his, remarking, with her usual
quickness of observation, that his fingers
were long and slender, and that on one of
them he wore a curious antique ring, in
the form of a crown, set \ith rubies and
diamonds. He was surrounded by flowers,
and several large and small dogs lay
crouched around. One of these animals
snarled so inhospitably as Dorinda approached
that she paused, fearful of its
attacking her ; but it did not move until
she placed her hand within that of its
master ; then its exasperation became ungovernable,
and the beast would inevitably
have done her some injury had not

VOL. I. H

Sir Jasper called out authoritatively,
Runaaaa ! Runaaaa !' upon which it sprang
under a chair hard by, and continued to
growl vindictively, and to display its
teeth at intervals during the whole interview.


Miss Stratton,' said Sir Jasper, in a
deep, manly voice, * welcome ! and, in spite
of Runaa's opposition, you are very welcome
!'

It is very kind of you, Sir Jasper,'
answered Dorinda, timidly and sweetly,
to receive me so cordially.'

My dear Miss Stratton, you know you
are no stranger, for your beautiful music
has often spoken to my very heart in our
little church; besides, you have been vividly
described to me by my nephew ; and if you

are half as pretty as your voice and your
music are melodious, you must be beautiful
indeed 1'

Dorinda coloured and laughed musically,
(she had a pretty, enjoue laugh,) and she
thought to herself, ' Oh ! I wish he wasn't
blind, or I am sure I should soon make an
impression upon him !'

Aloud she said :

'I have no doubt your nephew flattered
me ; but, Sir Jasper ' (with much feeling in
her voice) ' I want you all to love me, and
not only to admire me ! and perhaps Runaa
may get to love me too  in time. Who
knows?'

Sir Jasper now sat down, as did Dorinda,

carefully scanning the blind man the

while.

h2

He was tall, manly, and dignified, and
his dark eyes, when open, (he generally
kept them closed,) had a sad and listening
expression which was touching in the
extreme and very beautiful, and no blemish
of any kind was perceivable in them. He
wore a pointed beard and a downward
trained moustache, which, as well as his
hair, were slightly tinged with gray. Altogether
he reminded Dorinda irresistibly,
both in features and air, of the pictures of
Charles I., from whom the De Brokess
proudly claimed descent.

His teeth are lovely !' thought our
heroine, ' and all his own ! and his mouth
and smile are the most touchingly beautiful
I ever saw !'

She had an artist's eye, this young girl,



and was undeniably struck by Sir Jasper's
appearance and surroundings.

Nobility and loyalty,' she thought, ' are
stamped upon him personally, and,' (looking
round the room), ' the casket is worthy
of the jewel !'

CHAPTER VII.

Happy thou art not ; for what thou hast not, still thou strip vest to get,

Shakespeare.

iFTER a short conversation about
her parents, her journey, etc.,
Dorinda cast her eyes accidentally
upon a large mirror opposite,
which reflected all the objects behind
her, and so became aware that a lady
was standing, watching her. She was
holding back a heavy portiere, which

shrouded a door leading into another room,
and, as Dorinda guessed the new comer
wished, and believed herself, to be unperceived,
she continued conversing unconcernedly
with Sir Jasper, and after a pause
said distinctly,

And when may I see Miss de Broke ?
My mother said she was once a dear friend
of hers, and I long to see one of whom I
have heard so much !'

We will ring,' said Sir Jasper, taking
up a silver bell; upon which the apparition
in the mirror suddenly disappeared
(like a duck diving underwater)
and reappeared with marvellous
celerity' through a door-way in another
part of the room.

How do you do, Miss Stratton ?' said

Miss de Broke, ' I am heartily glad to see
you!'

Dorinda rose from ber chair, when thus
accosted, and was vastly astonished at the
contrast between the brother and sister.
The latter was as loud and vulgar-looking,
as the former was gentle and refined.

Miss de Broke's face was very red, very
fat, and with such a pronounced and implicated
jowl dependant therefrom (presenting
innumerable terraces of chins) that
her mouth, which was small, red, and quite
round, looked like a coral button, placed in
the very centre of her face. Her voice was
like the gabble of an excited and indignant
turkey, and was invariably audible from
the dungeon underground, (which was one
of the sights of the place,) to the flagstaff

Oil the principal tower above. Her
figure was clumsy and sponge, and she
rolled as she walked. To add to her grotesque
appearance, she wore a fringe upon
her forehead of fair flat curls, like button-hooks
of different ages, and when in evening
dress (some of her affectionate friends
called it her evening ?i?zdress) she much
affected white satin, with Vandyke lace,
and large loose sleeves looped up with
strings of pearls, believing herself a worthy
pendant to her brother's unstudied 
appearance ; in fact, a modern
Henrietta Maria ! (which names had been
given her at baptism.)

Miss de Broke could not open her
mouth without betraying that she was
purse-proud and 'second rate,' but she

was kind-hearted in the main, and deeply
attached to her brother, watching jealously,
too jealously, over him, his interests and
friendships. She was a great trial to him
at times, and since his misfortune (he had
become blind several years previously) she
had contracted a  to him  most painful
habit of addressing him in a sort of affectionate
bellow, as if he were deaf, as well
as blind ; bringing to mind the fallacy
current amongst under-bred people, i.e.,
that they will make themselves better
understood by some bewildered, shrinking
foreigner, innocent of the English language,
if only they shout loud enough ! Sir Jasper,
like all blind people, was very sensitive to
voices, and he often writhed under his
sister's, although he loved and respected

her too much to let her even suspect
the painful fact.

Oh ho !' thought Dorinda, as Miss de
Broke came forward. ' this lady then is
poor Sir Jasper s family skeleton ! A well-covered
one, at all events ; but not content,
(I take it,) to rest quietly in the traditional
"cupboard"'

Welcome, dear Miss Stratton,' reiterated
Miss de Broke, as she shook Dorinda's
hand, ' but may I not call you ' Dorinda,"
for your mother's sake? You are very
like her, but fairer, lighter, and taller.'

Dorinda gazed intently at her hostess,
weighing in her own mind how best to
ingratiate herself with her.

'How shall I manage her?' she said to
herself; 'she is evidently a commonplace

individual ; but is lie romantically commonplace,
or matter-of-factly so ? Shall 1
take lier by storm ? or shall I be shy and
frightened ? Xo ! I think I will take herby
storm  people of her physique are
generally impulsive ; so here goes, neck or
nothing !'

Then, as if unspeakably touched by
some memory, she threw herself into the
astonished Henrietta Maria's arms, and,
laying her head upon her ample shoulder,
exclaimed, choked by emotion :

My mother's Henrietta Maria ! My
mother's early friend !' (She felt that
 old friend ' might be dangerous !) ; then,
hurriedly releasing Miss de Broke from
her embrace, she said, with a charming
mixture of shyness and candour, ' Forgive

me ! but you looked so kind  so
true, that I forgot I was a stranger to
you!'

Miss de Broke laughed, did not look
displeased, and said,

I did not know that Car Balbirnie
remembered our girlish days sufficiently
to have impressed you so strongly ! Anyhow,
I am delighted to welcome her
daughter, and to apologise for Runaa's
churlish behaviour. How he growls ! I
never saw him behave so before !'

Beast !' thought Dorinda ; but, turning
a grateful look upon Miss de Broke, she
composed herself to listen attentively to
any conversation between the brother and
sister, in hopes of discovering some salient
paints in their characters, by which she

might guide her future behaviour. She
had not long to wait, for Henrietta, withall
her faults, was very transparent ; (her
jealous distrust of her brothers friendships
being childishly so) ; indeed, she was curiously
open and above-board in thoughts,
words, and actions ; rarely thinking more
than she said, and never saying more than
she thought. Sir Jasper's character our
heroine had at once fathomed ; so in a very
short space of time she summed up both
individuals in a few words thus : * Don
Quixote  and a Beggar on Horseback !'

I hope,' said Sir Jasper to his sister,
that Miss Stratton's room is comfortable
?'

Oh, yes !' returned Henrietta. ' I have
given her the tapestry-room, where the

Duchesse d'Herminy always sleeps. It
is a lovely room!' (turning to Dorinda).
*The muslin curtains alone cost fifty
guineas the pair ' (Sir Jasper winced) ;
and the bed was once used by our
royal ancestor Charles L, whose monogram,
(and that of his queen,) is embroidered
all over the counterpane and hangings.
The carpet was very difficult to
obtain in character with the rest of the
room, and cost mints of money !'

You see. Miss Stratton,' interposed Sir
Jasper, hurriedly,  my sister is proud of
doing the martyr king honour in every
possible way !'

Yes,' gabbled on the lady, totally
innocent of her brother's orowino: uneasiness,
' but luckily it is easy to do

SO  for with Sir Jasper's enormous
fortune '

Dear Henrietta !' exclaimed Sir Jasper,
nervously, 'no doubt Miss Stratton is
fatigued, and would like to go to her
room.'

True ! I will take her at once !'

Dorinda Alas not prepared for the old-world
courtesy with which Sir Jasper,
leaning his hand on his sister's shoulder,
accompanied his guest up the broad
staircase to the door of her bed-room,
leaving her there, with a bow full of
dignity and courtly grace. She was both
flattered and pleased, but Miss de Broke
assured her, with due caution, lest the
young lady should be too elated,

You must excuse my brother's exploded

notions as to 'hat is due to a
lady-ofuest ! His manners do not march
with the times, and ' (\'ith a slight tinge
of asperity, not lost upon her hearers
had you been a governess he would have
treated you the same, only probably with
still greater respect !'

Dorinda smiled, and said simply she felt
unworthy of so much deference, and then
proceeded to examine the apartment,
determined to win Miss de Broke's favour
as well as her brother's.

A 'lovely room' it undeniably was;
hung with tapestry, filled with exquisite
antique furniture, and smelling of lavender
and pot-pourra ; with a cheerful fire burning,
composed of large logs of wood placed
upon an old-fashioned ' arm-chair ' grate,

VOL. I. I

giving the whole an air of home-like
comfort.

 What a charming room !' cried our
heroine, in ecstacies, * and Avhat taste ! all
yours, Miss de Broke  of course ! and
how kind of you to put poor little me
into one of your state-rooms! I could
not be better lodged, even if I were  a
queen, or  a governess !' Then, walking
up to the bed : ' And what pretty pillow-cases,
all frills and Valenciennes lace !
the sheets all frilled too, and so fine !
They must have cost a fortune /'

Seven pound ten a pair,' promptly
answered the delighted lady; 'but then,
you see '

Oh, yes,' deftly cut in our heroine,

of course with Sir Jasper's enormous
fortune '

Of course, of course agreed Henrietta,
delightedly, ' besides, we are always
having great people staying with us,
and we must keep up our po-siphon.' (Henrietta
always put a stress upon the first
syllable of this word.)

Xatu rally,' agreed Dorinda, 'but I am
too humble for sou to give me the use of
all these lovely things !'

Well ! you are so pretty yourself, that
it is, after all, only "sweets to the sweet !"
Sir Jasper tells me you play the organ
delightfully, and we have an organ here 
in the music-room; it cost enormously
having it put up !' (' Of course,' murmured

i2

Dorinda,) ' but it is such a pleasure
to my poor brother, who plays divinely
himself.'

After a little more conversation, Henrietta
rolled out of the room, saying,

My nephew comes to-day, but no one
else. I fear you will find it rather
dull !'

Dorinda answered that she never was
dull ; and directly she was alone, she sat
down, and taking a letter out of her
pocket, read it carefully twice. It was from
her mother, a worldly, cruel, heartless,
but useful letter, part of which we will
read.

CHAPTER Till.

The deadliest snakes are those which, twin'd 'mongst flowers,
Blend their bright colouring with the varied blossoms,

Their fierce eyes glittering Hke the spangled dew-drops ;
In all so like what nature has most harmless,

That sportive innocence, which dreads no danger,
Is poisoned unawares.'

FTER a little home business, the

letter went on :

Miss Woodcock's news was
a dreadful annoyance to me, although,
after your abominable folly at Miss

Smith's, nothing surprises me ! But
mind you, this one is the most serious
scrape you have ever got into ; and,
although you may deny your guilt to
others, it is no use your doing so to me ;
and mark my words, that cheque (how
could you be such a fool as to leave it in
their hands !) will hang over your head
all your life ; although no doubt the old
Woodcocks will keep the ugly secret to
themselves (unless they can make more by
letting it out !) for the sake of the school.
Again, how stupid of you to accuse the
servants, and set them against you ! You
may be sure they will have no mercy
upon you if it ever comes out,  for servants
are jealous of the monopoly of
cheating ! Really, what with your father's

drinking, and your follies,' (' She glosses
over a few peccadilloes of her own, while
enumerating the family characteristics !'
sneered Dorinda), ' my life is not worth
the livings ! I must, however, do you the
justice of confessing that you are always
very clever at wriggling out of any scrapes
you get into ! Only once for all,  take
my advice, and beware of quarrelling with
servants! Jeiiiy connais ! Jai passe parla
! If the cheque story comes out, you
will have to o abroad either as a governess,
or a hospital nurse, or a missionary.
Your plan of going to Broke Abbey is a
good one, and, if you could get in therefor
good, it would be better still. I used
to know Henrietta Maria well  at one
time. She is the acme of vulgarity, and,

I am told, watches leur brother, like the cat
she is (or used to be) ; but she was open to
any amount of blarney ! I know nothing
of the nephew you mention ; his father
died away somewhere  was under a cloud.
There were twin sons  at least I think so
(' Don't I know it !' snarled Dorinda.)
Why don't you go in for the heir ? I
can't increase your allowance, but I send
you five pounds, which must last sometime.
I am off to Homburg to try my
luck at the tables. I am sending Estella
to you, as you should not be maid-less.

C. Balbirnie.'

After reading this precious epistle over
twice, Dorinda sat for some minutes in
deep thought, then dashing away a tear

she rose with an impatient exclamation,
(which did not sound like a blessing), and,
burning it with care, began to unpack,
communing thus within herself: ' Yes ! I
have been a fool  in more ways than she
knows ; but now, what am I to do? How
am I to rid myself from my inconvenient,
poverty-stricken lover? Well, if
only he keeps to what he said about going
away, there is not much difficulty, for he
can't return under the year ; and I may
compass a good deal in a year ! I wonder
when I shall get the promised letter
which he was to write the moment he
started ? Once he is oiF, then I shall be
free to try and get  some one else ! I never
made out, after all, where he is going, and
I really don't care, as long as he goes.

and stays long enough ! but that he
must do, if he thinks to make a fortune
fit for me to live on.' (Here our heroine
laughed  but not her musical laugh.)
 But if,' she said aloud, almost savagely,
he expects me to cut my own throat, by
trying to make peace betwixt him and his
uncle  well, I'm afraid he will be disappointed
! for what, in Heaven's name,
should I do if Sir Jasper were to relent,
and give Edward Julien and me' (grammar
was at a discount just at that moment)
enough to starve respectably upon ! No,
no ! that won't do for me ! but, que faire ?
ah well ! I must be prepared for difficulties
; bnt I am not, and never was,
faint-hearted ! No doubt something will
turn up !' Again she was silent ; then she

said, half aloud, ' How I wish I hadn't met
him so often alone, while the Woodcocks
were roosting, (or whatever Woodcocks
do when they are tired) ; for if that were
to come out,  but I think I've managed
to terrify old Janettata and stop her tongue.'

Just then a maid came to the door,
stating that luncheon was ready, and
would Miss Stratton allow her to unpack
for her? Dorinda thanked her, and
giving her her keys ran down the oak-stairs,
at the bottom of which Miss de
Broke appeared, and, kindly pulling her
guest's arm through hers, conducted her
into the dining-room.

Sir Jasper was there already, sitting ina
curiously-carved, high-backed arm-chair
called ' the King's chair,' for it was surmounted

by a crown at the back, and the
family tradition was, that it and another in
Sir Jasper's sitting-room, had been always
and only used by the ill-starred Charles
Stuart.

At a sign from Henrietta, Dorinda
seated herself at the table next Sir Jasper,
and hath much admiration she gazed
around the room. The ancient sideboard
first attracted her attention, with its
wealth of old silver and Venetian glass ;
and then the dinner-table itself looked so
refined, with its beautiful flowers, &c.,
while innumerable men-servants glided
noiselessly hither and thither.

Dorinda was surprised to see that Sir
Jasper ate nothing. He sat at the head
of the table conversing cheerfully with his

sister and guest, and now and then sipped
a glass of wine, and played with some
grapes on his plate. Ashen, however, the
ladies had finished their meal, the servants
withdrew, and Henrietta, rising from her
seat, went to a sort of fender in front of
the fire, and lifting a covered dish set it
before her brother, who began to eat, saying:
to our heroine :

Dear Miss Stratton ! You see we do
not treat you as a stranger ! We do not
hide from you the secrets of the prison-house
!'

Oh !' said Dorinda, hurriedly. ' Shall

I go away?'

t No  by no means, if you do not mind
staying! You see, I  most foolishly 
cannot accustom myself to eating before

the servants, although my misfortune
is so many years old ; and my good
sister here always manages for my comfort,
herself! Of course, at dinner, I
am obliged to eat with the rest, but
Henrietta then always prepares my food
beforehand.'

I hope,' said Dorinda, in her gentlest
voice (for she felt unaccountably touched
at the blind man's dependence upon
others), ' that I also may be permitted erelong,
and when you know me better, to
minister a little to your comfort, Sir
Jasper !'

Sir Jasper looked pleased at the girl's
words, but his sister seemed rather to
scorn the idea of her brother receiving
any attentions but hers ; and, as soon as

his brief repast was ended, the two ladies
adjourned to Miss de Broke's own sanctum:
and, in the course of half-an-hour, Dorinda
had managed, with infinite tact, to learn
much concerning the De Broke family
generally, and the twin brothers in
particular.

Julian Edward, the eldest, and the
heir, is a good, steady young man,' said
Henrietta, ' and luckily very unlike his
scapegrace brother (the one you know).
Sir Jasper liked the naughty one best
(he was so impulsive and warm-hearted !)
and so did I, but my brother found him
false and shifty, and Sir Jasper hates a
lie!'

Oh  h  h ! ' said Dorinda, thoughtfully.


Julian Edward,' continued Henrietta,
 is truthful, but rough and boorish, and
generally dislikes women's society.'

Oh !' again ejaculated Dorinda, nervously
this time, not much pleased at
the prospect before her.

Sir Jasper,' Henrietta went on, ' after
losing his sight, would see no one but me
for quite two years ; then his shyness
lessened, and he said he considered it his
duty to send for his nephews ; so they came,
and after a little they got so attached to
their uncle that they nearly lived here.
(Both their parents are dead.) The brothers
(twins) are devoted to each other, and so
alike, you could scarcely distinguish them
except in character. Julian the first is
honourable, truthful, shy, clumsy, and oh !

SO dull ! Julian the second is charming !
He can sing, play, shoot, hunt, draw  in
fact, he can do everything, and everything
well ; but he was frightfully extravagant,
and Sir Jasper, (who had got to love him
dearly,) paid his debts over and over again.
Then he gambled, and Jasper paid his gambling
debts; but he became angry and said
he would pay nothing more unless the boy
passed his word he would never touch
another card ! He promised  and broke his
word: and when questioned, got frightened,
and lied about it ! So his uncle, after paying
the debt, refused to see him, and would
not even allow him to write. But dear
Jasper is so kind, and felt so tenderly towards
the orphans,  knowing they had been
badly brought up,  that he felt it terribly

VOL. I. K

when he heard a report that the boy was
going to emigrate.'

Where to ?' asked Dorinda, quickly.

I really don't know !' answered Henrietta.


(' No more do I,' thought Dorinda.)

'Jasper would have given anything continued
Henrietta, ' to see the poor scamp
before he started, but we did not know
where he was, and we never for one
moment supposed he would really leave
England without making us some sign.
Julian the first is of such a curiously-proud
stern nature, as well as being shy, that we
actually dared not speak to him upon the
subject ; and a few mornings ago Edward
Julian sent for his brother, who was here ;

and he started away before we were up,
leaving no address,  nor any explanation,
beyond a hurriedly pencilled note for
Jasper, in which he stated he was gone
'' to see his brother off." The fact was
he was too proud to ask for any further
favours for his brother ! It was a
terrible blow to Jasper, who loved the
boy, and he was miserable, wondering how
he got his passage-money, (fcc. Jasper did
not eat for days afterwards ! If Julian had
only stated from whence his brother was to
start, Jasper would, I am sure, have insisted
upon seeing him, and perhaps have prevented
him going at all. It was a great
pity Jasper, in the heat of the moment,
forbid the boy writing to him ; but Edward

k2

Julian knew his uncle's kind heart so well,
he should not have taken the prohibition
au pied de la lettre f

Dorinda kept silence, stifling her conscience,
and resolutely refusing to listen
to those words, which nevertheless seemed
to haunt her brain and clog every beat of
her false heart :

God deal with us, as we do by one
another !'

I am glad you have come, Dorinda,'
said Henrietta, after a few minutes'
silence, ' for Jasper is so dull since the
poor scamp went, and you will play
and sing to him, will you not ? I wonder
whether you would do so this afternoon,
while I go to my schools?'

I shall be delighted,' said Dorinda,

heartily, ' and I shall always be glad to
be of any use to him, reading, playing,
or singing, unless he prefers being left
alone !'

Everything depends upon who the
reader or the singer may be !' said Henrietta,
smiling ; ' but I will leave it to your
discretion.'

CHAPTER IX.

The starlike sorrows of immortal eyes.

Tennyson.

ORINDA now returned to her
own room, and at the door
she was accosted by a prim
old lady with white hair, dressed in a
rustling black silk gown. This individual
curtseyed deeply to Dorinda, who courteously
returned the civility with one of
her sweetest smiles, wondering privately

who the lady might be ! She was not
long left in ignorance.

I beg your pardon, madam,' the old
lady said, ' but I am Mrs. Ashton, Sir
Jasper's housekeeper, and he has desired
me to bring you the key of the organ.
He thought that, while Miss de Broke was
out this afternoon, you might be inclined
to play a little.'

Oh, ho !' thought Dorinda, diving, as
usual, into people's unexpressed motives,
this is a hint to me that he expects me
to amuse myself, and not to bother him
with my attentions !'

So she thanked Mrs. Ashton, and asked
her to sit down for a moment, feeling
that her acquaintance might as well be
cultivated.

The old lady, however, declined the
honour, begging to be allowed to show
Miss Stratton the way to the music-room
at once, to which Dorinda assented, and as
they sauntered through the rooms, the
young lady sought for general information.
(As was her wont.)

It is a very fine organ, is it not ?' she
began.

Oh, yes, madam. Sir Jasper had it
built himself, and he plays very sweetly,
but he generally does so when everyone
is either out or gone to bed. He had it
placed quite away from the rest of the
house, so as to disturb no one. His own
private rooms open into the music-room,
and with the help of his stick he gets
there alone.'

'Is the organ very large?' asked our
heroine.

Yes, madam, very large ; and it cost
some thousands.'

(Dorinda began to say, ' Of course  but
with Sir Jasper's e  nor ' but remembering
she was not talking to Miss de
Broke, she just pulled up in time).

How many stops has it ?* asked the
young lady.

Stops ?' asked the old one.

Yes,' said Dorinda.

*Lor! It never stops!' answered the
housekeeper, vaguely, but indignantly suspicious
of a slur being cast either on
the instrument, or upon the number of
available domestics. ' There's plenty of
servants, ma'am, to blow!'

Oh !' said Dorinda, awkwardly, and
inclined to laugh ; then she asked : ' To
whom am I to restore the key, after
playing T

Sir Jasper wishes you to retain it
during your visit, madam ; for he has a
duplicate key.'

They had now, while talking, arrived
at the picture-gallery  a noble apartment,
wainscoted in old oak and hung
with yellow brocade.

*A fancy of Sir Jasper's,' explained
Mrs. Ashton,  before he lost his sight ;
for he always maintained that yellow
was the best colour for throwing up
pictures.'

The gallery was peopled by innumerable
ancestors and ancestresses of the De Broke

family; some royal, some nol3le, and all
(Dorinda thought) beautiful to look upon.
Amongst these portraits was a more
modern one of Sir Jasper himself as a
boy ; standing, tall and slim, clad in black
velvet, a Vandyke-lace collar round his
neck, and with his hand resting caressingly
upon a huge dog's head. The kingly
air, so peculiarly natural to Sir Jasper,
was visible in the fair, slight boy, and the
large, soft, dark-brown eyes (useless now,
alas ! and generally closed) wore the
gracious, tender, and withal dignified expression
so remarkable in the original  an
expression which touched Dorinda curiously,
in spite of her cynicism, so much
so that, as she passed through the doorway
to enter the music-room, she could

not resist turning to gaze again at the
boy's face ; and the eyes seemed, she
thought, to follow her with a mournful
look. With a little gasping sob, the outcome
of a sentiment as yet tightly coiled
up and unsuspected within her breast, she
turned away, and was only brought back
to her usual self, by the sound of her companion's
voice.

And now,' said the old lady, ' we come
to the music-room, and ' (pointing with
much awe to the further end of it) * within
those double doors are Sir Jasper's private
apartments,  and here, madam, is the key!'

Dorinda smiled, for she fancied the
housekeeper delivered up the key rather
reluctantly, as though she were endowing
her with some sacred trust !

'I feel rather like Fatima, Blue-beard's
wife !' she thought. ' I wonder whether I
shall find a row of ghastly heads grinning
at me over the key-board I'

She glanced at the old housekeeper, half
inclined to confide the playful conceit to
her, but on second thoughts, that personage
looked far too dignified, too uncompromising
to be trifled with ! besides, 
calling to mind the old lady's speech about
the organ-stops,  she thought it just possible
she might take her suggestion au grand
series, and accuse her, perhaps, of vilifying
Sir Jasper's reputation ! so she simply took
the key with thanks, and at once unlocked
the instrument to try its tone.

Surmising that her presence was no
longer necessary, Mrs. Ashton now left

our heroine, and returned to the apartment
sacred to herself and to Mrs.
Watts, Miss de Broke's OAvn maid (also
an old retainer) to whom she made the
oracular statement that ' she didn't know,
but she thought it a pity when anyone
trusted anything to anybody who nobody
knew !' The nods and winks which accompanied
these words overwhelmed Mrs.
Watts with awe at the speaker's penetration,
and with a strong curiosity to hear more ;
a curiosity, however, which the loyal old
lady had not the slightest intention of
gratifying.

CHAPTER X.

Silence ! beautiful voice,

Be still ! for you only trouble the mind
With a joy in-which I cannot rejoice,

A glory I shall not find.

TEyNTSON.

HE one sincere passion in Dorinda's
nature was music. From
her earliest youth, she had
never unfortunately had reason to believe or
trust in anyone or anything ; and music
had ever been her confidante, her only love.

To be sure, its pursuit never interfered
with preferment, on the contrary, it might
conduce to it ; also it involved no self-sacrifice,
or perhaps she might not have
loved it as heartily as she undoubtedly did;
but we all know the old adage:

If ifs and ans
Were pots and pans
What would poor tinkers do !'

So we will without further ill-natured questionings,
accept the fact that Dorinda loved
music, and further, that she played the
organ beautifully, with both execution
and pathos; and oh! the relief it had
often been to her after a long and unhappy
day of lies and prevarication, to
sit quite alone in some empty church,
and weave the harmonies, which rolled so

mysteriously around and above her, into
fancies !

Fancies  sometimes of rapturous happiness,
too ineffable, alas ! to exist,  except
in music !  sometimes of terror, too
grandly awful to be conceived,  except
in music !  sometimes of remorse, repentance,
forgiveness, or despair, all  all too
sublime to be understood,  except in
music !

Good thoughts, evil thoughts, confused
aspirations, and  at times (but seldom,
alas !)  agonizing prayers would take
form amid the mystic clouds of heavenly
melody which filled the air as she
played.

As her hands wandered to-day over the
keys, her thoughts travelled far, far away

VOL. I. L

into the Regions of Unrest. She sees a
bright, glorious Heaven, blue and cloudless
at first, but which becomes dark and
threatening. Her feet seem to tread
amid sweet flowers  but pah ! their scent
changes to that of dank earth ! Then 
behold that sea ! so calm and lovely,
blossom-tinted like an opal,  like an opal,
did I say? ay, an unlucky, treacherous
stone ! for see ! its colours fade, the waves
become green-gray,  almost black ! Agitated
they are, foaming, angry, so angry
that they toss, cruelly lash, and well-nigh
crush a small craft, that lay helpless on
their rugged bosom ; and relentlessly they
bear it away, away,  out of sight, never
to return !

'Oh, bring it back! bring it back!'

wails the music ! 'Oh, sea of wild, passionate
Life! sea of black, ungovernable
Death !  bring it back, and give it one
more chance !'

She stops playing, really and unaffectedly
overcome, and, hearing a sound
behind her, she turns, and sees Sir
Jasper standing in the centre of the
room, so pale, so still, that for a moment
she wonders whether or not she beholds
the spirit of one of the sad portraits of
Charles Stuart, of which there are so
many in the gallery; but, recovering her
surprise, she rises and goes towards him,
feeling instinctively that the blind man
must require help.

Oh, pray, pray go on. Miss Stratton,'
he said, guiding himself to a chair, and

l2

sitting down ; ' you don't know what
such sounds are to me ! 1 always loved
music, but now,'  covering his poor
sightless eyes with his hands  ' more than
ever.'

Shall I sing ?' returned Dorinda, the
same feeling of compassionate admiration
filling her generally callous heart, and imparting
a tone of tenderness to her voice,
like a faint reflection of the music which
seemed yet to linger and re-echo through
the room. Without waiting for an answer,
and seeing that he really wished it, Dorinda
returned to the organ and played,
and then sang. Her voice was a rich,
pure contralto and she sang beautifully;
but somehow the spell seemed broken.
Now she sang more for effect, and to please

her hearer. Whether Sir Jasper felt the
difference she knew not, and she sang
song after song, without pausing, except
to modulate from one key to the other.
She had just begun a fresh song, when the
sound of carriage wheels was heard, and
directly afterwards Miss de Broke rolled
into the room, followed by a young man.
Dorinda o-ave a o-reat start when the
latter entered, for for the moment she
thought it was her lover ; but, upon closer
examination, she saw that this man's hair
was darker, his eyes larger, his look more
straightforward ; he had the same characteristically
proud, firm tread, and he was
certainly gloriously handsome  handsomer
than his younger brother.

As soon as she came in, Miss de Broke,

heedless of the music, said loudly to Sir
Jasper,

Here's Julian, dear ! The coach was
passing just as I was entering the Park,
so T waited and brought him in ; and oh,
Jasper ! We had such trouble with one
of the new horses ! (Sir Jasper gave
three hundred guineas for him last week,
Dorinda !) He got frightened at the man
blowing the horn, and he plunged frightfully,
turning right round, and looking mein
the face ! I thought he would have
jumped in at the carriage window. So I
jumped out,  and tore my lace ! Such expensive
lace, Dorinda !'

Heaven knows how long Henrietta
would have gabbled on about her misfortunes,

aud how much they had cost her,
had not Sir Jasper said :

'Julian, have 3'ou been introduced to
Miss Stratton ?'

Dorinda bowed and presented her hand.
The young man returned the bow, but
ignored the hand, which our heroine drew
back with some confusion, thinking, ' I
wonder whether his brother has told him
anything!' but on second thoughts she
scouted the idea, as she and her lover
had mutually agreed to silence upon the
subject, not to be broken by either of
them, without the knowledge and consent
of the other.

Certainly the new young man's behaviour,
Dorinda thought, was unpolished in the

extreme, for after the first stiff bow, he took
no further notice of the young lady, and,
as they sauntered back to the drawing-room,
(Sir Jasper leading the way with his hand
upon his constantly-gabbling sister's shoulder,)
the new-comer carefully opened all the
doors widely for his uncle and aunt to pass,
leaving Dorinda in the rear to shut them !
His manners are ursine !' muttered
Dorinda ; ' allons ! il faut changer tout cela /'
And as soon as the tea was over, (at which
meal our heroine wrathfully 'creamed' and
sugared' herself,  the Bear meanwhile
standing uselessly by), and having revenged
the slights he put upon her by upsetting
some tea over Bruin's boots (his 'hind paws,'
she called them to herself) she left the
uncle and nephew to themselves, while she



retired to her room and occupied herself
in reading and writing letters till dinner-time.


The sin
That neither God nor man can well forgive,
Hypocrisy.'

RIND A was the first dressed
for dinner, and the first to come
downstairs, but she was not
long alone, for ' Bruin' came into the room
soon afterwards, upon which our heroine
began to read, or pretended to do so,
for she watched the young man carefully

over the top of the book. At
first he whistled, and walked aimlessly
about ; then, approaching the table at
which Dorinda sat, he looked sheepishly
at her, (being rather astonished
at anyone taking so little notice of lira,)
and took up a piece of delicate white
embroidery, which lay upon her workbox.


Don't !' said Dorinda, looking up fora
moment from her book, and speaking
as if she were reproving a tiresome
child.

 Why T said Julian, surprised, and
dropping the work as if it had burnt
him.

'Cos it's mine,' answered the young
lady, shortly.

Well said Julian, laughing awkwardly,
' I wouldn't hurt it.'

I'm not so sure,' answered Dorinda,
provokingly.

Why ?' again asked Julian.

Because boys' hands are generally
grubby,' Dorinda answered, coolly, ' and
I daresay yours are no exception to the
rule.'

*You are a very rude, disagreeable
young woman !' said Julian, angrily, ' and
young mien of three-and-twenty are not
generally called " grubby boys." '

Three-and-twenty !' echoed Dorinda, in
apparent surprise ; ' I thought you were
much younger,  from your manners. So
with you it seems it is not ignorance, but
impudence !'

Julian looked aghast.

What do you mean !'

At this moment Dorinda dropped her
book ; instinctively the young man stooped
to pick it up, and so did she, and their
heads came violently in contact.

 Oh !' said Julian, irritably, Tdth anguish
depicted in every feature, ' how you
have hurt me !'

Have I ?' said Dorinda, gently, and
with a look of pity in the blue-grey eyes,
I am really very sorry ; but you forget,
you hurt me too !' then she added, admiringly,
(knowing that people are never
so flattered as when one gives them credit
for graces they do not possess,) ' I see
that I am wrong, and that your manners
are peculiarly fascinating ! If you had

not picked up my book, en preux chevalier
this accident would not have occurred ! I
am so sorry I was cross just now, but I
was pained  thinking you had taken a dislike
to me !' and, as she said these words,
she looked at Julian so appealingly, so
reproachfully, that he was taken aback,
and, choosing a chair by her side, sat
down, saying eagerly, though still shyly,

'No! no! Why should I? Then-then
you don't think me such a rough
brute, after all ! but you are,  you know,

so well, I can't explain, but you make

me feel such a clown,  by your side.
What do you think about it, eh ? Am I
one ?'

Dorinda laughed, and said,

Well ! You are rather a rough

diamond, I confess !' then, seeing a look of
annoyance come over his face, she quickly
added, ' but, you know, a diamond is
always a gem  always beautiful !'

Julian looked delighted, and, in answer
to this subtle flattery, would have said
something very much to the point, had
not Sir Jasper and his sister entered the
room.

'Provoking!' thought our heroine; 'but
I haven't lost my time anyhow !'

Will you take Miss Stratton in to
dinner, Julian ?' whispered Miss de Broke,
'- and I will follow with my brother.'

Julian willingly gave his arm to the
beautiful girl, and she noticed, with infinite
satisfaction, that he pressed hers
closer to his side than was at all necessary.

The dinner was sumptuous. Gold,
silver, and flowers everywhere ; * and this,'
sighed Dorinda, 4s their everyday life  the
life that I long for ! ay ! and the life that
I will have by hook or by crook, and yet,
they none of them are perfectly happy.
He, poor fellow, is blind, and all his gold
can't make him see ; she is vulgar, and
would give all she possesses to be a
duchess  or even a countess; and Bruin, 
well,  he is ashamed of himself, and would
be far happier in the servants'-hall, with a
horn knife and a two-pronged fork !
True! but the blind man gets comforts,
servants, his organ, from his gold ; Henrietta
Maria " rides in her coach," smirks
condescendingly at the neighbours, and
wears valuable lace, from the gold ; while

Julian Edward will have the sum-total
some day : comforts, servants, organ, fawning
neighbours, coach, lace  all, all  from
the gold ! Oh ! money ! money ! money !
I must have money !'

During dinner the conversation turned
once and once only upon Dorinda's quondam
lover, and she listened with all her
ears.

I think you knew my younger nephew,
Miss Stratton,' said Sir Jasper.

Yes,' answered Dorinda, ' I met him
first when he came with you to the Abbey
Church, and  once or twice after that.'

Poor boy !' sighed Sir Jasper. ' If I
had known he was going away for so long,
I would have seen him before he left ; I
parted with him in anger, but he might have

VOL. I. M

known I am not of an implacable nature!'
There was an awkward pause, and
Dorinda seemed to hear her lover's voice :
 Tell him I wish to lead a good life  tell
him that I love you !' But she whispered
to herself: 'No such fool!' and, glancing
at the young man by her side, she saw
a scowl on his face which made her
understand why Miss de Broke had said,
they dared not mention the subject of
his brother to him ;' for it was the same
expression she had seen on Edward
Julian's face when she nearly,  oh ! so
nearly !  betrayed herself in the conservatory,
in the Nun's Court garden.

The subject then dropped, but in the
course of the evening Bruin sat down by
Dorinda and said :

Did you see much of my brother, Miss
Stratton ?'

I saw him several times.'

And what did you think of him ?'

'He was very nice and agreeable, and

very like you ;' then after a pause, she

added :

He is prone abroad, is he not ?' and she

waited anxiously for the reply.

Yes, he is gone, poor fellow ! 1 bid him
good-bye ; he sails to-night.'

Much relieved, Dorinda again asked :
When shall you hear from him ?'
Oh ! only when they speak with any
homeward-bound vessel. The ship herself
boreas by name) touches nowhere.
We shan't hear of her arrival for many
months ; and he, poor fellow, will not return

M 2

for years ! He expects to make his fortune,
my poor brother ! Perhaps I may join
him, for we are much attached to each
other  real twins ! and we never have a
thought apart '

Indeed !' said Dorinda, faintly.

 And he told me he meant to work
hard, as it was not for himself alone.
When he said this, I felt sure he cared
for some fair lady, and I begged him to
keep nothing from me.'

Well ?' interrupted Dorinda, breathlessly
and interrogatively.

How kind of you to be so interested.
Miss Stratton !' said Bruin, ' but  he would
tell me nothing, because he said he had
passed his word to " her " to be silent ;
however, he also promised that if he could

get " her " leave, he would write and tell rae
everything. Anyhow, such an incentive as
love may encourage him on, and make it less
hard work. He is a good boy, an odd mixture
of weakness and strength, and' (with a sigh
the young man said this) ' I am very fond of
him ; poor fellow ! I think that, latterly,
Sir Jasper was rather hard upon him ; so T
won't have the subject broached to me ; and
I did not wish him to be under any obligations
to anyone just now, but to myself

Dorinda's heart, or what did duty for
one in her pretty breast, was light and
buoyant after this conversation. She felt
safe for months; and what  what might
she not compass in that time ! These
pleasant thoughts exhilarated her, and
she became brilliant, witty, fascinating,

and Miss de Broke looked on with much
complacency at the evident admiration
with which her nephew regarded the newcomer.


He may go farther and fare worse
Henrietta thought, ' for anything so wellborn,
so fair to look upon, and with such
an air of distinction, will do well for the
heir's wife !'

CHAPTER Xir.

He-was not all unhappy. His resolve
Bore him, and firm faith ,

Like fountains of sweet water in the sea.

Texxtson.

\YS, weeks, months had now
passed by happily and quickly
at Broke Abbey, and all the

more quickly from the fact that nothing"
especial had happened, to accentuate the
flight of Time. To be sure, Nature's fair

face and form had marked many changes,
for instead of her dress being composed of
frost and rime, green leaves and bursting
buds encircled her, while her faithful
troubadour the cuckoo, had just returned,
and was already singing her the songs of
summer.

Dorinda was still at the Abbey; not
only now as a valued and welcome visitor,
but little by little, she had become as one
of the family. She had made several
well-bred efforts to bring her visit to a
conclusion, but they had been weak and
not very sincere ones, and she had
acquiesced very readily to the unanimously
expressed desire that she should
prolong her visit until her parents' return
from abroad.

Meanwhile, Henrietta had developed
a great passion of affection for our
heroine, an affection which it was quite
impossible for Dorinda's cold nature to
return, and almost impossible, or at least
very difficult, for her to simulate. (By
the way, what awkward and painful contingencies
are these violent attachments
conceived by one woman for another !
where  Tune bake, et F autre fend la joue /'
For the loved one, if she be of a kindly
nature, unlike Dorinda, must either play
the hypocrite  which a good woman
would loathe  or else wound the tenderest
feelings of one to whom she should feel
grateful.)

Luckily, Dorinda was only too happy
to meet Henrietta half-way in one of

her idioyncrasies ; for that warm-hearted
lady's daily object, and nightly dream,
seemed now to marry her protegee to ' the
heir ;'  as she persistently called Julian
Edward, to Sir Jasper's constant irritation.
(An irritation felt, but not spoken, and
noticed by Dorindaonly.) The young man
himself was nothing loth, but not being
of an inflammable nature, and moreover
very shy, he did not care to hurry matters
on ; and Dorinda fancied, (with a moue)
that he considered himself rather too sure of
his bird. So he had not yet proposed, but
the astute damsel thought that at any moment
she could make him do so, and she
only hung back because, to her great surprise
and no small disappointment. Sir
Jasper was evidently disinclined to

further his sister's un dissembled wishes
upon the subject. Miss de Broke had
never spoken clearly to Dorinda herself
upon the matter, but her hints had
been unmistakable, and she had broached
it several times to her brother, whose
answer, however, had invariably been,
that if Dorinda and Julian really wished
it, well and good, but that no one's
affections should be forced, and that,
therefore, he personally refused to interfere.


'Why,' he naturally asked, 'does not
Julian speak to her himself, like a man, if
he wishes to marry her?'

Oh, Jasper !' exclaimed Henrietta.
You know how shy, how rough he is !
But I am sure he wishes it, for he told

me so ; and I think Dorinda likes
him;

'Well, well,' said Sir Jasper, rather
irritably, ' they must settle it between
themselves ! I don't understand the
young people of the present day.'

Dorinda, meanwhile, seeing there was a
hitch, kept her eyes and ears open, and
managed cleverly to overhear the above
conversation.

I never saw such a set of slow, cold-blooded
simpletons !' she thought ; ' always
beating about the bush and doing
nothing. Heigho ! I like a lover with
some character,  some passion in him. I
wish poor Edward Julian had been the
heir ! He knew what he wanted, and
let others know it. (By-the-by, I wonder

why I have not received the promised
letter ; it is very strange !) Julian Edward
is a timorous idiot !'

In spite, however, of these slight
drawbacks, Dorinda had the satisfaction
of knowing she had made herself indispensable
to all the De Broke family. She
helped Henrietta patiently with her
schools and poor people, and worked
for her bazaars ; she knitted socks and
mittens for Julian,  while he rowed heron
the lake ; and she wrote letters for
Sir Jasper, and would often give up her
drive, or any croquet-party, to walk outwith,
or be of any use to him; and
she might now constantly be seen
guiding the blind man's footsteps in
the Park, while he lightly rested his

hand upon her girlish shoulder. So the
neighbours and poor people alike expected
every day to hear the announcement
of the betrothal of ' Mr. Julian and
the pretty Miss Stratton.'

One day, while Sir Jasper and Dorinda
were walking thus together, they met the
postman, (a dilapidated old individual,
to whom it was pain and grief, in non-official
moments, to put one foot before
the other, and who, we may suppose,
for this reason only, had been elected
to fill a post which necessitated his
walking an inconceivable number of miles
in the shortest space of time).

I see the postman coming,' said
Dorinda.

'Stop him, then,' answered Sir Jasper,

and see if he has any letters of importance.'


Dorinda obeyed. There were two or
three letters for Sir Jasper, of which, at
his request, she read him the postmark ;
some for members of his household, and
two for herself. One was from her
mother, and the other was from her
lover ! It was the long-expected letter.
Hastily she thrust it into her bosom,
where it lay, she thought, feeling like
lead; and then, with praiseworthy coolness,
opened the maternal epistle, and amused
her companion by little extracts of gossip
in which it abounded. They now
continued their walk, and truly to our
poor heroine it appeared a journey
without an end, for an agony of

impatience to open her letter devoured
her.

At last they returned home, and Dorinda
ran hurriedly upstairs into her
room, locked the door, and tore open
the letter.

Dear one,' (it began),

You must have thought me
either killed or drowned ;' (' No such luck,'
muttered the ' dear one') ' but I did
write, darling, as I promised, and gave
it to the pilot as he left the ship, so
that you should get the very last accounts
of me. Many of the passengers did the
same ; and, as we were all watching the
boat being quickly rowed to shore, it
suddenly ran foul of another, and capsized,

and in a moment the poor pilot and
two or three others were in the water,
swimming for dear life ! We saw the
men safely picked up, but they signalled
that all letters where lost ; so that
is why you didn't hear. To-day a 
is in sight, and we are all
scribbling like so many shorthand writers
to " the old folks at home." Oh, Dorinda,
don't forget me!' (' Xo fear!' thought
she.) ' I am so miserable ; but the
thought of you comforts me. I will work
hard, like a slave, for you ; and do, dear,
tell Sir Jasper and my brother of our
engagement, for, now that I have really
started, my uncle will see I am in
earnest, and Julian will love you for my
sake.' ('I had rather he did so for his

VOL. I. N

own,' said the reader.) 'And, Dorinda,
I did not tell you, before I started, what
I meant to do  it might have distressed
you  but I will tell you now, as a
proof of my love : I am working my
way out like a common sailor; for I
would not ask my uncle to give me my
passage-money, and poor Julian could not
afford to do so. But I am very jolly,
so don't worry yourself about me. The
sailors are all very good fellows, though
rough, and it won't last very long. Oh,
Dorinda ! be true to me, and 1 shall yet
be a good, honourable man.'

Many fond and foolish words were
added by the poor boy, but Dorinda felt
no softness, no compunction, no sentiment,
but one of vindictive resentment against
him, who she considered the cause of

her present dilemma,  until lie read the
postscript, and that filled her with unutterable
alarm.

Pes.  Why should I not write myself to
Sir Jasper ? It will be more manly, and, as
I know you wish our engagement made
public, I will write to him by the next
ship we speak with ; I hear one or two
homeward-bound ships are likely soon to
pass T\dthin hail. I will open my heart
to him, for he is a gentleman and truehearted.
You can tell my bro '

Here the letter hurriedly finished off,
but these last lines terrified Dorinda.

Oh !' she thought, ' if he should write to
Sir Jasper, all will be over about my
marrying the heir. What shall I do ?'

After a little thought, she whispered to
herself,

n2

1 know ! this coming letter must he got rid

off

From henceforth our heroine anxiously

watched for the postman's advent. He
came three times a week, early in the
morning, and on these mornings she took
care to be downstairs before either Henrietta
or Bruin, so as to see the letters
directly they arrived.

One day the footman brought them in,
and giving Dorinda one (from her dressmaker)
he placed the others, as usual, upon
the sideboard, and after fidgeting about,
setting chairs and footstools, &c., at last he
left the room, and Dorinda, literally fevered
by anxiety lest Henrietta should appear,
sprang to the sideboard :

Yes ! there it lay, amid many others ; 

the dreadful  dreadful letter, addressed to
Sir Jasper in her lover's handwriting !

Quick as thought, and fancying in her
nervousness that she heard approaching
footsteps, she seized the obnoxious and
terrifying missive, and threw it on the
fire, watching it eagerly till it was consumed,
 but not quite,  for one shred of
paper obstinately refused to burn ! It
turned, it twisted, it curled, it blistered,
but  burn, it would not ! and, as Dorinda
gazed at it with some agitation, she
deciphered upon it the words, ' As God is

true ' The rebellious atom had now

become detached from its smouldering
ashes, and, apparently rejoicing in its freedom,
like a spirit emancipated from the
body, it flew hither and thither, till a tiny

current of air wliiskecl it up into the huge
chimney; and, when Dorinda thought it
must have been destroyed, it reappeared,
slowly sinking, down  down, on to the
marble slab beneath the old-fashioned dogs,
with the words, ' As God is true !' ever
uppermost !

Dorinda now threw herself on her
knees before the fire, seizing the tongs ;
but the moment they touched the paper
away it flew again !  this time foolishly
fluttering between two logs of wood,  from
beneath which leapt up a sly tongue of
flame, consuming the poor scrap,  but not
altogether, for ' God is ' remained intact ;
and, as these solemn words looked out at
the baffled girl, they reminded her
curiously and unpleasantly of a certain

writing on the Wall!' but, with an
angry exclamation at her own superstition,
she stealthily abstracted her knitting-needle
from her pocket, and, with the same
caution as though she were watching her
opportunity to stab a living enemy, she
swiftly and suddenly endeavoured to pierce
the offending and hitherto victorious
fragment, intending; to consign it to the
flames. But once more it eluded her, being
blown mysteriously quite out of her reach,
on to the back of the old chimney's
enormous throat, the words ' God is '
meanwhile shining out in sharp relief from
their sooty surroundings ; and there, to
Dorinda's great uneasiness, they remained,
long after the meal had begun,  a terror
to her, because she, and all like her, know

the ' fear where no fear is.' Oh ! Dorinda,
no task-master, no slave-driver is half as
cruel, half as tormenting, as the terror
born of a guilty conscience !

While our heroine was still upon her
knees before the fire (striving as many
have before her  and as fruitlessly  to exterminate
the * God is ') she felt a hand
upon her shoulder, and Miss de Broke's
gabble-gabble sounded in her ear.

How now, Dorinda ! You look like a
Cinderella amongst the ashes ! Dear
child! surely you are not cold! I only
have the fire in the morning (and of evenings
sometimes) as it looks cheerful ; but
remember  it is summer !'

Oh ! I am not cold, Miss de Broke,*
answered the girl, slightly taken aback,

*but  but I had dropped my knitting-needle
 so unlucky !  into the fire-place,
as I passed, and I was looking for it 
but ; here it is  !' and rising laughingly,
(but with a furtive glance at the immovable
piece of paper, and wondering that
Miss de Broke did not at once remark it !)
she took her place at the breakfast table.

In a few minutes Bruin, and lastly Sir
Jasper appeared, and the conversation
become general. Dorinda's chair was T\dth
its back to the fireplace, and she longed
every now and then, but dared not, to look
round and see if the writing were still
visible.

Dorinda was too upset at the thought
of the burnt letter, too anxious about
the possible effects of her act, to

eat ; so she felt  and looked  ill and unhappy.


Henrietta remarked the pale face and
heavy eyes of her protegee and was full of
solicitude ; and, when Sir Jasper heard that
she complained of a headache, he was
grieved, and anxious that remedies should
be used.

This is my opportunity !' thought
Dorinda ; ' for things must come to a
crisis, and the sooner the better ! With
good management I may be married and
settled long before the beggar' (as she
styled her first love) ' knows anything
about it, and, when once I am the heir's
wife, they can't unmarry me ; and for their
own sakes they will make the best of the
bargain ! After the marriage it will do

Edward Julian no possible good to injure
me, and perhaps he will be good-natured,
and not betray me ! Courage ! up and at
them !'

These thoughts coursed rapidly through
her mind, as she was apparently toying
with her teaspoon,  looking delicate and
very sad. At last she turned affectionately
to Henrietta and said, (her voice
trembling xith. emotion,)

'Dear, kind Miss de Broke, I cannot
any longer hide from you the cause of
my sorrow. I have had a letter from
my mother, desiring me to return and
take her place at home, for my father
is too ill to move at present, so I must
go to-day, or certainly tomorrow. I am
very unhappy !'

She stopped abruptly, as though
overcome ; then, mastering herself, continued
:

You have all been so good to me *

But she could say no more, and,
covering her eyes with her hand, she
watched narrowly the effect of her words
upon her hearers.

Sir Jasper expressed great regret ; but,
to her surprise and disappointment, did
not press her to stay ! Bruin choked
himself with his tea,  turned very red, 
coughed explosively, and  left the room,
apparently in convulsions ; but, whether
his discomfort arose from physical causes
or mental distress, Dorinda was doubtful.
Henrietta, with her usual openness, left
no one in doubt as to her sentiments.

In one moment Niobe was a joke to her !
and after embracing Dorinda effusively
(dropping tears like hailstones into that
damsel's tea, to her infinite disgust) she
rolled unsteadily from the room, her
emotion causing her to take a slanting
direction. ' Like a te-to-tum,' thought
Dorinda, ' as it is about to drop ;' and
so struck was she by the resemblance,
that she positively expected to hear the
poor lady fall, when outside the door,
and roll about on the floor, as a well-regulated,
but exhausted te-to-tum would.
That catastrophe, however, did not take
place, for Miss de Broke was heard noisily
moaning as she ascended the stairs, and
to slam her door with broken-hearted
violence.

CHAPTER XIII.

Vouchsafe to wear this ring !
Look how this ring encompassed thy finger,
Even so thy breast enclosed my poor heart ;
Wear both of them ; for both of them are thine.

Shakespeare.

S soon as our heroine was alone
with Sir Jasper, she rose, and
putting her hand gently on

his arm, she said :

Dear Sir Jasper, I can never say one
half of what I feel about your kindness tome,

ever since I came under your roof.
Indeed, I have not the heart to try ;
but you \dll believe in my sorrow at
leaving you, and how  how I love you
all;

She waited for an answer, but none
came. Chilled and disappointed, she said,
after a pause :

T must leave you now, to make arrangements
; besides, I must follow jour
dear sister, who seems to feel my departure
so very deeply.'

She would have taken her hand off his
arm, but he put out his, and for a moment
detained it ; then  said nothing,  and let
it go.

'How strange!' thought Dorinda. 'I
really thought he cared for me a little,'

and with a nearer approach to pain than
she had thought herself capable of, she
left the room and going up into Henrietta's
boudoir found that lady lying upon
the sofa, looking very tumbled, crying
hysterically, and blowing her nose sonorously
!

Henrietta did not look engaging in
grief, for one of her peculiarities was, that
when she wept she turned salmon-colour
all over; and as Dorinda stood looking
down upon her friend, the pink flush
beneath the sandy hair was identical with
the complexion of a blonde baby porker,
whose acquaintance she had made a few
days previously.

At this moment Miss de Broke held a
beautiful gold bracelet in her hand, and

as lie clasped it upon Dorinda's slender
wrist, she gabbled out tearfully :

Ta  take it, did  did  dear Dorinda !
It cock  cock  cost, twenty-five pou 
pounds, and ' ( with a fresh burst of
grief) ' I'm so sorry you're gog  gog 
going!'

Dorinda tried hard to soothe the weeping
Henrietta, and partially succeeding,
she left her to make necessary arrangements
for her impending departure.
Upon entering her chamber, she threw
herself wearily into a chair, wondering
whether her last stroke of diplomacy had in
any way furthered her cause.

For quite an hour she remained immersed
in thought ; then  there was a startling
knock at her door, and Henrietta

VOL. I. o

burst into the room, embraced her excitedly
and said :



*Sir Jasper wishes to speak with you,
dear,  and alone !' Then she added mysteriously,
*and Julian will be awaiting you
afterwards in the music-room,  and don't
be cruel, dear !'

At these words Dorinda's heart bounded
with joyful expectation, and returning
Henrietta's embrace, she said with well-feigned
surprise :

Sir Jasper wants to see me ! What
can he have to say to me ! I will go at
once !' and as she ran lightly downstairs
she murmured to herself: 'At last! at
last !'

She found Sir Jasper awaiting her in his
own private room, sitting in the Royal

chair,  looking, as usual,  dignified and
handsome. ' But  how very pale !' she
thought. Then with the gentle familiarity
with which she was now wont to accost
him, she put her hand on his arm, and said
in her silvery voice :

Behold me ! Dorinda Stratton  your
servant ! Sir Jasper de Broke, do you wish
to see me?'

'Ah!' exclaimed the blind man, feelingly,
' if 1 only could P Then taking her hand
off his arm, and drawing her gently
towards him, he said seriously :

But come and sit by me, Dorinda,
for I have something of great importance
to say to you,  a very momentous question
to ask you. Perhaps I ought to
lead more gradually up to the subject,

o2

but I always think what has to be done,
is best done quickly ; but you, Dorinda.
must answer me with much caution, and
not lightly, not hurriedly, for not only
your future happiness but that of others is
involved in your decision.'

Dorinda was awed by the gravity in
his tone and manner, and she began nervously
to wonder :

Can Edward Julian have written also
to his brother, without my knowing it?
(I did not look at Julian's letters !) Can
Julian have asked Sir Jasper to forgive his
brother for my sake ? and to give his consent
to our starving together ? and is Sir
Jasper going to say " Yes " ? Good Heavens !
I really could not assent to that !'

Sir Jasper said nothing more for a few

minutes, which seemed ages to Dorinda;
then he again broke the silence, speaking
calmly, almost coldly at first ; but, as he
went on, he betrayed such a passion of
earnestness, that our heroine, accustomed
to his more than ordinary placid exterior,
gazed at him in amazement.

Miss Stratton,' he said, ' my sister
has begged me, rather against my better
judgment,  and my old-fashioned prejudices,
 to speak to you on a subject
which she has often pressed upon me before,
but which I shrank from broaching to
you, because  because it seemed so unnatural
for one man to be spokesman for
another upon such a subject ! In my young
days, Miss Stratton, a man (if he was worthy
of the name) wooed the girl he loved himself,

and would have scorned a go-between !
I always held that true love brooks no
interference. Indeed, Miss Stratton,  if I
were young again, and had my sight,  if I
were wooing you  for myself, no one in
earth or Heaven should come between us.
No, Dorinda, I would myself kneel at
your beloved feet, and ' (passionately he
spoke, and vehemently seized her hand)
I would say, " Dorinda, Dorinda ! I love
you with every energy of my soul ! Do
you  can you  will you love me ?" '

As he spoke Sir Jasper involuntarily
pressed Dorinda's hand to his lips, to
his eyes  his poor, sightless eyes ; then
suddenly he seemed to remember something,
 to control himself, and, dropping
the girl's hand with an impatient

sigh, he said, mechanically, as thou oh
repeating a lesson he had learnt by
rote :

Forgive me, Miss Stratton ; what  oh,
what have I been saying ? sly sister begs
me to ask you, and my nephew Julian
also ventures to address you through
me : will you be his wife ? He is my
heir, and a good, steady, honourable
young man. Henrietta says he loves you,
and that she thinks  she hopes  you will
not refuse him.'

Sir Jasper ceased, and listened eagerly
for her answer ; but the girl's whole face,
attitude, and manner had undergone a
change !

At last  at last she had divined the
secret ! At last she knew why Sir Jasper

had dreaded asking her to be Julian's wife!
and in a whisper of infinite tenderness, 
for the first time in her life, feeling stirred
to her inmost soul,  she murmured,

No, Sir Jasper, I cannot marry your
nephew ; I do not love him  and I never
shall;

Then,' continued Sir Jasper, hurriedly,
and with ever-increasing excitement, ' I
may (may I not ?) speak for myself ! Oh,
Dorinda, I have tried to be fair and loyal
with 3'ou both, have I not ? Give me credit
at least for that. But hear me now for
myself  my poor blind self. I love you,
dear, oh ! I love you ! and no one knew it !
I have kept my love locked up here,' taking
Dorinda's trembling hand again, and
crushing it to his breast, * and an unruly

prisoner it was ! God only knows how it
fought and struggled to burst its bonds !
And I thought you loved Julian, Henrietta
said you did ; but, Dorinda, from the first
moment I heard your voice,  your gentle
silvery voice,  I felt that my solitary
years of darkness were at an end, that I
had found my guide,  my light,  my star !
Dorinda, do not keep me in suspense ! speak !
and yet, no ! wait awhile, for how shall I
hear your answer ! and oh God ! how can I
expect you to love a poor blind man ?  to
sacrifice your beautiful young life, for the
sake of becoming a blind man's eyes,  mind,
happiness,  everything ! but, Dorinda, I
must have your answer  so speak. Yes or
no?'

But the girl was too honestly touched todo

SO then. She paused ; then taking his
hand, kissed it tenderly, and her voice
shook as she presently faltered out :

Yes, Sir Jasper, a thousand times yes !
for  for 1 love you /' and at that moment,
as far as her nature could, she really did
love the man at her side, and for a happy
five minutes her wretched home,  her
school-life,  the cheque,  and that dreadful
letter, all  all vanished from her mind,
and she realized nought but the fact that
she was tightly clasped to an honest man's
breast.

Once more she whispered,

Jasper, I love you !'

No more, for his lips were pressed long
and tightly to hers, and after some seconds
of throbbing happiness to them both, he

murmured lovingly in her ear, ' Jour do ma
vie' (which she knew was his motto) and
slipped a ring upon her finger, with those
words enamelled upon it.

After a few moments' happy silence Sir
Jasper said,

And now, sweet heart, we will go and
tell my sister !'

As he spoke, Dorinda awoke, as it
were, from a blissful but ephemeral
dream, and she knew that her troubles,
her lying, her equivocations, were all
about to recommence.

What will she say ? ' burst from her
lips as she clung to Sir Jasper's arm.

Never fear,' he answered, encouragingly
; ' always dare to be true ; and, after all,
what can there be for you to fear?'

A dagger seemed to pierce the girl's
bosom at these words, and she but
faintly returned the pressure of the protecting
arm thrown around her, as Jasper
rose, and placing his hand confidingly on
her shoulder, said,

Always so now ! my guide through
life !'

As they mounted the stairs together
and approached Henrietta's room, Dorinda
lived through years of apprehension,
for she felt intuitively that, much
as that lady would have rejoiced in
welcoming her as her niece, she would
scarcely care to give up her own position
to her protegee which of course, if
all things went well, she would have
to do.

'I am not generally nervous,' thought
the girl, ' but I wonder what on earth
she'll do !'

Miss de Broke, who had been eagerly
waiting for the denouement of her cherished
project, heard the approaching
footsteps, and, running to the door,
opened it ; then, seeing her brother and
his companion enter the room so amicably
together, she cried out excitedly :

'Is it all settled? Where is Julian?
Dorinda will never leave us now !'

'Never!' answered Sir Jasper, solemnly,
' till death us do part ! for, Henrietta
my own dear sister, Dorinda has promised
to be  my wife /'

For once in her life Henrietta was
stricken dumb ! and for about the space

of a minute she looked from one to the
other, with a blank and expressionless
face ; then, in an uncontrollable fit of
anger and disappointment, all the latent
coarse vulgarity of the woman burst
forth.

Dorinda !' she gasped, ' you double-faced,
sly, designing '

Hold !' cried Sir Jasper, authoritatively.
' Henrietta Maria ! In your
own house, to a lady who is your guest !'
Then turning to his pale fiancee he kissed
her hand respectfully, and whispered,
tenderly : ' For my sake, sweet heart,
leave the room.'

Dorinda was only too glad to do so,
for she longed to be alone, to collect
her thoughts, being as much amazed as

Henrietta could be, at the turn things
had taken ; besides, the experience of
being unfairly accused of falsehood and
treachery (and certainly, as far as Sir
Jasper's attachment to her was concerned,
she was innocent as a babe !)
was quite a new experience, and not
altogether an unpleasant one. For the
first time, too, in her life, her heart
had spoken ; and as she threw herself on
the sofa in her bed-room, hiding her face in
the pillows, she recognised something akin
to real love for the noble and simple
nature of this man who loved her ! She
felt a longing to be a good true wife, with
one ever at her side who she could respect
sufficiently to obey ; one to whom she
could be open and truthful  ay ! and one

who (and, as she thought of this, the
blood seemed to course more rapidly
through her veins, and her eyes to fill
with delicious tears !) would perhaps give
her little children, who she would strive
to bring up to be as loyal and faithful as
their father !  but here  the shadow of
another man,  of another life,  intruded
itself on her memory, seeming to darken,
envelope, and choke these good and happy
thoughts.

CHAPTER XIV.

Defer no time, delays have dangerous ends !

Shakespeare.

HEX the brother and sister were
left together in Henrietta's
boudoir, there was at first an
ominous silence between them; then Sir
Jasper spoke.

Henrietta, I am at a loss to comprehend
your most singular behaviour ! I
thought that Miss Stratton was infinitely
VOL. I. p

beloved by you ! x\lso 1 thought, from your
tender kindness of years, that my happiness
was dear to you, and that your great
object in life was the lightening of the
sore burden which God has seen fit to cast

upon me

Jasper,' answered Henrietta, hardly,
so it is, and so, God knows, it has been !
but do you see nothing incongruous, nothing
suspicious in Miss Stratton's excessive
readiness to transfer her affections so
speedily from Julian to yourself?'

Did she ever say she loved Julian ?'
asked Sir Jasper, hastily.

No,' answered Henrietta, truthfully,
for I never asked her ; but it was by her
tacit approval that I endeavoured to
bring about her engagement to him.'

Did you never ask her if she loved
him ?'

No.'

Then how can you say or know she
did?'

Pah ! You men are so blind !' Then
she felt she would have died rather than
have made this apparently unfeeling
speech, so she continued, hurriedly, 'so
easily cheated '

I know, dear, what you mean,' said Sir
Jasper, kindly.

'I know you do, Jasper!' said Henrietta,
now bursting into tears, ' and believe me
that by every means in my power, short
of telling her, I made her understand my
wishes for her marriage with Julian ! Why
did she show no repugnance to it?'

p2

Henrietta, she loved me ; and can you
have no sympathy for the awkwardness of
the girl's position ? She would have died,
no doubt, rather than, by word or hint,
betray her real feelings. Directly I mentioned
Julian's offer, (remember you forced
me to speak to her about it, much against
my will,) she refused him, and then I felt
I was at liberty to speak for myself; for
oh, Henrietta ! I have loved her ever since
the first day she blessed us with her presence
! and if you had only seen her joy,
her surprise, when I told her of my love,
you would have been satisfied of her good
faith;

'Well, Jasper, for your sake I will
say no more, for it is just one of those
cases that one can't put into words ; but

I shall never care for her again, never !'
Sir Jasper looked pained. He was far
too noble, too simple a nature to suspect,
or even to understand that a great element
in his sister's anger consisted in the prospective
fall she would sustain in her
worldly position ; and also, that she would
have to play * second fiddle ' to one who
had been her humble protegee and who had
ever toadied her to the top of her bent ! But
this was not all ; Henrietta's amour procure
was wounded, for she suspected that she
had been made a fool of by Dorinda,
cheated under her very nose ! So she
hated the girl, and felt she always would.

Henrietta,' at last said Sir Jasper,
taking his sister's hand and kissing it
gently ; ' for years you and I have lived

together and loved one another, and all I
had was yours and will be, for I am sure
Dorinda will be the last to wish to separate
us.'

Henrietta was touched with her brother
and kissed his forehead ; but his very
words, meant so kindly, had put crudely
before her that what had been her right
would now be a favour, (if she accepted it,
which she said to herself she would rather
die than do). So once more pressing her
lips to his forehead, she said,

Well, dear, as it seems so far settled
between you, I will go and speak kindly
to her.' And Sir Jasper, not understanding
either of the natures he had to deal
with, augured well from his sister s words,
and for the moment felt supremely happy.

They are both angelic natures in their
different ways,' he thought, 'and our
home will be a patriarchal one ! We will
all live together, I and my dear wife, my
sister and nephews. God has been very
good to me !'

As Dorinda was sitting upon her sofa,
full of hopeful thoughts, some one opened
the door noisily and walked in. It was
Miss de Broke, looking still very red and
dishevelled.

She rolled majestically into the room,
and sat down ; and, as soon as she could
regain her breath, she said, with an air
of travaille dignity :

Miss Stratton.'

Why not " Dorinda !" ' murmured our
heroine.

Miss Stratton,' obstinately repeated
Henrietta.

" Dorinda," you mean,' persisted the
young lady, who had her own share of
obstinacy.

Well  well,' gobbled Henrietta, irritably,
' I come to say that my brother
assures me you have not dealt unfairly 
or '

Stop, Miss de Broke,' cried Dorinda,
 and, before you say more, hear me !
How can you accuse me of entrapping Sir
Jasper (as I suppose that is what you suspect
me of) ? I have lived openly with you
all these months  so how can there have
been anything that you did not see ? How
could I tell you, or anyone, the thoughts
of my inmost soul? I have loved your

brother ever since I saw him, but how
could I act differently from what 1 did ?
'\\ould it have been maidenly,  delicate,
had I put into words your wishes concerning
your nephew and my future,  wishes
which you had, after all, only hinted
at? Wishes too  which I felt I should
reject ! Besides, would you not have
cross-questioned me ? and then  then I
might have betrayed myself? Xo, no !
Be fair  be just, and believe me when I
say that my wildest dreams never suggested
the possibility of my attaining
such happiness as your brother's love !
It came upon me like a sudden flood of
God's blessed sunlight, and, oh ! Henrietta,
I will make him a loving wife, and
you a devoted sister !'

Then, throwing herself into the still-indignant
and unwilling lady's arms,
she wept tears of joy inexpressible.

Henrietta, of course, could say no more,
and, after some kisses and tears on both
sides, Dorinda hoped she had overcome
Henrietta's animosity ; but these hopes,
as we shall see, were not long-lived, nor
destined to bear fruit.

Henrietta now remembered the unfortunate
would-be lover, julian Edward,
who was all this time cooling his heels in
the music-room, wondering what they were
all about, and every moment expecting the
advent of a blushing and conscious Dorinda.
Instead of her, however, his aunt
appeared, and, after giving him a highly-coloured
account of what had occurred, 
interlarding the recital with many imaginary

facts, and accusing Dorinda of having
laid a trap for them, into which thfy
had all fklln pell-mell  she advised the
wrathful young man (who was, of course,
after the manner and justice of }ouri;z
men, quite as irate against the wee pin;;
Henrietta's ' mismanagement ' as r  !
the fair cause of all the hubbub-.1:

up at once, and leaves the Abbe  v, x.,ix
he did; and we are not aware that
Dorinda and the indignant Bruin ever
met again,  except once, as we shall see,
and then accidentally.

Things went on quietly at the Abbey
for some days after these events, but as the
fact gradually impressed itself upon [{: -
rietta that people (the neighbours, servants,
&c.) had already, after the fashion
of the world, begun to worship the

rising sun, and that the French cry of
 Le Roi est mort I Vive le Boh /' was exemplified
in her own case, she felt it bitterly,
being neither noble nor unselfish
enough to join in the cry; and when,
one dreadful day, Dorinda appeared, with
Sir Jasper's royal ring upon her finger
(hat ring containing Charles the Martyr's
hair, which had never been worn,
except by the head of the family since
it had been presented by the ill-fated
monarch to their ancestor, Sir Aubrey de
Broke,  the unhappy woman could bear
it no longer, and, in spite of the gentleness
and submission with which Dorinda
thought it expedient to treat her,
(for the time,) she decided upon leaving
the Abbey at once, knowing that under

such circumstances our heroine must leave
it also, till such time as she should return
as its mistress.

Sir Jasper had to break his sisters
resolve to his fiancee at the same time
asking her tenderly her wishes about
the day of the marriage; and Dorinda
(feeling that now was the time for her
to hurry on events as much as she
decently could, so as to lessen the risk
of unpleasant revelations of any kind
coming between her and her happiness)
with many sighs and tears, and
with her bashful face pressed to his
breast, told Sir Jasper, for the first
time, of her wretched home, and unhappy
childhood; of her hard, cruel
mother, and her drunken and immoral

father ; all of which staggered poor Sir
Jasper, whose most solemn creed (next to
those in the Prayer-book) was embodied
in the expressive words, 'Noblesse obliges

He had long suspected that all was not
as it should be between Dorinda and
her parents, for although he had already
received a few words from Lady 
from abroad, full of gushing joy at
the news (instantly communicated to herby
Dorinda) of her ' beloved child's '
happiness, he had been surprised that
neither she nor Lord Balbirnie had expressed
any intention of coming to England;
but now he understood it; for,
from what Dorinda had just confessed, he
suspected that debts kept them away. So
he determined not to humiliate his fiancee

by asking her any more questions ; and
he was inexpressibly touched by what he
considered her childlike innocence, when
one day as he was urging upon her the necessity
of his going to London to make
settlements upon her, to alter his will for
her sake, &c., (fee, she burst into tears, and,
throwing her soft arms round his neck,
sobbed out:

Jasper ! give me one more proof of
your love, by granting me this favour.
Make no settlements upon me. I want
none. I only want you ! I come to you
a pauper, and I expect no riches  no
grandeur. Let us tell no one our ;
and let us walk to church
together, dear  the church in which I
saw you first !  I in a cotton gown, and

you with your hand on ray shoulder,
guiding you ! and let us be quietly married,
without any preparation  any crowd.
The beadle,' she said, laughing, 'can
give me away ; and you can make settlements
afterwards ;' and she knew he would.
(anything, anything,' she said, nervously,
to herself, 'to get the marriage irrevocably
over')

My own sweet heart,' answered Sir
Jasper. ' It is like you to be so trustful
! And happy am I to find one who
despises pomp and circumstance. I too
have a little confession to make. I am
weak and foolish enough to dread parading
my misfortune before others ; and I
too am anxious to get the marriage over
in our quiet little country church, without

any lookers-on ! And we can only
do this by concealing the day,  and by
its taking place before it has been gossipped
about. So write, dearest, and tell
your parents that I am going to steal
you  almost surreptitiously.'

Dorinda required no second bidding ;
indeed, she had already written to her
mother warning her of the possible danger
of procrastination, and of the chance
(although a remote one) of her inconvenient
lover (number one) turning up,
and ' spoiling the whole thing.'

So Lady Balbirnie had taken the hint,
and wrote by return to Sir Jasper, saying
that her husband's precarious state of
health precluded her return home for
months, and that, 'as, upon principle,'

VOL. I. Q

(how Dorinda laughed when she read this!)
'she objected to long engagements (and
especially so in the present case, for obvious
reasons), she trusted arrangements
might be made for a quiet and a speedy
marriage.' She enclosed a small sum for
the trousseau and finished her epistle
by invoking blessings upon the heads of
all parties concerned in the business,  and
upon Sir Jasper's in particular.

Sir Jasper, seeing, to his great satisfaction,
that everyone's wishes coincided
with his own, and becoming every day
more attached to Dorinda, and anxious
to shield her from the daily petty annoyances
inflicted upon her by Henrietta's
jealousy, decided that the marriage should
take place immediately ; and that instead

of his sister leaving the Abbey at once,
as she vindictively declared she would,
she was, under pain of her brother s lasting
displeasure, to stay there till the day
before the marriage, when she and Dorinda
were to move to the Vicarage (the
Vicar's wife was a great ally of Sir
Jasper's), and stay there that night.
The wedding would then take place the
following day from the Vicarage, the
bride and her husband returning directly
after the ceremony to the Abbey, where
they would spend the honeymoon.

After some difficulty, Henrietta consented,
though with a bad grace ; and,
everything being arranged to Dorinda's
satisfaction, she was on the very threshold
of happiness ; but at times a shadow luoidd

q2

come over her, and she would hear a
voice, ' God deal ivitJi us as we . '
and a hand would seem to draw her
away, as she clung to her future husband's
side.

But she would not hear! She resolutely
closed her eyes and heart to the Past.

Once his wife ! once his wife !' she
muttered, ' and he will forgive me for
his own sake, for he loves me so ; and
it won't be worth Edward Julian while
to wreck his uncle's happiness. And yet
oh, yet ! how will it all end ? I cannot
pray to God for help ! He would not hear
me ! Shall I pray to Fate ?  or to the
Devil ? Shall I call the Devil to my aid ?
Anything  anything, so that I am once
his wife.'

CHAPTER XV.

Oh, that a man might know
The end of this day's business ere it come !
But it suffice that the day will end,
And then the end is known.'

HE eve of the marriage had
arrived, and the young Summer's
first beauties seemed put
forth to welcome the coming festival. This
night Dorinda was to sleep at the Vicarage,
and, having been chafed almost past
bearing and irritated all day by Henrietta's

insolences, as soon as dinner was over, she
put on her hat and hurriedly went out into
the park for a quiet stroll, to wile away
the hour or so, before her departure for
the Vicarage.

 I will take a very short walk,' she
thought, as she started,  and, when I
feel sure Henrietta is upstairs worrying
her maid about her smart gown, I will
creep back, and sit with my beloved
in his own den. In four-and-twenty
hours' time,' she whispered, ' I shall
be Jasper's wife, Lady de Broke, and
a few hours later, T shall have returned
to the Abbey as its mistress ! Oh, how
happy I shall be !'  but she shrank, and
a chill seemed to creep over her, in spite
of the summer weather.  Shall I be

happy ? With such a black secret twined
round and round me like a serpent ? Psha !
Any change would be preferable to my
life before I knew Jasper ! But I shall
not feel safe, I am not safe  really safe,
till his ring is round my finger ; and
yet  there can in reality be no danger
of his return ! Oh ! all my life I will
try to compensate for this deception,
this concealment, by my love  my lifelong
devotion to my husband !'

Just then she came to a small bridge
which stretched across a narrow stream,
and she stood for one moment, watching
the water as it meandered lazily by, and
admiring the reflection of the moon which
trembled on its surface. The bridge was
composed of a single arch, and the rise to

its summit was very steep. Pausing to
regain her breath, she leisurely descended
on the other side, and entered a group of
trees which grew close to the water's edge.
The moonbeams shone brightly between
the branches, clearly marking the pathway
through the wood ; but the shadows
amongst the trees were very deep. Entering
the wood Dorinda stooped to admire
and pick some primroses, when  suddenly
her heart stood still, for she became aware
of a man evidently watching her from
behind a tree.

She was much alarmed, and turning
abruptly, endeavoured tore-gain the bridge.
She did so ; but as she toiled up the steep
pathway, to her dismay a hurried but

firm tread followed  stained upon her. She

&'

quickened her pace, but her strength
failed, her legs refused their office ; then a
hand she knew too well, was roughly laid
upon her shoulder!

She neither screamed nor fainted, nor
did she at first venture to look round ; for
instinctively she knew that what she had
dreaded  what she had schemed against 
what she would have sold her soul to avert,
had come upon her!  That Edward Julian,
her beggar-lover, was by her side !

At first she stood transfixed; then turned
to look piteously in his face, in the wild
hope of mercy ; but there was no mercy
there.

Dorinda,' he said, and his voice was
low and hoarse, * I have been watching for
you all day, and now I have you face to

face, and alone ! Nay, you need not fear.
I am not going to murder you,' (with a
bitter smile). ' Now tell me,' and as he
spoke, his hand involuntarily clutched her
shoulder till she shrank and cried out ;
but he took no notice,  only repeating
roughly,

'Now tell me! Is it true what 1 hear,
that you are on the point of marriage with
Sir Jasper, with my ujicle ? yes or no,'
peering into her face ; ' but, psha !' he pursued,
pushing her violently from him,
why do I ask ? for you'd lie your soul
away  if you have one ! but lying is of no
use now.'

Then, seizing her again by the shoulder,
he stooped down and uttered a word in
her ear. Whereupon she turned upon

him like some hinted animal at bay.

Take your lianci off my shoulder,' she
said, in a savage whisper, ' a better man's
hand than yours has rested there.'

Yes,' he answered, ' and for the last
time ! You little thought,' he added,
mockingly, his eyes glittering like a viper's,
that your quondam lover would return 
just in time  just in time I You thought
he was away, miles away, beyond the sea,
working, poor fool, working for you ! Ay,
and you would have let him work,  die. 
rot out there, before one word from your
sweet lips would have saved him ! Then,
forsooth, you must try "your hand upon
the heir, and you cheated him also ! for it
pleased you better to reign at once. So
you cast your covetous eyes on the poor

blind man, and  Delilah that you are ! 
fooled us all three !'

He paused, gasping for breath, and for
the first time Dorinda remarked that he
looked deadly pale and ill.

Oh, God !' she impiously prayed,
strike him dead ! strike him dead !' then
seeing that he still was silent, apparently
from sheer weakness, and that he must
perforce listen to her words, the unhappy
girl said eagerly : .

Julian ! hear me ! So help me God, I
never tried to win Sir Jasper ; he loved
me all unsought. Oh, Julian ! Julian !
You don't know what a hell is in my
heart ! You don't know my wretched
life! I was ever an ill-used, unhappy
child, educated by blows and harshness,

taught to lie and deceive. Save, oh, save
me from being a broken-hearted, reckless,
miserable woman. Don't  don't betray
me ! for I long so for a Home ! Give me a
chance, and let me lead a good, useful life
a happy life  with a good man. Julian,
you can save me ! Have mercy !'

She threw herself at his feet ; but,
raising her roughly, he said, with a
sneer :

Mercy ! Mercy you ask from me !
Had you mercy when / pleaded for help at
your hands, so that I might begin a new
and honourable life? Did you have mercy
when you let me go  you neither knew nor
cared where  so that I went ? /, too, who
loved what others would have scorned !
Listen, Dorinda ! up to yesterday even I

loved you. for, with all your faults that I
knew of, I thought you were true to me.
When T left you, I travelled day after
day in that dreadful ship, working like a
common sailor ; miserable, friendless, down-hearted,
but with the thought of you and
your love uppermost ! For I looked upon
you as my wife, except in the name. I
was stricken with fever, and I thought,
(indeed they all thoughts I should die, and
never see you again ; and oh ! how I longed
to see your face, to hear your voice, to
feel the touch of your hand ! So I paid
my last shilling to return in a homeward-bound
vessel. Weak and ill I returned,
only yesterday, to my brother, and, oh
ray God ! that I had died before hearing
the shameful story of your falseness ! Dorinda,

you are mine, and you know it ;
but I would not touch your soiled hand in
love again, not to save my unhappy life 
or yours. Nor will I say one word to save
you from the life of baseness and pollution
which such as you must end in.'

Dorinda here made a mute gesture of
supplication, but he went on :

Yes, you have worked and schemed
cleverly to hurry on your marriage, thinking
that, once a good man's wife, you
would be safe. But I am here to save
that good man from the disgrace of calling
a thing like you  wife ! His arms
shall never embrace you, for mine have
done so first; his lips shall never touch
yours, for they are polluted lips ! Your
children shall never own these lands, and

your dishonoured dust shall never defile
the graves of the De Brokess !'

He paused, as though lacking strength
to proceed, and Dorinda would have
spoken ; but, raising his hand imperiously,
he said, in a fainter voice :

One word more. I once told you, in
the heat of my foolish passion, that I had
rather see you dead at my feet than belonging
to another ; but that folly is past.
You may marry  deceive who you like,
I care not ; and my revenge ends here.
Only leave my family untouched, unpolluted
by your presence, and from me
you will have nothing to fear, for the De
Brokess,' (proudly,) 'are all gentlemen where
a woman, (even though she be as base as
you), is concerned !'

He ceased, and as the wretched girl
heard these terrible words, not only of
dead love, but of disgust and contempt,
she felt there was no hope. She had sufficient
knowledge of the character of the
man by her side to be certain that nothing
now could move him.

You mean to betray me, then, to Sir
Jasper?' she said, coldly.

Edward Julian laughed.

I mean to prevent your betraying
him.'

Then,' she said, pointing to the Abbey,
your way lies there. Go, and be the
bearer of sorrow and evil tidings ! I
doubt your welcome. As for me, I will
never darken those beloved doors again.'
Then, turning towards the young man, she

VOL. I. R

said, deliberately, and almost calmly :
And may God's curse go with you
now, and wherever you go !'

Before he could answer, she turned and
left him, striking into the thickest part of
the high ferns and brushwood which grew
to a man's height, and disappearing at
once in the darkness.

Edward Julian stood irresolute for a
moment, but the girl hurried on through
the damp grass, deeper and deeper into
the wood, then sank exhausted upon a
felled tree, while through the stillness of
the summer night she could distinctly
hear the echo of the young man's footsteps,
as he strode hastily towards the
Abbey.

CHAPTER XVI.

By mine honour, I will deal in this
As secretly and justly, as your soul
Should with your body.

Shakespeare.

HE most maddening thoughts
now racked the wretched girl's
brain, and, amid them all, one
grand, calm, noble face stood out clear
and sharp in her imagination, and she
shuddered to think how that face would
look now! After awhile, though 



come by weeping and despair, she tried to
struggle onward, she knew not,  cared not
whither; but presently she heard the sound
of voices, and saw the light of two lanterns,
and, being near enough to hear the conversation,
she gathered that the old
gardener (a trusted and valued friend and
servant of the family) accompanied by his
wife, and with a pony-chair at the rear,
had been sent by Sir Jasper to seek the
unhappy fugitive ; so she cast herself on
the grass, crouching close beneath the
felled trunk, and lay still as death, till
they had passed by, in an agony lest they
should discover her ; for she felt that any
torture would be preferable to that of
returning to the Abbey, and meeting Henrietta's
triumphant glances.

When everything was again quiet, she
raised herself wearily upon the tree-trunk,
and as she sat, she could distinctly see the
old Abbey, and she watched as one by one
the coloured lights, emanating from the
painted glass of the gothic windows, were
extinguished,  those windows which ever
made the building appear church-like and
sacred, and all the more so to her now.
As she looked, she noticed that one solitary
lamp still burned brightly. It was, she
knew, in the music-room ; and she moaned
as she reflected who it was that still
waked and watched, and perhaps wept for
her sake.

At last, feeling chilled to the bone, and
wet through, from the falling dew, she
rose slowly, aching in every limb, and the

thought forced itself upon her, * I cannot
stay out of doors all night ! I will go to
the Vicarage. The Vicar is a man of God,
and therefore ought to be a man of mercy
and pity ! Perhaps he will give me shelter
for the night, and tomorrow I will return
home,' (she shuddered at the word).
'Thank God my father and mother are
away ! I will send for Estelle from the
Abbey.'

As these thoughts passed through her
mind, she approached the Vicarage door 
a door which the Vicar forbad should ever
be locked night or day, so that, he said,
the suffering and outcasts might claim his
help at all hours.

Turning the door-handle, Dorinda entered
the small hall, but upon seeing the

flowers and festive decorations,  preparations
for her marriage the next dav, that
marriage which would now never take
place,  the full misery of her position, and
the utterly hopeless weight of her wretchedness,
seemed more than her heart.  her
brain could bear ; and with one bitter and
despairing cry, which seemed to ring
through the small silent house, and up
into its very rafters, she fell forward upon
her face in a dead faint.

How long she remained unconscious she
never knew  never cared to ask ; but when
she came to herself she was in bed, the
Vicar's wife by her side, in tears, and
holding her hand. She felt too weak, too
powerless even to turn her head, but she
whispered :

'Where am I?  where is Jasper?' and,
the sound of her own words bringing back
with them all the horrors of recollection,
she swooned again.

For days her case was very critical ; she
wandered in her mind, knew no one, and
then became dangerously violent,  would
have strangled herself with her handkerchief,
and, when that danger was averted,
endeavoured to dash her head against the
wall. She constantly and piteously called
out, ' Jasper, Jasper ! I love you, Jasper !
and I have a fire in my head !' and once a
vague misty fancy seized her,  that as she
called out,  a cool tender hand took her
burning one,  a face with dark sad eyes
bent over hers,  that tears fell upon her
face,  refreshing her as a summer shower

would a dying flower withered up by a
pitiless burning sun. Be this as it may,
the feverish outbursts were quelled, but
utter, perilous weakness succeeded. The
blessed fancy, however, never left her, till
gradually it became fainter and fainter,
and everything once more became chaos.

But one day,  one wretched day,  she
became confusedly aware that church bells
were ringing somewhere near, and she
heard a man's voice say :

She "\vill do now  only keep her very
quiet.'

She opened her eyes, and, turning her
head, again saw the Vicar's wife, who came
forward, and, after forbidding her to speak,
put a pencil and a slate at her side. She
took no notice, and for hours obstinately

refused food. Then the Vicar himself appeared
at her bed-side, and warned her
that, unless she ate, she must die.

 Let me die !' she murmured.

Are you prepared to die ?' the goodman
asked.

She made no reply ; but, when the
holy man began to speak gently of
Jesus' tenderness for sinners,  of Hope
for the Future, she shook her head with
a gesture of disgust, and wrote upon the
slate :

No hope for me, but as a gentleman I
require you to keep my story to yourself
as secret as though it were a confession.'


The Vicar bowed and answered,

Your confidence will be respected ; and

I am further empowered by  hj

The girl looked quickly at him, and sat
up, then hiding her face with one fever-wasted
hand, put the other out deprecatingly,
signing to him that she understood
his meaning  but imploring him for mercy's
sake, not to mention the dear name.

I am empowered,' the Vicar continued,
with much gentleness, * to say that the
last few months will be to him as far as
possible (as well as to those in his house)
as though they had never been. Also that
his most sacred endeavour will be to shield
you and your name from harm, and he
prays God to bless and keep you now and
always.'

Dorinda made no answer, but sank back
on her pillow, closing her eyes as though

she heard not ; but one large tear escaped
from the closed and deeply-fringed lid, like
the thunder-drop which heralds a storm 
a storm which by God's mercy broke forth
in an overwhelming shower, relieving the
aching bosom, which was bursting with
pent-up sorrow.

Grateful to see her weep, with a touch
of sympathy upon the unhappy girl's
shoulder, the Vicar left the room, and
his wife re-entered it. After the first
violence of her sobbing was over, Dorinda
lay back motionless; then, suddenly
seizing the slate and pencil, she
wrote,

Thank you for care ; feel much stronger,
but from henceforth will see or speak to
no one but you. I will receive no letters,

will hear no news ; as soon as I am able, I
shall go to London. Send for Es telle from
the Abbey.'

After writing, she sank back exhausted ;
and she kept her resolve, seeing and speaking
to no one, and keeping her eyes
persistently closed. She scarcely moved,
looked ghastly pale, and barely ate enough
to keep body and soul together.

One day Estelle arrived, and approached
Dorinda's bedside. The poor
maid's eyes were swelled with weeping,
and she kissed her mistress's hand, as
it lay pale and thin upon the coverlet.
Dorinda opened her eyes, smiled slightly
at seeing her, and raised herself in bed. She
gave the Frenchwoman some private instructions,
and lay down again, and, upon

leaving her mistress, Estelle quickly put
up the few things that Dorinda had
brought with her, laid others out ready
for her to wear, and quietly left the
Vicarage.

Dorinda, as soon as she was alone,
rose, looked eagerly at the clock, staggered
to the door and locked it ; then,
approaching the looking-glass, she stood
amazed at the change in her appearance.
Looking round, she spied some brandy
which had been placed there during
her illness ; and, with a shaking hand,
she poured out half a wineglass full,
and drank it pure. It seemed to
strengthen her, and she hurriedly dressed,
throwing a large cloak over her, which
completely hid her figure, and covering

her face \dth a thick black lace veil.
Putting a small velvet case in her
pocket, she opened the door, crept downstairs,
and glided unnoticed from the
house.

She passed quickly out of the Vicarage
garden, into the Broke Abbey Park,
fancying that the very deer started
and fled from her, as from an unsettled
and cursed spirit ! She walked on quickly
till she came close to the Abbey, and, seeing
that the carriage was at the door, she
hid herself under the high ferns, and
waited.

She saw Henrietta, looking happy, fat,
and well-liking, roll up the carriage-steps,
and sink placidly amongst the
carriage cushions. Her two nephews

followed her, the eldest looking sullen
and stupid, and the youngest pale and
unhappy.

How little they knew who was crouching
so close, as almost to touch them;
nor who cursed them with bitter curses
as they all three passed.

As soon as the carriage was out of
sight, Dorinda crept round the corner,
to the other side of the house,  still
concealed by the shrubs and ferns,  and
reconnoitered. Suddenly a familiar sound
struck her ear, and, as the tones of the
organ' rose and fell, swelled and subsided,
she whispered to herself :

'I have timed it well. I thought I
should find him alone at this hour ;'
for she knew ivho was the musician,

and a wild, uncontrollable lonmno: had
entered her heart, to be once more alone
with the one being who, for a time,
she had loved as well  and now and
then better  than herself! Ay, and
she loved him then, better than she
knew. (But that knowledge increased as
the years rolled on ! Poor, wretched
Dorinda !)

If, by good luck,' she said to herself,
the window in the music-room,  which
opens to the ground,  is ajar, I shall
obtain my desire.'

So, creeping beneath the lilac and
laburnum-trees, which were in fullest
bloom, and thick enough in foliage to
hide her slender figure, she approached
the window. Oh, joy ! it was open ;

VOL. I. s

and in a moment she was standing inside
the room ! No one, she knew, dared
disturb Sir Jasper while at the organ,
so she sank down in a chair, weak
from illness,  faint from emotion,  and
watched him. Oh, how changed ! how
pale ! how broken he looked ! and, as he
continued playing, the music seemed, to
Dorinda's heated imagination, to weep and
wail out,  Dorinda ! Dorinda ! No hope !
No hope !'

Presently, she stealthily approached the
blind man, whose whole soul seemed to go
out in the chords,  a hand he knew seized
his own,  and, before he could speak, he
felt it pressed by soft clinging lips,  and
bedewed by raining tears.

A ring  his own royal ring  was placed

iijon his finger, then he heard a sob  a cry
of anguish, the rustling of a woman's gown,
hasty footsteps,  and he was alone !

Like a dark phantom Dorinda passed
quickly out of the window, beneath the
lilac-bushes (from which she plucked one
blossom and hid it in her breast), and without
pausing, sped through the park. Passing
through a gate, she found a hired
vehicle, with Estelle awaiting her.

She entered the carriage, and as the
frightened Frenchwoman uttered an exclamation
of dismay at her mistress's wild
appearance, Dorinda said imperiously,
almost savagely,

Don't speak to me, do you hear ? and
take me back to my wretched home !'

Affliction may one day smile again, and till then,
Sit thou down, sorrow.

Shakespeare.

FTER the overwhelming catastrophe
related in our last
chapter, Dorinda went through
sufficient distress of mind, and weakness of
body, to have satisfied the malice of her bitterest
enemies. She kept her bed for many
days (after her return home) and her room
for weeks,  in fact, till her parents' return ;

and after that (to her) unwelcome event,
she sternly refused all companionship ; for
hers was not a home where the comfort of
sympathy would be offered. No, she
knew she would be looked upon by her
family in the same light as a certain
youthful acrobat, whose performance she
had once witnessed, who, while attempting
a difficult flying feat, not only had failed,
but had had the further misfortune
of kicking his instructor's nose in his
flight ! thus brino-ino; discredit on that
worthy's teaching, and personal damage
as well. Dorinda's mother had been her
life-long instructress, so she expected
no sympathy from her ; nor from her
father, for the matter of that ; for both
parents were equally disgusted at not

having got rid of an encumbrance ; and
they also greatly feared that the story of
their daughter's discomfiture would get
about, and bring public dishonour and
ridicule upon them all,  indeed, for sometime
they lived in abject terror lest
something should come out.' But such
natures as theirs, could little understand
the agony of Sir Jasper's wounded affection,
or fathom his fastidious tenderness
for, and care of, the reputation of the
woman he had so loved. By his own
rigid silence upon the subject,  a silence
which, at the risk of his heaviest displeasure,
he enforced upon his family and
household,  the story was but a nine
da's' wonder, never quite understood, and
quickly forgotten ; so that, to the surprise

of her parents, nothing ever did 'come
out ' ; and once more Lady Balbirnie had
reason to confess that Dorinda had cleverly
 wriggled ' out of this scrape also !

After Dorinda's recovery, she underwent
one stormy interview with her mother,
which culminated in Lady Balbirnie's
coming to two decisions. The first being
that she should at once discharge the
French maid Estelle, as an uselessly expensive
luxury ; and the second, that she
would keep her daughter at home a little
longer, and give her one more chance.

The discharge of her maid was a great
trouble to Dorinda. There had been perfect
confidence between her and Estelle ;
begun at first on both sides from interest,
and increased by habit. Both mistress

and maid were, alas ! unscrupulous and
unprincipled ; but the dominant passion
in Estelle's bosom was love for, and admiration
of, her beautiful mistress ; and,
in spite of her many shortcomings, the
poor maid had a warm and steadfast heart.
She had gloried in Dorinda's beauty and
successes, and had often helped to bring
about the latter; she had also seen her
through her great sorrow at Broke Abbey
indeed, at that time, she alone had had
it in her power to show sympathy to
the unhappy girl (who fiercely rejected
it) ; and, dien Lady Balbirnie discharged
her, Estelle's grief was very real ; and the
day she left, and for weeks after, she was
haunted by the last sight she had had
of the beautiful face, defiantly miserable,

which gazed out after her from the garret-window,
with eyes that glared like living
coals, quenching any tears which might
have refreshed them.

Ay ! and as the poor, erring Frenchwoman
wended her dusty way to the
station (she never forgot the circumstance),
she met two blackguards, Italian
cowards, leading a muzzled bear between
them (no larger than a big dog), which,
in their mean and beggarly cruelty, they
belaboured with sticks, while the beast,
in its hopeless and passionate rage, growled
out its hate and contempt of its persecutors,
and tore up the ground in its pathetic
despair !

Estelle, seeing the beast, loved it  understanding
and respecting the dignity of its

untameable nature  doubly grand, because
coupled with wretched helplessness ; besides,
in its defiant and courageous misery,
she saw a type of her unhappy mistress !
So she sat under a hedge as the two brutes
and the Bear passed her by  and wept 
and was late for the train !

During the one discussion which took
place between Dorinda and her mother,
the former discovered that in her once
callous heart, she experienced some secretly
gentle tendencies, which, if indulged
in, would prove traitors to her advancement
in life ; so she set to work at once,
and ruthlessly,  remorselessly,  stamped
them out (or thought she did), much
as history of nearly two hundred years
ago tells us, a certain royal favourite

crushed a once-beloved,  still-beautiful, 
but now dead Face, beneath her meretricious
high-heeled shoe !

Other tendencies less unnerving, and
more useful, our heroine determined to
foster and develop ; so for nearly three
years (during which time she considered it
expedient to remain perdue) she untiringly
cultivated her many talents and accomplishments.


During this retirement, she made but
one acquaintance, which, however, quickly
ripened (at all events upon one side) into
real friendship.

A young married lady, called Lady
Olive Ramsay, was one day walking with
her husband and baby-girl beneath the
trees of Richmond Park. The child (between
two and three years old) was in

high glee, chasing a ball which her father
was throwing on in front, and, seeing no
obstacle in his way, Mr. Ramsay had just
launched the ball amongst some shrubs,
when a lady emerged therefrom, holding
her handkerchief up to her face, having
evidently received the missile upon her
forehead. Apologies were tendered, which
were laughingly received by Dorinda (for
it was she), and the two ladies, who had
known one another by name, and by sight,
for long, improved the occasion, and ended
by becoming intimately acquainted.

Mr. and Lady Olive Ramsay were at
this time residing at the latter's pretty
house on the Thames, called Riverstairs,
which was situated close to Falcon's Rest,
the beautiful property of Mr. Ramsay's

parents, Lord and Lady Glenalmond. The
gardens of both houses lay side by side,
each having a hanging terrace over the
river, and there was a door of communication
between the two, ' whereby hung a
tale,' for the said door had been formed
during the happy days when Ion Ramsay
and Olive Roslyon were lovers, by the
breaking through of the old, ivy-clad,
high brick wall, which the young people
had decided should no longer divide
them.

Both Falcon's Rest and Riverstairs were
but a short distance from the ill-kept,
vulgar suburban \dlla inhabited by the
ruined gamester and his wife, Lord and
Lady Balbirnie ; and Olive's heart had
often ached at the sioht of the beautiful

CD

and solitary girl whose pale face and
swollen eyes told their own story of
sorrow and neglect.

Little by little, after their accidentally-formed
acquaintance, Olive's ready sympathy
encouraged Dorinda to confess to
her new friend, the wretchedness of her
home ; and no doubt Olive's kindness of
heart and cheerful companionship would
have considerably lightened the weight of
Dorinda's troubles ;  besides, who knows
what the wholesome friendship of a true,
good woman might not have been to the
unhappy friendless girl at that moment !
But it was not to be, for a change came
over Olive's circumstances, which we will
proceed to relate.

Mr. Ramsay's health began to fail, and.

with a cold, nameless dread, Lady Olive
heard the doctor inquire into the medical
history of the young man's family, whether
any of his blood relations were, or had
been, afflicted With pulmonary disease?

Alas ! yes. His mother's sister, also his
eldest brother, and his brother's young:
wife (who also was a cousin), had all died
of the insidious malady.

The doctor received these revelations
with a serious face, and begged for further
advice. An eminent physician and subsequently
a specialist were called in, and
they all agreed that the young man must
start at once for Italy, which he did, accompanied
by his sorrowing wife ; and for
the present Dorinda saw Olive no more.

Lord and Lady Glenalmond were a cold,

proud pair, steeped to the lips in the
sense of their own dignity, and in a selfish
indifference to the feelings of those around
them. They rejoiced in an old title, and
in great wealth, both of which facts they
carefully impressed, by word and action,
upon all with whom they came in contact.
Lord Glenalmond possessed magnificent
estates, and an ancient castle in the Highlands
; and he had married a Miss Rose-mount
 a beauty, and a great heiress of
lands, also in the Highlands,  and she was
in every way as proud of her family and
pedigree as Lord Glenalmond was of his.
From their early youth both had lived

ml m

entirely in the north (hence their unmitigated
brogue, of which they were vastly
proud). Both had become orphans in

their earliest youth, and, both beings rich,
everyone about them had conspired to
toady them, and ruin their natures.

After marriage they continued to live
among their own people, who respected
their wealth, their grandeur, and their
passionless respectability ;  flattered them
to the top of their bent,  and heartily
hated them.

Being now in the sere and yellow leaf.
Lord Glenalmond had discovered that he
could neither shoot nor fish as he once
could, while my-lady, having married all
her daughters, had no one now living with
her, who it was any amusement to bully
or browbeat ; so, to tell the truth, the two
old people had become rather bored,  somewhat
overfilled with each other's company ;

VOL. i. T

they therefore decided to leave Scotland,
and live for a while, at all events, at
Falcon's Rest,  their lovely place on the
Thames, where they would see more people
than in the Highlands ;  and it was in consequence
of this move, that their second
son, Ion, became acquainted with the
pretty Olive Roslyon, whose mother's
place ' marched ' with the Falcon's Rest
property.

Lord and Lady Glenalmond, although
not relations, were curiously alike in appearance,
both being tall, angular, and
bony. Both had eyes set close to each
other, both had cruel, aquiline noses and
thin lips. The principal difference between
the faces was that, whereas my-lord's
eyes were the very palest blue, like a

vulture's, my-lady's were piercingly black,

like an eagle's, and when she was in a
stern mood, (which she generally was), her
brows would meet in a straight line over
her nose, and the eyes would apparently
contract, getting closer and closer, till, to
the alarmed observer, they appeared to
meet, and become one eye instead of two I
Whether they really did so, or whether it
was only an optical delusion caused by
the awe the lady inspired, her ladyship's
dependants dared not look long enough
to decide.

Lord Glenalmond invariably wore a
skull-cap of some black material ; and vulgarians
(like the traditional fool, that
rushes in where angels fear to tread)
whispered that his lordship was  bald I Xo

T 2

one, however, bat his lordship's valet
could be certain of the fact, and it was too
sacred and awful a subject to be meddled
with.

Lady Glenalmond's hair was snowy white,
and the contrast between it and her black
eyes and eyebrows, was terrifying in the
extreme  especially to children.

This amiable couple had had a family of
three daughters (all married, luckily for
them, and ' wa !') and two sons, both of
whom (as we stated above) were attacked
and eventually carried oiF by the pitiless
disease  consumption. The elder son
Lord Ramsay and his wife (a first cousin)
both died, (being yet young,) leaving a
large family of sons and one daughter.
The second son, Ion Ramsay, married Olive

Roslyon, and it was always supposed that
any little parental feeling which Lord and
Lady Glenalmond possessed was centred in
their younger son ; anyhow, one would have
supposed, that, after losing one son, the
survivor would have been doubly precious
to them, but this was not their way.
They had ever been hard and overbearing 
in their natures, and remained so, both to
their children, and to their children's
children ; and, although Ion survived his
brother for some years, they never became
one whit more gentle towards him, nor
more anxious to make his life happy.

Lord Ramsay died a few months after
his wife, leaving his sons, and his lovely
little Leonora to his parents' care,
writing a touching letter to his mother

recommending them to her tenderness (?)
and parental care. The old people, however,
were not in the least touched, and
were overwhelmed with indignation at
the dead man's bad taste and want of tact
first, in dying so inconveniently, when he
had such a large family of young children,
and last, not least, at his leaving the said
family under their charge. Consequently
they were adamantine in their treatment
of the hapless orphans, and only anxious
to bring them up on as little money
and as little love as it was possible for
young bodies and hearts to live upon.
The boys were scattered hither and thitherto
cheap (and generally nasty) schools,
and the little Leonora was packed off at
once to a pensionnat at Versailles, and was

never allowed to return, even for the
holidays.

One day (Ion and Olive were living
happily together at Riverstairs  which had
recently become Olive's own property)
Lady Glenalmond sent hurriedly for her
son, to break to him, with expressions of
the bitterest annoyance, that an intimation
had arrived from Versailles, stating
that Leonora's school-mistress had died
suddenly ; that the school was broken up ;
and that Leonora Ramsay, (then sixteen
years of age,) must leave Versailles at
once, and be consigned to the care of her
nearest relations.

As if the bare fact of this disastrous
news were not calamitous enough, in itself,
in the eyes of her grand-parents,

the unwelcome young lady actually arrived,
almost as soon as the disquieting
notice !

Ion chanced to be present at the moment
of Leonora's arrival, and was shocked
and disgusted at the poor child's reception
; for Lord and Lady Glenalmond were
at no pains to conceal their contemptuous
aggravation, when the girl, (not being versed
in the ' repose which stamps the caste of
Vere de Vere,' and further, feeling hungry,
tired from the long and hurried journey,
and grieved to the heart at the loss of
the kind lady who for so many years
had been her teacher, friend, and almost
mother,) sank weeping upon a chair,
and then anxiously,  inquiringly,  looked
round to see what manner of people

her relations must be to receive lier thus
coldly.

She was quite old enough now, to resent
the neglect of the last ten years ; and
when the realisation of it was forced upon
her by the contrast between the grandeur
of Falcon's Rest and its establishment,
and the niggardly,  often disputed,  and
openly grudged payments, which arrived
quarterly at Versailles for her ' board and
keep,' she felt bitterly indignant, and angry
with herself for betraying any emotion ;
so, quickly gulping down her sobs, she
rose proudly from her seat, and, without
vouchsafing a word to her grand-parents,
exclaimed, (addressing no one in particular
:)

So this is Falcon's Rest ! One would

hardly believe, from my reception, that I
was one of the brood.' Then, motioning
haughtily to a domestic to show her her
apartments, she flounced from the room,
looking alarmingly ferocious. But, as soon
as she was alone, she again broke down,
and, shedding bitter tears, vowed (for she
had a high spirit, albeit a tender one)
to ' hold her own, by fair means or by
foul.'

She became softened, however, in a few
minutes ; for as she lay sobbing dismally,
with her head buried in the pillows of her
strange bed, she felt an arm thrown round
her, and heard caressing whispers in her
ear, and, on looking up, she saw her young
uncle Ion Ramsay by her side. He had

followed her to her room, and soon soothed
the angry girl's outraged feelings by assuring
her that in him and his Olive she
would find two staunch and sympathising
friends.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON: PRINTED BY DUNCAN . Mcdonald, BLENHEIM House.



.

wei

t.

SM

M

OF THE
U N Diversity
or 

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

  AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

c o*: 

m

L161 O-1096

VOL. II.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://ww\A/.archive.org/details/dorinda02muns

BY

THE COUNTESS OF MUNSTER

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

LONDON :

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1889.

All Rights Reserved.

Deronda.

CHAPTER I.

Honour widows that are widows indeed.'

Ox after Leonora's arrival, and
just as she had begun to love
Olive with all the warmth of
her fresh young heart, the fiat went forth
that, at all events for awhile, the happy
home, pretty Riverstairs, must be forsaken ;
and Mr. Ramsay and his wife started hurriedly
for Italy, reluctantly leaving their
VOL. n. B

little girl behind, under the charge of an
old nurse, who had been provided by-lady
Glenalmond, much against Olive's
will, whose ideas as to the management
of a little girl, (delicate from her
birth,) differed widely from those of the
stern old grandmother, whose method
was to ' drag up ' children, instead of
bringing them up. But poor Olive, at
the moment of her departure, was too
overwhelmed by grief about her husband,
too crushed by fears, to combat
the old lady's will,  a will always much
stronger than anyone else's ! besides, she
dreaded any unseemly outbreak of Lady
Glenalmond's bitter temper, just at the
moment when Ion should be spared all
annoyance. So there was nothing for

it but to submit; but Olive's anxieties
and distress were doubled at the thoughts
of the possible want of tenderness which
her little iona mioht have to undergo for
the next few months.

iona never saw her father again,
for he died in Italy, and Olive returned
alone in a yacht which had
been sent to Leghorn by her father,
to bring; the young: widow home to her
child.

During; the last few weeks of Ion's
illness, knowing perfectly the hopelessness
of his state, his one object had been
to office his beloved wife's future, and to
warn her of the difficulties which he
foresaw would beset her path. He impressed
upon her (while recounting the

B 2

hard measure dealt out by his parents
to his brother's orphan children) how he
wished her to help and befriend Leonora ;
and Olive assured him that she should
ever be to her a sacred charge.

Oh, my love !' he said one day to
the weeping Olive. ' How I thank God
that you, from your own fortune, are
independent of everyone. But remember,
darling, that my poor father and mother
will not love you the more, for being the
mother of a little daughter, who will,
in right of her father, be the prospective
heiress to my mother's lovely Highland
home, Cairnloch ;  and, Olive !' he added,
with much solemnity, and with tears in
his eyes, * mind my words ! Let no
worldly consideration for the child's

supposed benefit, induce you to part
with iona ! Bring her up at your own
side.'

'Darling, where, and to whom could
1 entrust her?' exclaimed Olive, deeply
distressed. ' hy, she will be my only
treasure, when you,  my stay,  my support,
 my blessing, have left me !' and,
casting herself on her knees by his bedside,
the weeping y\fe so soon to be a
widow, hid her face on the manly heart
which, she knew  alas ! would ere long
cease to beat !

This latter hint of her dying husband
Olive scarcely took in at the moment he
made it ; but the day soon came when his
words forced themselves upon her memory,
and she felt forewarned and forearmed.

After Ion Ramsay's death, and after he
had been laid to his rest in the Italian
churchyard, Olive wended her widowed
way back to Riverstairs ; and, as she
n eared the place she loved so well,
she felt she would have given almost
everything she possessed,  have made almost
any sacrifice,  to obtain the love of
her dead husband's parents ; and when
she drove up to the familiar doorway,
she experienced a sort of wild hope
that Lady Glenalmond would, perhaps,
have taken the little trouble to meet
and welcome her on her return to her
all but desolate home ; for,  as there was
a door of communication between the gardens,
 it would (Olive thought) have been
such a small exertion on her mother-in-law's

part !  such a feasible sign of sympathy
!  but one which would have given
her (Olive) such an enormous amount of
pleasure.

But that was not the old lady's way.
Indeed, it would never have entered her
head to perform so gracious, so tender an
act ! And Olive tried hard, as she entered
the house, to think she did not
expect it ; but she did not realize how
she had built upon the hope, till she
experienced the disappointment ; for, of
course, Lady Glenalmond was not there!

Olive's feeling of pain at her mother-in-law's
neglect soon, however, gave way to
one of supreme delight, when her little
iona sprang into her arms looking welland
happy.

The nurse, who accompanied the child,
and who Olive had scarcely noticed at the
dreadful moment of lier departure for
Italy, was by no means of a prepossessing
appearance. She was a fat, forbidding
looking female, with a red face, a deep
voice, and enormous hands, and rejoiced
in the name of ' Drax ;' but Olive, in spite
of the antipathy she at once conceived for
her, being anxious to conciliate Lady Glen-almond,
decided to give the woman a
fair trial ; so she smiled kindly at her, as
she made a profound curtsey, and murmured
a few gracious words ; but she
could not avoid seeing the jealous annoyance
in the nurse's face when the little
maid Rosa (who had lived at Riverstairs
ever since iona's birth) sprang forward, at

seeing; her mistress,  clasped her hand, 
and covered it hath. tears and kisses.

This was the first warm home-greeting
Olive had received from anyone (iona's
kiss excepted), and she never forgot it,
and, after an affectionate recognition of
the girl's sympathy, she turned to Drax,
and asked after Lord and Lady Glendale
and were they at Falcon's Rest ?

Yes, my lady,' answered Drax, ' they
are quite well, and Lady Leonora is staying
there, with her ladyship, and she
wishes to come and see your ladyship '

Which ?' asked Olive, faintly. ' Lady
Glenalmond, or Lady Leonora?'

Lady Leonora, my lady ; she would
like to come this evening.'

Oh !' answered Olive, ' I shall be very,

very glad to see Lady Leonora, or Lady
Glenalmond, but I cannot see anyone this
evening, I am so very tired, and tomorrow
the duke  my father comes. I will write
to Lady Leonora.'

In spite of Olive's wish for rest, and fora
quiet few hours with her little girl,
Leonora would not, could not keep away,
and after the first sad meeting was over,
Olive felt pleased she had come ; but the
girl told her many things about her grandparents,
which did not tend to put the
latter in an amiable light, or to encourage
Olive's hopes of gaining their affection.

'My eldest brother, Ramsay,' said
Leonora, ' came to see me soon after you
left for Italy ; he is just of age, and independent
(luckily for him) of the old

people ; and he was very angry to hear of
their reception of me, and settled a large
allowance upon me ; but he says I can't
live with him till he marries, which he
seems in no hurry to do ; so here I am
still ! and oh, I am so glad to see you,
dear, dear Olive ! and Ramsay sent his
love, and he is so sorry, dear, for you, and
he wants you to be good to poor me, and
let me come to see you every day ; but
we mustn't seem to care too much for
each other, or the old birds will be
poking their beaks in, and stopping our
fun. They hate seeing people happy.'

Oh, Leonora !'

Tact, I assure you ! But call me "Celi,"
and, oh ! I forgot ; they want you to go
and see them, as soon as you can, and

brin iona. You know they never saw
iona once while you were away ; I used
to come every day to see her, and Drax
used to go to them. I asked if I might
meet you on your arrival,  for, darling,
I felt so for you, but they wouldn't let
me ! Pray come and see them as soon
as you can, or they will be cross. I am
sure they have some especial reason for
wishing to see you,  I don't know what
it is, but they have got a lawyer,  and I
don't know what all !'

Well, I fear no lawyer ; but I can't
come tomorrow, for my father comes 
I will come the day after.'

Oh ! they won't like that.'

*Why?'

They think they should be first always.'

My father,' said Olive, proudly, ' comes
first for every reason ; but, for Ion's dear
sake, they come next. Oh, Nell, do you
think they will ever love me ?'

Never!' said Nell, promptly, 'so don't
expect it ;' with which oracular and not
over-comforting speech, Leonora left,
carrying with her a letter from Olive to
Lady Glenalmond, saying she would obey
her summons ' the day after tomorrow,'
and that she would bring iona.

The duke's visit took place the following
day, and, the morning after, the dreaded
visit to Falcon's Rest was undertaken.

Weak and unnerved from her recent
sorrow, Olive trembled as she started,
with her little iona nodding at her side.

After passing through the garden door,
they entered a long walk, bordered by
beautiful lime-trees,  a walk consecrated
to Olive by many sacred memories of her
happy and brief courtship.

At the end of the lime-walk was an old
archway, partially covered by ivy, in which
was embedded an ancient clock which
struck the quarters in a peculiarly shrill
tone, audible at a great distance.

Olive and iona now found themselves
on a terrace, hanging over the river, (like
the one at Riverstairs,) and turning sharply
to the right, they crossed a beautifully-kept
lawn, and found themselves standing
at the principal garden entrance to the
house.

Falcon's Rest was built in a castellated

form, and above the porch were
the GlenahTiond arms and coronet, carved
in stone. The two supports were falcons
birds of ferocious aspect ; and as iona
looked timidly at their beaks, claws, and
enraged countenances, she expected every
moment to see them attack and tear each
other s hearts out ; but she need not have
been alarmed, for they were perfect types
of their owners, and had none.

Olive rang the bell, and as she waited to
be admitted, she probably looked pale, for
iona crept close to her side, and whispered,
in an awe-struck tone,

Is mum Tightened at the birds ?'

CHAPTER II.

Ah ! do not, when my heart hath 'escaped this sorrow,
Come in the rearward of a conquered woe ;
Give not a windy night, a rainy morrow,
To linger ont a purposed overthrow.'

HE door was opened speedily,
and Leonora bounded out,
(Olive knew not from whence,)
and throwing her arms round that nervous
lady's neck, exclaimed :

'I saw you dear things coming "tooting
up, '' looking so good and innocent, and

I wanted to kiss you once, before you were
pecked to death by the parent birds ! They
are so cross and beaky ! What a blessing
it would be if they would take a lesson
from the Kilkenny Cats !  tear each other
to shreds, and "atone !" (as Drax says.'

'Oh, hush!' cried Olive, in a terrified
whisper, ' they will surely hear what you
say ; but, do tell me,  Do you know
whether they are going to say anything
particular to me, and what is it?'

'I don't know,' answered Leonora,
rather gravely ; ' but there is some mischief
brewing, for I caught Drax sneaking
in by the back-door, early this morning
; and, after she had been with the
old birds a little, I burst into the room,
quite innocently, as if I thought nobody

VOL. II. c

was there,  and there they all three were,
looking like the witches in " Macbeth."
"Grandpa" looked like an old woman, and
"" grandma " like an old man ; and Drax 
well, she looked like an attendant fiend
barring the tail !'

Oh, hush !' again said Olive. ' But,
Drax !  Why was Drax there ? And
without my knowledge too !'

Quoth Leonora : ' Beware of Drax ! she
is a snake in the grass! She is always
gliding in and out of this house ; and,
oh ! wouldn't the old birds like to peck
your eyes out,  if they only dared ! and
wouldn't they and Drax dance a war-dance
over you afterwards, that's all !'

Olive felt mortified,  offended also at
being watched; but, hearing her name

loudly announced, and coming almost

suddenly out of the daylight, into a large

room, entirely furnished in bright, deep

blue, for a moment she was blinded ;

but gradually she saw a blue carpet,

blue curtains, blue chairs, and the glass

in the windows all blue; and then she

perceived Lord and Lady Glenalmond

standing,  two gaunt figures,  to receive

her.

For a moment, Olive was speechless,

and all she could realize was that Ion

her Ion  was dead, and that these two

individuals were his father and mother.

So with a little gasp of anguish, and

a wild longing for motherly sympathy,

she cast herself, weeping, upon Lady

Glenalmond's neck. We cannot say ' into

cher

arms,'  for the old woman made not
the slightest attempt to embrace, or even
to support her daughter-in-law. She suffered
poor Olive's hands to clasp themselves
round her stony neck (there was
not the vestige of a bosom for any aching
head to rest upon !  Lady Glenalmond
was, to do her justice, guiltless of anything
so feminine or foolish !), while she
stood upright, impassive, cold, as if she
were a monumental pillar,  not a cross,
mind you ; for that stretches out its blessed
arms to receive the whole world of sin,
or suffering  but a monumental pillar,
of black (her eyes) and white (her hair)
granite.

Lady Glenalmond freed herself as soon
as possible from Olive's encircling arms,

just as she would have taken ois some
article of dress, that incommoded her, and
then pointing to Lord Glenalmond, said
with a broad Scotch accent :

And haeres Lorrrd Glenammond !'
Olive, wounded and indignant at this
cruel reception, quickly recovered herself,
and shaking hands coldly with the old
man, sat down, while, with much loving-tact,
Leonora took a low seat close behind
her, so that she might, (without the old
people seeing her,) place her hand caressingly
on Olive's shoulder, where it remained
during the whole painful interview, thus reminding
the young widow that, at all events,
07ie was present who felt for, and loved her.
An awkward pause now ensued, during
which Olive become more convinced than

ever that Leonora had been right in
suspecting that she and her child had
been brought there for some especial purpose
; and to her surprise on looking round,
for the first time, she remarked that sitting
at a writing-table, at some distance behind
Lord, and within full view of
Lady Glenalmond, sat an unwholesome-looking
young man, whose every drop of
blood (which was decidedly not blue)
seemed to have settled in a nose which
had not the faintest indication of a bridge
to it ; in fact it, and the much-bulged-out
and unhealthy cream-coloured cheeks, reminded
one of a mattress, which had been
tightly punched,' and neatly knotted in
the middle with a crimson rosette, (the
nose). Strewed on the table in front of

him were some documentary papers, while
a small ink-bottle, which evidently lived in
his pocket, lay uncorked before hit. The
young: man seemed uneasy, was constantly
nibbling the top of his pen, and gazed
vacantly but untiringly at Lady Olive.

Who, and what is he ?' thought Olive.
He looks like a shorthand writer !'

At this moment Lady Glenalmond
deigned, for the first time, to notice iona
who had climbed, unchecked, on to her
mother's lap.

Little bi,' said Lady Glenalmond, in her
bewildering Scotch, * and what are ye ?'

I beg your pardon ?' said Olive,
wonderingly.

Heh ! and what's the bi ?' impatiently
repeated her ladyship.

Oh !' said Olive, laughing, ' it's not a
boy ; this is my little girl. iona ! go and
kiss Lady Glenalniond, darling !'

iona slowly got off her mothers lap,
and with a perplexed glance at Lord Glen-almond's
silk cap, and at the manly appearance
of her grandmother, judged wrongly
as to the sex of the individuals, and
running up to Lord Glenalmond kissed
him. The old man's face was suffused
with a burning blush, as he felt the baby
lips upon his cheek ; and gently pushing
the little girl towards his wife he said :

Go and kiss your grandmother. I  I
am your grandfather.'

iona turned to Lady Glenalmond, and
put up her face to be kissed. Lady Glen-almond
pecked at the child with her

beak, and then said approvingly to Olive,
And hwhv i've dress her as a bi ?'
Olive heard Leonora lauo-hino; behind
her, and could hardly keep her countenance
; but she answered, gently,

Oh ! I see now whv you think she
looks like a boy ; she is not very strong,
and Dr. James made me cut her hair off
quite short.'

And what's her name, and her age ?'
asked Lady Glenalmond, who knew all
about the child as well as Olive did ;
but the questions were for the benefit of
the unwholesome young man behind, who
duly chronicled all Olive's replies.
Olive looked surprised.
She is between three and four, and
her name,' she added, faintly, feeling sure

something painful would follow her answer,
is iona.'

iona !  heh ! what a name ! Some
furrin name, mebbe?  a German name,
after ye're faith er's people.'

No, Lady Glen almond,' answered Olive,
falteringly. ' It was the nearest name
to  to Ion.' And, bursting into tears
at this first open allusion to her dead
husband, Olive wept bitterly for some
minutes.

Lord Glenalmond moved uneasily in his
chair, the unwholesome young man bit
the top of his pen with increased vigour,
and Lady Glenalmond exclaimed, with
much bitterness and in an audible aside,

Nae better than a chayld  nayver
was, and nayver wull be.' Then, turning

to iona (who was kissing her mother's
tears away), and with obstinate persistency
pretending still to forget the child's
sex, she said : ' Little bi, when ye're
alder, ye must larn not to cry at everything,
d'ye know ?'

iona looked wonderingly at the old
woman, but Olive was fairly roused, and
said, indignantly,

Everything !  everything, do you say,
Lady Glenalmond ? Do you mean that to
lose the best husband, the best father  ay,
and the best son, as you have,  though
such a common, every-day occurrence, is
not to be mourned in tears of blood ! Nay,
let my iona weep, weep, and drown herself
in tears, rather than own a heart that
scorns to feel I'

Lady Glenalmond was totally unaccustomed
to being addressed in such a tone,
and the colour flew up to the very roots
of her gray hair, and, closing her bony
hand into a fist, she would have answered
with some violence, had not Lord
Glenalmond bent forward, and, touching
his wife's arm, said,

My teddy ! let's to business. It's nae
use greeting o'er spelt meek.'

The old lady thereupon calmed herself
with difficulty, and Lord Glenalmond proceeded
to address the astonished Olive.

She th.it was ever fair, and never proud,
Had tongue at will and yet was never loud,

Never lacked gold, and yet never went gay.
She that, being angered, her revenge being nigh,
Bade her wrong stay, and poor displeasure fly.

Shakespeare.

Beware

Of entrance to a quarrel ; but being in,

Bear it, that the opposer may beware of thee !

Shakespeare.

EDDY olive; said Lord Glen-almond,
' my wife and I wish
to make a proposition to ye
concurring the beetle gurrel iona.'

Olive classed the little hand closer in
her own, and seemed to hear her husband's
dying words :

Let no earthly consideration separate
you from iona.'

I see, I see,' she whispered to herself,
they want to take her from me. Ah !
they little know ! they little know !'
Then aloud, she said mildly to Lord
Glenalmond :

A proposition ! May I ask what

it is r

Weel, ye know the gurrel is really
ours.'

But surely mine first ?' put in Olive,
gently.

Ours,' repeated the old man, not
noticing the interruption, 'and one day

she'll be the teddy of Cairnloch, Teddy
Glenalniond's Hieland loose.'

'I know, I know,' said Olive, waving
her hand.

She knows !' repeated Lady Glen-almond,
ironically,  she's sure to know,
so fur.'

'Weel,' continued the old earl, irritably
motioning to his \'ife to be silent, ' we
sh, for a consideration  a braw consideration,
mind ye ;' (here the unwholesome
young man disengaged his pen from
his teeth and dipped it into the ink, supposing
from Lord Glenalmond's words that
the time for  s. d., consequently Ms time,
had come) ' to mak' ye a proposition.'

A consideration !' exclaimed Olive,
proudly ignoring what she now shrewdly

expected; 'a consideration, did you say?
what can you mean ?'

Weel,' answered Lord Glenalmond,
rather uneasily, 'not to put too fine a
point on it, we wish to tak iona, the
gurrl-lie, to educate her after our own
ideas. Of course we should not object to
ye're seeing ye're chayld, but we wish to
ink' a Ramsay of her, not a Roslyon, because
of Cairnloch  d'ye tak my meaning?'

Olive trembled, and Lady Glenalmond,
thinking from her silence that she could
scarcely have understood the offer which
she (Lady Glenalmond) considered had
been over delicately put, said,

Ye see, Teddy Olive, ye're a pair bit
body that means weel, but ye're na strength
o' purrrrpose ; ye're no purrrrpose-layke.

The chayld too is a puny bit bairn that
wants hustling and bustling about. Now,
we'll warrk her better nor ye can,' (Olive
shuddered), ' and, if ye'll give the bairn
to us, we'll tak her off yere hands 
board and keep her for nothing, and
give ye nae rubble ; d'ye see now? So
tell us what's yere wull ?'

Quoth Lord Glenalmond,

We'd even allow ye a thousand a-year,
and '

Stop, Lord Glenalmond !' said Olive,
with passionate resentment, ' why not put
it in plain words ? You want me to sell
you my child, body and soul ! and that
man,'  pointing to the lawyer's clerk,  ' is
to witness the bargain !' (The unfortunate
Limb of the Law here referred to, seeing

VOL. II. D

himself ' glowered at ' by three hostile-looking
individuals, with much presence
of mind, dropped, and stooped to recover,
all his documents ; thus placing the table
betwixt himself and any missile which
might possibly, he thought, be hurled, by
some one of the belligerents, at his innocent
head !)

Bide a bit,' said my lord. ' That young
man has two ' documents " there. One
is for your ladyship to sign, if ye wull.
The other document ' (so pronounced by
his lordship) ' is my teddy's Wull. If
ye, Teddy Olive, sign the first, giving
us the bairn, ye'll find yersel a rich
buddy, and the bairn will be a grant
heiress, as her grandmother was before her,
with lands, loose, furniture, historical

jewels ; but if, on the other part, ye refuse,
my teddy will leave the bairn nothing
but the bare walls, and only the lands she's
obliged to inherit ; while the furniture,
jews's, plate will be sold, d'ye mind ? Soif
ye refuse, ye'll injure the gurrel-lie forever
and a day.'

'" And now,' cut in Lady Glenalmond,
who had been dying once more to put in
her word, ' and now, me Teddy Olive,
h what's yer wull?'

May I look at the documents ?' asked
Olive, quietly.

'Ye may,' answered my lord, thinking
that he saw signs of capitulation in Olive's
attitude, and taking the papers from the
clerk's hand. ' Here's my teddy 's Wull, and
here,'  putting the second document in

d2

Olive's hand  ' is the document of  of

*0f my child's sale,' put in Olive,
calmly.

She looked carefully over its provisions,
and then, before she could be prevented,
tore it into strips, and threw it at Lord
Glenalmond's feet.

I refuse,' she said, ' to sell my child to
anyone, and least of all to you, her grandparents,
who so wickedly and disgracefully
belie your relationship. No ! I will bring up
my child  as my Ion wished me to do,  asa
Roslyon, you call it,  but as a woman, I
call it, who loves and honours God and her
mother more than all your wealth of gold
and glitter ! God is my child's only Father
now (you are not worthy of the name),
but He is a just and all-powerful one. He

vAW see her riolited, if you, or anyone,
seek to injure her ! Take from her, if you
will, all that in common justice should be
hers, I care not,  nor will she ; for I, God
be thanked, have enough, and to spare,
and when old enough she will rejoice in
my decision of to-day. But, remember,
old man and old woman, both of you nearing
the bourne from whence no man
returns, remember that here on earth, and
here only, can you serve God in the
capacity of father, mother, master, or
mistress ! You are travelling quickly to
meet your own Father, your own Master,
and He will ask you how you have dealt
with the young lives He put under your
care here.

How are you dealing with the fatherless

children of your elder son ? How
are you treating the widow and orphan of
the second ? Why do you covet my ewe-lamb,
when you have others calling to you
for help  languishing for Love ? Do you
remember that the Widow and the Orphan
are God's especial charge ?  and also, do
you remember how difficult it is for the
rich to enter the kingdom of heaven ?

Farewell, my lord ! Farewell, my lady !
and may God forgive  ay, and pitj you,
as I do!'

With these words Olive took iona by
the hand, and, kissing Leonora, approached
the door ; and the last view she had of the
old couple was,  Lady Glenalmond with
malice and hate in every line of her face,
signing the codicil to her Will, (by which

iona was mulcted of many of her rights ;)
while her old husband stood wrathfully
her side, the young clerk meanwhile looking
terrified at them both.

Bravo !' exclaimed Leonora, as Olive
hastened from the house, ' you told my
lord and my lady some truths that they
never heard before. Oh ! Olive, I vdh. I
might live with you ! I fear they may
now prevent my coming to you.'

I hope I did not say too much,' said
Olive, tearfully, ' for I would not wish to
insult my Ion's parents. After all, I only
acted as he told me to do.'

Olive did not feel safe till she was once
more in her own garden with iona, and in
the evening she was much grieved at receiving
a letter from Leonora, written in

great distress, for she had been forbidden
either to visit, or to write to, Olive again ;
and to Olive's further sorrow, as she was
walking the next morning in the shrubbery,
she came upon some masons who
were hard at work, * by the earl's orders,'
(they said,) bricking up the beloved doorway
between the gardens ; thus doing away
with one of the dearest relics of the Past ;
for through that door her beloved Ion
used to visit her,  first as a pleasant acquaintance
(during her mother's lifetime)
and then as a lover ; and, as she thought
thereon,  she wept !

Olive did not stay much longer at River-stairs
at that time, but while she remained,
she did her utmost to soften the old
people's hearts towards her. She wrote

humble, filial letters, saying that if, in the
heat of the moment, she had spoken bitterly,
she repented it. She urged upon
them that even now, her Kfe without her
husband was sad enough,  and how could
she be expected to sacrifice her child also ?
In one of these pleading letters she related
how her husband had made her promise
solemnly, under no circumstances, ever to
lose sight of their child ! and that, therefore,
had she given her up, even to the
nearest and dearest, she would have been
unfaithful to a sacred trust. But her letters
were not answered, at last they were
returned unopened, and Olive then gave
up all hope of reconciliation, feeling she
could personally do no more. The fact
also of Leonora's being forbidden to visit

her added so much to her sorrow, that her
father's kind heart pitied her forlorn position,
and he decided to write to Lord Glen-almond
himself, putting before him, in a
manly and feeling way, how natural it
was for a young mother,  and that mother
a widow,  to refuse to part with her only
child. The duke also stated in the letter
that he was commissioned by his daughter
once more to express her deep distress at
the estrangement, and also that she never
should feel happy till she had gained Lord
and Lady Glenalmond's forgiveness and love.
In a few days the duke received the
following answer :

My Lord Duke,

Families have their own troubles

and their own joys, not to be meddled
with or understood  by strangers, however
exalted their rank. Your daughter has
made her choice, and she must abide by
it ; and it is a subject I refuse to enter
upon with anyone.

Your humble servant,

Glenalmond.'

After this rebuff the duke gave it up as
hopeless, at present, and, pitying Olive's
forlorn position, he purchased a beautiful
house for her at Kensington, advising her
to live there quietly, and educate iona
under her own eye.

Olive followed her father's advice, and
for several years led a happy, but uneventful
life, with the description of which

we need not weary our readers ; suffice it
to say that iona grew up into a lovely but
delicate girl, and that her love for her
mother fully repaid the latter, for the
many sacrifices she had made for her sake.

After a few years, Olive's kind adviser
and best friend  her beloved father  died,
and once more her tender heart yearned
over her husband's parents, and she determined
to make one more venture ; so
writing to Lady Glenalmond she told her
that she and her child were going abroad
for a year or two, and that she could not
feel happy, unless permitted to present
herself at Falcon's Rest, to bid her father
and mother-in-law, ' goodbye,' and to obtain
their blessing for iona.

In answer to this, a letter arrived from
Leonora, saying that her grandmother

thanked Olive for her 'kind letter,' that
she ' wished her and iona well,' but would
not see them now, as she ' disliked good-byes.'
The old lady, however, concluded
by saying that if Olive would come to
Falcon's Rest on her return from abroad,
she would then receive her and the child.

Leonora added a private postscript,
sang that Lord and Lady Glenalmond
were well, but much aged, and considerably
softened. She advised Olive not to
press for a meeting now, for she (Leonora)
felt sure, should they still be alive when
Olive returned, that they would both be
friendly.

This was more than Olive had dared
to hope for ; so she left England with a
lighter heart, having let Riverstairs for
some years.

CHAPTER IV.

Sweet-hearted, you, whose light-blue eyes
Are tender over drowning flies.'

FTER travelling about rather
aimlessly for some time, Lady
Olive settled at Dresden, so as
to give iona,  now aged fourteen,  the
advantages of cultivating Music, and the
German language.

Besides Lady Olive and her daughter,

the suite consisted of a governess, two
maids, and an old French man-servant
named Bardel, who had entered Lady
Olive's service just before her widowhood.


There was considerable difficulty in
finding a suitable residence at Dresden,
embracing all necessary agreements as to
situation, &c., but after a little hesitation
Lady Olive hired the first floor of the
Hotel de Europe, in the Alt Markt ;
and after making a trial of it for a
few days, they found it so comfortable,
that they took the rooms for a year, and
never regretted it, for they were superlatively
happy there.

Saxony was, at that time, a happy
little kingdom,  at peace vAt\i itself

and everyone else. It possessed a King,
a Queen, and a Royal Family that it
loved, and by whom it was beloved.

The King and Queen used, in those
days, to walk about the town en bourgeois
laying no claim to public loyalty and
respect,  as a form,  but receiving both
as a moral right, and as an affectionate
tribute to their simple, kindly, and charitable
lives.

As yet, kingdom had not risen against
kingdom, brother against brother, cousin
against cousin, might against right ;  nor
as yet had there been killing, dethroning,
ruining,  in the name of German Unity !
and, although the glorious strains of the
Yacht am Rhein ' were familiar to Olive's
and iona's ears, its dominant chord had

not then the warning threatening: rinof,
that it has now !

The situation of the Hotel de Europe
in the Alt Markt, was a very pleasant
one ; privately, Lady Olive would have
preferred a quieter quartier but iona liked
Life ; and what pleased her child, Olive
felt bound to prefer for her sake ! However,
she soon got accustomed to the busy,
ever-changing scene around her, and got
to love it for its own !

The only drawback to the perfect comfort
of the hotel was that the 
and her * Mann ' (an enormously
fat, heavy German ; sandy-haired, and with
a pipe always in his mouth  like a Brooding
baby, with its coral and bells)
were not always of one mind.

VOL. II. E

The 'Frau-hauslialterinn' was, in appearance,
a small and spare woman, but decidedly
wiry. She was very pale, with rolling,
dark eyes, and a mouth like a crooked
cavern  peopled by an army of black and
broken teeth. Tradition alleged that, in
early married life, she and her ' Mann ' had
agreed even less well than they did now ;
and that, one day, seeing his Frau was
inclined to obstinacy upon some point, the
sturdy German had enforced his side of the
argument, with the aid of a brass candlestick;
that she received a wound from eye to
mouth, which entirely displaced the latter
feature, causing it to settle down (or
rather up) into the middle of her cheek,
in close vicinity to the nearest available
ear.

We may presume that this outburst of
marital authority was never forgotten by
the Frau-haushalterinn  or forgiven ; also,
that, as the years rolled by, contrary to
expectation, the gray mare proved the
better horse. For certain it is that,
when sounds of altercation arose from the
kitchen (as they frequently did), the
female voice was ever the loudest, and
was accompanied by metallic sounds, as
of cooking utensils being freely aimed
at some human being, whose footsteps
could be heard ' dodging ' about for safety.
Then doors would be violently opened
and shut, and finally there was a slam 
the triumphant turning of a key  and
silence !

One day Lady Olive, having been much

E 2



'JNJVERSmr OF Illinois

disturbed and exercised in her mind as to
the meaning of one of these outbreaks,
sent for Frau Schmidt to inquire particulars
; whereupon that lady appeared,
still boiling over with rage, and heated
from her recent encounter. She assured
Olive that for the next day or two the
adige Frau need fear no further annoyance,
' as Herr Schmidt was safe in the
butter-cellar !' but, seeing that her explanations
mystified Lady Olive more than ever,
Frau Schmidt proceeded to explain that
Herr Schmidt was too fond of conviviality
that he constantly returned home inebriated
;  that if he was only slightly
so, he was infinitely more difficult to
manage, than when he was brought home
helpless ; for in the latter case she could

shut him up without resistance in the
cellar in which she kept the adige Frau's
Normandy butter-pots ; but that when he
was able to resist, she had to resort to
stratagem,  or to kitchen utensils !

'To-day, adige Frau,' she continued,
1 have had great trouble, but  at last, I
have got him under lock and key ; he can
do no harm now, for it is quite dark ;
there are a few rats,  and he sits amongst
the butter-pots, until he weeps ;  then I
let him out,  and forgive him !'

After this revelation, Olive was fain to
be content, and thought it best to ask no
farther questions.

A daily fair went on in the quaint old
Alt Markt, beneath the hotel windows,

up to midday ; the peasants walking in
from great distances, bringing in goods of
all sorts, (not always of the most savoury
description, such as safer-kraut in great
tubs, and goat's flesh ;) butter, eggs, yards
of black bread, milk, toys, flowers, gingerbread
used also to be laid out on the
stalls for sale ; and, long before iona's window
was opened in the morning, the sellers
had arrived, and were sitting smiling at
their posts.

The women wore dark blue or brown
knitted jackets, with coloured borders, and
ugly flat headgear, tied under their chins
by broad black ribbons. They invariably
owned a wealth of coarse fair hair, coiled
round and round their heads which were
generally bullet-shaped ; indeed, these

women's figures altogether reminded one
of the contour of a ninepin, and were anything
but graceful.

Certainly if the civilization of a country
or its reverse, is to be gauged, as people
aver, by the treatment awarded to its
females, Saxony, in the days that Lady
Olive was living there, could not have
been far advanced ; for Ion a used daily to
watch the poor countrywomen, as they
tramped into the town, bent double beneath
the weight of huge crates strapped to
their shoulders, full of nondescript wares,
such as cheeses, vegetables, china, and
even chairs and tables ! (Oftener than not,
the burden on the poor woman's back
was not the only one she had to carry !)

These poor women, besides the pack

upon their backs, would sometimes also
be harnessed to a light cart, full of odds
and ends, and perhaps a baby or two.
Generally der gate Mann would walk by
his Frau, smoking leisurely; and should
the cart chance (as was frequently the
case) to be drawn by dogs, he would at
times take a seat therein,  watching his
draught animals (i.e. wife and dogs) struggling
cheerfully on their way.

(Truly the primeval curse, at that time,
bore heavily upon the Saxon female ; for
not only did she take upon her her own
portion, as prescribed by Holy Writ, but
the sweat of the feminine brow seemed
also to earn the daily bread !)

Every morning iona and Miss Mil-ward
would look out of their endow,

and nod a friendly gluten Monjeii to the
old men and women sitting at their
stalls, with whose faces they had become
quite familiar ; and it was an evident
pleasure to the simple peasants, to receive
the greetings of die shone Engldndrinn.

iona and her governess used always
to take an early walk before breakfast,
and they generally chose the gardens of
the Japanese Palace for their matutinal
excursions. They liked starting very
early, because few people were about,
and, as Miss Milward would say, ' before
the sweet morning air had been polluted
by the German pipes !'

Smoking then was rarely indulged in
in England, and was always spoken of
as ' a dirty German habit :' refraining

from which, was usually cited as one of
the many proofs of British superiority !

" Times is changed,"

Says the dogs-meat man.'

The gardens of the Japanese Palace
(so-called from some quaint oriental
figures with which the building was
ornamented) were very pretty,  situated
on the banks of the Elbe; and they
had a great attraction for iona, inconsequence
of the numberless squirrels
which dwelt among the trees. These
little creatures became marvellously tame,
for, as Miss Milward and iona fed them
every morning with biscuits and nuts,
they seemed to look out for the daily
meal, and to have lost all fear ; running
quite familiarly across the girls' path ;

then  swinging themselves into a tree, 
they would spring from branch to branch
above their benefactresses' heads, keeping
pace with them as they walked.

One morning, to iona's and Miss Mil-ward's
great annoyance, they came across
a party of officers carrying guns ; and,
before the young men were aware of the
ladies' vicinity, one of them took aim, 
fired,  and in a moment one of the poor
little squirrels, (which was especially known
to iona, in consequence of a very dark
streak ujDon its back,) lay wounded and
struggling at Miss Milward's feet.

With streaming eyes, and words of
angry disgust, iona lifted the suffering
little animal from the ground, and tenderly
held it to her bosom, heedless of the

blood which was staining her white frock,
or of the surprise that hers and Miss Mil-ward's
appearance had created amongst
the sportsmen.

The young officer who had shot the
squirrel seemed really touched at iona's
distress, and overwhelmed her with regrets
; but she took no notice of him,
being too angry at the wanton cruelty of
the act ; and Miss Mil ward (who was an
eminent surgeon's daughter, and had
picked up a smattering of her father's
knowledge) sat down on a bench, and,
after carefully examining the grunting
atom of suffering, tore her handkerchief
into strips, and stopped the bleeding.

 See, iona,' she said, ' its poor little legis
broken. Fetch me a stick from some

branch, and give me the ribbon off your
hair, and I will make a splint.'

Xo sooner said than done. The broken
limb was bound up (the blood-thirsty delinquent
standing awkwardly by during the
process), and the squirrel tenderly laid upon
a bed of leaves, within the basket which had
held the biscuits and nuts. Miss Milward
and iona then rose to leave the spot, and
the young man, once more addressing iona
(whose tears were still flowing), begged to
be permitted to carry the basket home for
the Fraulein ; but iona could not condone
the cruelty, and answered curtly that
there was ' Xo need of his interference.'

Evidently much chagrined, the young
officer bowed profoundly, and rejoined his
companions, who had halted a short

distance off, and were watching their
comrade's discomfiture with some amusement.


As iona moved away, her pretty hair,
which had been loosened when the ribbon
was taken for the splint, came tumbling
down in all its rich profusion, like a pale
yellow veil, concealing her girlish figure.
With an exclamation of annoyance, she
endeavoured, as best she could, to gather it
together again, and, only partially succeeding,
she hurried home with Miss Mil ward,
who remarked, (although iona did not,)
that the young man, having delivered up
his gun to a servant, followed the ladies
at a respectful distance, thus discovering
their dwelling-place.

Lassie, ye're but young yet !
"Wait agree !'

iHE adventure was related to
Lady Olive, who was awaiting
the pedestrians with a
comfortable breakfast, and the three
ladies concentrated their united efforts
to relieve the poor little squirrel ; but, in
spite of all their nursing and tenderness,
it lay grunting dismally for a few hours 
refused all food  and died !

iona shed a few tears, and was then persuaded
by her mother to start with her, and
explore the beauties of the Green Vaults ;
that fairy abode full of almost impossible
treasures,  such enormous emeralds ! 
such flashing diamonds !

As they entered the Schloss-grasse, and
iona was chattering nonsense to her patient
mother concerning a delightful little
monster that dwelt in the enchanted
palace ; (as she called the Green Vaults,)
declaring herself enamoured of him ; (he
was composed of a single oblong pearl,
and represented the court dwarf of some
dusky Queen of Spain,) and expressing her
conviction that some day, while she was
gazing at him, the whole palace and
all its gems would collapse,  that the

monster alone would survive,  be turned
into a beautiful prince,  and claim her
(iona) as his bride !  her mother caught
her by the hand, and said hastily :

Hush, iona ! the King and Queen are
coming ! As they pass, stand quite still
out of their way, facing them, and bow
your head.'

iona looked up, and beheld, coming towards
her, a middle-aged, dignified old
gentleman in uniform, with a lady on his
arm. They passed, and iona followed her
mother's injunctions, and to her great
delight she heard the King say, after saluting
Lady Olive :

Was fur ein scions Matches ! ' and
the Queen answered :

Ja ! Wundeschon ! Each ! sie sind Eng-

VOL. II. F

landerinnen ! Die Englanderinnen sind
simmer scion !*

Tone raised her eyes, after the King and
Queen had passed, and she saw to her
great surprise, that the young man who
was with them, was the murderer of the
poor little squirrel ! He saluted the ladies
also as he passed, and smiled.

I suppose,' said iona, ' he is one of the
King's gentlemen !'

I think,' answered Miss Milward, ' he
must be one of the royal princes, from
the deference people seem to be paying
him!'

Mamma!' said iona, Shy does not our
dear Queen walk about amongst us, as this
King and Queen do ?'

Because, my dear, we are unfortunately

a vulgar nation ! We mob and
annoy her. Here, the King and Queen
can trust themselves to their people's
delicacy and generosity, so there can be
greater freedom on both sides.'

A few days afterwards Lady Olive
heard that it was the custom for the King
and Queen of Saxony, one day in the year,
to dine in public, in a large room in the
palace, where there was a gallery above,
in which the public were permitted to
stand, and that people were also allowed
to gaze at the royal eaters through the
windows. The next day chanced to be the
festive day, and, as iona was anxious to seethe
sight. Lady Olive asked a young mana
relation of the English minister, to take

iona and her governess to the palace.

f2

It was a curious sight. All the male
scions of the royal family were in uniform,
while the Queen and the Princesses, and
the ladies of the Court, came in full evening
dress.

iona recognised the diamond crown,
worn by the Queen, as having seen it in the
Green Vaults, and remembered the official
in charge had told her, that its weight was
so enormous, that the Queen was always ill
for days after wearing it ; and iona remarked
that she looked pale,  and as if
she were going to faint ; but, like a true
Queen, she bore the pain for hours.

Suddenly iona called out :

Oh, Miss Milward. I declare, there is
the murderer ! now we mil find out who

he is !' and turning to the gentleman who
was with her, she said, ' Can you tell me
the name of the gentleman in uniform
sitting nearly opposite to the King ? The
young man who is looking up here,  I
really believe he is looking at me.'

Did I hear you  ' said Mr. ,  call

him a murderer ?'

iona laughed, and related the story of
the squirrel's tragic death.

Dear me ! Why, Miss Ramsay, that

is Prince , the King's nephew, and

after his father he will be the King of
Saxony !'

iona was much surprised, but said,

*Well, whoever he is, I should never
like him !'

Mr. now told iona that the dinner

was nearly over, and it would be better
to get away before the crush ; and he
also said, (which she was delighted to
hear,) that after the dinner was overall
the uneaten delicacies were distributed
amongst the sick poor.

What iona liked most at Dresden was
the opera. The orchestra was so beautiful,
and her mother frequently took
her to hear Madame Schooner Detriment
sing in ' Fidelia,' and in ' I Metecchi ed i
Capulet.'

One night, while at the opera, one of
the young princesses entered the royal box
with a single lady. The princess looked

pale and was very lovely. iona did not
hear her name, but she was told she was
very unhappy, and, some said, half-witted ;
and between the acts, the poor thing leant
very forward out of the box, and began
making; sirens, borao; and smiling at the
individuals in the body of the house, upon
which the lady in charge of her, who
was rather an alarming-looking person,
swooped down upon her condescendingly
smiling charge, and carried the reluctant
damsel off.

Lady Olive and her daughter were very
sorry when the year had run out, and
they had to leave Dresden. They did
so one morning very early, just as the

peasants (some of whose faces iona knew
so well), were pouring into the market.

The carriages were ready packed, and
standing at the entrance to the hotel ; the
Frau-haushalterinn was at the door, looking
rather inclined to cry ; her gate Mann
who had spent the previous night in
company with the rats, sitting upon the
butter jars,  had been released, so that,
according to the usage of the day, he
might place his hand beneath Lady Olive's
elbow, as she left his house, and entered
the carriage. A small crowd had assembled,
 principally of iona's simple market
acquaintances,  who had brought her little
parting offerings of flowers, fruit, and
gingerbread ; some of them even pressed
forward, to kiss her hand tearfully ; for

the pretty English girl, by little acts
of gentle kindness, had endeared herself
to them all.

The postillions, in yellow jackets (the
colours of Saxony), with shiny black hats
and boots, and a horn slung at their backs,
had mounted, and were just about to start,
when the crowd suddenly parted asunder ;
the postillion held in his horse,  and a
young man rushed forward wearing an
eager and rather sorrowful expression.
It was the squirrel's murderer,  the
young son of Prince John. He hastily
saluted the ladies,  placed a beautiful
bouquet in iona's hands,  and, with a
fervent ' Leb' wool shone, shone Eng-
lantern !'  plunged once more into the
crowd and disappeared.

Deronda.

There ! iona,' said Lady Olive, laughingly,
' if we only had stayed a little
longer, you might some day have been
Queen of Saxony !'

CHAPTER Yl.

"Was gracious to all ladies.'

GREAT change came over Dorinda
before she again ventured
into the outer world,
and, when she reappeared, she was no
longer the pretty, inquiries fascinating
young girl, but the dignified, gracious,
and perfectly beautiful young woman,
eminently possessing, besides her beauty,

that indescribable something which
Frenchmen so aptly call le char me. She
also consciously wielded a mysteriously
powerful influence over everyone
with whom she came in contact. This
influence was not always a wholesome,
nor, at times, a pleasurable one, for, if
she did not fascinate, she repelled, while
some much-to-be-commiserated individuals
confessed to being the victims of both
sensations at once.

Her manner was very gentle, and her
voice marvellously tender and persuasive.
Sweet words would drop from
between her lovely lips, reminding one
of the pearls and diamonds which fell
from the pretty damsel's mouth in the
fairy tale ; but whether her jewels were

the * genuine article,' or only glass and
glamour ; or whether they turned into
toads and serpents,  which crawled simply
away, while people were not looking, 
not many cared to inquire. Some few did,
however, and I have heard them say that
in spite of her caressing words, they had
never seen her perform any single act
of spontaneous kindliness or unselfishness,
 such as kissing a little child, or
pitpng any overdriven or suffering
animal.

The good and gentle Duchess of
Cheviotdale always firmly believed that
she had been the means of rescuing
Dorinda from a home teeming with the
most singular dangers and temptations ;
but whether the aspersions which Dorinda

cast upon her parents, were absolutely
true in every particular, utterly
false, or only exaggerated, it was difficult
for people to decide ; that the duke
and duchess believed in them, we may be
certain, and we shall now hear how they
came to do so ; and how they came to
make Dorinda's acquaintance.

One day Lord and Lady Basingstoke,
living at Wimbledon, gave an open-air
entertainment, called in those da3s
a 'breakfast,' (presumably because the
guests were bidden at about four a.m.)
The Duke and Duchess of Cheviotdale
had just arrived ; and, while greeting his
host, the duke cast his eyes around upon
the assembled beauty and fashion, and,
suddenly beholding Dorinda, he was so

Struck by her excessive loveliness, that
he asked her name, and in the course of
the afternoon desired that she should be
presented to him. This ceremony having
been performed, the fascinated duke,
after a short conversation, offered his
arm with obsolete courtesy to the flattered
damsel, and the two, mutually
pleased with each other, proceeded to
make the grand tour of the gardens,
which were spacious, and possessed many
points of attraction, amongst others, a
rustic seat for two, within a secluded
bower,  a perfect nest of roses, jessamine,
and other sweet-smelling flowers.

Little recked the duke that the lovely
girl at his side, robed in virgin white 
and the very personification of innocence

and purity  was in reality a desperate
and all but despairing woman ; that her
very desperation had sharpened her 
wits, and that directly she
marked the duke's evident admiration,
she determined, like a gambler, to whose
knowing gaze some unlooked-for, but
quickly-recognised chance has suddenly
presented itself, to risk, as it were, her
last coin, in hopes of something turning
up  she knew not what, and scarcely
cared.

Towards this rustic seat, then, the duke
and his fair companion leisurely sauntered,
and by the way Dorinda cudgelled her
brains, endeavouring to call to mind all
that she had ever heard concerning the
life, tastes, character, &c., of her companion,

so as to avoid gauche mistakes,
and to propitiate him as much as possible.
There is a duchess somewhere, I know,
worse luck!' she communed with herself;
'- and 1 think the little old woman in
gray, with a big nose and galoshes  is
her  ' (grammar avaunt !)  ' or is that the
rich pig-dealer's wife ? Can't be ! A pig-dealer's
wife, however rich, would hardly-dare
to wear galoshes at a Breakfast  however
damp the grass I think there
are no children ; but,  Cheviotdale 
Cheviotdale  I remember the name quite

well, Ah ! now I remember ' (a light

breaking in on her). 'He is Lady Margaret
Sa\411e's uncle, the girl that came
after me to Nun's Court  to be touched
up by the Woodcocks ! Oh, good graces

II. G

vous ! what an unfortunate muddle ! I
wonder whether the old hens said anything
against me to her. I have no
doubt they did ! Beasts ! I wonder
whether Lady Margaret told anything
to the duke and duchess, and whether
she lives with them? Not entirely,
I think Oh! I remember now,

the duke hates Roman Catholics like
poison. I wonder whether the duchess
wants a first-class 'panton ? I'd turn Protestant
like a shot, if she'd take me  1
wonder '

Here her ' wondering ' had to cease, for
they had reached the bower, and they both
sat down.

The conversation between Dorinda and
her old admirer flowed amusingly enough.

at first, upon every-day topics, but gradually
the duke discovered that, years agone,
he had been intimately associated with
some of his companion's relations ; and
this fact, coupled with his ever-growing
admiration of the fair girl, tempted him,
after awhile, to express a most tenderly
paternal interest towards her, which she
(estimating to the full the value of so
powerful a friend) heartily encouraged.
A full hour, and more, passed quickly
(and pleasantly to the old duke), and as
soon as our heroine thought the opportunity
was ripe, she cleverly seized it,
and  shyly at first, but with child-like
confidence  at last,  spontaneously (?)
opened her heart to him ; relating to the
bewildered, but sympathising old man,

g2

such a complicated history of the home-sorrows,
wrongs, and even dangers that
daily surrounded her, that each particular
gray hair of his old head stood on end !

Then she proceeded, with thrilling
pathos and infinite tact (but under the
seal of secrecy), to confide to him that,
unless she agreed that very day, at that
very Breakfast, to accept either the old
reprobate, Lord Vanbrugh, or the drunkard
baronet. Sir Charles Wilding, (both of
whom, she assured the duke, had come to
Wimbledon to propose), her parents had
announced their intention of sending her
abroad to a convent, under the charge of
a wicked old priest, who was staying at
her home for that purpose.

At this point of the narrative, the duke 

who (as Dorinda had luckily remembered)
was renowned for his anti-Catholic tendencies,
and for his old-fashioned horror
of, and superstitious belief in, the unscrupulous
and blood-thirsty propensities of
the genus Catholic priest,  put his hand
tenderly and protecting upon the girl's
shoulder, murmuring soothingly,

No, no, this must not be ! This must
be stopped !'

Our heroine, delighted to see how skilfully
she had paved the way, now burst
into a flood of tears, and implored the
duke excitedly to befriend her  to save her
from a vile or drunken husband, or from
a wily, cruel priest.

God!' she exclaimed, with religious
fervour, ' has raised you up to be my

deliverer ! Do not, oh ! do not forsake
me !'

As she spoke these words, she looked so
beautiful, so trusting, that the duke regretted
the days of chivalry being utterly
fled, and whispered to himself that he was
a craven, and no true knight for feeling
(as he undoubtedly did) thoroughly taken
aback by this sudden cry for help from a
lovely female in distress, and by the seriousness
of the dilemma into which he had
unwittingly thrust himself.

Meanwhile Dorinda wept copiously, and,
being touched to the heart by her apparent
helplessness, the old duke first tried to
soothe her,  by kind words  and sundry
paternal patting ; but Dorinda did not
care for them, they were of no permanent

use,  so he patted in vain,  the girl still
wept on ! At last he could bear it no
longer, and more generously than cautiously,
promised ' as far as he could,' and ' if
she would only leave off crying,' to be
her protector, and 'see what could be
done.'

Dorinda was charmed, and gradually
ceased to sob, feeling sure that, after going
so far, the duke would not retract, and
that, at least, his friendship was secured.

Truth to tell, however, the old man was
perplexed,  not to say alarmed,  for he
had no wish to embroil himself with Dorinda's
relations (however cruel they might
be) ; and yet he was aware he had pledged
himself to something he knew not precisely
to chat I Dorinda, on the other hand, knew

perfectly her intentions upon the subject,
and set herself to the task of
enlightening him; and after a long conversation
under the sweet rose-bushes,
during which she brought every fascination
she possessed to bear upon her
hearer, the duke conceived (or thought he
did) a solution of all difficulties; but I
need hardly say, this same solution had
been foreseen and aimed at, by the astute
Dorinda, very early in the interview ;
indeed she had all along been steering her
somewhat battered bark (freighted with
what weighty hopes and fears, she alone
knew !) towards the haven of safety (the
said haven in this instance being Brandon
Castle), while the innocent old duke
suffered himself to be bound hand and foot

by her wiles, and lay (metaphorically
speaking) utterly at her mercy at the
bottom of the boat !

CHAPTER VII.

Arise, and get thee forth and seek
A friendship for the years to come.

S Dorinda and her companion
emerged from the bower, she
had the satisfaction of knowing
that the duke was completely won over ;
but she trembled when she thought of the
duchess ! She was totally unacquainted
with her,  had never scarcely heard her
mentioned,  so her heart sank within
her.

Shall I have another battle to fight to
win her over ? and shall I be as successful
with her as with him ? Hardly ! ]wren I
can generally manage, but women *

She need not, however, have been uneasy
on that score, for the duke presented herat
once to his wife.

She is the woman with the large nose
after all !' said Dorinda to herself, ' and
she looks like an old witch waiting to flyaway
upon her broomstick ! I wish it
would come, and deposit her with the
cherubim, and leave me to marry the
duke !'

The duchess was quite as kind-hearted
as her husband, and became at once deeply
interested in the girl's sad history, especially
when, after a long confidential conversation,

Dorinda casually but firmly
expressed a strong wish ' to forsake the
errors of Rome.*

Of course this pleased the duchess, but
she was of a more cautious nature than
the duke, and was scarcely prepared to
agree to the very prompt measures which
her spouse seemed inclined to adopt, concerning
his newly-discovered protegee and
which he communicated to his wife during
their return home from the Breakfast.

Bring her to Brandon Castle !' exclaimed
the astonished lady. *Why, we
hardly know her !'

'Well  well,' argued the good-natured
duke, * Brandon is large enough, she
need not interfere with you; and, if
we only invite her for a short time, we

may save her from being wickedly sacrificed
to an old roue or to a drunken
young vagabond !  besides, we may make
a Protestant of her,  she loathes the
priests.'

The deliberation between the husband
and wife was long, and a whole fortnight
elapsed (a time of deadly anxiety to
Dorinda, who knew exactly what was
pending) before the duchess was quite
won over, and the modus operandi decided
upon. At last it was settled that the
duchess must write to Lady Balbirnie ;
and, to the truthful old lady, this in itself
was a difficulty.

I don't know Lady Balbirnie,' she
objected,  and, hearing all I have about
her, how can I write to her  as to a good

mother? besides, it is so odd to ask the
girl without the mother !'

My dear, for the poor girl's sake, we
must waive ceremony, and do what we
otherwise would not.'

So the following letter was dispatched :

Dear Lady Balbirnie,

I scarcely know how to word
this letter, not having the advantage of
your acquaintance ; besides, my request is
an odd one. We had the pleasure, a fortnight
ago, of meeting your daughter
Dorinda at Lady Basingstoke's ; and the
duke (as well as myself) was much struck
by her beauty and charming manner, and
with much diffidence I venture to ask if
you will allow her to come and stay with

US at Brandon Castle, for a long or short
period (according to the pleasure she mayor
may not experience in our midst). AYe
are childless, and, if you \\]. lend us
Dorinda for awhile, she shall be cared forby
us as a daughter. Should she become
home-sick and anxious to return to the
original nest, her wishes on this point as
well as upon every other shall be furthered
by us.

May I also beg that while she is with
us, she may be allowed to look to us for
everything exactly as though she were our
own dear child, and that you will not
consider our wish in this respect in bad
taste.

'Once more apologising for a request
which we trust you will look upon as the

freak of two old people who are devoted
to young ones,

Believe me, &c., &c.,

M. Cheviotdale.

Pes.  There is no Roman Catholic
place of worship near us. May Dorinda
attend our church, and be present at our
household prayers ?'

The receipt of this letter (in spite of the
first few words recorded in her answer
below) was no surprise to Lady Balbir-
nie, for, on Dorinda's return from Lady
Basingstoke's, she had told her mother of
the coming invitation ; but as days passed,
and no tidings came from the Cheviotdales,
Lady Balbirnie began to suspect Dorinda's

truth, and was on the eve (in conjunction
with the Catholic priest, who was no
myth, no invention of Dorinda's fertile
brain, but a stern reality) of taking some
very decided measures to rid herself for
good and all of her dangerous daughter,
when the long-expected invitation arrived,
to which the following answer was
returned :

My dear Duchess,

Your letter, I confess, surprised
me, but your kind expressions about
our Dorinda (who, to tell you the truth,
we were about to send to a convent, in
hopes that she might develop a vocation
for a holy life) touched us both, and we
feel it would not be right to refuse so

VOL. II. H

advantageous an offer, so flatteringly expressed.
We therefore accept it with
pleasure, only stipulating that if we should
find ourselves too utterly wretched without
her, you will allow us to call our
beloved child back. With kindest regards
both to you and the duke, &c., &c.,

'C. Balbirnie.
Pes.  We are not bigots, and have
always given religious latitude to Dorinda.'

Such was the parental letter to the
duchess, but the parental remarks upon
the subject, were couched in vastly different
terms.

Calling her daughter into her room, as
soon as she had read the letter, Lady 
addressed her thus :

You have made a good stroke of business,
Dorinda, but through how many lies
and inventions you have waded to oain
your end, I know not, and care less. One
thing, however, I impress upon you 
namely, that, if through any folly or misbehaviour
you got again turned out of
your home, (for your home, mind, I mean
it to be for some time to come), you won't
be received into the " original nest," (with
a sneer.) ' aoain. You are twenty-one in a
few months, and your own mistress '

Not your fault I am not somebody
else's !' muttered Dorinda, between her
teeth.

 Therefore,' continued Lady Balbirnie,
as though she had not heard the interruption,
' pray don't forget that this house

h2

will no longer be your home then,

and '

No !' burst out Dorinda, now fairly
roused, ' nor shall I forget in a hurry
what a " home " your house has ever
been to me ; nor what you threatened
me with, the day of the Basingstoke
Breakfast, (where I so luckily met
that good-natured, silly old duke)  namely,
that, unless I returned that day the
affianced wife of either that old reprobate
Lord Vanbrugh, or of that drunken Sir
Charles (you didn't care which) I should
be shipped off to some foreign land, (you
didn't care where,) with  you didn't care
whom.'

I advised Father Andrew,' interrupted
Lady Balbirnie.

 To make my fortune,' continued Dorinda,
in a towering rage, ' you didn't care
how!'

 Well, well,' calmly returned Lady ,
' until you met your " silly old
duke," you were almost as eager as I was
to catch either the ' old reprobate " or the
drunken Sir Charles " ; but when I saw
you hesitate  neither aspirant being rich
enough to please you,  I, being resolved
you should be settled, only hurried matters
on a little. Besides,' added the lady,
with a steady gaze at her excited daughter,
' when you talk of my " shipping you
off I didn't care where," you would do well
to remember that you might one day be
shipped off," (as you elegantly term it,)
by others,  not at my expense ; and even

now, Dorinda, if Miss Woodcock chose  '
Hush, mother !' exclaimed Dorinda,
turning deadly pale, and no longer defiant.
' For God's sake, hush !  and oh !
mother, let bygones be bygones !'

So be it,' answered Lady Balbirnie,
quietly ; ' it is better so for all parties.
So farewell, Dorinda, for tomorrow I am
off again to Homburg. May good luck
attend you !  but, remember, I think it a
pity you have given up your chances of
marriage  for an uncertainty, (as a visit to
the duke's is only an uncertainty after all,
and you can't tell what, or if anything,
will turn up) ; but anyhow, '' faites voice
jeu'' sensibly this time, for remember, /
ivill not have you home again'

With these words Lady Balbirnie, after

coldly touching her daughter's forehead
with her lips, left the room, and for a
moment Dorinda looked wistfully after
her ; for her beautiful, stern, hard mother
had been to her one of those ' might have
beens ' which sometimes cross one's path
through life. As a child, Dorinda might
have loved her mother  would have loved
her, had she ever remembered a fond kiss,
or a tender caress ; but no such memories
hallowed her childhood, harsh words,
callous neglect, had been her portion, and
once  ah ! once, she remembered being
soundly whipped for having told an inconvenient
truth ! Still  still, as her
mother passed from the room, and out of
her life (for she never lived beneath the
parental roof again), she felt as though a

cold, horny hand had suddenly tightened
round her heart, and for once she thoroughly
broke down,  and laying her folded arms
and aching head upon the nearest table,
she wept, bitter, scalding tears,  such as
she never wept again !

Thinking that she heard some one approaching,
she hastily rose, and ran up
into her own room, and for some hours
afterwards she might have been heard
opening and tearing up letters ; and a
few days later, when she quitted her
girlhood's chamber for ever, she left no
traces behind her  only a heap of smouldering
ashes !  ashes of crushed  burnt-up
hopes,  as well as of letters !

Oh! happy, happy the woman without
a Past !

CHAPTER VIII.

Oh, Time ! Thou must untangle this  not I !
It is too hard a knot for me to untie.'

GRIND A'S preparations for
leaving home did not take
long, and before many days
had elapsed, she found herself installed
at Brandon Castle, surrounded by love
and luxury ; but her sudden appearance in
the midst of the Cheviotdale relations and
household, caused much dissatisfaction,

especially when, in consequence of sundry-words
dropped by her Grace's confidential
maid, it was reported, that the young lady's
visit was likely to be a long one, and perhaps
' a permanency.' At this news a regular
mutiny broke out both above and below
stairs. With the belligerents below we need
not trouble ourselves ; suffice it to say that
they were mostly old retainers of the family,
who, anxious (we may suppose) to prove
their loyalty to their employers, and their
gratitude for half-century's board, lodging,
and kindness, set about it by either
insolently ignoring, or secretly wounding
the very individual whom their master and
mistress delighted to honour ; but Dorinda
had learnt by bitter experience how to
deal with servants, and generally by love

or money came off victorious, as far as they
were concerned. She was, however,
scarcely prepared for the undeniably unpleasant
fact that above stairs the society
had divided itself into two cliques. The
'Dorinda,' and the * Anti-Dorinda.' The
former was headed (all unconsciously) by
the good duke and duchess, who, in
their noble-heartiness and liberality,
were above seeing, or even suspecting
a want of hospitality in others ; more
especially among their own relations. The
latter clique was headed (very consciously)
by two individuals who, having for
years resided when, and as often as
they pleased (which was generally all
the year round) at Brandon Castle, considered
Dorinda's advent as an unwarrantable

liberty, and a crying injury
to themselves. These two wronged
persons were Lady Margaret Saville, the
duchess's niece, and Sir Guy Deveril, the
duke's nephew.

Lady Margaret was, as we know, the
young lady who succeeded Dorinda at
the Misses Woodcock's establishment ; and,
although ignorant of the story about the
cheque, was perfectly cognisant, from
hearsay, of the other awkward incident
about the gold thimble ; but, having been
bound solemnly to secresy by the three
kind old ladies, she nobly kept her faith,
hiding the secret from her nearest and
dearest to the end.

Dorinda  whose nature could not have
understood the existence of an individual

too grand and too proud to take
advantage of even an enemy in its
power ; nor, of a character to whom the
breaking of a promise would be an impossibility,
 soon decided in her own
mind that Margaret could know nothing
of her antecedents, or that she
would have betrayed them ; and yet 
yet Margaret's dignified reserve, and evident
dislike to her, chafed, offended, and
sometimes alarmed her.

Sir Guy also seemed to avoid her,
but Dorinda was Cjuick enough to perceive
very soon that the cousins made
common cause against her, as an interloper,
because their interests were identical
; for though, in consequence of
insufficiency of means, it was not publicly

confessed, still it was generally known
and silently acknowledged that some
day Guy and Margaret meant to marry.

Dorinda at first did all she could
to ingratiate herself with the lovers ;
but, finding this impossible, she gave
in to the necessity,  but she neither forgave
nor forgot the repulse.

After a few weeks the cousins perceived,
to their consternation, that Dorinda's
popularity with the duke and
duchess equalled,  if it did not surpass, 
their OAvn ; and they foolishly attacked
them upon the subject.

*I don't like her, Uncle Chevy,' said
Margaret, 'for she is mean, underhand,
untruthful !' ('I may say so far to

warn them, \'ithout breaking my faith,'
she thought.)

Nay, nay !' answered the old man,
gently. 'You judge her harshly. She
has had bad parents. I know her
story  you do not.' (Here Margaret's
lip curled.) ' Besides, she is so beautiful,
 unhappy and defenceless too ! I
promised to be her knight, poor soul \
and she loves me as a father.'

And so do I ! dear  dear Uncle Chevy!*
said Margaret, tears springing to her eyes
and kissing him fondly.

'Yes, dear, I know you do; but you
are one of the family ! She has no one
but myself and your aunt.'

Deeply hurt, Margaret said no more.

She is mischief-making, false, and she
reeks of scent !' said Sir Guy, who had
been hitherto the sole arbiter of matters
of taste at Brandon Castle.

'But she is clever, and so amusing!'
answered the duchess ; ' then she is so
graceful, and devoted to the duke ; besides
she loves me like her mother !' (the
duchess forgot that, in Dorinda's case,
this was rather a doubtful compliment).

So Margaret and Guy retreated from
the combat, worsted and chagrined ; but
they stood by, watching events, and ready
to pounce upon their hated rival at a moment's
notice.

In the meantime the fair cause of these
heart-burnings floated gracefully about
the rooms and galleries of Brandon Castle,

apparently quite unconscious of the passionate
emotions which her presence daily
evoked.

She sat coaxingly on the ground at the
duke's feet,  she carried the duchess's work-basket,
 she sang like a bird,  danced like
a fairy,  dressed with studied, almost
bold simplicity,  and always wore a smile.
She had, however, two peculiarities which
impressed people disagreeably, even superstitiously
! One was that instead of walking
like a mortal, she glided like a
phantom, and was constantly appearing
noiselessly and unexpectedly ; and as she
moved, her body possessed a strangely
graceful, undulating movement, which
struck lookers-on more, in consequence of
her habitually wearing (as her only orna-vol.

II. I

ment) an ancient, green enamel girdle, set
with stones of all colours, which glittered
unceasingly with every movement, reminding
all beholders of a beautiful but
dangerous serpent !

The other peculiarity was in her hands.
Although they were perfect in beauty, as
to size, shape, and colour, the slender
finger-tips curled most curiously inwards,
giving the hand a cruel, claw-like expression.
(I use the word expression'
advisedly, for nothing is so full of expression
as a person's hand I)

Dorinda, we may suppose, cannot altogether
have objected to the words,
weird ' and  uncanny ' being used concerning
her and her two peculiarities, for
she had often been laughingly told of

them ; and yet had never tried to modify
them ; on the contrary, as concerned her
hands, she must have been pleased at the
effect produced, for she wore her little
pink nails much longer than necessary,
and carefully trained each into a point,
which did not lessen the claw-like
illusion.

Months rolled by, and Dorinda's influence
at Brandon was still on the
increase, while poor Margaret was constantly
finding herself ' out in the cold ;'
and to add to her exasperation, she could
not but notice that the male relations and
friends of the family, (not excepting her
own beautiful Guy !) were becoming daily
less bitter against Dorinda, less ready topick
holes in her clothes and manners.

I 2

What chance have I or indeed has anyone
 ' said she ruefully to herself one evening,
as she was pacing up the statue gallery,
alone ; (she was always alone now, brooding
over her half-formed, scarcely-expressed
fears)  * against her, with her wriggling
body  and her cruel  cruel claws ! She
is like the Vampires one reads of! enchanted,
and (oh ! T know it too well !)
enchants Oh, why  why did I pass
my word not to speak,  not to tell my
good aunt, my kind foolish old uncle !
I will write and asked to be absolved
from my promise ; for I hate her ! I hate
her ! and alas ! I dread her too !'

As these bitter words escaped her lips,
Margaret chanced to cast her eyes to the
farther end of the darkening gallery, and

she perceived Dorinda lounging, with a
grace peculiarly her own, upon a seat in
the deep embrasure of one of the mullions
windows ;  nor was she alone, for sitting,
nay, cast at her feet, was  who ? Margaret's
own betrothed  Guy Deveril !

For a moment Margaret stood motionless,
 gasping for breath ; then she beheld
him,  her Guy !  tenderly lift the edge of
Dorinda's snowy garment, and passionately
kiss it !  then raising himself on his
knees before her, till his head was on a
level with hers,  he hastily said some eager
words, and leaning forward, cast his arm
round her, and would have pressed his
perfidious lips to hers !  but that kiss was
never given, never received, for Margaret
could not, would not wait to see more, but

quick as a vengeful flash of forked lightning,
she dashed between her discomfited
lover and his false companion, uttering as
she did so a bitter wailing cry, such as
alone could be wrung from a wounded,
outraged woman.

CHAPTER IX.

This weak impress is as a figure,
Trenched in ice, which, with an hour's heat.
Dissolves to water, and doth lose his form.'

UY'S confusion was great ; but
Dorinda, who had probably
seen Margaret all along, looked
the picture of innocent surprise, and
enquired *the cause of Margaret's excitement
?'

Margaret drew herself up to her full

height, and said with stinging emphasis,
as she gazed contemptuously at her
rival :

I did not know you stole lovers, as well
as  other things.'

Dorinda s heart stopped for a moment,
and she turned marble white ; but recovering
herself quickly, she said simply,

From whom have I stolen Sir Guy ?'

From me !' wept the enraged Margaret.
He is  or rather ' (with beautiful scorn)
 he was  my betrothed !'

Dorinda seemed amazed.

Is this true, Guy ?' she said. * You
told me ' (with a glance at Margaret, to
see the shaft strike home) ' that some time
ago you had had a foolish entanglement
with Margaret  but that it had all been

on her side, and had Ions: come to an
end ; for it had never been serious with you,
but only pour s'amuser  and that you had
never loved anyone ' (weeping gently)
but poor Dorinda !' (' As well be hung
for a sheep as a lamb,' thought she ; 'and
if Margaret really knows about me,  which
her words seem to imply,  she will have
no mercy now, but va]\ split upon me,
and I shall be kicked out to a certainty ;
but I shall, at all events, have the satisfaction
of knowing that I have punished
them for their treatment of me ! It will
be some time, I take it, before she believes
anything he says to her again !')

Guy was struck dumb at the tissue of
lies, shot with truth, which had issued
so glibly from Dorinda's lips concerning

him and his words to her, and for the
moment he felt quite unable to defend himself
Fickle,  contemptible,  weak,  he
felt he had been ; but designing  never !
Nor had he held Margaret's love cheap,
or ever mentioned her but with the deepest
respect ; but he had been fascinated, enslaved
by Dorinda's enticing ways, and
latterly, while in her presence, he had
cared for, seen, felt nothing but the glance
of her eye, the magic of her touch ; while
she, having but one object in view 
namely, sweet revenge for the cousins'
first reception of her at Brandon, lured
him on and on to the catastrophe.

So the unfortunate swain stood silent,
looking so mean, so wretched, so amazed
at the turn things had taken, and at

Dorinda's impudent assertions  which were
so impossible to disprove,  that that young
lady, having a strong sense of the ridiculous,
would have laughed, had she dared ;
but Guy, seeing the agony depicted in
Margaret's face, groaned within himself,
while his old admiration for her, and
strong contempt for her lying rival, tortured
his agitated breast. At last he
plucked up courage to say :

Margaret, believe me, I never mentioned
our eno-aojement to her  at all !'

No ! you called it an " entanglement,"
' murmured Dorinda.

I did not !' passionately declared Guy ;
then, turning to Margaret, he added, imploringly,
' Margaret, as God lives, I did
not say  what she says I did !'

Then the poor wretch began floundering
hopelessly in the net so skilfully laid,
trying in vain to explain what he had
said, and not meant ; what he had meant,
and not said ; what he had neither meant
nor said ; and what he had both said
and meant, that Margaret's contempt broke
loose.

Oh !' she said, angrily,  cease your
explanations ! I Avant none of them. It
is all over now. But as for hers (contemptuously)
' she is '

Our heroine, thinking it wiser not to
wait for her rival's diagnosis of her character,
sprang past the cousins, in order to
repair without delay to the duke's apartments
(where she was ever a welcome
guest), determined he should hear her

version of the story first ; but, as she sped
through the galleries, her feelings were
far from enviable.

I should never have ventured on this
coup' she thought, * only I imagined, from
Margaret's complete silence all this time,
that she knew nothing against me ; but I
suppose, from her words just now, that
the Woodcocks betrayed me to her. If
she really knows all, I am done for now,
for she will tell the duke. Heigho ! it is
hardly any use my going to him now, I
fear ; but I may as well, for if I am to
be kicked out, one lie more or less won't
signify ; while, on the other hand, if her
words were only a chance hit, it will bean
object for me to get the first word
with the old man. So here goes! But'

stopping for a moment and putting her
hand up to her head  ' if I am kicked out,
what then  ay, what then ? . . . . Psha !
*' a Stratton and afeard !" '

She laughed lightly, and, hurrying onto
the old duke's sitting-room, knocked
and entered, finding him alone ; and for
the second time she weepingly poured her
troubles into his kind and willing ear,
telling her artless tale of love and sorrow
so pathetically, that it never entered the
loyal old gentleman's head to doubt the
truth of her guileless ignorance of the
relations between Guy and Margaret.

Dear Uncle Chevy '  for by that endearing
name she had learnt to call
him, much to Margaret's exasperation 
if only they had told me of their

engagement, what sorrow they would
have spared themselves and me ! But
Margaret would not speak to me ; she did
not like poor me ! and she did not like
your loving me ! Dear, dear Uncle Chevy,
I have no friend but you in the world ;
and she thinks 1 stole Guy from her, but
I did not know  indeed I did not.'

Guy alone is to blame,' said the
duke, severely, ' for he has not only
acted faithless to Margaret, but he
has heartlessly trifled With your girlish
affections.'

He then sent for Margaret, and blamed
her very gently for her ' unjust anger
against Dorinda, who was,' he assured
her, ' totally ignorant of her engagement
to Guy.' Then, with infinite tenderness,

he took his niece in his kind arms, and
told her she had been scandalously
cheated, and added angrily,

When cooler, I shall have much to say
to Guy, for he  he only is to blame.
Dorinda is innocent !'

Here Dorinda, choked by appropriate
sobs, buried her face in her hands ; and,
when the duke had finished speaking, she
waited breathlessly for Margaret's answer,
dreading, expecting her to come forward
and denounce her;  but she was silent!

After a moment, Dorinda ventured to
look up. Margaret was standing motionless,
pale, proud, and tearless,  like a
statue of Despair ; but she said  nothing,
and turned, as if to go.

Dorinda was inwardly jubilant.

Her words,' she thought, ' were, after
all, a chance hit ; she knows nothings

There was now an awkward pause, nobody
spoke, and our heroine, feeling convinced
that the duke had completely
exonerated her of all blame, considered it
incumbent on her to assume the air of an
injured and suffering saint; so, melting
into tender tears, she announced (between
little gasps of emotion) her generous and
complete forgiveness of everybody; of
Guy, ' although ' (she said) ' he has made
me love him, and broken my heart ;' and of
Margaret, 'who has said cruel bitter things
against me.' And she would actually
have proved the sincerity of the said forgiveness,
by offering to kiss Margaret ;
but, when she approached that dignified

VOL. 11. K

lady for the purpose, there was an expression
in her eyes which made Dorinda
suddenly change her mind, and
retreat.

I believe she would have bitten me,'
she thought, ' and I fancy I heard her
mutter, "Judas." What an unpleasant,
bitter young woman !'

In a few days, peace seemed once more
to reign at Brandon, but everything had
changed. Guy had been banished to
foreign parts, and all the house missed
his handsome face and cheery voice.
Dorinda glided about, looking pale and
sad, with her head bent like a crushed
flower, and was often discovered weeping
in the gallery beneath the mullions

window; but Margaret  poor Margaret!
she too was pale, but with proudly erect
head, and dry burning eyes. With all
her heart she still loved Guy, but there
was an impassable gulf now between them
the gulf of a lie ! To her mind,
Dorinda was but a very secondary
ill.

She is too contemptible far,' she said
to herself, ' for me to care to injure her.
Poor wretch ! Why should I ? She has
caused the fall of the prop I should have
clung to all my life, and she can hurt meno
further. I should be like her, were I
to seek a mean revenge ; besides, my word
was passed to those three kind old ladies,
as theirs was to Lady Balbirnie. I thank
God I never yielded to the temptation of

k2

denouncing her. After all, she is more to
be pitied than I ; and, as long as she does
no harm to the dear old duke and duchess,
I will leave her alone. God will take the
poor thing in hand, in His own good time !
But Guy  oh, Guy !' the poor girl would
exclaim in an agony of grief, as she
passionately cast herself upon her couch,
where there were no cruel eyes to see,
no sneering lip to mock, 'it is a bereavement
to me,  a death,  the death of Faith
in my heart !'

As for the duke and duchess, after the
first excitement Alas over, and upon calm
reflection, they experienced a curiously
uncomfortable sensation about the part
Dorinda had acted in the transaction !
To them both, it seemed strange that a

clever girl as she was, should have been so
blind,  so dull,  as not to have ' taken in '
the fact of Guy's engagement to Margaret !
or at all events it was odd she should not
have heard it mentioned ! But they did
not confess their thoughts even to each
other,  these two kind old people, and,
to use a vulgar though expressive
simile, ' it left a bad taste in their
mouths.'

CHAPTER X

I have unclasped
To thee the book even of my secret soul !'

Fie ! that a spendthrift is she of her tongue !'

Jeers had now rolled smoothly
by at Brandon Castle, and the
inmates were beginning to accustom
themselves to the (since Sir Guy
Deveril's departure) decidedly dull monotony
of their lives, when a most mysterious
occurrence took place, which, in spite of

its being  hushed up ' as much as possible,
loosened people's tongues, and
raised their curiosity to the highest
pitch.

The duke and duchess had one night
retired to rest as usual, and had already
for some hours been sleeping the sleep of
the just, when their innocent slumbers
were disturbed by  an apparition ! A
fair girl, clad in a purely white, clinging,
semi-transparent robe, with a wealth of
rippling hair falling to, and nearly covering
her naked feet, appeared  standing 
the foot of the bed. The beautiful
eyes were wide open (when were they
not), and wore the far-off gaze of the
somnambulist,  a gaze which seemed to
pierce through and through the couch

upon which lay the terrified and trembling
old couple.

Dorinda,  for it was she,  carried a small
silver lamp, and, slowly approaching the
side of the bed devoted to the duke, sat
noiselessly down. The duke and duchess
breathed more freely as they gathered
from their visitor s attitude and demeanour,
that she had no murderous intentions ;
and they listened with breathless attention
as, with an utterance  sleepily indistinct,
though articulate enough for her amazed
hearers to comprehend the gist of her
words, the lovely sleeper murmured forth
her astounding revelations.

At first she seemed passionately pleading
for justice from * papa,' ' mamma,' and
 Father Andrew ;' and then, by means of

spasmodic, but suggestive words, she
proceeded to reveal awful social secrets ;
implicating the characters of most respectable
and hitherto respected personages
; she whispered terrible reasons why
some well-known, middle-aged married
couples should in common decency live
apart; she linked names better separate,
and finally she sobbed forth harrowing sentences,
disclosing some particulars of her
own private history, by which she proved
herself person of unerring virtue,  labouring
under unheard-of difficulties ! Meanwhile
she interlarded her mysterious confidences
with such vehement expressions of adoration
for the duke, that the poor duchess dissolved
into tears, while her spouse looked on
in mute admiration, tempered by just a

grain of suspicion, and a nervous dread lest
the lamp should set fire to the bed-clothes !

At last the sleepily-melodious voice
ceased, and, rising dreamily from her seat,
Dorinda set down the lamp, and, to the
duke's speechless terror, seemed rather
uncertain as to whether she were not cheek,
 whether, in short,  she should not
invade the nuptial couch ! Such a catastrophe,
however, was mercifully averted;
for, apparently changing her mind, the
lovely somnambulist once more appropriated
the lamp, and, with a deep sigh,
glided from the room.

Follow her, duke, pray !' exclaimed
the duchess ; ' make haste too, or she will
injure herself!'

My dear,' pleaded the duke, ' I really

can't. Suppose some of our people were to
see me running after her  in this attire ?'

'True,' said the kind duchess, 'I had
better go.'

Xo,' said the duke, shortly, ' she came
safely, and will return so ; somnambulists
rarely hurt themselves. Let's go to
sleep !'

They lay down quietly for a moment ;

then the duke said, suspiciously,
My dear, was she really asleep ?'
Dear husband, can you doubt it ?'
Well, well,' answered the old man,

rather ashamed of himself and of his

thoughts ; ' and oh ! didn't she look

lovely !'

Only fancy,' said the duchess, ' if she
had gone into anybody else's room !'

Finally they agreed that profound
silence had better be maintained concerning
this strange nocturnal adventure.

The next morning Dorinda appeared at
breakfast  later than usual, looking pale
and ill, and with her arm in a sling ; and
she related, with much innocence, how
she had been discovered by her maid, in a
faint upon the ground, at the foot of the
bed ; ' and with the pretty silver lamp,'
she added, tearfully, 'which you. Uncle
Chevy, gave me, overturned and broken
by my side !'

Upon Margaret cross-questioning her as
to how the accident could have occurred,
she answered she was an inveterate sleepwalker,
and had been so all her life, and
that she supposed she must have ' walked '

last niojht and have fallen over something
in her room.

The duke and duchess were silent ; but
Margaret's curiosity was roused, and she
remarked :

 Surely such a fall as you describe
would have awoke you ! and yet you say
that hours after,  when, I presume, she
called you in the morning,  your maid
discovered you on the ground, not, I
suppose, in a faint, but still asleep.'

Pardon me,' answered Dorinda, quietly,
'I did not say "hours after." You
misunderstood me. My maid, who sleeps
in my dressing-room, heard the fall,
and came in at once, finding me not
asleep," but fainting,  or " unconscious "
would perhaps be a better word, for I

evidently had struck my temple badly,
which, I suppose, stunned me ;' and
pushing aside her fair hair, a black, ugly-looking
bruise was shown, discolouring
the delicate skin, and evoking general
sympathy.

For days after, our heroine, who had
also bruised her arm and wrist, was
obliged to beg that her food might be
cut up for her; and she positively
refused to eat,  unless the duke performed
the office himself! To the annoyance
of some, and the surprise of
others, he laughingly complied ; and, as
Margaret noted the incident, she was
irresistibly reminded of the wise man's
speech in the Apocrypha :

Yea, many there he that have run out of
their wits for luonien and become servants for
their sakes.

Many also have perished have erred, have
sinned for women, and

'now, do ye not believe me ?

Is not the King great in his power, do not
all regions fear to touch him ?

Yet did 1 see him, and Apame, the
King's concubine, sitting at the right hand
of the King, and talking the crown from
the King's head, and setting it upon her
own Stead ! She also struck the King with
her left hand! and yet, for all this, the
King gajoed and gazed upon her leith
open mouth! If she laughed upon him, he
laughed also, but if she took any displeasure

at hin, the King was fain to flatters
that she might he reconciled to him
again'

And forthwith, in her heart, Margaret
christened Dorinda ' Apame,' and
ever after called her by that name.

It is difficult to understand, supposing
this sleep-walking episode was a fraud, 
a hoax  as of course it was !  what
Dorinda's object could have been in
venturing upon it ; but, as she rarely
did or said anything without a motive,
she must have had a strong one
to attempt anything so hazardous ! To
be sure, after Guy's departure, her life
had been deadly dull and destitute of
all excitement, which, to a woman of

her temperament, was unbearable ; also,
at times, sbe displayed a reckless, unhealthy
delight in placing herself in difficult
circumstances, from which she could
only extricate herself by bringing all
her wondrous powers of tact, energy, and
lying into play.

Still, a deeper motive than either of these
must have prompted her here ; and probably
the two following reasons may have
done so : First, she may have thought
it would be a good stroke of business if
she could, without apparent malice, raise
doubts in the duke's mind concerning the
character and credibility of certain friends
of his, who she fancied understood her, and
were consequently dangerous.

Secondly, she may have said to herself :
VOL. ir. L

I will remind them that, even if they are
angry with me about Guy, it would be impossible
for them to deliver me over again
to the tender mercies of my cruel parents
and the priests ; and the only way to do
this, would be to bring my home-troubles
once more vividly before them, and rekindle
in their hearts the pity which is akin
to love.'

Thus with these thoughts uppermost,
and having unbounded faith in her own
wits,' in the unsuspicious natures of her
patrons, and in their utter ignorance in
double-dealing, she probably conceived and
carried out the daring plan ; but the game
had been a dangerous one, and better left
alone, for it awoke questionings in the
duke's mind, not so much as to the characters

of the individuals lie had vilified 
as to her own ! The slanders she had uttered
in her fit of somnambulism had given him
offence; for, having a singularly pure mind
himself, the very thought of a young girl
wading through, or even having; the knowledge
of, what he called * filth ' disgusted
him.

She could not have dreamt of things
she did not know,' he argued, during the
long consultation that he and the duchess
held upon the subject ; and, although it
never entered their heads that they were
the victims of a hoax, they were fast becoming
aware that the custody of other
people's children, even when come to years
of discretion, (or of indiscretion, as in

Dorinda's case), was no sinecure.

l2

Deronda.

Not many days after this event, a new
character appeared on the scene, totally
changing the spirit of everybody's dream
at Brandon.

A man of good repute, carriage, bearing, and reputation.

Shakespeare.

T was a lovely summer morning,
and the breakfast had been
prepared under the shade of
the verandah. The duchess, Margaret, and
Dorinda had already sat down to the meal,
but the duke had not yet appeared.
Uncle Chevy is late !' said Dorinda.
Margaret bit herhp, and said, with some
emphasis : ' Aunty, may I go and see after
'the duke?'

Do, my dear, I can't think what keeps
him!'

I hope,' Dorinda thought, * that he has
not died suddenly ! It is so like the sort of
thing that would happen to me ! so like my
luck. I wonder what would happen to me!'

Margaret rose, and in a moment returned.

Aunty !' she said, ' he has had a letter
from the Prince Bernard de la Styrie, saying
he is coming here to-day !'

Who is he ?' said Dorinda, ' I never
heard of him.'

He is the duke's oldest friend, dear, 
but what does he say, Meg ?'

 He is in great sorrow, aunty, his young
brother is dead  died suddenly !'

Oh, I am so sorry ! He was his heir,
and such a charming creature ! Poor
Prince Bernard 1 The duke is so fond

of him. He is enormously rich, andes

the princess coming too ?' asked
Dorinda.

There is no princess ; he has never been
married.'

The duke now came in; Dorinda jumped
up and kissed him, and for a few minutes
was very busy passing him his coffee,
toast, eggs, &c.

Poor Bernard !' said the duke at length,
after his morning appetite had been tolerably
satisfied ; ' we must try to comfort
him. He feels his brother's death terribly !
His letter is so French ! He says he must
begin life afresh, for as his brother has died
unmarried, unless he marries  himself, the
family will become extinct.'

But he is an old man to marry,' put in
the duchess.

Merci-chere ! he is ten years younger
than I ! He is fifty-five, but handsome 
and enormously rich, so he is sure to find
some lady willing to undertake him. He
claims my sympathy as his oldest friend,
and begs he may be allowed to stay here
for a while,  sans ceremonie  and shut up
in his own room. He writes : " Donne moi,
je te prie, mon cher ami, une toute petite
chambre, qui donne sur ton joli jardin
Anglais, et laisse-moi seul ! que je pleure
mon Antoine, mon cher Antoine," &c., &c.'

He shall have the blue-room,' said the
kind duchess, * which looks out on the rose-garden,
 when does he arrive ?'

To-day  he will be here very soon. I
have sent the carriage, and I will receive
him in my own den.'

Breakfast being over, the duchess accompanied

the duke to his sitting-room to
await and welcome their guest. Margaret
prepared herself for a walk, intent upon
carrying a small basket of gifts to some
poor people ; and Dorinda sat down in her
own bed-room to think.

They are giving him Guy's room,' said
she. ' I wonder whether he will end by
watching for me in the rose-garden, as
Guy used ! I wish he would, for I can't
live here for ever, and I must try to settle
myself! But Margaret, 1 fear, will suit
him best, with her grand air and dignified
beauty. What a perfect princess she
would make ! and yet  yet ' (going up to
the cheval glass and standing before it),
 Non ce male I' as the Italians say.'

And indeed she was not far wrong  for
what did she see in that mirror ? Let us

look ; a tall girl clad in some soft white
material, which fitted closely to the 
bust and rounded waist ;
while, after the fashion of the day, the
skirt was drawn back as tightly as possible
from the front, accentuating rather than
veiling the graceful form and the long
slender limbs, and falling into a long train
which swept the ground behind her. Her
complexion was fair, almost pale, but the
blush-rose colour which now and then
deepened on her cheek was beautiful in
the extreme. Her eyes were that peculiar
tint seen only in blue steel, and they
would have worn a hard expression, had
they not been softened by heavy lids, and
long curling lashes. Her nose was slightly
aquiline, the nostrils being thin, sensitive,
and proud ; and her mouth was beautiful,

being rounded at the corners ; while the
lips were full.

As she scanned this vision in the mirror,
she once more repeated,  and this time
with a smile, -yon c'e male!' and, turning
away gaily, rang the bell.

Estelle, who had been reinstated as
soon as Dorinda's fortunes had again risen,
entered the room.

My hat, Estelle  the large white one,
with the roses,  now  my parasol and
gloves, merci, voila tout /' and, selecting a
book, she sauntered forth.

As the carriage containing the Prince
de la Styrie drove up the avenue, he
beheld a young girl sitting on the grass 
reading. She seemed so absorbed in her
book that she scarcely raised her head to
look at the passer-by ; but when she did

SO, the prince (unlike an Englishman, who
would have taken no notice of the lady,
but would have driven by looking and
feeling uncomfortable) took off his hat
with a flourish, as if he would have died
in her service ; and the lady bowed and
smiled.  the prince meanwhile thinking he
had never see anyone so beautiful.

The carriage passed on, but Dorinda sat
long under the trees.

He is a grand-looking man,' she thought,
and cannot be fifty-five !'

For about ten days the prince remained
invisible, to '' ]clearer'' his brother. His
host and hostess visited him now and
then during his seclusion, but the young
ladies saw him not. He, however, saw
them,  or one of them,  for Dorinda (as
was her wont) rose early every morning,

and, with a basket on her arm, hied her
to the rose-garden, to pick roses ; it being
her particular charge, to distribute them
prettily over the rooms ; and she remarked
(smiling inwardly) that one of the strands
of the Venetian blinds in a particular
window belonging to the ' blue-room,' was
invariably turned soon after she had begun
her quest among the rose-bushes, and she
felt sure her movements were followed by
curious and, probably, admiring eyes.

One morning, while Estelle was brushing
her mistress's hair, the foreign maiden
said,

A ce qui parait, monsieur le prince
quitte sa chambre aujourd'hui.'

Dorinda continued reading.

II dine ce soir en famille.'

Silence from Dorinda.

A ce qui parait il cherche line princesse,
et a ce qu on dit, il admire beaucoup les
Anglaise !'

Taisez-vous done ! Impertinent !' said
Dorinda, smiling.

The prince did, in fact, appear that
evening, and at a glance Dorinda perceived
that her search for roses, and her
pretty attitudes, had not been thrown
away. Indeed (although our heroine knew
it not), the prince  having at once recognized
in the pretty flower-girl the studious
beauty of the Park ; and having watched
her narrowly for two or three mornings, 
had approached the duchess upon the subject,
asking who she was? &c., &c., and
upon hearing that her family and descent
were sufficiently aristocratic not to disgrace

his own, and having much faith in
the reputed characters for innocence of
the traditional English ' meet,' he went
to work in the French way, asking the
duchess whether (supposing, upon further
acquaintance, the lovely ' demoiselle aux
roses' did not object to him) he might
become a candidate for her hand ?

The duchess consulted the duke, and
they wrote at once to Dorindas parents,
who declared themselves delighted at the
prospect, (laying especial stress on the
fact that the prince ' happily belonged to
the Faith') and consequently all was prearranged
and en train before Dorinda had
been spoken to upon the matter ; for the
duchess had said,

Better let her judge for herself, without

the knowledge of any previous arrangement
; and so she will act naturally and
as her heart dictates. For myself, I have
a horror of these manages do convenance
I prefer old-fashioned love-making. I maybe
wrong !'

Thus it was decided that Dorinda should
be arbiter of her own fate, and the very
night of Estelle's announcement, the prince
was presented to his  in the form of a
lovely, gentle-voiced, graceful young girl,
who was prettily dressed, spoke French
prettily, and ate and drank prettily (a
most uncommon accomplishment); indeed,
before the fish was off the table, the inflammable
French soldier was as irrevocably
and foolishly in love as any young
man could be.

My house within the City's
richly furnished with plate and gold ;
My hangings all of Tyrian tapestry :
In ivory coffers I have stuffed my crowns.
Myself am struck in years, I must confess ;
And, if I die tomorrow, this is hers.
If, whilst I live, she will be only mine.'

ORIXDA, of course, looked, and

was, young enough to be the
prince's daughter, but there
was an air of dignity about her which
charmed him; and one day  when, in

VOL. II. M

consequence of an indisposition of the
duchess's (Margaret being in attendance
on her aunt), it fell to her lot (by
the duke's desire) to receive and entertain
some distinguished guests,  she acted
the part of hostess with such calm and
simple dignity, setting everyone so completely
at their ease, that the prince could
hardly contain his admiration, and decided
to ask her to be his wife without delay ;
so a day or two afterwards, to Dorinda's
enormous satisfaction, he asked for an
interview, and presented her with a magnificent
bracelet, enhancing (as he thought)
the value of the gift by telling her it had
been his mother's property.

Our heroine, however, deemed it best
not to appear too eager to understand his

intentions ; therefore, looking up at him
in innocent amazement, she gently returned
the jewel, saying,

Prince, I am not worthy of such a

gift.'

Mademoiselle, nothing is good enough
for you ; but, humble as the gift is, I
value it for my mother's sake, and, when
I offer it, it is with the wild hope that you
may be induced not only to accept it, but
also to take my mother's place as the
Princesse de la Styrie.'

(' Oh, dear.' thought Dorinda, ' what cold
love-making !')

Mademoiselle,' the prince continued,
the moment I saw you I adored you ;
but may I implore you to consider over
my proposal? Our ages are vastly differs



went, so if you accept me it will be a sacrifice
on your side ; but do not hastily refuse
me, as my life shall be spent in trying to
make you happy. Allow me to leave the
bracelet in your keeping ; and should you
honour me, in a day or two, by allowing
it to appear on your pretty arm, I shall
know then that I am the happiest of men ;
but if  on consideration  you return it,
through the duke, I shall leave the castle
at once,  a desolate and heart-broken one.'
Then with a profound bow he left her.

How dreary !' thought our heroine,
how dull ! how cold ! But beggars can't
be choosers, and, after all, I shall have
what many would give anything to
possess.'

Accordingly she acted in this, as in most

things, with great tact. She had foreseen
this supreme moment for some time, and
had calmly weighed the pros and cons and,
having come to the conclusion that it was
a case (for her) of all pros and no cons she
was thoroughly prepared ; consequently,
with that engaging sincerity which stamped
all her actions, directly the prince had left
her, she flew to the duchess, telling her
breathlessly what had occurred, and expressing
her unbounded surprise at the
proposal. She then displayed the bracelet,
and implored the duchess's advice.

The kind old lady smiled, and advised
her to consider over it for a day or two ;
(devoutly hoping she would accept the
proposal;) and Dorinda did consider; 
but not, as the duchess thought, over the

proposal only; no, her first thought
was :

Will Edward Julian try to injure me ?
no, he said, as long as I left Ms family
alone, he would not meddle with m !
Heigho ! Poor Jasper! I have no fear of
his malice ! but what of Henrietta ? Oh.
no ! She will be too pleased to have me
safely married elsewhere ! The old Woodcocks
would have split upon me before
now, had they meant to do so ; and Margaret
 ah ! She will be glad to be rid of
me upon any terms ! so I suppose I am
safe; therefore, I shall accept.'

And, taking the bracelet out of its case,
she clasped it round her arm, looking long
and thoughtfully at it ; at last she
murmured :

'A fetter! ay! but it will be one to
him also ! I wonder which will feel and
fret at its weight first !'

In a day or two, she descended into the
rose-garden, whither she had seen the
prince repair shortly before, to smoke his
cigar. Upon seeing her, he joined her
eagerly, and after a few shy words, and
with just the right amount of maidenly
agitation and womanly dignity, she
pushed aside her delicate lace sleeve, disclosing
to the prince the bracelet, which
lay flashing on her arm ! The prince was
overjoyed, and taking her hand kissed it,
murmuring, 'The happiest day of my life !'
Dorinda started, and remembered with a
pang those words, ' Jour de ma vie !' but
smothering all sentiment, with a happy

smile on her lip, and a proud step, she
accompanied her betrothed back to the
castle.

The duke and duchess were delighted at
the marriage, thinking the prince would
be a safe and kind protector to the worse
than orphan girl ; and, as soon as Dorinda's
acceptance of the prince was declared, the
duchess wrote to Lord and Lady Balbir-
nie, saying, with words of much affection,
that, as Dorinda had been so long their
adopted child, they hoped to be permitted
to look upon her in that light still  until
they delivered her up to a husband's keeping.
So they gave the Corneille de mariage
and the wedding took place from Brandon
Castle.

Lord and Lady Balbirnie were present,

as well as a host of everyone's relations,
and Lady Balbirnie charmed them all by
her beauty and grande dame manners ; so
much so, that the prince, with a courtly
bow, as he kissed his helle-mere s hand, acknowledged
it was easy to see whence his
lovely Dorinda had derived her charm !

As the well-appointed chariot,  containing
the bride and bridegroom, (drawn by
four grey horses, ridden by the prince's
French postillions, who wore the traditional
old-world costume of his family.)  rolled
from the door of the house which had
been to her a kindly and liberal home,
Dorinda looked up, and perceived margaret's
pale face, watching her without a
smile (she rarely smiled now) from the

well-remembered mullions window of the
statue gallery.

She need not have chosen that very
window,' thought the hour-old princess,
wincing slightly, as she waved an effusive
adieu to the motionless figure which
seemed scarcely to heed her sign ;  for
Margaret could not,  did not wish'Dorinda
God-speed, and, with a tinge of malice
aforethought, had deliberately selected
that very spot from whence to witness the
bride's departure.

The carriage passes slowly down the
avenue of stately trees, sweeps round the
deep, blue lake  across the bridge ; then,
entering a wood, vanishes  first from
sight,  then from hearing.



Softly Margaret closes the casement and
then  whispers her adieu.

Farewell, Apame !. The crown is on
your head now ; but will the king, do you
think, gape and flatter for ever? We
shall see, we shall see !'

CHAPTER XIII.

Meet is it changes should controul
Our being, lest we rust in ease.'

"What fame is left for human deeds
In endless age ? It rests with God.

BAREST mother, do let me
go ! They have especially
invited me, and I should so
like to see St. Cloud, and that lovely old
queen ! So kiss me, mother, and say

yes.

My child, I am only afraid for your

chest ; and if you were to catch cold, and
be laid-up here '

'But, mother, I will wrap up. We
must see the Horse-shoe waterfall by
moonlight ! It would be too charming !'

Well, darling, the weather is warm, so
I won't refuse ; but you must wear your
fur cloak, and we will take Bardel with us.'

Oh, poor, dear Bardel,' laughed the
girl, ' he is such a coward that he will
faint when he sees the sentries at the
palace !'

This conversation took place in an
entresol of the Hotel Bristol in Paris, in
September, 1847, between Lady Olive
Ramsay and iona, now a handsome, but
delicate-looking girl between sixteen and
seventeen.

After leaving Dresden, iona had failed
so alarmingly in health, that Olive had
been advised to travel, and winter in
Italy. Accordingly the two last winters
had been spent in Naples, and iona had
so benefited from the warm climate, that
it was decided she should go this year to
London,  be presented, and, after a short,
very short season, return to, and spend
one more winter in Italy, when it was
hoped the girl would return perfectly
cured.

During all the time of their travels
Lady Olive had been accompanied by
old Bardel, who, as we said before,
had entered her service just before Mr.
Ramsay's death at Pisa; and the fact
of having seen the young and lovely

woman in such heart-broken distress,
seemed to have awoke every feeling
of chivalry in the Frenchman's
heart. He accompanied the widow home,
and had lived with her ever since, in
any capacity most required at the moment.
During iona's illness, and in
all the subsequent travelling, he had
been the girl's best nurse, was a capital
cook, housemaid, butler,  was now courier ;
and, although certainly guilty of the
little failing laughingly alluded to by
iona, was Olive's devoted slave, and
confidential friend, as only an old French
man-servant of the ancien regime can
be.

Lady Olive had arrived in Paris about
a week ago, and had settled herself in the

Hotel Bristol for a fortnight. She had
come for two principal reasons : one was
motherly vanity,  to get iona's presentation
gown ; and the other was  that
she thirsted to see Dorinda happy,
with a good husband and a luxurious
home.

During her life at Kensington, in spite
of her constant occupation in iona's
education, Olive had found time to see a
good deal of Dorinda ; and, although by
no means a stupid woman, was, as most
men and women are at one time of their
lives, blinded by an infatuation ; hers being
for the lovely girl who she had first known
weeping over a miserable home,  and a
cruel, heartless mother.

Olive had once or twice been warned

against Dorinda by ' true friends ;' but
her chivalrous nature rebelled against
those who stabbed in the dark, ie. those
who would warn and hint, and yet were
too timorous to speak out ! Under such
circumstances Olive would passionately,
obstinately support her friend, and
insensibly she felt all the more tenderly
towards one who required her
championship, and, indeed, who had once
or twice been almost dependent upon
it.

Besides all this, Olive believed herself to
have been the girl's sole confidant during
the most difficult events of her unhappy
youth; and she consequently felt that
she could understand Dorinda's difficulties,
and find excuses for her behaviour which

VOL. II. N

the world  being ignorant of the real circumstances
 could not.

(How differently good Lady Olive would
have felt, had she been aware that Dorinda
had only confided in her just as far asher
own suspicious nature would allow;
and that the true history of her school
life, of her first lover, of Sir Jasper,
and of the part she had played concerning
Sir Guy at Brandon, had been so
altered  and facts so suppressed  in the
telling  that practically she was ignorant
of the whole ! She did not know this till
long after !)

But to return to the Hotel Bristol. As
we said before, Lady Olive had come to
Paris, intending to stay a fortnight, but

Homme propose et Dieu dispose,' as we
shall see in this case before long.

Lady Olive's father had at one time been
intimately associated with the Orleanist
family, and they had always evinced the
strongest affection for his daughter ; consequently,
whenever she visited Paris, she
informed the Queen Marie Amelia of her
arrival; and to-day she had received a
command to \dsit the Queen at St. Cloud
that same evening; and, as the visit was to
be a strictly private one, iona, although
only sixteen, and not yet ' out,' was especially
mentioned in the invitation. Lady
Olive, however, being still anxious about
iona's health, had hesitated taking her out
in the evening, but the weather being

n2

warm and dry, besides not being proof
against the child's coaxing entreaties, she
was over-ruled, even to agreeing to the
detour on the road to enable then to seethe
fountains in the Parc and the famous
Horseshoe waterfall by moonlight. Accordingly,
soon after dinner, the two ladies
started, and on entering the Pare, drove to
a friendly group of trees, indicated by the
coachman as being only a few yards distant
from the waterfall; and after forbidding
Bardel, who was lame, accompanying them,
they alighted and wrapped themselves
closely in their cloaks and hoods, devoutly
hoping it would be too late for inconvenient
passers-by, who they felt might
naturally be astonished at their evening
toilettes.

After a short walk they came upon the
waterfall, and were fully repaid for any
trouble they had taken, for the scene was
enchanting ; and the effect of the moonbeams
shining: through the falling; water
(making it resemble a shower of opals) was
a ' thing of beauty ' never to be forgotten !
Alas ! how few things in that kaleido-
sceptical country remain to be 'a joy forever.'
This very waterfall, however,
chances to be amongst the few relics that
escaped the heart-breaking destruction
which long after overwhelmed pretty St,
Cloud !

This mild escapade of Lady Olive and
her daughter was not  as it turned out 
one of unmixed pleasure ; nor was it altogether
unattended by unpleasant results,

for a sergent-neville who was prowling
about, and very much on the alert in consequence
of the then threatening state of
the political atmosphere, unfortunately
caught sight of the two shrouded figures,
and, his suspicions being aroused by the
evident anxiety of the mysterious individuals
to avoid attention, he attracted
the notice of a brother sergent and, warning
him to watch the suspected parties, he
proceeded to question the coachman, who
assured him that the intentions of cs
dames were innocent, and that they were
on their way to pay their respects to the
royal family at the Chateau.' The sergent
was by no means reassured by this apparently
unlikely story ; and continued eyeing
Bardel, who, at that awkward moment, in

his determination to avoid all discussion
with an individual in a sword, did his best
to appear as suspicious a character as possible
! for, as soon as he had seen the official
approaching, he had opened the carriage
door and dived into it, at the same time
slouching his hat, and wrapping himself ina
large brigand-looking cloak, so that, as
far as regarded a sinister and demoniacal
rascality of appearance, Mephistopheles
himself would have been but a ' patch on
him;

Of course the sergent-delvile had noticed
Bardel's efforts to hide himself, as well as
his excessive perturbation, so opening the
carriage door he desired ce monsieur authoritatively
to descend, which the poor
wretch did, trembling like a jelly; but ashe

was far too nervous to answer questions,
the sergent turned from him, and again
cross-examined the Jehu, who told him
the ladies had come to see the waterfall by
moonlight,  luckily adding that they were
Englishwomen. This latter announcement
seemed to alter the whole aspect of affairs ;.
for, with a shrug of ineffable contempt
at such insular hizarreries the sergent exclaimed,


Des Anglaises ! fui ! Bien 'lors, tout
se comprend !' and, whistling to his comrades
who was in a state of blank amazement,
not unmingled with admiration at
the ladies' toilettes (which they vainly
tried to hide), the two Frenchmen plunged
into the trees and disappeared.

Much amused, but rather frightened,

Lady Olive and iona once more entered
the carriage, and arrived without further
adventure at their destination.

They were received at the principal
entrance to the Chateau by a gentleman of
the royal household, with whom they were
acquainted, and who had promised to
point out to them some of the historical
pictures and treasures as they passed
through the galleries, salles fcc, on their
way to the royal presence.

On first entering the grand vestibule,
they gazed with deep interest at the
beautiful marble staircase leading to the
apartments where so many famous men
and women had been born, had lived,
laughed, wept  and died ; and so vividly
did their imposes rise before their imagination

that the ghosts of their departed
footsteps seemed to accompany their
own.

Up that same staircase, on a sultry
August morning, in the year 1589, a
cowled monk* must have ascended ; and
in consequence, no doubt, of his holy
calling and supposed sanctity of life, was
permitted to approach his sovereign,! even
into the intimacy of his bed-chamber. A
few words were spoken,  a petition offered
and graciously accepted,  but suddenly a
gleaming knife was raised, and instantly
plunged into the monarch's bosom ! There
was a short but deadly struggle, the king
fought right royally for his life, blood

Jacques Clements,
t Henri III. of France.

flowed on both sides, and the king killed
his assailant ; but in a very few hours he
also succumbed to his wounds, and thus
the proud House of Valois passed away
for ever !

Then also Henrietta Maria's weary
feet must have ascended and descended
those steps scores of times, for in those
upper rooms she sadly lived and sadly
died, after having  years before  forsaken
Charles Stuart, her king and husband, in
his bitter need.

But these phantoms had presently to be
banished from their minds, for the two
ladies Averse quickly conducted through the
Salles de Mars and de Venus noticing in the
former, as they hurried by, the famous
statue of the Grand Monarque.

Great,' said Lady Olive, ' in nothing
but his vices and selfishness, and in the
retribution which his wickedness brought
upon heads as sacred as his own, and far
more innocent.'

iona would willingly have lingered in
the apartment which had served (strange
irony of fate !) as a bed-chamber to Marie-antoinette,
Josephine, and Marie Louise,
but their conductor warned them that they
must now emerge from the world of shadows,
bid farewell to dead kings and queens,
to enter the presence of living Majesty ;
and, with a courteous bow, he pointed to
the door of another salon upon entering
which, they found themselves face to face
with the benignant Queen Marie Amelia,
who was sitting upon a beautiful gilt sofa,



drawn up to a large round table, at which
several ladies were sitting, engaged in
needlework.

CHAPTER XIV.

gentle spirit ! thou didst bear unmoved
Blasts of adversity, and frosts of fate.'

Grave in his aspect and attire,
A man of ancient pedigree.'

HE Queen rose as Lady Olive
approached, and, after kissing
her and iona affectionately,
presented both to each of the ladies present
; then, inviting Lady Olive to sit by
her on the sofa, iona took her place by the
lovely Duchesse de Memoirs, who with

her sweet face (shaded by long fair curls)
and her gentle manner, soon set the otI
at her ease.

iona was much interested at beholding
the aged Princesse Adelaide ; also the
Duchesse de Montpelier, who had for so
long been the political bone of contention ;
and the whole situation was (to her) like
an extravagant dream !  seeing all these
celebrities sitting at a round-table, working
slippers, braces &c., &c., as she and
her mother might have done !

The old Princesse Adelaide (who seemed
very feeble), after a few kind words to
Lady Olive, expressed a wish to retire to
rest ; and rose, accompanied by her lady-in-waiting
; but the sweet old Queen gave
her sister-in-law her arm, and supported

her herself to the door ; then, embracing
her affectionately, returned to the sofa.
The old princess died not many weeks
later, and was mercifully spared the
knowledge of her brother's flight from
Paris.

iona soon began to find the party
decidedly dull. The royal sisters-in-law
conversed with each other in low voices,
while the Queen and Lady Olive talked
over old scenes and old friends.

 But I am left out in the cold,' thought
iona ;' voted a bore ! lam sure I shall
yawn,  or shall I scream, and create some
astonishment !'

At that moment a gentleman entered
with bows and obeisance, and said some
words to the Queen, who smiled and looked

pleased, and in a few minutes a beautiful
vision appeared in the doorway. It was
Dorinda  the Princesse de la Styrie !

The Queen once more rose to receive her
guest, and the Duchesse de Memoirs exclaimed,
under her breath,

'Ah! qu'elle est belle. Mais c'est un
rev, un poem !'

Certainly anything more lovely could
scarcely be conceived. The princess's gown
was of silver tissue, and on her nut-brown
hair was set a tiara of many-coloured
stones, exactly matching the girdle which
she always wore, and with which we are
so familiar. Every movement, as she bent
and kissed the Queen's hand, was grace
itself, and she was received with much
cordiality by the princesses. Lady Olive

VOL. II. o

at once took leave, and as she passed
Dorinda, kissed her, saying,

I did not know you had come.'
I only arrived yesterday  will come
and see you tomorrow,' was the response ;
and Lady Olive and iona drove back to
Paris.

Tt was now two days before the Jour
de Tan. The shops were all decked out
as only Paris shops at that season can
be, and crowds were promenading the
streets ; but that the shops were not the
only source of interest and excitement
was evident, and equally so that the sulky,
savage-looking men, and wildly gesticulating
women, who mingled with the rest,
were neither purchasers of bon-bons, nor
sight-seers.

A great political crisis was pending, and
the clouds which for so long had darkened
the French horizon were about to burst.
Louis Philippe, the citizen king, had for
eighteen years occupied the throne of the
Bourbons ; but that throne was now
rocking and tottering to its fall.

The autocrat. King Mob, was waking

from his long lethargy, and, like an evil

giant, had begun to shake his tangled

mane from out his blood-shot eyes,  to

sharpen his deadly weapons,  and to don

his filthy garments. Much alarm was

beginning to be felt among the higher

classes in Paris, and Lady Olive had that

day been informed by the senior attache

of the British embassy that it would be

impossible for her to leave for England



(as she, and so many, wished to do), at
present, but that she must remain quiescent,
and watch till a safe opportunity for
the move should offer itself.

The attache had hardly quitted the
room, after giving his unpalatable advice,
before Dorinda dropped in to see her
friend, and talk over the situation ; and
the two ladies sat themselves at the window
to watch the crowd, which was swarming
hither and thither, while their voices
were buzzing like bees outside a hive.

'What shall I do?' cried Olive; 'I
promised everybody to be home by New
Year's Day.'

Oh !' answered Dorinda. ' I am sure

Mr. E is right, and that it would not

be safe to travel now  even if we could !

Some of the ouvriers looked quite viciously
at me, as I got into the carriage to come
here ; and a woman came up and shook
her fist at me! I was quite o-lad to ore
into this hotel. AYe must watch events,
Olive, and start as soon as we can !'

But, Dorinda, why do you say " wef'
for you are chez-vobis, and have everybody
you care for most in Paris,  while I '

Here the conversation was interrupted
by the entrance of Lord Baltimore,  a
gentleman who was a great friend of Lady
Olive's, and one who merits a short description.


Lord Baltimore was past seventy, and
the true conventional type of an aristocrat
of the old English school. In appearance
he was tall, spare, and upright as a dart.

Scrupulous cleanliness, and excessive refinement
both in body and mind, were his
chief characteristics. His hair (what he
had of it) was snowy white, but it consisted
solely in a silky fringe which garnished
a head as bald as an Qgg and which
shone like a billiard-ball. His complexion
was fresh, red and white, his nose
aquiline and rather large, his eyes very
blue, and his teeth perfect (and his own !)
His neck was swathed in snow-white bandages
(a la George IV.) which apparently
served two purposes : first, to strangle their
proprietor, and secondly, to support a
stick-up ' collar which momentarily appeared
in danger of amputating a pair
of very pink ears. His nether garments
were tightly strapped over irreproachable

little shining boots, and his pocket-handkerchief
was large and of the very finest
white cambric, embroidered with a coronet
and saturated in lavender water.

Lord Baltimore's manners were unchangeably
stiff and ceremonious, and
when conversing with any woman (of
whatever grade) he became full of petits
soins which were stiffly ceremonious also.
Nothing could exceed his respect for, or
the deference he showed to, a woman,
were she countess or kitchen-maid ; and
his excessive kindliness of disposition
would crop up on all occasions. He
reminded one curiously of Sir Peter Teazle,
and, in common with that gentleman of
blessed memory, the old peer also possessed
a Lady Teazle ! but the remnants

unlike her predecessor, was a Frenchwoman.


Lady Baltimore was very young, very
pretty, and much wearied by her husband's
jealous adoration ; for the old peer
was decidedly jealous, although (strange
anomaly !) he would have died rather than
doubt his wife's goodness and virtue ! But
whether his faith in the little Frenchwoman
was quite well placed, and whether
such a very French wife were suitable to
such a very English husband (jealous of
his dignity as well as his honour) were moot
questions. Certainly, at times Lady Baltimore's
discretion (taking the word in its
literal not invidious sense) was by no means
as remarkable as her valour ; for after she
and ' her B,' (as she called her husband)

had left Paris for good, a full suit of
diminutive male attire, together with a
inde wig, and ditto heavy moustache,
were found at the bottom of ' Miladi's '
wardrobe, and it was whispered about
that ' now it was fully explained how
Lady Baltimore had always been so well
posted up in the political events of the
day, seeing that the little male costume,
blonde wig, &c., &c., were recognised by
many, as having been seen mingling with
the mob at different times !'

Everyone knew that the little lady was
a staunch republican at heart (although
her Tory husband pretended to ignore the
fact) ; but, to do her justice, no one suspected
her of anything worse than a love
of excitement, which she called patriotism,

but which (in her) was born of bourgeois
blood and excessive boredom at home.

One other trait in Lady Baltimore's
character was a hatred of the placid, almost
immovable dignity which signalized
the real grande dame Anglaise,  a dignity
she envied, but could not attain ; consequently
she delighted in spreading disquieting
political reports amongst the
English ladies, through her credulous old
husband,  reports which were frightening
in the extreme, especially when there was
(as at the present moment) a strong admixture
of truth in their composition ; and
she would chuckle over the thought of
how the aplomb of these aristocrates would
be disturbed, and the prestige of the has

peuple in the ascendant, through her
means.

But to return to Lord Baltimore, who
had just entered Lady Olive's room in
much agitation, and who scarcely gave
himself time to draw off his tightly-fitting
glove for the ceremony of shaking hands,
before saying, breathlessly,

Have you heard the news ?'

'No ! what news?' gasped both ladies at
once. ' Tell us, pray.'

The gas is to be cut off to-night allover
Paris, and there is to be a general
sacking; of the town, beoinnino in the Roo
Civilly,' (so pronounced the old peer),
the Roo deller Pay, and the Plan Yarn-doom,
in fact in the principal quarters

where all the rich Americans and English
are congregated !'

Good heavens !' exclaimed Olive and
Dorinda, ' who told you so ?'

 My lady did !' answered the excited
B.

And how did she hear it ?' asked
Olive.

Through some of these d d republicans
answered B., too uneasy to care
just then about manners.

Oh, what shall I do ?' cried Lady Olive ;
I wish I had not brought iona here, and
Bardel too  he is so lame and so terrified !
It is like having two children instead of
one.'

But think of us' groaned old B.,
think of all my lady's jewels. One hundred

thousand pounds' worth ! What will
become of them ?  but I must go back to
Netta; I only came to put you on your
guard.'

But, my dear lord,' said the princess,
where is the good of frightening us to
death and yet telling us no way out of it ?
I think we had better go in a body to the
British embassy for protection.'

Well, I don't know that Lord N

would thank you for that,' answered old
B., who did not care for the fair Dorinda,
and would not have wept bitter tears had
the gas been put out, and she permanently
mislaid in the dark ; ' but I must go to
Netta, and see about the jewels. Good-day;


Bother his jewels !' said Dorinda, scornfully,

as he shut the door ; ' I went to his
' at home" last week, and he had them all
brought out for people to see ! and " my
lady " stood by, looking like a little
courier e and pretended it was against
her principles to possess them. Serve
him right if he loses them, old fool !'

Dorinda did not love either Sir Peter
or Lady Teazle, and the said jewels had
been an eye-sore to her, for she had none
like them herself, and was not above
petty jealousy. The pearls, she acknowledged,
were very fine, and the old amethysts
also,  therefore she reiterated with
much fervour, and little refinement,

'Bother his old amethysts and his old
self also !'

The Prince de la Styrie now arrived,

looking anxious and worried, and he
told the princess he feared she must
walk back, as it was unsafe to brins: the
carriage, for barricading had begun.
So the husband and wife walked away
together, leaving poor Lady Olive to
herself and her meditations, which were
not reassuring. It was safest, she was
told, to remain in the house, which she
did ; so she and iona in the dra\dng-
room, and old Bardel in the ante-chambre,
sat listening, hour after hour, to the
sounds of cannon, in the distant Faubourg
St. Antoine, and of cries and
tumult near at hand, wishing themselves
safe once more in Old England.


The next day  old B.' again called on

Lady Olive ; he seemed relieved to find
her alone  but was a changed man. His
spirits were gone, his clothes hung about
him, and he seemed afraid to move hand
or foot ; also he experienced much apparent
difficulty in sitting down.

I am afraid you are not well. Lord
Baltimore,' said Olive, kindly.

Thank you ! I am quite well,' answered
the old gentleman, with a mysterious
dignity in his voice and manner.

*I am afraid you are suffering from
rheumatism ?' persisted Lady Olive.  I
am so sorry for you ; but I know such a
capital remedy ! If you take '

Thank you ! I have no rheumatism.'
Now I know ! you have lumbago !
and how painful it is ! but don't mind

telling me  an old friend  an old woman
! and I wish you would try '

Thank you, no !' with deeper mystery
than before. I am quite welland
lumbago !'

Lady Olive looked at him in surprise,
and she began to fear there must be some
unusual cause for his evident anxiety and
uneasiness !

Perhaps he has discovered a secret
political danger,'  she thought  ' and he
wishes to break it gently to me !  but why
why should it affect  his sitting down?'

In a few minutes Lord Baltimore,
wishing to relieve his feelings, and seeing
Lady Olive would not question him
further, rose with difficulty from his chair,
and, approaching her, said, in a whisper,

VOL II. P

I have a confidence to make to you,
as to an old friend.'

On tip-toe he came nearer, and,  after
looking cautiously around,  to his companion's
amazement and discomfiture, he
began  to undress !

Oh ! he's mad !' thought Olive. ' What
shall I do ? I do hope and pray iona
may not come in ; and I wish Bard el
would! If I could only get at the
bell !'

In the meantime old B. got nearer
and nearer, and suddenly tearing open
his shirt-front, displayed chains of pearls,
diamonds, rubies, amethysts, hanging
round his neck !  then, rapidly closing it
again, he whispered,

'Hush ! all my lady's jewels ! My idea!

I never part with them day or night ! She
knows nothing, but I felt I must confide
in some one ! and you will keep my secret !
Her bracelets are round my arms !  and
her tiara is round my leg ! Some of
the brooches prick a little sometimes,
but it is worth it !  One hundred
thousand pounds' worth ! Don't tell anyone.
 No, thank you I  You are very
good,  but I won't sit down again,  till I
get home.'

Much agitated, he then bid Olive farewell,
and she watched the poor old man
endeavouring to walk jauntily down the
Rue de la Paix,  as if perfectly at his
ease !

He and Lady Olive did not meet
again for months, not till they were

p2

both safe back in London ; and then he
told her he had walked about Paris for
nearly three weeks with one hundred
thousand pounds' worth of jewels concealed
about him.

And all,' philosophized Lady Olive, for
the sake of a wretched little vulgar
Frenchwoman, who dons unmentionables,
and shouts, 'Liberie, EgaUte\ Fraternity T
with ouvriers and grisettes ! A strange pair,
certainly !'

As soon as it was safe, Olive and her
daughter left Paris, and the Princesse de
la Styrie, who professed herself much
alarmed at the state of affairs, implored
to be allowed to accompany her friend to
England; reminding her reluctant husband
that, by doing so, she should only be forestalling

her visit to London by a few
weeks, as he had presented her with a

beautiful house in B Square, and had

agreed she should go thither in the early
spring, to furnish it for the season. The
prince consented, as he had done (as yet)
to his lovely vife's every whim; but
when Lady Olive heard what a pain it
had been to him to part from Dorinda for
so long, (he being bound to Paris at
present by business,) she offered, not only
to take the princess into her house till
the B Square one was fit for occupation,
but she sent a message to the
prince, through Dorinda, begging him to
visit her also, as soon as he conveniently
could. This did not, however, suit
Dorinda. She was delighted, personally,

to make use of her friend's pretty house at
Kensington, to live there in comfort, and
do exactly as she pleased for awhile ;
but her husband, she felt, would be in
the way. So she conveniently forgot to
deliver the message ; and managed that
her husband and Lady Olive should not
meet again, before the latter left Paris,
which she did a few days later, accompanied
by her manoeuvring friend.

CHAPTER XV.

It is the little rift within the lute

That, by-and-by, will make the music mute,

And ever widening, slowly silence aU.'

Lady OLIVE and her guest had
been in London for nearly a
week when the following conversation
took place, as the two ladies
were sitting at needlework :

But, Dorinda, you knew I especially
invited Prince Bernard  begging him to

come as soon as he could; and certainly
you gave me to understand that '

 Olive, dear,' said the princess, laughing,
' don't you know that an " understanding"
is only another word for a
mis-understanding " ?'

Well  but, Dorinda, you know, you
made me think you had given my message
to the prince, for you said he " thanked
me " ; and you would not let me write to
him, for you also said he was " so busy,"
and that, " if I wrote, he would think
it necessary to answer, &c., &c. ;" so, if
there was a misunderstanding, you made

it;

Well, dearest, I forgot to tell him,  or
rather I thought it would be so pleasant
to have you all to myself.'

4 AT,

Nay, Dorinda,' said Olive, coldly, and
looking annoyed, 'you have "had me
alone" almost every day in Paris; and
nov you have to be out all day  furnishing,
so you can't see much of me.'

'Well, well,' answered Dorinda, rather
impatiently, ' he likes Paris, and I Uke
London best; so he stays in Paris, and
I come home for a little.'

But surely, Dorinda, " home " is where
one's husband is  at least,'  Lady Olive
said, softly, with tears in her eyes,  '/
used to think so.'

Hem ! I'm not so sure,' was Dorinda's
unsatisfactory rejoinder ; so, for the present,
Olive said no more; but she felt it
was the first 'rift in the lute ;' and, for the
first time in her life, she was displeased

with Dorinda, recognizing the fact that
she had not been truthful, and that also,
for some reason, she had manoeuvred to
rid herself for a while of her husband's
presence. Olive was all the more annoyed
when she remembered how struck she had
been, (when visiting her in Paris,) at Dorinda's
scant appreciation of her husband's
tender homage, also that she had developed
a love of admiration, and a careless,
unguarded mode of speech and action,
which grated upon English prejudices.
But she had comforted herself, then, by
recollecting that ' foreign ways are not
like English ways,' and that, if Dorinda's
husband was satisfied, Dorinda's friend had
no right to interfere. Now, however,
the case was different ; the husband was

absent, and the responsibility was hers 
Lady Olive's.

So she bean to regret her hitherto
willing hospitality, and that same evening
took the opportunity of saying :

 Dorinda, I shall write myself to
Prince Bernard, and ask him to come,
for '

Pray do nothing of the kind,' answered
Dorinda, rather hotly ; ' for it would be
no use. He is one to his Chateau in
Corsica  making preparations for my reception
; for I have never been there yet.
No! no! don't worry yourself; he gave
me leave to stay in London till he comes
to meet me  and carry me off to Talavo.'
Then, kissing Olive affectionately, she said,
playfully and coaxingly, ' You are such a

dear old-fashioned goody ! and you forget
that Bernard is old enough to be my
grandfather.'

Not quite,' murmured Olive. ' Anyhow,
you should be the last to remind
him of that, Dorinda.'

 Besides, he is a Frenchman, and
French husbands are not like English
ones. He amuses himself,  and leaves me
to do the same. I don't interfere with
him,  and I hope he never will with
me.'

Oh ! Dorinda,' said Lady Olive, with a
horrified expression of countenance, ' what
can you mean ?'

Everything,  and nothing,' laughed
Dorinda ; ' but, anyway, he trusts me.
See!' gaily flourishing a small paper

before Lady Olive's eyes, and putting it
into her hand.

 Oh ! Dorinda, a cheque for two thousand
pounds ! How good and kind he is !
Surely you must be touched ?'

The princess laughed merrily, and
said,

He and I understand each other, and
he is quite satisfied with me !'

This conversation somewhat relieved
Lady Olive's mind, but all the same, she
began to long for the time when Dorinda
would no longer be her individual
care.

One day the princess told her hostess
that the prince wished her to go and
choose some jewels, saying he should like
his wife to look her best when she should

make her first appearance at the Chateau
Talavo ; so Lady Olive drove her to a well-known
jeweller's in Bond Street  a Frenchman,
who recognized Dorinda directly 
and who, after receiving her with the traditional
obsequiousness, turned to the young
men standing behind the counter, on both
sides of the entrance, and repeated emphatically
words which sounded like ' two
pun' ten,' and which were repeated (Lady
Olive remarked) by each man to his neighbour,
as she and the princess advanced to
the top of the shop.

Dorinda bought jewels of some value,
and paid for them, having had a great
many produced for her inspection ; and as
she and Lady Olive were driving from the

door, the same official who had received
them, made a sign to the coachman to
stop ; then, advancing-dth much respect,
he inquired ivhetJier the diamond hoojy-ring
ivhich had not been |;azV/ for teas to he put
down to the princess s account, or  incas there a
mistake? Dorinda looked innocently surprised
at first ; then, with a merry laugh,
she drew the ring off her finger, saying,

See, what a theft I have committed,
Olive ! I actually tried the ring on and
walked ofi* \\\\.\i it ;' then coolly handing it
to the showman, who bowed, gravely
silent, the carriage drove away.

Poor Dorinda !' said Lady Olive, ' what
a disagreeable mistake ! The man looked
as if we had been shop-lifters.'

Yes, an odious man !' said Dorinda,
lightly ; ' and now let us have a breath of
fresh air in the Park. I hear it is already
very crowded of an afternoon.'

Lady Olive saw Dorinda was put out
about the ring, so she said no more ; but
years after she was told by a maid who
married one of the young men in that
very shop, that the words she overheard
were not ' two-pound-ten,' as she had
supposed, but 'two upon ten,' two eyes
upon ten fingers !), words of fearful import,
if Olive had only comprehended
them.

According to Dorinda's suggestion
they drove at once to the Park  round
the ring (as was then the fashion)  and
one of the first carriages they met contained

the Duchess of Cheviotdale, who
seemed charmed at the meeting, and
kissed her hand warmly to the princess.
Not so the beautiful, but stern, pale lady
at her side. Lady Margaret Saville felt
no call to be pleased at the recognition,
and, in fact, turned her head away.
Dorinda bit her lip, and, laughing sarcastically,
exclaimed,

I wonder how her Guy is?'

Oh, dear Dorinda,' said Lady Olive,
looking hurt, ' you should not laugh at
what nearly broke Margaret's heart !' then,
seeing Dorinda looked annoyed, she added
kindly : ' I know, of course, you were
not to blame, but she has never been the
same since !'

' Really,' answered the princess, coldly.

VOL. II. Q

Well, she does begin to look quite
old. Does anyone know where Sir Guy
is?'

The duke gave him a farm somewhere,
but I fancied I saw him in London
a day or two ago.'

They had now entered the road by the
Serpentine river, and, as the way was
narrow, they drove slowly ; but suddenly
there seemed a complete block,  the
carriage stood motionless,  and for some
minutes Olive and her companion sat
passively watching the string of carriages
which were passing close to them, in the
opposite direction. They had not waited
long before some check seemed to hinder
the progress of the rival file of carriages

also, and a large, snuff-coloured barouche
with yellow wheels  very smartly turned
out,  came to a stand, so close to Lady
Olive's modest little sociable, that the
inmates of both carriages might have
shaken hands ; but they did not seem by
any means inclined to take advantage of
the opportunity ; and Dorinda turned
very pale, for she sat almost face to face
with a fat, over-dressed lady in the
snuff-coloured carriage, whose naturally
red complexion became every moment
deeper in colour, till it blazed forth like
a full-blown peony ! A singularly handsome
young man, who gazed insolently
at Dorinda, sat vis-a-vis to the fat lady,
at whose side was a dignified-looking

q2

gentleman with a green shade over his
eyes.

God bless my soul !' said the fat lady,
audibly, and making a face as if she
were going to cry ; then the carriages
moved on, and Olive laughingly turned to
Dorinda.

'Who on earth was that woman?'
said she ; ' they all seemed to stare so
at us !'

Then, seeing Dorinda's pale face, she
forgot her question, and said, anxiously,

'Are you ill, dear?'

Yes,' answered Dorinda, ' I feel faint,
sick,  and it has turned so cold. Let us
go home !'

All the way home and for the rest of



the evening, the princess was not well ;
she often sighed, and once, Olive fancied,
she wept.

CHAPTER XVI.

Charity (Love) tliinketli no evil.

HE Princesse de la Styrie did
not remain much longer at
Kensington ; as soon as a
single room could be prepared she moved
into her own house, which, when furnished,
was the * talk of the town,' such
was its magnificence.

She now gave crushes, balls, theatricals,
petits soupers after the play, &c., &c. ; but

Lady Olive, being niach occupied by her
daughter's delicate health, never accepted
any of the invitations which she constantly
received from the princess; and
thus it came about that, for weeks, she
had seen nothing of her friend. One day,
to her great surprise, she heard,  partly
through gossip and partly from the newspapers,
 that the prince had suddenly
arrived one evening, during a most gorgeous
entertainment, which surpassed anything
the princess had yet attempted, and
that  after helping his wife, with much
cordiality, to entertain her guests  he
had, the next day, carried her off to
France !

All kinds of fears and anxieties arose in
Olive's mind when she heard this news ;

more especially as she had feathered from
different sources that, latterly, Dorinda's
imprudence of behaviour, as regarded her
former admirer, Sir Guy Deverill, had
been the favourite topic of conversation
amongst the London gossips  and more
especially amongst those kind friends who
had benefitted most by the princess's
hospitality ! Lady Olive did not know to
whom to turn for reliable information,
when, one afternoon, the kind old Duchess
of Cheviotdale called, and, with ill-disguised
anxiety, proceeded to state all she
knew.

The duchess herself had not been at
Dorinda's last ball, for Lady Margaret
(who lived now entirely with the Cheviot-dales)
refused to go, never having forgiven

or visited the princess. The duke, however,
went (for Dorinda always maintained
her fascination over him), and his
account was, that the ball was a beautiful
one ; no expense had been spared, and the
hostess looked quite magnificent, being
covered with jewels. She wore the well-known
girdle, with an immensely high
tiara to match it, composed of priceless
gems of all colours, and bracelets ensuite.


She received her priests with the trace
and charm peculiar to her ; but, the duke
added, he was much annoyed to see that
his nephew (' that fool Guy !' he called
him,) never left the hostess's side ! So,
taking upon himself the role of the princess's
oldest and most intimate friend, the

duke spoke seriously to her upon the
subject.

She took it very well, he said, and
laughing gently, answered,

You see. Uncle Chevy, there are several
who profess themselves as devoted as Guy,
so there is safety in numbers. A grass-widow,
you know, is considered fair game
by all idle young men !'

'Ay,' answered the duke, 'but "the
Princesse che la Styrie " should not
be measured by others ; for noblesse
oblige. '

Well,' she returned, ' I shall soon have
to be shut up in the country, where' 
shrugging her pretty shoulders (of which
enough was already visible) with a gesture

of disgust  ' I shall have no one but
peasants in blouses and sabots around rae.
So, you see, I am making hay while the
sun shines !'

 And,' said the duke, gravely,  ' in the
present case,  who is this  sun ?'

My liberty !' the princess answered,
rather crossly; and at that moment, 
most inopportunely,  Sir Guy appeared in
search of Dorinda, claiming her as his
partner. On seeing his uncle, he looked
foolish,  embarrassed.

'How is the farming getting on, Guy?'
asked the duke. ' I suppose you keep a
bailiff or two during your necessitated
absences ?'

I return tomorrow, uncle.'

I am glad to hear it,' answered the
duke, drily ; ' not a day too soon.'

With heightened colour, Dorinda took
her cavalier's arm, and left the room
apparently to join the dancers.

Old fool !' said Guy, below his breath,
what right has he to interfere between
me and  and  ' looking down upon his
beautiful partner  ' and my happiness,
my '

Oh !' laughed Dorinda, ' people often
think they are virtuous, when they are
only jealous. Poor old Uncle Chevy ! He
would not be half as severe, if I were to
allow him to sit by me  on the sofa  all
night, he lecturing me (very paternally, of
course !) I,  weeping repentantly,  with
my head on his shoulder !'

Laughing lightly, the two would-be
dancers, after making a feeble attempt to
gain the ball-room through the crowd,
declared it impossible ; and, ascending the
stairs, stepped out into the large balcony,
which extended half round two sides of
the house, and which had been transformed
into a perfect fairy-abode of flowers. Sofas
and chairs had been placed here and
there, hidden by shrubs,  palms, azaleas,
and camelia-trees ;  while an awning of
wirework secured privacy without impeding
the  balmy breath ' of the summer
air.

The duke, who had noticed the couple's
futile attempt to enter the ball-room, and
their subsequent change of intention
shook his head, and, meditating his own

return home, entered the supper-room.

The supper-room was a long, well-proportioned
gallery, opening on to the principal
entrance-hall, which was circular, and
supported by marble columns. There
were no doors to the supper-room, only
crimson velvet curtains, artistically draped
back, so as to form a frame to the picture
of the hall beyond.

As the duke waited, the front-door bell
rang; the hall-porter opened the door,
and  with an exclamation of surprise 
eagerly summoned some of the other
domestics. An individual in traveling
costume now entered, and gazed with apparent
astonishment at the evidences of
festivity.

It is the prince !' ejaculated the duke.

as the traveller came forward, and shook
him cordially by the hand.

 Dear Bernard I What a surprise ! I
am so glad to see you.'

The prince quickly suppressed all feelings
of astonishment at the tumult and
confusion which greeted his return, and
answered :

Thank you, dear duke ;' then, turning
to some of the guests who were
standing about in the supper-room, he
said, quite naturally, and with his usual
courtesy, ' I have not the great pleasure
of being acquainted with my wife's English
friends, but they are all heartily welcome ;
and I hope that my unlooked-for return
may not check the general amusement.'

Then he said to the duke :

My letter cannot have arrived ! Where
is ray wife ?'

The duke answered, he felt sure, had
any letter arrived, the princess would have
told him.

You need not disturb the princess,' said
the prince, stopping some of the domestics
who were about to search for the lady, ' I
will go myself;' and, after a few more
words with the duke, he left the room, and,
first looking about him, ascended the staircase,
and entered a room, which evidently
was his wife's boudoir.

He was attracted at once by the excessive
beauty of the plants in the balcony.

'How exquisite!' he thought; 'and all
her taste ! How lovely she will make
Talavo !'

As he stood, he detected the murmuring;
of voices in the balcony, and then a pretty
musical laugh met his ear.

Ah ! I think I recognize that laugh !
Dorinda cannot be very far off.'

He stepped into the balcony, and, turning
towards the spot whence the sounds
emanated, he beheld his vdfe  on a sofa,
which was all but concealed by plants
and camelia-trees. Sir Guy (whom the
prince had never seen) was sitting by
her side, his arm was thrown round the
back of the couch, and he was leaning
forward, till his face nearly touched his
companion's. She was laughing in a half-embarrassed
way, and, with one hand on
his shoulder, seemed playfully pushing
him away from her, in much too familiar

VOL. II. R

and bourgeois a style to please the
prince.

Dorinda was the first to see her husband
(he having entered the balcony at
Sir Guy's back), and as she did so, every
drop of blood forsook her face,  leaving it
like that of a corpse. Guy saw Dorinda's
evident emotion, and translating it into
passion for himself, and as a favourable
answer to his pleading, threw himself at the
princess's feet, and, seizing her hand, covered
it with kisses. But at that moment he
received a sharp cut from a cane across
his shoulders, while a mocking voice
said,

Rise, preux chevalier sans persons /'
Turning fiercely to see who was his
assailant. Sir Guy beheld towering over

him, the fine figure of a man, who, though
past his prime, was every inch a soldier.
A look of amusement mixed xith contempt
was on his face as he met the gaze of the
indignant vouno man, and his words were
distinct, albeit with a strong foreign accent,
as, pointing to the egress from the
balcony, he said,

Take your chastisement, young man,
and your lesson,  and go ; and I, for one,
shall think none the worse of you if you
do so quietly. I do not fight T\dth  boys.
I can condone a youthful folly, especially '
(bowing ceremoniously to the princess)
hath. such a temptation ! If, however,
you prefer to hear from, or to see me,
I  the Prince de la Styrie  shall be here
a vos ordres  till tomorrow evening.'

Deronda.

Then, clinking his heels together, and
bowing stiffly, he took his wife's hand,
and, leading her into the boudoir, shut
the door  and sat down.

CHAPTER XVII.

Make the doors upon a woman's wit, and it will out at the
casement ; shut that, and 'twill out at the keyhole ; stop that,
'twill fly with the smoke out at the chimney I'

ORIXDA was the first to speak.
You are not angry with me,
Bernard ?' she said, in her
childishly innocent way ; then, bursting
into tears, she cast herself on his breast.
I never dreamt  never thought,' she
sobbed, ' that Guy, who has been like my

brother, could be so foolish ; and oh,
dear, dear Bernard, I am so glad to see
you!'

Dorinda,' answered the prince, tenderly,
but with a glitter of determination in

,/ I CD

his eyes, ' you are young, beautiful, and
not over-wise. It has been my fault ; I
should not have left you so long alone ;
but I have been so busy at Talavo. /
will never leave you again'

(' Good gracious !' thought Dorinda 
how nere than dreadful !')

I have been very busy,' the prince
continued, ' at the old chateau, preparing
such a reception for you, and I wrote
telling you I should arrive to-night ; but
somehow my letter has missed, so I took
you unawares. I am not angry, dear,

because, of course, I know you could not
be false to me  avec ce  ce noodle la! 
otherwise I should have acted very differently;
but I will not leave you aoain.
To-morrow wee will start for home  for
Corsica.'

'To-morrow?  Bernard!' said Dorinda,
faintly.

Yes, tomorrow, without fail. Now let
me look at you. Que iii-es belle ! These
rubies are new  where do they come
from ?'

'Out of the cheque my boni niari sent
me, and the tiara too ! Do you like them,
Bernard ?'

I like you,' her husband answered,

kissing her tenderly  ' and now I will oo
and dress  come and help me.'

In a few minutes the prince and princess
reappeared in the ball-room amongst
their guests, and upon the most amicable
terms. As for Sir Guy, as soon as he got
his dismissal from the prince, with an oath
he turned, and left the balcony, and descending
the stairs, three or four steps at
a time, threw on his overcoat and crush-hat,
and nearly fell over the duke, who
was also  but more calmly  leaving the
house.

Hoity-toity !' exclaimed his Grace,
whither so fast, young man ?' then seeing
by his nephew's countenance there was
something the matter, and being really
attached to, although at times put outwith,
the young man, he linked his

arm in his, and after some management,
drew from him the cause of his hasty departure.


On hearing the story the old man looked
grave, and checking his pace, said :

Guy, you have behaved abominably ;
but, whatever step you may see fit to take
after to-night, your first thought now, as a
gentleman, must be to shield the princess
from scandal ; so return to the ball ; for if
you leave, the moment the prince puts in
an appearance, all the evil tongues in London
will begin to cackle ! I vill return to
the ball also, and you must let me apologise
to the prince for you, (for you owe
him reparation, and you see he is ready to
be lenient to your youth,) so come, take off

your coat again, and choose a partner at
once ; dance furiously, and leave the rest
to me.'

With a bad grace Guy complied, and the
ball continued with much spirit, and for
many hours.

Between the dances the duke had a few
words with the prince, and then presented
Guy, and Bernard received him good-naturedly.
Thus a disagreeable business
was patched up, and Guy was amongst
those who were still dancing, long after the
sun had risen,  putting the lamps and
candles to shame,  to say nothing of most
of the dancers' complexions !

That same sun which rose so merrily to
the sound of musical instruments, and the

popping of champagne bottles, ushered ina
great Battle, one which was to decide the
vexed question between the prince and his
wife, as to which of the two should eventually
govern.

The prince, as we know, was the very
type of a soldier, having learnt both
obedience and command; and, being an
apt scholar, he knew well how to teach
the former, and wield the latter. He
never bent to anyone's will, and openly
avowed it ! People knew exactly ' where
they were ' with him. He was quite
capable, however, of being softened into
compliance,  but only if it were fully
acknowledged that might and right both
belonged to him. Dorinda carried her

warfare on differently. Her tactics were
those of stratagem ; and she was by no
means a foe to be despised.

Our readers will remember that the
night before, during the interview between
the husband and wife in the
boudoir, the prince had said very decisively,


We start tomorrow for Corsica.'

Dorinda had faintly answered,

To-morrow?  Bernard !'

Yes, Dorinda, tomorrow ;' and there
had been a soldierly ring of authority
in her husband's voice, as he made this
rejoinder, which would have awed Dorinda
had she loved him,  but which
only raised her opposition, as she did
not.

To go or not to go, that is the
question,' Dorinda had said to herself;
'and we shall see which it will
be.'

After the ball-guests had departed, and
all the lights had been put out, the
prince and princess retired to rest, and
Dorinda heard her husband give strict
orders that at a certain hour,  should hebe
still sleeping,  he was to be aroused,
as he intended they should all start for
abroad that evening, and that such things
as could not be ready would be despatched
letter.

The princess undressed leisurely, and
when in bed called Estelle to her side,
and, after a long, whispered conversation,
the maid was dismissed, and the mistress

lay down  with some such thoughts as
these :

If Bernard thinks that such serious
domestic arrangements are to be made
without ray knowledge or consent, he
is mistaken ! Why, if I am to be
bundled about like this, at his will,
I shall soon sink into a nonentity !
I should be his slave for life !'

After a few hours' sleep the prince rose,
dressed, and went out to call upon the
Cheviotdales ; but Dorinda slept on.

On returning home, the prince entered
his wife's boudoir, adjoining her bedroom.


The room was empty, and he was
about to invade the bed-chamber, when

Es telle entered, and inquired what she
should do ? She had been desired by
the princess on no account to disturb
her, as she was liable to faint if hurriedly
awoke : and yet even now, there
would scarcely be time for the necessary
travelling preparations.

The prince was annoyed, and, without
hesitation, entered his dfe's bed-room. It
was quite dark, but he desired the blinds
should be raised, and, approaching the bed,
put his hand kindly and caressingly on the
sleeping beauty's shoulder, and said, playfully,


Allons ! ma petite fern me, love-toi !
Ouvre-tes jolis yeux !'

Dorinda turned round, and, opening her
eyes, looked dazed, complained of her bead

must she get up ? She really could not !
She felt so tired, so ill, &c., &c.

Dorinda, leve-hoi, mon ange ! You must
have some dejeuner also.'

Dorinda said she was too ill  too tired ;
that she felt faint, &c.

The prince was perplexed, and once
more explained how preparations had been
made at the Chateau Talavo for a certain
day, and that they must start.

Dorinda now began to cry ; she must
have a doctor,  she did not know what was
the matter, &c.

Much distressed, and never for a moment
supposing that anyone, least of all
his wife, would dare deliberately to coerce
his wishes, the prince turned to the dress-unstable
to get a smelling-bottle, when

his eye caught the reflection of the weeping,
fainting invalid, laughing at him
behind his back, and (what children call)
making a face ' of derision !

Distrusted at the vulgar insolence of
the act, he was too proud to let Dorinda
know he had detected it, but it was a
revelation to him ! It was the feather
which showed the direction of the wind 
the shibboleth of vulgarity ! In an instant
of time the whole current of the old
patrician's blood seemed to freeze, and all
his affections to turn and flow into a different
channel,  away from her  into the
broad sea of disgust ! This one act of
(what he considered) low insubordination
was ever afterwards the false note in the
would-be harmony of his married life ;

VOL. II. S

that one accidental glance of a second's
duration, had disclosed a gulf between him
and his nearest,  between him and the
woman whose head rested on his pillow,
and who lay in his bosom ; a gulf which,
however eagerly in after days he might,
and did try to bridge over,  to hide,  to
forget the existence of, was ever there ! 

yawning hopelessly between them, the

chasm of vulgarity !

A sin,' he thought, ' I might have forgiven,
but a vulgarity  never ! No ! I
have discovered that the Princesse de la
Styrie, my wife, is nothing but a vulgarian ;
and, even if she remains a pure wife, my
worldly dignity and position will never be
safe in her keeping ! EUe ne sey comprend
pas !'

With a repulsion in his mind, therefore,
the excessive bitterness of which she would
have been at a loss to comprehend, and
which he scorned to express,  (and of which
therefore she knew nothing,) he again approached
the bed, this time saying, sternly :

111 or well, madame, in a few hours
you start for your new home, unless you
prefer returning to your old one ! I, the
Prince de la Styrie, am not accustomed to
having my orders questioned, and I am too
old to begin now.'

With that, he left the room ; and in a
few minutes Estelle re-entered, looking terrified,
and saying that the prince had told
her that unless she (Estelle) wished to
lose her situation, she must be ready to
start at the hour fixed.

s 2

And he meant it too, madame,' said
the woman, 'and I dare not disobey.'

When Dorinda heard this, she also felt
alarmed, for the loss of her maid would
have been serious ; so rising, she prepared
herself for the journey, uneasy from the
conviction that she had at last found a
master-will.

The prince and his wife, and suite, left
that evening, going straight to Paris, where
they stayed for a few hours only; then they
travelled on to their destination.

CHAPTER XVIII.

This is such a creature,
Would she begin a sect, might quench the zeal
Of all professors else ; make proselytes
Of who she bid but follow.'

HE princess could not but
mark, during the journey, the
change in her husband's manner
towards her. He was perfectly
laboriously civil, but without tenderness ;
and being utterly ignorant of the small
but fatal circumstance which had embittered

him against her, she was all the more
angry.

He has taken me from all my friends,'
said she to Estelle, ' and he expects me to
bear it without a murmur I He may be
stronger than I, but I will not be his
slave. He shall suffer for this ere long !'
So she sulked, while he chafed.

At last they landed in the island that
was to be their home. A rocky, wild,
romantically beautiful Home, had they
loved one another ; but a rocky, wild,
dismal home, as they did not.

The reception of Dorinda as a bride,
planned and prepared by the prince himself,
was calculated to have flattered and
delighted any woman  except this one.
There were triumphal arches, inscriptions,

bouquets of flowers, bands of music,
functionaries of all kinds, and crowds of
picturesque peasants ; and finally the
Chateau itself was illuminated, and a grand
display of coloured rockets rose high into
the sky, as they drove over the old drawbridge,
across the moat ; but all  all went
for nothing. Dorinda declared herself ill
from the forced journey, and lay back in
the carriage, with anger in her heart, and
ivith her eyes persistently closed !

The prince endeavoured in vain to rouse
her to a sense of what was expected from
her at such a moment ;  how all private
feelings, and even illness, should be fought
against,  ignored, so as to tender a gracious
acceptance to a homage so freely
offered; but she was immovable,  obstinately

reclining far back in the carriage like
a beautiful statue. The prince was seriously
displeased, but Dorinda was delighted
to have had such an opportunity
of punishing her husband's wilfulness ;
and, directly she alighted, she ascended to
her own apartments, without noticing the
flowers, or the luxuries prepared to welcome
her ; and she went to bed at once,
where she stayed several days, refusing to
see or speak to anyone but her maids. At
last, one day, the prince, finding it unbearable,
entered her bed-room. With an
expression of determination on his face he
dismissed the terrified Estelle, and said
angrily to his weeping wife :

May I ask, madame, the cause of these
tears ?  of this intolerable behaviour ?'

No answer except tears and sobs.

'swill tell you, madame, as you refuse
to tell me. It is nothing but a vulgar
display of evil feeling,  of malice, (I speak
advisedly,) akin to madness ! I have honoured
you as my bride, and am ready,
even now, to forgive all  if you will make
reparation for your rudeness,  by  by  '

By what ?' asked Dorinda, pettishly.

Madame, remember you have insulted
all my dependants, who love and respect
me, and were anxious to do the same by
you ; but you refused even to look at them
at this  the beloved home of my ancestors,
of which I revere every stone,  every
tree ! I brought you here, as mistress of
my house, but you have rejected everything
and everybody, and have covered

me with shame and ridicule. Dorinda ! I
never looked for love from you, nor have
I sought to exact the semblance of it,  I
knew the difference of our ages precluded
that ; but I did expect gratitude, submission,
gentleness,  and a sense of dignity !'

sin fact,' broke in Dorinda, excitedly.
You expected  a slave ! Gratitude did
you say ? What for ? I am as well-born
as you, mon prince !  for by birth, I am
worthy of any name ! Submission do you
say ? Nay ! say the truth,  that you 
(as I say,) expected a slave !'

Dorinda ! I expected no slave ! but  I
did expect  a gentlewoman ! Listen for a
moment ; I think I can prove that since
our marriage you have had no reason to
complain of my treatment of you. At your
wish, (but against my own,) I allowed you

to amuse yourself for months in London,
to spend my money as you liked,  and
without a question. From your friendship
with that good Lady Olive, I took her as a
type of your acquaintances, and was more
than satisfied ; and therefore I never
enquired into, nor interfered with your
amusements. I trusted you thoroughly,
believing my honour was safe in your
hands ; and that I do not doubt,  even
now ; although, arriving unexpectedly one
evening, I found you under circumstances
that less trustful husbands than
myself might have considered suspicious !
However, I never doubted you, Dorinda !
All I did was to resolve to bring you
home, where I meant to surround you
with every luxury, to try to make you
forget your own country and your father's

house, and secure you from the dangers
your beauty and inexperience might lay
you open to !'

And may I now ask,' Dorinda replied,
with flashing eyes, 'what your amusements,
your associates may have been in Paris
during my absence ? My unswerving
faith in you must have been far more
noble,  more loyal,  more determinedly, 
generously,  touchingly unsuspicious than
yours in me ; for I confess that from what
I saw of some of your  friends, their " type"
was not quite as satisfactory as that of
good Lady Olive !" and yet I trusted you !
ah ! even when I heard some  strange
reports! So come! tell me, Bernard! How
has my "wifely dignity " been getting on in
your hands, eh T

The dark colour spread over the Frenchman's
cheek, but he answered composedly,

Men and women are different. A man's
reputation in those  those ways is not as
sensitive a flower as a woman's !'

'Ah! a Frenchman s reputation, perhaps
!' said Dorinda, with bitter scorn ; as
the one holy memory of her life,  Sir
Jasper de Broke, with his keen sense of
the honour and faith due to women,  rose
up before her.

'Well  well,' impatiently returned the
prince, ' I am not here to bandy words ; I
come to request you, madame, to make
your choice, either to rise at once and
behave as the " grande dame " I have
tried to make you (it is a role you know
well how to assume, although it may be

but a clever performance !) or else I must
I will make other arrangements !'

The prince's last words alarmed Dorinda,
for she had gradually begun to suspect
(and this interview had confirmed the
suspicion) that she had not much hold
now upon her husband's affections; still
she had one safe-guard, (she thought,)
namely, that he dreaded an esdandre. She
believed he had cared for her at first, with
what he called ' love,' (a very poor imitation
of what she had experienced from
others !) and she also believed that, if she
had not left him for so long, he might have
been true to her for some time ; but she
had lived long enough in the grand monde
of Paris to have learnt that in that delightful
city, a man generally holds himself

(and is held by others) as absolved from
faith to an absent wife ; and therefore
she had hoped (as she half confessed to
Olive) that, if she left the prince in peace
to follow his inclinations, he would not
interfere with hers ! But here she had
reckoned without her host ; and these last
words of his, ' I must make other arrangements,'
alarmed her ;  she feared she had
gone too far, and she did not know what
he had it in his power to do !

The prince stood by her side now,
calmly awaiting her decision, and, in her
extremity, the most iniquitous scheme
presented itself to her mind,  a scheme
which would, she thought, punish her
husband,  right herself in his eyes,  and
perhaps, for a while, recall his love.

Bernard !' she said softly, and covering
her face with both her hands. ' You are
angry with me and you love me no more !
and yet  yet you do not know all !  or
you would be more gentle !'

'Nothing,' began the prince hastily,
'nothing can excuse you.'

Listen, Bernard ! You should never
have forced this journey on me ! I dared
not tell you, and now  now  my hopes
are at an end ! I shall have no little baby
now !'

The prince turned ghastly pale ; then,
sinking on his knees by her side, seized her
hand.

Is this true ? Dorinda !'

 Quite true, Bernard ! I asked you tolet
me have a doctor before we left ; but

you would not listen ! Oh ! Bernard, I
shall never cease regretting it ! But you
were so hard, so determined, so obstinate
that you frightened me, and prevented my
confiding in you !' Here she burst into
tears, sobbing piteously.

Then God forgive me !' groaned the
prince, ' my fondest hopes are destroyed !
Oh ! fool  fool that I was ! Dorinda  can
you forgive me !'

'Victory  victory!' said Dorinda, (inwardly).
' I am saved, and he will yet
be my slave !'

And for awhile it really seemed as if he
would be ; for after this conversation nothing
could exceed his gentleness, his care
of her ; while she, on her side, endeavoured
to ingratiate herself nth him in every

VOL. II. T

way, and to make hin and the people
about the place forget the past. At her
wish the Castle was filled with guests (' all
barbarians,' thought she !) and she proved
herself a perfect hostess ; but it did not
take long before she wearied of them, and
of the monotony of Home; and the Prince,
noticing it, suggested as a pleasant change
that they should pay a long-promised
visit to an old friend of his, the Comtesse
d'Alemberg, who had a beautiful old house
and property, situated picturesquely on
the river Loire, and who had long been
anxious to make the acquaintance of
Prince Bernard's bride.

The Comtesse and the prince had been
brought up together, indeed at one time
they had hoped to be more than friends,

but Fortune had frowned upon them ; so
the pretty Marie de St. Simon had married
the Comte d'Alemberg, the last scion of an
old legitimist family ; and, although it had
been a ' manage de conveyances it had
proved a happy one, with the exception
that no children were born to them, and
the family died out with the Comte.

The Comtesse was now a rich widow,
and the house (which at her death would,
with all its contents, pass to a distant
cousin of a different name) was a perfect
museum of ancient objets cart mostly
gifts from the Kings of France to their
devoted followers of the D'Alemberg
family.

There were a great many visitors staying
at the Chateau, when the prince and

t2

princess arrived, but none were more
honoured than they. The Comtesse made
them feel themselves quite at home, setting
aside a suite of rooms entirely for their
use, calling it by their name, and assuring
them no one but themselves should
ever occupy it. Dorinda was much flattered
at all this attention, and the prince
really hoped, from his wife's altered and
gentle demeanour, that she repented her
behaviour ; and, acknowledging to himself
that, after all, he had been the cause of
bringing a great misfortune upon her, he
determined that he also would change,
and do his utmost to let bygones be bygones;
so once more he became exquisitely
tender, even deferential towards her, overwhelming
her with petits soins and (to her

great weariness) with his constant society !
He rarely left her side, and at last became
as devoted to her, and even more full of
passionate admiration, than he had been
in the first days of their married life !

Everyone also in the Chateau, male or
female, were fascinated by Dorinda's
beauty and grace, her sparkling wit, and
pretty anglicized French. Her music
also was a great charm. She sang beautifully
in every language, could improvised
for hours on the pianoforte ; and, when
she accompanied her voice on the harp
or guitar, her hearers' enthusiasm knew
no bounds !

One evening, after dinner, the museum
galleries were thrown open, and, at the
urgent request of her friends, the hostess

agreed to go round and open the glass-cases,
and tell the history of the principal
ohjeU dart contained in them. Dorinda
started with the rest, but, on entering one
of the galleries, she suddenly declared she
felt giddy  faint, and sank upon a couch.
The prince was much alarmed, but after a
few minutes Dorinda laughed and said she
was subject to such attacks, and that in a
quarter-of-an-hour she should be as well
as ever. She insisted upon the other guests
not being disappointed of their amusement,
and said, if they would only allow her to
rest till her giddiness had passed, she
would join them. She would not hear of
the Prince remaining behind with her, so
with some reluctance he left her, and
accompanied the Comtesse on her tour

inspection. One or ivo glass-cases in
the gallery where Dorinda sat, were opened,
and after the contents, consisting of jewels,
watches, old enamels, tuis  &c., had been
handled and admired, they were replaced, 
the Comtesse herself locking the cases, but
leaving the keys in the locks, for the housekeeper
to collect later in the evening.

When the Comtesse and her friends
returned, in about half-an-hour, Dorinda
was discovered on the floor in a dead faint !
Prince Bernard rushed towards her, and,
lifting her tenderly, bore her first to the
open window ; but, as she showed no signs
of returning consciousness, he carried her
to her bed-room ; and, after he and Estelle
had tried many remedies, she seemed
gradually to recover, but begged she

might be put to bed, and that no one
would disturb her till she rang. Then
kissing the prince more affectionately than
was her wont, and assuring him she felt
quite well now,  quite well, he left the
room content.

Dorinda appeared the next morning
fresh and well, and, for some days, life
flowed easily and happily at the Chateau
d'Alemberg; but, after a while, the princess
became wearied,  restless, and expressed
a wish to return home to Corsica !
The prince was surprised and infinitely
delighted, but the Comtesse implored
them to stay a little longer, as she expected
some fresh guests, (among others
Monsieur de Bonneval, the gentleman
who would inherit the Chateau and all

its valuables at her decease,) and she
urged so pathetically that Dorinda helped
her so materially in entertaining her guests,
that it would be cruel  unkind of them to
leave, &c., (tc. ; so they agreed to remain
a week longer.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME

London : Printed by Duncan Macdonald, Blenheim Home,

|,-XN

W0k

bM.

%
\i%

xx

VOL. III.

BY

THE COUNTESS OF MUNSTER

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. Il

LONDON :

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1889.
All Rights Reserved.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/dorinda03muns

Deronda

CHAPTER 1.

Disdain and scorn ride sparkling in her eyes,
Misprision what they look on ; and her wit
Values itself so highly, that to her
All matter else seems weak. She cannot love,
Nor take no shape nor project of affection,
She is so self-endeared !'

Some unborn sorrow, ripe in fortune's womb,
Is coming toward me ; and my inward soul,
With nothing trembles !'

HE new batch of visitors had
arrived. One evening a lady,
who was examining the curiosities
in one of the glass-cases, exclaimed

VOL. III. B

at the beauty of a small enamelled
box, set in disagree silver ; and begged
to know its history. The Comtesse
good-naturedly took it out. and opening it,
showed an inscription inside the lid, stating
it had been a gift from the wicked
Catherine de Medicis, and that it was a
poison-box ;' for, upon touching a spring,
a silver tongue, forked like a serpent's,
sprang up, and pricked the hand that held it.

But I have two others,' added the
Comtesse ; ' one given by Charles IX.,
and the other by Marie Stuart ; but I do
not see them here ! Voyons ! How very
strange ! They were all together. They
must have been placed in the wrong case !'

But search was made high and low ; 

the missing jewels were nowhere to be found,
and, upon going over one or two other
glass-cases, many valuables were missed !

The Comtesse was inconsolable, but
not more so than Monsieur de Bonneval,
who aided in the search, and was most
excited and indignant at the loss. The
guests were all much distressed, and thus
the evening, which had begun so pleasantly,
ended in consternation !

At the midday dejeuner, however, the
next day, Monsieur de Bonneval, to the
great relief of all present, announced that
the missing jewels were, after all, not lost !
but that he remembered seeing them not
long ago at the Comtesse's jeweller in Paris,
whither they had been sent to be cleaned ;

band

that the housekeeper in Paris had been
written to and desired to forward them at
once by a trusty messenger, but that, this
functionary being absent on a holiday, the
Comtesse could not hear from her for a
few days.

The Comtesse heard Monsieur de
Bonneval's statement with apparent surprise,
and assured him he was mistaken ;
but he was so positive as to having himself
5<??i them at the jeweller's that, perforce,
she was convinced.

During the dejeuner, the post arrived,
and a letter was brought to Monsieur de
Bonneval, who, after reading it, looked
much annoyed, and said to the Comtesse:

Ma cousine! What is to be done?

This is a letter from my old Portuguese
friend, the Baron de Erica.'

I never heard of him,' said the Comtesse.

Oh ! you must. He is a very old
friend of mine,  and stone deaf, poor old
fellow ! and the only happiness he knows
is collecting curiosities, and visiting the
collections of other people. He is dying
to see yours  in fact, to pay you a visit.
But, ma chere that is quite impossible.
I could not inflict such an old bore upon
you. If it were only himself, poor old
man ! I should not mind ; for I could
have relieved you of him ; but he is
always obliged, in consequence of delicate
health, to travel under the charge
of an old Portuguese servant, who speaks

nothing but his own language. I think
you had better catch the old baron, ma
cousine, and put him under one of your
glass-cases, as an antediluvian curiosity !
But, joking apart, how can I get out of
it ? I will write to say the Chateau is full

Oh, poor old man ! let him come,' said
the Comtesse, kindly.  There is plenty
of room, and I daresay he won't stay very
long. Pray !  pray don't refuse him !'

Oh, thank you, dear Marie ! How kind
you are ! He will arrive tomorrow, or
the next day, if I give him leave. I will
write at once.'

So the old Portuguese arrived the next
evening, was courteously received by the
benevolent Comtesse, expressed himself

overwhelmed by her condescension, and
apologised humbly for his servant's presence
and his own affliction.

Meantime Monsieur de Bonneval, anxious
to relieve the Comtesse of his somewhat
antiquated ceremonious friend's
presence, carried him off, (as soon after
his arrival as he could with civility do so,)
to inspect the glass-cases, the contents of
which seemed to overwhelm the old virtuoso
with admiration. He was in due course
presented to the prince and princess, and
plaintively expressed his regret at his inability
' to hear and enjoy the sweet
sounds which must emanate from so
perfect a mouth as madame's,' and complimented
the prince on so lovely a bride,

whose musical talents, he declared, were
spoken of far and wide.

Finally, with many excuses, the deaf old
baron entreated Monsieur de Bonneval to
ask the Comtesse's leave for his servant
(Pedro) to wait behind his chair during dinner,
adding that ' he alone knew his afflicted
master's wants.' Leave was of course given
at once, and the old man subsided,  seeming
perfectly happy.

At dinner that night, Dorinda, clad in
simple white, with no ornament but the
girdle of precious stones, looked especially
lovely, and was in the highest spirits. The
prince watched his wife with pride and
delight ; but great would have been his surprise
had he remarked the expression of the

Portuguese servant Pedro's face, when first
he beheld her !  and greater still, had he
overheard the few words hastily exchanged
between Pedro and his master ; the latter
apparently forgetting his deafness, and the
former his Portuguese, when he said, in
excellent French,

*Allons  j'y suis !'

Mais comment done ?'

Notre joli vis-a-vis.'

Pst !'

The evening passed pleasantly enough ;
and the baron was no trouble, being appropriated
by Monsieur de Bonneval, who
took him all over the old house, even into
the visitors' rooms !

The next morning: Dorinda, simply but
beautifully dressed, descended into the
rose-garden to pluck a bunch of flowers,
wherewith to adorn her gown. As she
flitted in and out of the rose-bushes, like
a beautiful dragon-fly, she little knew how
cautiously she was being watched from
one of the Chateau casements.

Singing a graceful little French ballad,
she returned into the house, and was carelessly
passing through the museum gallery',
when she was confronted by the old Baron
de Erica and his servant. Smilingly she
wished the baron ' Good-morning,' when the
servant pushed forward, an d , wi the ut a word,
displaced his long beard and moustache !

In a moment Dorinda recognised Auguste

Lamenotte, the coiffeur of Glitterseaea,
her old helpmate, and whilom useful slave !
She stopped,  gazed stupidly at him ; then
a confused rush of memories,  her school-life,
the "Woodcocks, the cheque, her first
lover,  all seemed to rise as phantoms
before her, arresting the very flow of her
life-blood ; and when the Frenchman
slowly pointed, first at her, and then
threateningly at the glass-case, she lost all
control over herself, and giving one shriek,
Auguste !' she fell heavily to the ground.
That shriek had been heard, not only by the
immediate cause of it, but also by another,
who had been anxiously awaiting Dorinda's
return. The prince rushed into the gallery,
and, with amazement stamped on his countenance,

wound his arms tenderly round
his (really this time) unconscious wife, and
carried her into her own apartments.

After laying her gently on her bed, he
called Estelle, and did not leave her till
she gave signs of returned consciousness ;
then, with a look of determination on his
face, but a curious sinking at his heart,
and a dread  he knew not of what  he
left the room in search of the baron and
his servant, to find out from them, if
possible, the cause of his wife's fainting.

Thinking to find the baron in the
garden, he was hastily passing the Comtesse's
private rooms, when the door of
her boudoir opened, and, to his surprise, the
very men he sought issued therefrom ; and,

approaching the prince with much respect,
informed him that the Comtesse cl'Alem-
berg requested an interview with him fora
few minutes.

The prince entered the Comtesse's room
and found that lady in an agony of
distress, walking up and down and wringing
her hands. As soon as she was aware
of Prince Bernard's presence, she stood as
though rooted to the spot, and unable to
meet his gaze ; then, covering her face
with her hands and bursting into tears,
she threw herself on the sofa.

The prince stood, pale and still, like a
statue ; and, feeling convinced that something
crushing must follow all these signs
of emotion, he said, gently :

Marie, you wished to speak with
me?'

'Oh, Bernard!' said the sobbing woman,
'you and I have known and loved each
other for so many years  and that it
should have come to this  to this !'

To what, madame ?' inquired the prince,
sternly ; then he added, more tenderly :
Marie, calme-toi. Nous, nous aimons
toujours, n'est ce pas ? ainsi,  dis-moi
tout?'

Listen, Bernard ! You know my
history. Nothing was hidden from you ;
you know how dearly I loved you  ah !
God only knows that, but He would not
let that be ! So I married another  a
good, just man, who I respected. I told

him the truth  that my heart had gone
out to you years before ; but, just because
he knew this, and trusted me, I was all
the more anxious to give him all wifely
devotion and respect ! Well,  he was full
of pride of race, and I, alas ! had no
child, so he collected all the remembrances
of his ancestors, and made them
what they are now  the wonder and
admiration of France ; and although, in
his great love for me, he left them to me
for my life, I only hold them as a sacred
trust, which at my death is to be delivered
intact to Charles de Bonneval.
Bernard I have hoarded these treasures
for my husband's sake, and felt them to
be  as I say  sacred things ; but, believe

me, had I known, or even suspected, what
would happen concerning them, I would
have burned them all  if by doing so I
could have saved  saved '

She hesitated, seemingly too distressed
to finish the sentence.

The prince stood by her, still calm, but
looking perplexed.

Well well, Marie ?' he said.

She proceeded :

Bernard, my husband's cousin, Charles
de Bonneval, chanced to come here the very
day of the  the robbery, and, oh ! Bernard,
he is a born lawyer ! All head  no
heart !  no tenderness,  no pity ! He insisted
that all means should be taken to
discover the historical gems.'

I thought,' said the prince, ' that they
had been discovered  that they were in
Paris?'

Charles said so,' answered the Comtesse,
bitterly ; ' and made me think so
also, and only this day, half-an-hour ago,
but he lied,  did he tell me the
means he had taken (the base means, I
call them) of discovering the  the '

*Well, Marie, why do you hesitate?
The thief I suppose you would have
said ! But what has this to do with me T

Well, Bernard, they say the thief must
be in the house, and the jewels also ; for
Charles has had every person that has
come in, or gone out of the Chateau,
watched  followed; no parcels, no boxes

VOL. III. c

have been permitted to leave the house.
And  oh, Bernard,  believe me,  I was
innocent of the scandal Charles de Bonneval
has brought upon us ! He did not rest till
he obtained two detectives,  and they
arrived,  and I innocently received them
as  the Baron de Erica and his Portuguese
servant !'

Here the prince started as though he
had been stung, while the Comtesse
continued :

'The servant, Pedro,  supposed to bean
illiterate Portuguese, dined and lived
with the servants,  taking account of all
he heard and saw ; while the other  the
baron Oh ! Bernard, I cannot, cannot
say it !'



The prince looked hopelessly mystified.


But, Marie, who do they suspect ?
Why have you sent for me? Ah ! is it
Dorinda's maid, Estelle ?'

c2

CHAPTER II.

I am a gentleman," 111 be sworn thou art :
Thy tongue, thy face, thy limbs, actions and spirit
Do give thee five-fold blazon.'

T that moment, much to the
Comtesse's perturbation and
distress, Dorinda walked majestically
into the room. She looked pale,
wild, but she said, defiantly :

What is all this fuss about ? I
thought the jewels were found ! Estelle
tells me the thief has been discovered,

and that ' (looking witheringly at
the shrinking Comtesse) ' our hostess has
set detectives to watch  both below and
above stairs! A curious phase of hospes
!'

She spoke mockingly  soothingly, but
with a look of horror  of terror in her
eyes. Suddenly there was an authoritative
knock at the door, and the pseudo
baron and his servant (the latter now
without his beard, and displaying openly
the Yell-known features of Auguste
Laraenotte) entered the room, and informed
the unhappy Comtesse that as
Monsieur de Bonneval had put the case
into the hands of the Law, a general
search must be made, equally amongst

visitors' and servants' boxes ; so they
begged that all keys of all the inmates
of the Chateau might be given up at
once.

Dorinda was the first to speak. With
ineffable contempt, she answered haughtily
that ' her maid kept her keys, and they had
better apply to her for them.'

We have already done so,' respectfully
answered Lamenotte, 'and she has given
us all,  except one,  that of the princess's
jewel-case.'

And that,' answered Dorinda, flushing
up furiously,  I refuse to give ! No one
opens my private box but myself.'

The prince, however, seeing the exigencies
of the case, sjDoke out decidedly.

 You do not understand, Dorinda ; you
must give up the key. Give it to me,
dear, I will open the box for them !'

The princess stared helplessly at her
husband, and left the room with him,
followed closely by Lamenotte. On arriving
at the door of her own apartment she
passionately refused to allow the detective
to enter, but he insisted  upon which she
began to weep, and implored her husband
not to allow such an indignity.

My dear wife,' he reasoned, * it is the law;
you are not alone called upon to prove your
innocence,  every other soul in the Chateau
is subjected to the same annoyance !'

'Then I refuse!' she childishly reiterated.
' I will not submit to such an insult !'

The prince became annoyed, and with
an expression on his face that Dorinda had
once or twice seen before, and which she
trembled to see to-day, he said, angrily :

 The key, madame,  the key !'

Key oi ivhatT cried Dorinda, weakly
and irritably.

the key of the jewel-case, Madame la
Princesse,' said Lamenotte, coldly ; * and,'
pardon but I can waste no more time ; if
the key is not to be found, the case must
be forced open !'

Bernard !' cried the wretched woman,
can't you trust me ? The enamels are
not there !' and, forgetting herself in her
agony of fear, she turned to Lamenotte
and said :

Auguste help nef

The prince looked thunderstruck !

'Who is this "Auguste?' he said,
fairly losing all patience. ' There is some
secret I have not fathomed ; I never heard
of this man before, and yet  you faint
when you see him first, you call him byname,
you '

'I will wait no longer, madame,' said
Lamenotte, ' the prince must know all.*

Casting herself on her husband's breast,
Dorinda said,

'Husband!'

But Lamenotte's words had torn the
veil of doubt from the husband's eyes, and,
starting back, he said, hoarsely,

Keep oiF, madame ! Nothing but

honour rests on a breast covered with
scars and medals ! The key, madame,  the
key!'

'Take it, then!' said Dorinda, with an
evil look in her eyes, and throwing it on
the table ; but, as the prince seized it,
once more she put her hand on his. ' For
the last time,' she said, excitedly, ' as
you value your peace of mind,  my happiness
 let me open the box first ! There
are letters  secrets there, which you would
be too much of a gentleman  too loyal
a man  to pry into, for  they are not
all mine!'

With an impatient jerk, he released
his hand from hers, and, opening the
gold and velvet casket (one of his first

gifts to her), he raised a silken cover,
then  be uttered a cry, as if shot through
the heart ! For, laid on the top was a
letter, in his wife's writing, addressed to
'Sir Guy Severely' By its side lay a
packet of other letters, in a man's handsome
of which, he saw, began, ' My own
sweet Dorinda !' ' My own !' ' My Princess \
of Love !' Contemptuously he tossed them
over once, to see the signatures ; and
'Your own Guy,' 'Your true love Guy,'
&c., completed the discovery!  He turned
to look at his wife, but like Guinivere, she
lay prone upon the ground, hiding her
face with her hands.

Auguste, who had been a forgotten but
deeply interested witness of the scene,

now came forward, and, lifting the tray
of the jewel-box for further inspection,
beheld what he searched for !

'Ah! voila mon affaire!' he said; and,
heeding not the unhappy husband's agony
at this fresh disclosure, he carefully selected
the enamels from the other jewels,
and, quitting the room, left husband and
wife together.

The prince once more looked at his
prostrate wife, then throng the letters
towards her, and dashing the casket on
the ground,  leaving the costly fragments
and the glittering jewels scattered over the
floor in all directions,  he said,

Take your " true love's " letters, madame.
I scorn to touch them ! Henceforth

you and I are strangers. I will
never see you more !'

Striding from the room, he was gone
from her sight, and she still lay upon the
ground, where she was found some time
after, and lifted tenderly by her maid,
Estelle, whose heart felt heavy and sore
for her mistress ; for she had heard
all, and dreaded the future which she
knew must be in store for the princess, 
and perhaps for herself also !

As soon as the prince left his wife's
room, he called for Auguste Lamenotte,
and had a long conversation with him.
What he heard never transpired ; but we
may be certain the coiffeur did not spare
the woman who had scorned him, and

that he ruthlessly exposed to the shame-stricken
and unhappy husband the story
of her evil girlhood.

The prince, after the interview, retired
to his own apartments, where he wrote
two letters ; one to the Comtesse, confessing
his wife's guilt, and saying a few bitter
words concerning his own agony of shame ;
then, in the presence of the detectives, be
placed the enamels in a small box, which
he sealed, and carried himself into the
Comtesse's boudoir, where he found her
still sobbing on the sofa. As he approached
her, she threw herself at his feet,
and, clasping his knees, would have
spoken words of comfort, but he held
up his shaking hand, as if imploring
silence ; and, raising her gently, kissed

her furrowed cheek  and left the room.
Then, after deep thought, and a long
consultation with Monsieur de Bonneville
wrote another letter.

In about two hours' time Dorinda
heard a carriage roll up to the principal
entrance, and drive away. Estelle
then brought her in a letter ; she took
it eagerly from her hand,  it was from
the prince, and ran as follows :

Dorinda,

Your whole history is
known to me, and I will never willingly
see you again. I shall, however, treat
you with mercy, as well as justice.
You have nothing to fear from the Law ;

for, through the Comtesse d'Alemberg's
kindness, and out of respect for the
honour of my name, she and I have managed
to keep the disgrace secret (the
agony of possessing such a secret, a
character like yours can in no way
fathom). Neither have you anything to
fear from me  under certain conditions
which are as follows. (I am on my way
to my lawyer now.)

You will live in certain apartments
in my hotel at Paris, with a lady-companion
of my choosing; through
whom, only, all orders are to be given.
No orders will be taken from anyone
but her, and I tell you this emphatically
to guard you from exposing yourself

to the humiliation of being disobeyed
by your own dependants. You
will have your own medical man to
watch you every day.

You may retain your maid Estelle  at
present. To silence scandal, I shall reside,
when it pleases me, under the same roof;
but I repeat, / will never see, nor ivill I
ever hold communication with you; and
if you force yourself upon me, or annoy
me with any letters, I will shelter you
no longer. As long as you live a reputable
life, you may remain under my
protection, and you will have money
enough, (a fixed allowance), and the
means of leading a good and charitable
life. You will have your own carriages,

VOL. III. D

but you are never to leave the house
alone ; for, from what I hear of your
antecedents, I believe you are the victim
of a mania  kleptomania; and I am
determined to prevent your aoain disgracing
me by being guilty of what, ina
princess, is called " mania," but which
in a beggar would be felony. This mania
I could have pitied and forgiven, but your
deceit concerning a man who I treated
with leniency for your reputation's sake,
I cannot consider a mania,  so that I
never will forgive.

 Bernard, Prince de la Styrie.'

Dorinda read the letter over and over
again, and her mind was in such a whirl



that lie could not make it up as to
whether she felt relieved or sorry. What
would her life be like ? Should she have
all the advantages she had before enjoyed,
without the drawback of being
bound to the giver of them? That she
should not dislike.

'But  psha!' she thought, 'he will soon
set tired of it, and will be reconciled tome

!

d2

Thus can the demi-god Authority

Make us pay down for our offence by-weight.

Give me not counsel,
Nor let no comforter delight mine ear,'

HILE she was cogitating over
the letter, Estelle re-appeared,
saying that Monsieur le Prince
had desired that the princess should be
ready to start in a few hours hence, so she
(Estelle) must prepare ; and, as the maid
proceeded to pick up the letters and jewels
which were still scattered about, Dorinda

sat moodily watching her, trying to realize
her position.

In a way, ' she thought to herself,
this catastrophe is almost a relief,  for
I have now nothing to dread  nothing to
hide !'

For years, she argued to herself, she
had not known security, and the tension
had become so great at times, that she

had been tempted to ; but, anyhow,

the blow that had now fallen, was not
one-hundredth part as crushing as the
calamity at Broke Abbey ! Oh, no ! for
then she had loved and lost all ; whereas
now she had done neither! (For that she
did not love her husband,  well !  that
went without saying !) and, for as long

as she chose, she would have a home of
her own,  and a luxurious one ! And yet
yet she felt uneasy ! How should she
bear the loss of perfect freedom? And
here she returned to the former question,
' What >vill my life be like ? and if I am
unhappy  where ?  to whom should I go ?'

She shuddered,  but again ' pulling herself
together' she murmured, ' Lorsque Ton
n'a pas ce qu'on aime,  il faut aimer ce
qu'on a.'

Again Estelle spoke :

I am desired, madame, to beg you not
to leave this apartment till you do so for
good. The prince thought it would be
pleasant for all parties,  Monsieur le
Prince  himself  est j)ctrti /'

Dorinda made no answer, but continued
watching Estelle as she nimbly moved
hither and thither. She remarked, too,
that the maid had red eyes  she had been
crying ! Dorinda felt touched, and, for
almost the first time in her life, she experienced
a craving for the sympathy of
one beneath her in station.

Estelle,' she said.

Madame?'

Estelle, have you any sisters ?'

No, madame !'

Should you care much for one ?'

Estelle looked round at her mistress in
surprise, and noticing the unwonted expression
of pathos in her eyes,  with
supreme tact, said simply :

Je n'aime que vous, madame  pas
besoin de soeurs !'

Dorinda said no more, nor did the maid,
but those few words made a bond between
them which was never broken.

After some hours of tedious waiting, 
during which refreshment was offered to,
and petulantly refused by Dorinda, (who
felt fairly cowed, and dared not leave her
room  against the prince's express orders)
she heard a carriage driving up, and, looking
out, saw it was her own ; so, dressing
leisurely, she descended the stairs with her
accustomed dignity, expecting the Comtesse
to meet her in the hall, to bid her
hon voyage ; but, save the domestics, who
crowded as usual to the door, no one was

to be seen. The Comtesse was conspicuous
by her absence.

A gentleman,  a stranger,  however,
presented himself, hat in hand, and, bowing
profoundly, would have helped the
princess into the carriage ; but, boiling
with indignation at the Comtesse's neglect,
she rejected his assistance, and proudly
mounted the steps alone.

Before she could see or prevent it,
the strange gentleman (to her enormous
indignation) also entered the carriage, 
and sat himself opposite to her !

Sir !' exclaimed the princess, arrogantly,
may I ask to whom  to what I am indebted
for your presence  here, in my
own carriage ?' and, pulling the check-string,

she said to the footman, who seemed
in the very extremity of terror, ' Open the
door and let this person out. I never
travel with strangers !'

To her astonishment, however, the gentleman
gave a sign to the footman, and
they started a second time.

'Sir!' again said the princess, 'who
are you ? How dare you invade my
privacy !'

Madame, I implore you to be patient
and hear me ! I have the prince's orders
to attend you !' bringing out a letter,
which Dorinda snatched from his hand ;
but, recognising the prince's writing, she
dared say no more.

The letter was as follows :

Monsieur Achille,

I appoint you the princess's
family doctor and attendant. You will
start at once and kindly travel with her
now and attend her medically whenever
she requires it. It is my wish you should
live in my house and see her every day,
and report to me concerning her health
every now and then. The princess will
not start on her journey to Paris, till you
arrive to escort her.

B., Prince de Styrie.'

In fact, monsieur,' exclaimed Dorinda,
excitedly, ' you are to be a spy upon
my actions, and I am, at present, your
prisoner !'

Nay, Madame la Princesse, I would be
your friend,  or,' (seeing a gesture of proud
disdain) ' anything you wish me to be ; but
I have my orders, and must obey them.'

Sir, I am an Englishwoman, and not
to be coerced '

Madame, will you listen patiently ? and
as I deal with you may God deal with me.
I will tell you exactly my position as
regards you; and I trust, much as you
may dislike me at present, you may hereafter
find me useful, rather than an infliction.
The prince has known me for
many years, and he wishes me to explain
(once for all, and I shall never refer to it
again) that you have brought much sorrow
and shame upon him, and he would lessen

the disgrace in the eyes of the world for
his family's sake,  and for your own  '
Achille stopped for a moment, to see if
Dorinda would reply, or try to exonerate
herself, but she remained sulkily silent, 
so he has spread the report that you
are the victim of a mania, and that I am
to be the means of your cure. You see,
madame, a mania is no shame  a theft is ;
and, if you will bear patiently the restrictions
laid upon you '

For how long T broke in Dorinda.

Well, for a year or two ; then the
prince may make other arrangements ;
but I warn you the prince has the law
on his side, and any infringement of his
wishes may cause a stricter surveillance''

In fact,' said Dorinda, bitterly, ' I am
to consider myself a prisoner, and the
world is to look upon me as a madwoman
for the honour and glory of the prince's
family !'

'Well  but surely, princess, you will
excuse my freedom if I remind you that
it is for your name's sake also. Would you
rather be bad or mad ?'

Bad !' said Dorinda, crossly and unhesitatingly.


Some people are both bad and mad,'
said Monsieur Achille, sadly; and Dorinda,
being: unable to challenge the remark, sank
back in the corner of the carriage and
closed her eyes to consider the matter
over.

This man may be of use to me, so 1
must try to " get over " him,' she thought.
I Avill pretend to sleep, and have a good
look at him.' So for the space of about
twenty minutes she watched him carefully.


Monsieur Achille, whose appearance was
by no means lovely, had taken a book,
and was reading attentively. He was past
the middle-age, short, and rather fat. His
features were indescribably common-place ;
the sort of features it is impossible to
recall in absence. His head was bald, but
with a grizzly fringe round it. One wisp
of hair on the right side of the head was
allowed to grow inordinately long, and
was brought over to the left side, and

spread out carefully with a soft brush
(as one spreads ' parlour paste ') across
the top, in the wild hope of covering its
nakedness.

At times, either from adverse winds, orin
removing the hat, or from other untoward
circumstances, the wisp would get displaced,
 would stick out at the side or back
of the head like the handle of a jug, or it
would at times fall in a long stringy curl
down the back ! this latter contingency
was apt to make common-place people
shudder, and even affected their appetites.


The doctor's face and chin were covered
with a short, iron-grey stubble, which
crackled like dead leaves when he passed

his hand over them ; but the eyes were
the features which most impressed Dorinda.
They were light-blue, and very
watery; and it was an impossibility ever
to be sure at whom, or at what. Monsieur
Achille was looking ; for, when he turned
his gaze upon, or away, from any object,
one eye always lagged behind its fellow,
leaving too large a space between them.
Presumably, after years of obstinacy on
one side, of impatience on the other, and of
much weeping upon both, these optics had
agreed to differ, (like sensible individuals
forced to lead their lives side-beside,) and
had consequently settled down contentedly
in the furthest corner from one another.
Thus, when anyone sat by Monsieur

VOL. III. B

Achille's side, as the princess (unwillingly)
did at this moment, they would find his
glassy stare apparently fixed upon them
sideways, after an unpleasantly furtive
fashion ; indeed, that position was the
only one in which one would be prepared
to swear he was watching one's every
motion,  whereas that was the only moment
at which he was not doing so.

This obliquity, or eccentricity, of vision,
however, frequently stood Achille in good
stead ; for individuals under his charge
always thought he was looking at them
when he was not ; and that he was not,
when he was.

CHAPTER IV.

men
Call counsel, and speak comfort to that grief
Which they themselves not feel.'

By my troth, Melissa, my little body is a-weary of this great
world.'

Monsieur ACHILLE was a perfect
gentleman in mind, if not
in appearance, and he was
generally shrewd in his business (which
was principally with the insane) ; so he
guessed at once that the prince's object was

to make his wife out madder than she

E 2

Sn.o u o

really was  for his own honour's sake ; but
Achille was  a man, as well as a ' mad-doctor,'
and a tender-hearted, impressionable
one, and Dorinda soon perceived that
he had been struck by her beauty, and
that the sentiment ' akin to Love ' was
already strong in his breast concerning
her; thus she found it no difficult task
to ' get over ' him, and make him believe
her more to be trusted than she
really was. He knew not her earliest
antecedents, nor that from her youth up
she had led such an exciting life of reckless
lying  feverish suspense, and fear of discovery;
 was the victim of such a constantly
uneasy feeling of cunning suspiciousness
of those around her, that these

poisonous seeds,  begotten by an original
and never-resisted taint of evil, had taken
firm root,  had budded and blossomed
into all but  if not quite  insanity, accompanied
by a total loss of discernment
between good and evil, rectitude and
expediency.

Oh ! if parents ivoidd but realize that
wickedness  ay, and madness also, in many
cases, might in first youth  and if combated
by true religion and loving tact, be
successfully checked  reined in, instead
of developing, as they otherwise must, into
a possession of the Devil !

Monsieur Achille treated the princess
with the utmost deference, never addressing
her unless she began the conversation.

Once he offered her refreshment
and wine, which he had brought purposely,
and, thinking she looked fatigued,
depressed, he rather pressed her to partake
of them ; but he was inexpressibly-annoyed
when, in answer to his persuasions,
she burst into a fit of hysterical
weeping, asking him, reproachfully,
*Had he orders to poison her?'
Achille made no answer to this taunt,
except he crushed his dead leaves excitedly,
and continued reading.

They now entered the station;  the footman
and Estelle superintended the luggage,
but Monsieur Achille never left the
princess's side, until, as they were waiting
to start, Dorinda begged a book might be

bought for her; so, after comfortably settling
her in the compartment, Achille had the
door locked, and left her to comply with
her wishes,  the bookstall being exactly
opposite, and within sight of the carriage.

'I will now see what he is made of!'
thought Dorinda.

When Achille returned with the book,
the princess was nowhere to be seen !
Her fur cloak and shawls had been
thrown o]i the ground  and her seat
was empty ! Achille looked in,  unlocked
the door of the compartment,
and sat down ;  then, coolly proceeding
to divest himself of his hat, he
drew out and donned a cap,  while the
train moved slowly out of the station ! As

soon as they were clear of the town,
Monsieur Achille took out a book, and,
after reading attentively for quite half-an-hour,
he said, calmly :

If Madame la Princesse has rested sufficiently,
perhaps she will allow her humble
servant to help her back into her seat !'

Awkward and crestfallen, Dorinda rose
up from under her fur cloak, whither
she had hidden herself, and said, crossly,

Why, you were not even frightened.
Monsieur Achille ! Take care ! A woman's
wit may bring you to grief next time !'

madame,' Achille answered, with dignity,
' when I trust to your honour, 
which I did, when I left you, at your
request, to buy you a book,  if it fails,

you only injure yourself! I am anxious
to befriend, as well as to guard you ; if I
do not succeed, I fear you will find less sympathising
hands ready to receive you.'

Monsieur, is it gentlemanlike,  or
loyal, to deal with a woman (and an
unhappy one) by mysterious threats?
What do you mean by " less sympathising
hands ready to receive you " ?'

Madame,' said Achille, uneasily, * I
would not deal with threats, I hate harshness
to a woman ; what I say is for your good.'

Explain yourself.'

The prince, madame, is a stern man,
and a soldier ; he exacts obedience from  '

 His prisoners !' said the princess, quickly.
Achille bowed assent.

sam not a soldier, madame, and I would
deal tenderly with you ; but I must warn
you of your danger.'

Encore des mysteries !'

Madame,  plainly, then : unless you
lead your life quietly and with dignity,
another home will be provided for you !'

Something in the doctor's tone alarmed
Dorinda,  a dread she dared not name
came over her.

Monsieur Achille ! What do you mean T

Princess, can you not guess ? Tiens !
I have been plain and open to you from
the beginning, and I will be so still ;  I
mean this : that if I fail with you, if you
subject your husband to annoyance or uneasiness,
you will be placed where  where

you "vvill be safe,  near a convents

a mad-house, do you mean ? Oh !
Achille, not in a mad-house ! For che
Almighty's sake, save me from that  from
a living death ! Oh, Achille, I know I
have teazed and provoked you, but you
are kind, and remember how young I am !
My life, since my marriage, has been very
triste  very unsatisfying ! True, I might
have been a better woman, but  Achille,
I repent ! I will be patient and obedient !
Only, for the sake of God's sweet mercy,
don't  don't shut me up !'

The poor woman threw herself at the
doctor's feet, and buried her face in his lap.

Levez-vous, madame. On my honour,
soli are safe with me !  only be obedient,

be patient ! I will do my utmost for you!'

Oh, thank you for that, thank you ! I
will indeed do what you tell me; but,
good God! to be shut up  oh, I could
not, could not bear it !'

Hush, poor child ! how your head
throbs  have you no eau-de-cologne?'

Dorinda took a bottle out of her pocket,
saying, ' I have very little ;' and, pouring
it all out on her handkerchief, she sat
down, exhausted, and bathed her burning
forehead.

Take some refreshment,' the old man
said, tenderly ; ' tenez I have some sherry
or brandy in my medicine-chest, and will
give you some.'

Going into the next compartment he

brought out a case which he opened.

What large bottles !' said Dorinda.
What do they hold V

Brandy, sherry, laudanum, and chloroform.'


I would like a little sherry,' said Dorinda,
' and have you a biscuit  and there
is no glass !'

'I will fetch them in a moment,' said
the little man, and vanished into the next
compartment.

Quick as thought, Dorinda seized the
laudanum bottle, and poured a large
quantity into her eau-de-cologne flask ;
then, screwing the jewelled top firmly
down, pocketed it before the old doctor
could find his biscuit and glasses.

*Now,' said Dorinda to herself, with a
pale, determined face, and clenched teeth,
*I am safe, at all events, from a madhouse
!'

When the doctor returned, Dorinda was
sitting in her own seat with her temples
bound with her handkerchief, and, after
he had handed her the refreshments, she
called out hastily :

Oh, Monsieur Achille, one of your
bottles has upset  your coat caught it !'

He turned quickly, and saw the bottle
containing laudanum pouring its contents
on the ground. He caught it quickly,
and, holding it up to the light, said,

Good gracious, I have lost enough to
poison a regiment of soldiers!'

Doriiida seemed to take little interest in
his annoyance, and he locked the box.

Is there not a saying about locking the
stable after the horse has been stolen ?'
said Dorinda, languidly. * I should think,
too, that they will fine you for staining
their cushions.'

They were now nearing Paris, and Dorinda
turned to Monsieur Achille, and said,

You ivill be my friend, will you not ?
and try, try to soften my husband  and
oh ! for God's sake, don't let him send me
away !'

I will not.'

'You swear it ?'

'I swear it.'

Unless I become mad?'

Unless  you become  unmanageable.'
The train now stopped. They had
arrived. A carriage met them, into which
got the princess, Achille, and Estelle, and
they drove quickly to the Hotel de la
Styrie. How gloomy it looked ! It was
an old-fashioned house, entre cour ei jardin,
and, Ashen Dorinda heard the great house-door
clang behind her, she felt as if her
life were left outside, and that her death
had begun,  a sort of dead existence, of
which the atmosphere and surroundings
Averse stifling, and as black as hell !

CHAPTER V.

0, it is excellent

To have a giant's strength ! but it is tyrannous

To use it like a giant ! '

S the princess entered the hall,
she was met by the old housekeeper,
who had been forty
years with the prince and his mother, and
who had received her a few years previously
as a bride ; but she had never taken
the trouble to try to attach the old lady
to herself.

VOL. III. F

Bon jour, Madame St. Remy !'
Je vous value, Madame la Princesse.'
Then the old lady said, shyly :
The prince being away, has desired me
to show you your apartments, Madame la
Princesse !'

Do I not occupy my own ?'
They are not prepared for your reception,
madame

Dorinda said no more ; but, feeling dispirited
and wretched, she asked half-weeping
for Monsieur Achille's arm, and followed her
conductress. The rooms were beautiful and
all en suite but had never been occupied
during Dorinda's married life ; and how different
the spirit that seemed to pervade
them, from that which had blessed her own !

Then  in the rooms she had entered as a
bride, every article bore the stamp of her
husband's love ! The curtains and carpets
were all her own favourite colour, while
nick-nacks and surprises were strewn everywhere
! and how little she had valued
them !

These rooms were grand and cold,
and what the Germans call imfreundlich.
They were hung nth satin and tapestry,
and family portraits ornamented the walls.
One of these represented Prince Bernard's
mother  a proud-looking dame in powder
and patches, and wearing on her arm the
identical bracelet which Dorinda's husband
had presented her with at her
betrothal. By this lady's side was 



other picture  of Bernard's father,  and
a space had been left, within an empty
frame, for Dorinda's own portrait ; but
that frame, she remarked, had disappeared,
and a picture of an old man  Bernard's
grandfather  was in its place.

All these family portraits (Dorinda
thought) seemed to gaze upon her in cold
disapproval and cruel silence.

But what a fool 1 am !' she said, inwardly
; ' how terrified I should be if they
did aught but stare!'

As she stood looking around her, a
strange, dazed feeling came over her, as if
the whole thing were a dream ; she felt
faint  giddy, but kind old Achille touched
her arm.

'I think, madame, you are tired, and
had better retire to your apartment.'

Dorinda smiled, and thanked him ; 
the old housekeeper vanished,  and in
her stead a middle-aged lady of smiling
aspect stood by her; Dorinda was half
inclined to think she must be some
spirit, so noiselessly had she made her
entrance.

*She can't be one of the ancestresses
come down from her frame,' thought
Dorinda ; ' she is too modern-looking, too
commonplace.'

The lady bowed.

Madame la Princesse,' she said, ' the
prince has desired me to introduce myself
to you.'

Dorinda collected herself at once,
flushed up, and bowed stiffly, saying
nothing.

The lady continued :

The prince has appointed me about
you, madame  as '

Keeper !' said Dorinda, coldly ; 'and
may I ask your name ?'

Dubois,' answered the lady.

Then  Madame Dubois  may I ask
you to do your duty without speaking
to me more than you can help ?'

'Indeed, princess,' answered Madame
Dubois, with heightened colour, ' my occupation
is naturally a difficult and unpleasant
one, and I 'fain would cause you
no annoyance.'

If such really be your Lavish,' returned
the princess, haughtily, ' I beg you will
perform your duties as much  at a distance
from me as possible  and that 
we may see as little of each other  as
convenient. And now, which is my bedroom
? I wish to be alone. Pray call
my maid.'

Madame Dubois smiled no more, but,
ringing the bell, desired that Estelle
should be sent for.

'And now, show me my room.'

It is next door to this, Madame la
Princesse,' said Madame Dubois, indicating
the portiere by which she had entered.
'Shall I lead the way?'

Dorinda followed her.

The bed-room was magnificent, but dismal
; a large four-post bed, with heavy
velvet curtains, massive furniture, old
china, and pictures ad nauseam.

Portraits  portraits,' whispered Deronda,
' fixing one with their eyes everywhere
;  and not a kind face amongst
them ! They all look as if they had murdered
their grandmothers, and are only
waiting for me to do the same ! Ah ! I
shan't murder  my grandmother !'

Did you speak, madame ?' from Madame
Dubois.

No, I did not, ' from Dorinda. ' I
hope the next room to mine belongs to
Estelle?'

It does, madame,' answered Madame
Dubois.

'And the other room  the other side?
Whose room is that ?'

Mine, madame.'

'A donkey between two panniers,' said
Dorinda, shortly,  then, seeing that Madame
Dubois did not understand the allusion,
and thought that she had been
called a donkey, and was looking proportionately
pleased, Dorinda deigned to
explain. 'I'm the donkey.'

Oh !' said Madame Dubois, somewhat
relieved ; and, seeing Estelle approaching,
she left the princess, muttering to herself,
'As mad as a March hare !'

'The "cap fitted" about the donkey,'
thought Dorinda ; but as soon as she saw
Estelle's kind (and now beloved) face she
ran to meet her.

'Oh, Estelle! Estelle ! Je n'ai que
tol !'

Chut ! madame,' said Estelle. ' Ne
parlez-pas trop-haut.'

Pourquoi ?'

II n'y a pas de portes.'

No doors ! no doors !' cried Dorinda,
sinking on a chair, ' and am I at the mercy
of strangers ? Shall I never be alone ?
am I to be everlastingly watched?'

'Never mind, madame,' said Estelle. 'We
must always speak English. I hear
Madame Dubois does not understand
it!'

'Don't trust to that, Estelle! Oh,
Estelle !' continued Dorinda, excitedly, ' do
you love me?' (weeping).

I do, madame ! and, hon Dieu ! how I
grieve for you !'

Listen, Estelle ! If you believe in God,
be my friend ; I am not mad  am I ? but
they will drive me so ! No doors ! but,
Estelle ! you and I are clever enough to
cheat them all ! Oh, be true to me !'

I swear it, madame !'

Now, Estelle, we must pretend not to
like each other ! Dubois must believe in
you ! old Achille, I know, will love me 
if he does not already.'

Madame, be patient, and make Dubois
love you too ! Did the journey tire you,
madame ?'

Dorinda was afraid of telling Estelle anything
that had occurred in the carriage, for

fear of being overheard ;  and about the one
dread secret,  of the deadly weapon she
would always have at hand,  she would
not tell even to Estelle.

'Estelle  will you go and find Monsieur
Achille, and ask him to come to seeme?'


I will, madame ;' and Estelle left the
room.

Dorinda instantly dived into her
dressing-bag, and getting a small leather
box hastily took the bottle full of laudanum
out of her pocket, put it in the case,
locked it, and jumping lightly on to a
chair hid it on a ledge behind one of the
portraits.

'Voila !' she said, kissing her hand at the

grim old woman, who looked at her from
within the frame, ' if you are very good,
and take care of that for me, you will see
some fun with it some day ! and if  ' she
added, revengefully  ' if you will comedown,
out of your frame  afterwards, and
haunt his pillow who drives me to this, 
well,  I will love you, and  (if I can,)
pray you out of the pains of that Purgatory
which, to judge from your personal appearance,
you richly deserve !'

Achille now came in, and Dorinda
flew to him and said, tearfully :

Monsieur Achille, there are no doors !'

'Ah!'

I can't sleep if I think Dubois comes
and glowers at me through the curtains.'

'What can I do?'

Dear Monsieur Achille, get me a large
screen round my bed ; do /'

I will try.'

Will you come and see me every day ?'
I will.'

Twice a day ?'

*Trois fois si cela vous plait, j'y suis
to uj ours.'

And oh ! be my friend ?'
Je vous le jure.'

Bon-soir !'

Bonne-nuit !' and Achille's eyes were
more watery than ever, as he turned and
left her.

Weeks, months passed, and Dorinda tried
to bear everything patiently,  even defiantly,

 but Estelle saw and felt that her
spirit Alas breaking ! for the knowledge that
ai eye was ever watching her  that she
could not escape it  even when she wept,
chafed, irritated, and finally unnerved
her.

For long she hoped against hope that
the prince would relax his severity, and
relent, but she heard nothing of, or
from him. Day after day she drove out,
accompanied by Dubois. If she wished to
make a purchase,  Dubois made it, and
always got the wrong thing. If she left
her sitting-room,  Dubois followed her,
asking, ' did she want anything ?' If
she looked into the ante-room,  the old
porter, who sat there all day reading a
paper, jumped up, instantly on the qui vive I

By a twist of her wrist, Dubois could
turn a fold of the poitiers and take in her
unhappy charge and her occupation at a
glance; and if the princess even walked in
the garden, she was forced to put up with
the same detestable companion! Estelle
was her only comfort, for she sympathised
heartily in her hatred for Dubois,  (although
she had the cleverness to hide it) 
seeing that all her mistress's sorrows, frequent
tears, and her miserable position, failed
to touch the ' lady companion's heart !'

Alas ! Estelle,' Dorinda would say,
'she is Dubois by name and du lois by
nature ; that is to say, if I ever were
vulgar enough to make a pun !'

Achille had, as Dorinda foretold, learnt

to love her too much ! He was her slave ;
and as, when he was with the princess,
Dubois considered she might absent herself
and leave her charge to his care,
Dorinda used to look forward to his
coming with delight. She could then be
natural and unrestrained, and she would
sit by him on the sofa, and cry like a
child on his shoulder. She was ever
gentle and submissive to him, and his very
presence was a comfort and the only
pleasure in her unhappy life !

Achille,' she would say,  I can stand it
no longer ; can I not go home to
England T

Mon enfant have you a home there ?'
And Dorinda had to confess she had
VOL. III. G

none ! Her father had drunk himself to
death, her mother had married again,  a
young clerk,  and they had emigrated to
Australia ; besides, her mother's house
would have been no shelter  no home to
her,  it never had been ! Then she
would think of the duke and of Brandon
Castle  but how could she apply to him
aoain? Besides,  she was a French subject
now ! No ! no ! She must stay and
die where she was ! and then . . . she
would, in her despair, look up at the grim
old woman's face in the picture, and
fancy she smiled at her,  and that she
could almost hear her whisper, * Patience !
for a little longer  soon  soon !'
One day Dorinda said to Achille,



Do you think the prince would refuse,
were I to ask him to let me have my old
friend, Lady Olive Ramsay, on a visit 
for a week? Even if he would not let
her stay in this house, she could live in a
hotel, and be with me during the day.
He used to like Olive.'

Achille thought a moment.

I will ask,' he said ; ' the prince surely
cannot refuse.'

g2

CHAPTER VI.

I remember, I remember
The house where I was born.

Emma, how hot it is! I can
scarcely breathe.'

And yet, iona, we have all
the windows open, and the Venetian blinds
are down. Will you come into the garden,
dear?'

Oh, no, mother. Everyone can see one
out there ! I shall get cooler presently.'

This short conversation took place
between our old friends, Lady Olive
Ramsay and iona, who were sitting in a
large room on the ground floor of one of
the houses in Kensington Gardens,  the
houses which look out upon the venerable
old palace.

It was a hot summer's morning, but
everything had been done to cool the
room : doors all open, Venetian blinds
down, and awnings protected the windows
which opened down to the ground,
upon a pretty garden, full of sweet flowers.

Lady Olive looked anxiously at poor
iona, who,  fragile in the extreme,  had
just recovered from a dangerous illness,
and was panting for breath.

' Oh, mother !' the girl said, piteously,
it is worse than useless thinking I can
ever lead a London life  or go through a
London season ! I have not the strength.
Oh ! if we could only live in the
country!'

 Dearest ! I long for the country
too !'

'Then let us go, mother  but where ?'.

iona, I have a suggestion to make, if
you are well enough to listen.'

Well, mother, what is it ?'

I have been longing to tell you something
for some time (but I did not wish to
excite you) ; however, you are better today,
 so listen. It is, as you say, an impossibility
for you to lead a London life at

present ; Dr. Wilson says so ; and he
advises the country. Well, my old home,
Riverstairs, is vacant,  has been for the
last month ; and I have been secretly preparing
it for our occupation  as a surprise
when you should get well. Would you
like to go there ?'

Oh, mamma ! how delightful ! You
have so often spoken to me of Riverstairs ;
besides, I remember it as one remembers
a dream ! Are we really going there ?
How soon ? You have always spoken of
it as " Home." '

Yes, Riverstairs has ever been my
home ! You see, it belonged to my mother,
and I was born there. She left it to me ; but
for very sad reasons I had to let it. The

lease, however, has fallen in, and I should
dearly like to live there again.'

let us go then at once, mother. It
seems already like ' Home " to me !'

'Well, there is always one spot upon
earth, (I always think,) which is " Home "
to one more than any other ;  a sort of
oasis in the desert of the world, even
though (as in the present case) one may
not have lived there for years. Nay !
even supposing I were never to return toit,
 that it had passed for ever into the
hands of strangers,  Riverstairs would
ever remain " Home " to me.'

I think I understand that,' said iona,
thoughtfully, ' for may it not be that the
first earthly home of our childhood  our

home at the time that our spirits were
freshest from the hands of their Maker, 
may be a type of the Heavenly one ? and
that as our spiritual natures are ever
attracted to, and long for, their Heavenly
Home, so the purer parts of our earthly
natures long for the innocent home of
their youthhood. Do describe Riverstairs,
mother !'

Riverstairs,' answered Lady Olive,  is
so called from a flight of steps which run
from the garden terrace, down to the
pathway which lies between it and the
Thames. It is an old William-and-Mary
house, in yellow brick and white stone
facings. It was covered with jessamine
and the beautiful magnolia, and stands in

an old-fashioned garden, with quaintly-shaped
flower-beds, full of sweet-smelling
flowers,  flowers one rarely meets with
now-a-days, for they are considered " old-fashioned
;" but I like old-fashioned flowers
best ! Large hollyhocks of all colours
abound at Riverstairs, and cling to every
available wall ; and on the other side of
the lawn is a thick shrubbery, composed
chiefly of tall white rose-bushes, which
were laden with the sweetest and whitest
of roses ! So white were they, that, if one
chanced to pass through the shrubbery at
night, they seemed to light one on one's
way!'

And there are some old mulberry-trees
too  are there not?'

'Oh, yes! there is a second garden,
which is arrived at by passing through a
natural archway, formed by the interlaced
branches of two curious old cedar-trees.
In this second garden there were such
beds of pinks and carnations ! These latter
grew in great bundles of all colours, their
heads seeming to droop from very sweetness
; and, iona, to this day the smell of
a carnation brings before me  sunshine,
green grass,  beauty,  youth,  River-stairs!
For what power so subtle in
conjuring up to one's memory old scenes,
absent voices, wild joys, or incidents in
one's far-oiF life,  which one had fancied
(or perhaps hoped) were past and forgotten,
 as that of a passing scent !'

Mother !' said iona, with conviction in
her voice, ' if I get into that garden, I
shall soon be strong !'

I used to live in that garden continued
Lady Olive, * as a wee child ; and
I remember there was a white marble
fountain in the midst of it, and, if I shut
my eyes now, I can hear the plashing and
murmuring of its waters as they played
rather heartlessly (I used to think) with
a ball given them for their amusement, 
throwing it up a great height,  then catching
it again, and dallying with it,  then
letting it go with a splash, and for sometime
forgetting its very existence !  then
da capo ! also  in the centre of the lawn
was a bed of heliotrope and scarlet verbena,

in the shape of a huge basket,  of
gilt wirework, which sparkled in the sun.
It had a broad handle (also in wirework)
which sprang from each side of it, rising
to between four or five feet from the
ground ; and on the very top of this handle
I would perch my small self, and, from
my elevated position, watch the boats and
barges as they passed up and down the
river. I often cried over the poor, ill-fed,
and generally ill-used horses, toiling along
the towing-path, on the opposite (the
Surrey) side of the river, as they dragged
the heavy black barges (laden with coal)
against the stream ; and, should a steamer
pass by, I could, from where I sat, see
its funnel lowered to pass beneath the

arches of Richmond Bridge, and I could
hear the rushing and rustling sound close
beneath me, as the waves, (raised by the
steamboat's huge paddle-wheels,) washed
the sides of the pathway, causing the high
reeds to sway to and fro. How exercised,
too, my little mind used to be concerning
the great lazy bargeman, who invariably lay
full-length across the barge, with a clay
pipe in his mouth,  and also concerning
the dirty woman, carrying the dirtier baby,
at his side ! Had they any home besides
the black barge ? were they happy ?  and
always dirty? &c., &c. ; but later on I
quite decided that all bargemen were
murderers P

Murderers !  mother ! How so ?'

I was lying in bed one summer's night,
the windows were open, and it was very
late,  when I was roused by a frightful
scream, and the words, " Murder ! murder !
oh, my God !" rang through the stillness
of the night. I ran into the nurse's room,
and found her standing at the window
in her night-dress. The moonlight was
streaming into the room, making the river
look like molten silver, while the outline
of something large and black was looming
upon it, and passing quickly by the house ;
then I heard  a heavy splash ! The nurse
was calling excitedly to the gardener
and the ferryman (I recognised their
voices as they passed quickly by, talking
to one another) ; but they took no notice

of her, and I heard them run hastily down
the river stairs, and jump into a boat ; 
I could hear the oars splash in the water,
and bump into the rowlocks, and then 
the men pulled quickly away. As the nurse
turned from the window to go to bed
again, she perceived, for the first time, the
little trembling child standing at her side
in its night-gown.

'bless the child! Lor, Miss Olive,
how you frightened me ! You naughty
child ! Come to bed !"

"What's the matter, nurse?" I asked,
in an awe-stricken voice. " What were
those screams ?"

"Nothing, dear; only Mary, the 'housemaid
in the next room, has got the nightmare."

* What ! in bed with her !" I persisted,
vaguely, " and doesn't she like it?"

Without further parleying, I was
caught up and put to bed again, and,
never having heard of the " nightmare "
before, I concluded it was something that
usually slept with the housemaid that I
had never heard of, and that she and it
had been playing with one another and
quarrelled. So I went to bed and to
sleep; but the next day I overheard the
nurse say, " With her throat cut from ear
to ear, and floating in the water," and,
listening attentively, I gathered that a
man had murdered his wife, (the murderer
being a bargeman,) and that the screams I
had heard were the poor woman's, and

VOL. III. H

not those of " the nightmare that slept
with Mary." Seeing, however, that I was
meant not to hear the story, I kept my
own counsel, and from that day judged
bargemen with the harshest judgment.'

 What a dreadful story ! But tell me
more about the place. Is Falcon's Rest
beautiful ?'

Oh, yes ! far more so than Riverstairs ;
but I love my Home best, for I have such
an unpleasant recollection of Falcon's
Rest. Lord and Lady Glenalmond were so
unkind to me ! They wanted to take you
from me, iona, and bring you up themselves
; because, by Scotch law, you will
inherit Lady Glenalmond's Highland property.
But I could not let you go ! and

I have, I fear, much spoilt your worldly
prospects in consequence. But you will
have plenty from me to make up for it !
I would dearly love, however, to reconcile
them to me.'

But you won't let them take me from
you, mother?'

Not unless, you wish it ! Indeed, I
don't know whether they would care
about having you now ; but, short of
giving you to them, no efforts shall be
wanting on my side to make them friendly.
Ah, they were hard people !'

H 2

CHAPTER VII.

No place like home !'

On after the above conversation,
the necessary arrangements
were made, and Lady
Olive and iona settled themselves at River-stairs.
A curious effect was produced
upon the latter directly she arrived, and
as she looked at the river below the
garden wall, and heard a certain clock

strike the quarters a short distance off, a
feeling of bewilderment came over the
delicate girl, like a sensation one experiences
upon hearing a lovely strain of music,
familiar  yet strange, and bringing unbidden
tears to one's eyes.

Oh, mother !' she murmured, * don't
you recollect the words of that song,

I remember, I remember
The house where I was born "?

Oh, stay ! Let me think  what do I
remember ?' Casting her arms round
her mother, and leaning her head
on her shoulder, she whispered, ' I
seem to see a chariot drive up to the
house,  this house, and a tall lady in deep
mourning, with a long crape veil nearly

concealing her slight figure, slowly enters
the hall and ascends the broad stair-case,
carrying a child ; she is singing softly to it
in a soothing way, scarcely above her
breath, and rocking it in her gentle arms,
she ascends higher and higher, always
crooning her little song, enters a room
above, and, laying the child tenderly on
the bed, throws herself by its side,  and
in an agony of tears moans out, " My widowed
pillow ! iona ! my widowed pillow !"
Oh, mother! the singing lady  the weeping
lady  is you ! and I am that little child !'
Yes, dearest !' weeps Lady Olive. * I
had just returned from Italy  alone; having
left behind me  in the Italian churchyard
 a spot of emerald turf and twining

passion-flowers, beneath which lay all
that remained to me of the being I loved
best on earth ! the young husband,  the
tender father ! Oh, iona, you were the
only thing left to me ! and could I give
you up !'

And, mother !' continues iona, in ever
growing excitement, ' I remember more ; 
another carriage dashes up to the door 
with four horses and two outriders,  and,
with a little cry of joy, you  yourself  run
out, and open the door ! An old man
appears  whose face is familiar to me !
(Mother, it is the old man whose miniature
you always wear  with a coronet above his
head !) He quickly descends from the
carriage,  tears roll down his cheeks, and

he folds you in his arms ! He supports
you up the steps,  and oh, mother !  How
you cry ! You call him " Papa," and he sits
by you, speaking soothingly and tenderly,
as you do to me ! You laid your head on
his shoulder, as T do on yours, and I felt
to love him for loving you ! and when you
said, '' iona! kiss grand-papa's hand," I said,
''No! I had rather kiss his face !" Then yon
both laughed, and he kissed me on the
mouth, and said, "Olive! she is like us!
she has our expression !" He was short,
broad, and had a florid kindly countenance,
 gray hair, and his hands were
beautiful and shaped like yours 1'

Yes, and don't you remember his asking
what I called you  and I said, " iona!" '

'Ah yes! his answer was, "iona! iona!
a pretty name, but I love the old names
Charlotte, Augusta, Mary, or Amelia !
But iona! oh, yes," he said, kissing you.
Darling, I understand why it is iona !"
And then, mother,' added iona, laughing,
he looked round, and saw Drax standing,
and he said, " God bless my soul ! How
do you do, ma'am ?" and he got off the sofa
and bowed, and when she curtseyed he
said, " Pray sit down, ma'am !" and he
gave her a chair, and she looked so surprised
 and did as she was bid !'

For the first time in her life,' said Lady
Olive, grimly.

 And she sat down, and, as he
went away (which he soon did, you clinging

to him as he went down the steps),
some workmen and all the gardeners
collected round the carriage and cheered
him ; he took off his hat, and said, " God
bless my soul ! Thank you all !" and
drove away. Then you showed me the
miniature he had given you of the young
man with curly fair hair and blue eyes,
and you kissed it and whispered, " Your
father, iona," and it never leaves your
wrist night or day.'

Lady Olive kissed her daughter, and
said, softly,

It all seems a dream  does it not ?
And now, iona, we must try to make
friends with your father's parents ! They

surely must love Its child ! Let us consult
together how we must go to
work.'

But everything was totally different to
what Olive expected, and (as is so often
the case when one has decided upon any
especial plan of proceeding) she found
that all her tactics for negotiating peace,
had, by Providence's interference, been
scattered to the winds ! She had written
to Leonora, informing her of her intended
return to Riverstairs, begging her to visit
her the same evening, as she wished to
consult her concerning her visit to Falcon's
Rest ; but Olive had not been an hour in
the house before the following letter from
Leonora was put into her hand :

My dear Olive,

I am sure you will be
shocked to hear the reason why I did not
meet you to-day on your arrival. Poor
Lord Glenalmond had a stroke last night,
from which he has never rallied. He has
not spoken since, and the most painful
part of it is that he evidently wants to say
something,  and cannot ! Ramsay (who
we sent for at once) says that, as he knew
you were coming, it may be he wishes to
see you ; for he constantly watches the
door  never taking his eyes away, except
when he looks at poor Uncle Ion's picture,
which hangs over the door and opposite
his bed.

'The poor old man was taken while

sitting at his writing-table, having had an
angry altercation with Lady Glenalmond ;
but I will meet you on your way here
(pray start at once) and I will tell you all
about it. He looks dreadful  his face all
drawn  and it might shock iona, so don't
brine: her.

Your loving

Nell;

'a

Olive started instantly,  and alone ; glad
to spare iona any shock ; and, half-way on
the road, Leonora met her. She had hastily
thrown on a bonnet and shawl, and Olive
thought her perfectly beautiful ! She was
very affectionate and full of feeling for
the poor old man, who (she said) had

much softened lately; so much so, that,
although it had for long been a tabooed
subject, he had often lately called Leonora
into his own private room, to
speak about Olive's return to River-stairs.


And what did he say ?' asked Olive,
anxiously.

'When I told him yesterday that you
were coming back to-day, he said : " I am
glad of it, Leonora, I think we were hard
upon her; I will go and see her myself!"
But unfortunately, just as he was speaking.
Lady Glenalmond entered noiselessly  in
her chair, and had a look of anger on her
face ; but she said nothing while I was
there !'

In her chair !' repeated Olive, wonderingly
; ' what do you mean ?'

Oh ! I forgot,' returned Leonora, ' you
never got my letter, telling you about her
illness.  Lady Glenalmond found out I was
writing to you about it,  and stopped the
letter.

About a year ago she had a fall, and
has ever since been gradually losing the
use of her limbs. She guides herself
about the house, and in the garden, in a
noiseless, mechanical chair, and, in order
that she should get about without help,
all the doors are left ajar, and all stepson
the ground-floor (on which are both
her bed-room and sitting-rooms) have been
covered with easy inclined planes, so that

she appears at your side when you least
expect it !'

How very uncanny !' exclaimed Olive ;
but how was the poor old man taken ?'

It was yesterday,  just before dinner.
I was already dressed, and ran out into
the garden to pick some flowers to put
into my gown, and, as I returned, I passed
outside the windows of Lord Glenalmond's
sitting-room (there are three of them opening
down to the ground). He was at
his writing-table, with an obstinate and
annoyed look on his face ; Lady Glenalmond
was at his side  in her chair  and she
was gesticulating angrily. I heard her
say, "Ye're nae better than an auld
feckless full !" and then I saw him fall ! I

instantly stepped into the room, and,
rushing to the bell, rang for assistance;
for I knew at a glance what had happened.'


And what did Lady Glenalmond do ?'
She tried to get a piece of paper out
of his hand, which he clutched all the
more firmly, and he looked so angrily at
her that I ventured to say :

" For God's sake, Lady Glenalmond, let
him alone !" so she desisted, and he holds
it still ! but  here we are !' and Leonora
rang the bell.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER VIII.

Pray you now, forget and forgive ; I am old and foolish.'

Like the usual celerity with
which the door was opened,
no one answered the summons;

but Leonora and Olive heard the violent
ringing of bells within, and the sounds
of feet running up and down stairs.

Something must have happened said
Leonora, looking frightened. ewe will
go round and get in by the drawing-room

windows.' They did so, and Leonora said :
 You stay here, Olive ; I will go and
reconnoitre

In a few minutes she returned, pale and
agitated.

'There is a great change,  the doctor
says the poor old man is dying fast, and
Ramsay says you are to come in and see
him at once.'

Leonora led the way, Olive followed,
and they passed swiftly through Lord Glen-almond's
sitting-room, which was almost
entirely furnished by Chippendale bookcases,
full of rare books. There were only
two paintings in the room,  and both
portraits of Lady Glenalmond. One represented
her in her wedding-gown  looking

i2

beautiful, but cold and proud  and quite
innocent of the stereotyped smile usually
introduced by artists when painting ladies
under such circumstances ; the other was
the more pleasing picture of the two. In
it Lady Glenalmond was seated on a sofa,
her youngest boy on her knee, while the
elder played at her feet.

I wonder,' Olive thought, ' whether gie
really ever looked as tenderly as that  at
my Ion !'

The old man's writing-table was left as
it was at the moment when he was taken
for death. Some papers were scattered
about, and a cheque-book was lying open,
and the pen, he had been in the act of
using, was scarcely dry !

Leonora now held a 'portiere back, and
Olive, passing through it, found herself in
the bed-chamber,  so soon to be the abode
of death !

The old man lay propped up by pillows,
and by the side of her dying husband sat
his old wife  in her mechanical chair, 
clad in a white quilted silk dressing-gown,
trimmed with costly lace ; her hair as
white as her gown, her eyes blacker, her
eyebrows heavier and sterner than ever,
and also quite black. She sat cold and
impassive  with her eyes fixed on the doctor's
face, who stood opposite her,  on the
other side of the bed  holding his patient's
wrist. Lord Ramsay stood by the doctor,
and the dying man's gaze rarely wandered

from the picture of his youngest son,
which hung over the door exactly opposite
the bed.

The slight bustle caused by Lady Olive's
entrance seemed to attract the old man,
who slightly leaned his head forward as he
perceived her. Then, shutting his eyes fora
moment, he opened them again with a
kind smile, and looked towards the door,
eagerly,  then tears came into his eyes ;
and he looked disappointed.

He is not satisfied,' whispered the
doctor. ' He wants some one else ! Who
is it?'

Is it iona ?' said Lady Olive, coming
forward and kissing Lord Glenalmond's

hand.

The sick man smiled assent.

I will fetch her at once,' said Leonora ;
and instantly left the room.

His lordship would like you to come
near,' said the doctor to Olive, making
room for her ; and, as she took the place,
her eyes wandered across the bed to the
old lady opposite  and she was shocked
by the look of unbending hostility which
flashed from the black eyes ; a look which
quite precluded Olive's making even a sign
of recognition.

Olive now took Lord Glenalmond'shand,
and approaching her face to his, whispered
gently, as she kissed his forehead :

Ion's father, and therefore mine ! Oh !
God guide you through the shadows, and

you mil meet the Saviour  and our loved
one  on the Other Side !'
Then she whispered again,
 iona will be here in a few minutes
She felt her hand tremblingly pressed 
and retained. In about twenty minutes
iona appeared in the doorway,  standing
shyly irresolute, exactly beneath her father's
picture ; and, as she did so, a slanting
golden gleam of the setting sun shot into
the doorway, embracing both the living
child and the dead father in its golden arms.
At this supreme moment the likeness
between iona and her father struck everyone,
and a quick flush passed over Lord
Glenalmond's pale face, while a tear rolled
down his furrowed cheek.

Olive iioAv brought her child up to her
grandfather's bedside, and there was a
slight movement of his lips, which seemed
to whisper,  Nearer  nearer !'

The trembling girl approached.

Stoop !' the lips seemed to say ; and iona
bent over her grandfather, while a feeling
of sorrow,  of tender pity, stirred her soul,
and with tears she kissed the clammy
forehead, saying,

Grandfather ! grandfather ! Say " God
bless you !" '

With some effort the dying man took her
hand and pressed a paper into it ; then such
a smile of content, as had rarely been seen
to visit it, flitted across his face, and the
word, ' Pray,' broke from the gasping lips.

With her hand upon her grandfather's
breast, the girl sank on her knees, as did
all who surrounded the bed ; and even
the stern old grandmother bent her head,
while iona's girlish voice clearly repeated
the Lord's Prayer. As she came to
the words, ' Forgive us our trespasses, as

we forgive ' there was a deep-drawn

sigh,  and iona felt as though the prisoned
heart beneath her hand gave a
sudden leap,  there was a shiver  then
another gasp,  and the spirit took flight,
and entered the presence of the God that
gave it !

Instinctively Lady Olive and Leonora
approached Lady Glenalmond ; but her
black eyes still sought the doctor's, and,

when his expression told her that all was
over, she waved everyone from her,
saying coldly :

All but the doctor and myself leave
the room.'

All accordingly turned to go  but
iona had sunk fainting by the bedside.
The doctor picked up the paper her
grandfather had given her, and delivered
it to her mother ; and then
carried the unconscious girl from the
room.

Old Lady Glenalmond was not seen by
any but her own immediate attendants till
the morning after the funeral, when
Leonora,  having descended rather earlier
than usual, to preside over the breakfast,

as her brother (now Lord Gleiialmond) was
about to leave for Scotland.  to her surprise
found the old lady already in her
chair, cross and hungry ! She was clad
in a white dressing-gown (which she never
afterwards discarded) positively refusing
to wear a widow's cap ! She did not condescend
to say, as so many widows of the
present day do :

Poor Tom used to say lie wouldn't
hear of my wearing a widow's cap ;' or
Johnny's last words were, " Now don't
go and disfigure yourself," ' &c., &c.,
ad infinitum. No, Lady Glen almond simply
branded widow's caps as ' feckless '
-articles, and said she would not wear
one, and ' there was an end on't !'

Meanwhile, it was evident that something
besides her lord's death disturbed
my lady,  for her brows where ' married !'
Heavily and gloomily the straight black
line overhung the gleaming eyes,  themselves
capacious windows for the evil
spirits that dwelt within !

After Lady Olive's return from Falcon's
Rest, she was anxious for days about
iona, who was terribly distressed and
overcome by what she had witnessed;
and the paper the doctor had delivered
to her was for awhile completely forgotten.
Olive had put it in her pocket, 
all crumpled as it was,  and wondering, a
day or two later, what it could possibly be,

she pulled it out, and could scarcely speak
for astonishment, when she discovered it
was a cheque for twenty thousand pounds,
made out in iona's name !

When the girl was sufficiently recovered
to ' take in ' so startling a surprise, Lady
Olive told her the astounding fact.

But,' said Lady Olive, ' I must tell
Lady Glenalmond about it.'

At that moment Leonora came in, looking
very blank ; and Olive told her what
had occurred. Leonora said,

'You need not trouble yourself to tell
Lady Glenalmond, for she knows it already,
and that is what the quarrel was about 
when he had the stroke ; and Lady Glen-almond
sends me now to forbid your

writing or going to her about it. And,
indeed, dear Olive, it is no good your
doing anything at present; she is much
too bitterly angry to listen to anything
you can say. She is the most vicious 
cruel  overbearing '

 Hush, Leonora !' said Olive, gently.
*We must not forget who she is  my
mother-in-law  and your grandmother !'

Mother!' said iona, excitedly, 'listen
to me.  You told me you would give up
anything  except myself  to gain her love
did you not?'

*I did, iona; but, alas! what can I
do?'

'Mother!' said iona, passionately, 'let
me return this money, if by doing so we

might make her kind to, and fond of,
you. We are rich enough, dear mother,
and happy ! and we don't want the money !
If she is unhappy, and wants it,  let her
have it ! Let me write and give her back
the cheque !'

Give up the twenty thousand pounds !'
said Leonora, amazed.

Yes,' said iona, with a burst of tears.
You don't know, Nell, how my mother
used to cry over Lord and Lady Glen-almond's
unkindness ! I daresay she will
leave it back to me  when she dies ; but
if she does not  never mind ! Oh, mother,
we are so happy together, and have been
so happy without it !'

'That is a good thought, my iona!'

said Olive, after a few minutes. ' Write
the letter at once  surely that must touch
her !'

So the folio win D letter was sent :

o

My DEAREST Grandmother Glenalmond,
Pray, oh, pray ! do not let the
twenty thousand pounds come between
you and mother. I would rather have
your love (and so would mother) than
any amount of money ! I am in real
earnest, and want you to love us,  so I
send back the cheque ; and when it pleases
God to call you also to join your husband,
(ah ! God grant that day may be far off),
then you could (but only if you liked) leave
it back to me ; and so I should feel that I
VOL. in. K

inherited it with you' blessing as well as
Ms; but let that be as you like! I only
avant you to love mother. So I enclose the
cheque.

Your devoted grandchild,

long Ramsay.

Pes.  My dear Lady Glenalmond, 
This is all iona's own idea, but I heartily
give my sanction to the act.  Your affectionate
daughter-in-law,

Olive Ramsay.'

Well !' exclaimed Leonora, ' I have
always been brought up in the idea that
a fool and his money are soon parted,"
but in this case it is an angel and hers !'
And, with tears in her eyes, the warmhearted

girl started on her peace-making
mission.

The next day, as Olive and iona were
sitting in the summer-house working, and
wondering what kind of an answer they
should receive from Falcon's Rest, a servant
appeared with a note. It was from
Leonora.

'Pray come,' she wrote; 'your letter
has done its work.  Your loving Nell.'

k2

CHAPTER IX.

Blood is thicker than water.'

LIVE and her daughter soon
found themselves at the door
of Falcon's Rest, and, as usual,
Leonora met them in the hall, and, throwing
her arm round Olive's neck, whispered :
Now, at last, she has found out what
you are !' and, conducting them into the
drawing-room,  there sat the gaunt figure,

clad in white,  with blazing black eyes,
which, however, seemed softened, and the
eyelids swollen with weeping.

Come hither, my dear, dear daughter !'
the old woman said, in a broken voice,
and you, my precious grandchild ! and
listen to me,  while I say, in all humility,
may God forgive my hardness,  my wickedness,
as generously as you have ! Pride,
and the love of money and power, have
been the bane of my life, choking up all
feeling,  all softness ! You have fought
me with my own weapons, and nothing
you could have done would have touched
me like this act ! for in one moment you
taught me that something iQv all, is stronger
than money,  and that is Love !'

Oh, Lady Glenalmond,' said Olive,
*you are too good  too good to humble
yourself so !'

Here Leonora would have left the room ;
but Lady Glenalmond said,

 Leonora  stay ! People should be
ashamed of doing wrong before their children,
but not ashamed of acknowledging
it,  and I have been wrong all through.;
but, you see, you have touched me through
the ruling passion of my life  money !'

It was all iona's thought, Lady Glen-almond,'
said Olive, thinking she personally
was receiving too much credit.

Oh ! I know  1 know, but I was leaving
her to the last for  for I scarcely know
what to say to her ! My iona, I cannot

cannot take your money ! and I have returned
the cheque  but nothing can undo
your act of love, my child,  and what you
have taught me,  that money is strong, but
love is stronger !  but oh, my God ! how can
I forgive myself  when I remember that,
by my obstinate will, my pride, and malice,
I shortened my husband's life.'

For months the old lady could not get
over this terrible thought, and she probably
never would have got over it, had she been
a younger woman ; but when people get
old,  as old as Lady Glenalmond,  their
feelings become blunted  deadened, and it
was so with her ; but the reconciliation
between her and Olive and iona was
perfect. The first thing the old lady

thought of was to have the door between
the gardens reopened, and every day
Olive spent happy hours at Falcon's Rest,
reading and talking to ' her mother '
(as she now called her), who became
gentler, and alas ! weaker every day, and
more eager to prepare herself for the great
change which she knew, and which everyone
saw, could not be far off.

But a great surprise was in store for
Olive. One day she got a letter from the
Duchess of Cheviotdale, asking to be
allowed to come and spend a day or two
at Riverstairs,  and might she (she asked)
be allowed to bring Sir Guy Severely ? She
stated that he had come into a large
fortune, which would enable him to marry,

and that he had been much smitten with
Leonora  having seen her at one or two
balls in London. He felt very anxious to
see more of her, and the duchess ended by
saying :

You know, dear Olive, I am no matchmaker
; but, in spite of the trouble he has
been to us, I am very fond of Guy, and a
good wife would be " the making of him."
His affair with Margaret could never be
readjusted  in fact, she will never marry ;
but, if Leonora is all he says she is, they
might be very happy together. Will you
find out from the young lady, (who I know
lives much with you,) whether she would
be agreeable to Guy's trying to gain her
affections?'

Well !' exclaimed Olive, after getting
the letter, ' I am as anxious about my
Leonora's happiness, as she is about her
Guy  and,  but I will question Leonora ;'
and, the next time that young lady
appeared, she did question her about her
London acquaintances ; and Leonora, who
was the very soul of truth, said suddenly :

Oh, Olive ! I have long wished to tell
you something  but was shy ! but  but
at one time I fancied a young man liked
me ; but, going to so few balls, I saw no
more of him ! I know that he knows you.
It is Sir Guy Deverill  but I have never
seen him again ; at least,  once T fancied I
saw him,  and some other young men,
rowing towards Richmond. I was on the

terrace, and I think he saw me, but I was
not certain  but '

On hearing this, Lady Olive told her
of the duchess's letter, and Leonora
blushed, and, with a few shy tears, hid her
head on Olive's shoulder; who felt, then,
that Guy would not have much difficulty
in gaining his object ;  'but how' (Olive
thought) ' about Dorinda ?'

In a day or two the duchess and the
young man arrived, and Olive determined
in her own mind :

If he is an honest man and really loves
her, he will tell her the truth about
Margaret. Oh ! T hope he will  I hope
he will ! and also  as much as he can, 
about Dorinda !'

Full opportunity was given to Sir Guy
and Leonora to be together, and one day
the girl ran in to Lady Olive's bed-room,
and, throwing herself into her sister-in-law's
arms, said :

I am so happy. He has asked me to
be his wife, and he is going to speak to
Lady Glenalmond !'

'Well?' said Olive.

Leonora looked puzzled, and said :

You do not seem quite pleased, Olive ! '

'Yes, dear  I should be  if did you
tell him you had never loved anyone before T

Oh, yes ! he knows that  and then he
told me all about Margaret and Dorinda
 and everything ! and he says, that
since he knew me,  he has never looked

at anyone else,  and that he will be  a
loyal  true husband ! He opened his
heart entirely to me  and hid nothing !'

'Thank God!' said Olive, clasping the
girl to her heart, * then he is a true man
and with all my heart I wish you joy !'

Lady Glenalmond was very pleased, 
when she could be made to understand ;
but her mind had for some time been going
astray, and impossible complications arose
in it. She fancied Guy was to marry the
Duchess of Cheviotdale, and could not
conceive why her leave was asked, and
kept murmuring, with great dignity, that
she had not the honour of the acquaintance
of the young people.' Then she
thought Olive was the bride  and, foreseeing

that painful misunderstandings
might arise, Olive sent for young Lord
Glenalmond, and after that all went
smoothly.

The marriage took place quietly from
Riverstairs, in consequence of the recent
death at Falcon's Rest, and, after Leonora's
departure, Olive and iona devoted their lives
to Lady Glenalmond, who gradually became
more and more paralysed ; and one day,
while Olive was reading the Bible to her,
the old lady suddenly made an effort as
if to rise, and, falling forward, was received
into Olive's arms, and, before assistance
was procured, she had whispered to
Olive :

'It's coming, dear! Thank God I die

in your arms !  which is more than I
deserve ! Kiss me  Olive !'

Olive did so  and the poor old lady
lapsed into unconsciousness  from which
she never rallied.

Her daughter-in-law nursed her tenderly
for many days ;  but one day, as she was
praying by her side, with her hand in hers,
the black eyes  hitherto closed,  suddenly
opened wide,  a fitful light seemed to
gleam in them for a moment  a smile
flitted across the wan face, and with a
gentle sigh. Lady Glenalmond passed away !

Yes, she had gone to her rest,  and the
dark eyes were reverently closed by her
who had learnt to look upon her as a
daughter ; and, after the last sad rites,

Olive and iona repaired once more to
Kensington, for a few days' rest, before
paying a long-promised visit to Broke
Abbey, where they hoped to meet the
duchess, and Leonora and Guy.

One morning a foreign letter was handed
to Lady Olive.

A foreign letter !' exclaimed Lady Olive,
from whom can it be !'

In a few minutes she added, gravely,

From Dorinda ! I thought she had
quite forgotten me.'

Gradually, as she read, Olive's sweet
face became clouded, and full of agitation.


'Anything the matter, mother?' asked
Tone.

Yes, dear ; poor Dorinda is either very
ill or very unhappy  I can't make out
which. Read it aloud, iona.'

iona obeyed.

Dearest Olive,

For the love of God, come tome
; I know you will not forsake me ! I
am in the greatest distress and want your
help. Come quickly, for I never know
what may happen ! I have much I want
you to do, and you only can I trust.'

The letter went on giving directions
about the journey, and ended,

Your unhappy

Dorinda.'

iona, can I leave you ?'

VOL. III. L

Mother, I am quite well ! Do go 
and quickly. You see she says '' For
God's sake !" You must not resist such
an appeal ! Besides, I can go alone with
the duchess to Broke Abbey  as settled 
and you can join us there afterwards.'

Olive felt impelled to go to Dorinda ; so,
after settling with the duchess about the
journey to Broke Abbey, she bid farewell
for awhile to iona, and started the next day.
She loved Dorinda. and would go miles to
serve her ; and, although she had disapproved
of many things she had heard of
her, she never forsook an old friend.

It is when we suffer  or sin, that we
find out who are our real friends,' Olive
would say.

Oh, if all ' good ' people would remember,
that ' When we were yet sinners,
God loved us !' He loved the sinner, but
hated the sin ; and should we not do the
same !

Lady Olive (who had started hurriedly,
without man or maid,) had a long journey,
full of delays and disagreeable
as to weather and arrangements, but at
last she found herself in the Prince de
la Styrie's carriage, on the road from the
station to the Hotel de la Styrie. She
felt very nervous, and, with a mysterious
fear at her heart, she entered the house.

As she alighted the prince stepped forward,
and, with much formality, kissed her
hand, gave her his arm, and hurried her up

l2

the broad staircase, as though he dreaded
any conversation. He looked so severe, so
stern (but otherwise unaltered), that Lady-olive
felt tongue-tied ! At last she faltered
out:

How is Dorinda ? Not ill, I hope !'

They had arrived at the first landing,
as she spoke, and the prince answered, 
pointing to a servant who stood there, -r

Madame! On vous y conduira!' Then,
bowing ceremoniously, he left her.

Lady Olive, was mystified,  worried, 
anxious ; and, following the footman, came
to a doorway, covered by a heavy portia ;
the man held it back for her to pass
through, and she found herself in an antechamber,
surrounded by mirrors let into

the oak panels ; no furniture was there,
except a single table and chair, evidently
for the use of the old official, (wearing the
prince's livery,) Who sat there reading the
gazettes. He rose when Lady Olive appeared,
and bowed silently ; then conducted
her to the further end of the
room, where was another portiere. The
old man pulled a bell, and the curtain
was pushed aside from within by a
middle-aged lady, who curtseyed to the
visitor, with no welcoming smile, and
conducted her into a beautiful apartment,
also panelled in oak, and full of portraits.
Lady Olive began to be weary of all this
dumb show, and said, rather impatiently :
I come, Madame ?'

Madame Dubois,' said the lady, coldly.

I come, Madame Dubois, to see Madame
la Princesse at her own desire,  conduct
me at once to her  if you please !'

Madame Dubois slightly elevated her
eyebrows, (or would have done, had they
been all her own,) with an expression of
mingled surprise and hauteur; and then
answered, calmly :

'The Princess s desire !'

Lady Olive coloured indignantly; but
at that moment she heard a rustling at
the further end of the room, and Dorinda
appeared ! Giving a little cry of pleasure,
she ran towards her old friend, and threw
herself into her arms !

There is no time so miserable, but a man may be true.'

kind, and so good !' Dorinda
sobbed, kissing Olive frantically
on the forehead, eyes,
lips, and hands.

'But you knew I'd come, darling,' said
Olive, tenderly. ' But don't cry so ! Oh 1
don't cry!'

Meanwhile Madame Dubois stood by

with a cruel, contemptuous smile on her
face, ' taking stock ' of the two agitated
ladies ; and the princess, seeing Olive look
questioningly at the unwelcome stranger,
said :

'Madame Dubois, you will perhaps kindly
leave us. I wish to be alone with my
friend.'

perhaps, Madame la Princesse,' answered
the woman, again elevating her
would-be eyebrows, and with a tolerating
smile, 'perhaps I might not be wanted
for an hour or so.'

As you please, Madame Dubois,'
answered Dorinda, coldly ; upon which
the smiling lady, curtseying, retired.

Dorinda ! what is the meaning of all

this ? Who is that very nasty woman ? I
am so glad she is gone !'

Hush ! pray !' answered Dorinda, ' what
she said was only to put us off our guard ;
she has no intention of going out !'

Oh, Dorinda ! do explain ! Everything
is so stiff and strange. Does the prince
disapprove of my visit? He would not
come up here with me, and we used to be
such friends ! What is the matter?'

Attain Dorinda cast her arms round her
friend and burst into tears, sobbing great
sobs, like a child.

Olive was much shocked, but let her
weep on'for some minutes, thinking it might
relieve her ; but, as she became almost convulsed,
she got alarmed, and said,

Dearest, calm yourself ! Shall I
call anyone ? Is Estelle still with
you ?'

Yes  thank God. They wished to take
her from me, but Achille  my dear doctor
prevented that ; but, Olive, mind when
you see her  take no notice of her. She
pretends to favour Dubois ; she must do
so !  but I will explain all to you soon. I
must send for Achille  I want him to see
you.'

She rang, and Estelle instantly appeared.
She looked once at Lady Olive, and a
glance of recognition shot from her eyes ;
but she took no further notice.

Please Estelle tell Monsieur Achille
to come and speak to me.'

Estelle vanished, and in a short time the
doctor appeared. He bowed to the princess,
(who jumped up to meet him,) and
then to Lady Olive.

You wish to speak to me, madame ?' he
said.

Yes, Achille  I have a favour to ask !
May I see Lady Olive quite alone ? I
mean, do you think Dubois might be dispensed
with altogether, while Lady Olive
is here ? Oh ! give her a holiday  good
Achille !'

Monsieur Achille shook his head.

No  madame !' he answered, ' take my
advice, and don't ask it.'

Dorinda looked disappointed, and while
she was speaking to Monsieur Achille,

Olive took the opportunity of noticing
her appearance, and it went to her heart
to see how pale, how transparently thin
she had become. Her eyes too were very
bloodshot, and had a glittering, furtive expression
which she thought very alarming.

The conversation between doctor and
patient meanwhile went on :

Then  if you won't '

Can't !' interrupted the little man.

Won't and can't !' retorted Dorinda.

Can't !' persisted Achille.

'Well  well!' said Dorinda, pettishly,
if you can't do that, may I drive out alone
with Lady Olive every day, without
Dubois ? Oh ! dear, kind Achille ! you can
manage it !'

I will try !' said Achille.

You can do it !' said Dorinda.

I will try !' reiterated Achille.

Dorinda said no more, but it was almost
ludicrous to see (and even Olive remarked)
the little doctor's efforts to be stonily uncompromising,
and how a smile from Dorinda,
or a touch of her hand, softened him at
once ! But he was perplexed at this last
request.

I will ask,' he repeated, as he took
leave ; and a terror she dared not name
came over Olive, as she followed Achille
out of the room, hoping to gather something
from him concerning Dorinda s health ;
but he avoided her, and hurriedly shaking
hands would have left her without a word.

Olive, however, feeling drawn towards him,
retained his hand gently  and he whispered,
without looking at her :

You will be sure, miladi  if 30 u drive
with her,  not to let her get out anywhere,
no shops,  in fact, she must speak to no
one, and you must pass your word to that
effect !'

Olive looked amazed  indignant, and the
old man, understanding the lady's speaking
face and tearful eyes, said sorrowfully,

Ah, miladi ! I see you don't yet understand
! but she mil tell you  poor child !
I see you are a real friend ! so mark what
I say : do not try to alter matters yet,  she
would be worse off. Oh ! Lady Olive, 
these conseils famille are wicked things and

should not be allowed ; but, believe me, at
present it is best as it is. I would not say
this, if I did not know I could serve her best
so! Ah! you love her  poor child, and do
not I also ? but remember what I say : The
prince makes things out worse than they are ;
hut she goes too far the other wag ! The border-line,
Lady Olive, is very indistinct !' Then
resuming the official manner, (which he had
unconsciously dropped,) the little man
added :

'If you will give your word about not
letting her get out anywhere she shall go
alone with you.'

I promise,' said poor Olive, tearfully.

Ah ! c'est Men ! Then she shall go
alone with you, and tell her I will also,

during your visit, try to ease her a little
of  that old Dubois, for / trust you, I
wish you a very good night, madame ;' and
with that Monsieur Achille left.

Now, come and take off your things,'
said Dorinda. ' You must be very tired.'

' I am,' answered Olive, full of grief and
horror at what she now suspected. ' Let
me come to your room, Dorinda !' and
when they had sat down side by side
Dorinda whispered,

Speak low now,  in this room,  or we
shall be overheard.'

Shall I shut the door ?' suggested
Ove.

Doors ! There are none ! Oh, Olive !

night or day I am never alone. Even
sitting as we are here, she is watching us !
but don't look shocked. Smile, Olive,
smile ! and oh, if you knew what it is to
toss sleepless almost all night,  then to
turn wearily on your bed, and see the
curtain gently drawn aside,  and there she
is, in her white night-dress, standing
watching  watching ! Oh ! Olive,' in an
agonizing whisper, made all the more
painful from the stereotyped smile on her
face, ' they are driving me mad  if I am
not so already !'

 But ' said Olive, indignantly.

Smile, Olive  for God's sake, smile !'
reiterated Dorinda  painfully anxious 
she is looking  listening!'

VOL. III. M

Why does the prince allow it, Olive ?
He is to blame !'

He wants to drive me mad, and sid me
up  Achille says so, and that only by
gentleness on my part  and submission,
(fancy a submissive Dorinda!  if you cancan
it be averted ! He held a conseil de
famille  a thing unheard of in dear Old
England  and they all settled he was to
keep me here unless I became " unmanageable
!" (but smile, Olive, for God's
sake, smile !) We will get behind the
screen good Achille has promised me  when
it comes, and I will then tell you all, and
ask your advice. You see, unfortunately,
I am a French subject now. But, hark !
don't you hear something?'

 Yes said Olive. ' I hear a woman's

voice smging-

Ah ! thank God ! Estelle is telling
me that Dubois has gone out,  when she
returns, Estelle coughs.'

Oh ! Monsieur Achille told me he
would get rid of Dubois for you  as much
as he could  during my visit.'

Ah ! that is it, then. But now  Olive,
I have sent for you,  as I wish  for once
to open my heart to you  quite entirely.
I know you have God in your heart,  and
that  whatever I tell you  you will not

forsake me ' She paused anxiously

for Olive's answer.

Dorinda,  as God is above me, and as I
love and serve Him, I will not forsake you !'

m2

Whatever I have done ?' asked Dorinda,
almost incredulously.

Whatever you have done,' said Olive,
firmly.

Supposing  I had  murdered someone,
would you not forsake me then ?'

Olive gasped, while Dorinda watched
her carefully,  then the words came.

' Dorinda, I swear  I never will forsake

y

ou-nor

betray me ?'

Nor betray you ; but supposing you
have  committed murder, I would never
rest till I had persuaded you to confess !'

Dorinda looked oddly at her, then she
laughed merrily, and Olive started in
surprise at the sound, for her nerves had

been stretched to the most painful tension
by the above serious conversation.

Oh !' said Dorinda, still laughing, ' you
dear old Olive ! always the same dear, 
true,  simple,  loving creature ! Did you
think I was going to confess  a murder !
Well, that is all nonsense ! I am not as
bad as that  yet ! I was only trying
you!'

Dorinda, you are unfair  cruel !'
Dearest, dearest Olive, forgive me ! I
know you would stick to poor Dorinda ;
and, although I have not done quite so
bad as that, I have much to confess,  and,
after I have told you all, then love and
pity me, if you can, for God only knows
how miserable I am !'

She wept now, and Olive, throwing her
arm round the poor, wilful, unhappy
woman, listened, as Dorinda proceeded to
relate the history we already know of her
departure from London, her reception at
Talavo, her lie to the prince about her
hopes of an heir, (she laughed heartily
here, and said she had never had the ghost
of a hope of a child !)  about her visit to
the Comtesse d'Alemberg,  her thefts, and
the recognition of her by Lamenotte,
(who she admired immensely, for his clever
disguise.  So like a Frenchman !' she
said.) She related her journey with
Achille, laughed at his hair, and turned
deadly pale at the threat of the madhouse
!  and, bursting into tears, she told

Olive that thai was the sword hanging
over her head ! She told everything
truthfully. She hid nothing,  except one
deadly secret  that she kept to herself.

While relating her history, she became
excited,  interested,  almost amused, and
interlarded it quite naturally with such
evidences of daring recklessness, such bitter
hate and anger against her husband, such
exultation in her many successes, such
contempt for the stupidity of her dupes,
such a wild sense of the ridiculous,  all
jumbled up nth some such real and
touching repentance,  that Olive was bewildered,
and knew not what to say,
what to advise.

Anyhow, she could not think, whatever

Dorinda's faults, that her punishment
should be such as to foster despair,  madness,
as she felt sure it would do. So, in
her own mind, she decided to wait till she
had had the drive alone with Dorinda
(when she knew their conversation would
not be overheard or interrupted) ; and that,
after hearing and weighing the whole, she
would ' beard the lion in his den,' and speak
seriously with the prince.

CHAPTER XI.

Do you not know I am a woman ? When I think, I must
!'

HE next day they took their
drive, and, for hours before,
Dorinda was in such a state
of happy excitement, that it touched Olive
inexpressibly.

They drove for over two hours in the Bois
de Bologna, talking and even laughing

at times to their heart's content ; and any
of the many individuals who watched the
beautiful carriage pass by, drawn by the
magnificent horses, and containing two
smiling and lovely ladies, little dreamt
what a tragedy would soon begin,  nay,
had already begun,  to be enacted in the
home of the most lovely and most smiling
of the two.

During the drive, Dorinda told Olive
many circumstances concerning her ' prison
house and jailors,' which she dared not
have whispered in the house; and the feeling
of having completely and truthfully
opened her heart to one who, although she
condemned, really loved her, was a luxury

which exhilarated and refreshed her drooping
spirits.

As they were passing a pretty house,
situated on a lovely green lawn,  a caf,
from whence were issuing sounds of music
and hilarity,  Dorinda said,

Olive, I'm going to get out here  to
buy some flowers ; the man knows me, and
he has a lovely garden

Olive's heart stood still,  but she said,
firmly,

And my  our promise, Dorinda ?'

Oh, nonsense ! I can square it with
the coachman and footman ; let us tell
them to stop !'

Dorinda  don't do it ! I refuse todo

it. If you persist, I will tell Monsieur
Achilles at once, and we shall never drive

again !'

Oh ! you then, are also one of my jailers!'
said Dorinda, bitterly.

Olive looked pained.

Is that kind, Dorinda ? Now listen
to me; I have not told you before, as
I feared destroying the pleasure of your
drive, but (don't look round!) Madame
Dubois has been following us in a closed
fiacre all the afternoon !'

(' The old devil !' muttered the princess,
who was not, and never had been,
very particular as to the epithets she cast
at those she hated. ' Achille shall pay for
this !')

 And,' continued Olive, ' 1 advise you
to be very quiet and well-behaved, or we
shall never be allowed to drive again ! But,
mind, Dorinda, I should have refused to
get out all the same, even had she not
been there, for  my word was passed !'

Dorinda looked sulkily wretched fora
few minutes ; then, squeezing her
companion's hand affectionately, she said,
in a sorrowful voice,

Ah, 'tis a case of the leopard and his
spots : you  always good, I  always bad !
A very spotted leopard I ever was  and
ever shall be.'

Ah, Dorinda, there is a remedy. Try
it, dear,' said Olive.

Don't preach !' answered Dorinda,

pettishly; and Olive sighed and was
silent.

As they were returning home, a small
but well-appointed brougham came abreast
of the carriage. The servants were in
plain black liveries, and Dorinda thought
she recognised the coachman, as one
that had driven her from time to time ;
and, on looking rather curiously at
the occupants of the brougham, she beheld
 the prince  her husband, with a
child of about two years on his knee,
and a lovely young woman by his side.

Dorinda turned a death-like colour,
and the prince, looking at her steadily,
made no sign,  but simply pulled down
the blind !

The whole circumstance did not take a
second of time, but it was just one of those
seconds that decided a woman's fate,  a
fate which, before it, had been trembling
in the balance.

Did you see that ?' Dorinda breathlessly
asked Olive.

eyes, darling,' answered Olive gently,
but sorrowfully, *but, dear, has he no
niece ?  no relation ?'

She spoke almost at random, to quiet
the agitated, unhappy woman at her side j
indeed, she scarcely knew what to say,
for that one glance inside the brougham
had so plainly and unmistakably declared
the relations its occupants bore to each
other, that she was as one dumb.

I don't care a sou for him, personally,'
said the princess, looking like a fiend incarnate.
' but I did hope to van him back
that I might regain my place in the world.
This, however, puts an end to everything !
A child !'

Nay, Dorinda ! Even though there bea
child, try to remember you have also
been to blame ; even now, by repentance
and gentleness '

'Am I a "gentle" nature?' asked Dorinda,
fiercely grinding her teeth. * In
England I could divorce him, but in our
cursed religion '

Hush !' returned Olive, shocked and
angry, 'if you speak like that, I cannot
listen,  cannot stay with you.'

Dorinda seemed as though she heard not,
and was plunged in thought, and she only
spoke once more before they got back to
the hotel ; then she said :

Nothing could legitimize that child,
could it ? Not even  my death, and his
subsequent marriage  with the mother ?'

Not in England, 1 know,' answered
Olive, ' but I am not sure about
France !'

Again Dorinda was immersed in thought,
but said no more.

On their return to the hotel, Madame
Dubois met them in the ante-chambre without
bonnet or cloak, although both ladies
knew she could not possibly have returned
many minutes.

VOL. III. N

Ah ! Madame Dubois,' said the princess,
amiably, but with a dangerous glitter in
her eye, ' Toujours prate ! What a pity you
stayed in the house, this lovely day.'

I have plenty to do at home, Madame
la Princesse,' answered Dubois, sententiously.


Have you positively not been out ? Not
even in the garden of the hotel ?'

Madame la Princesse, I have not left
the house !'

Olive was shocked at this unequivocal
untruth ; Dorinda was quite delighted, as
she felt she had a good grip of her
enemy.

Ah, well ! we saw some one  so like

you  in a fiacre close behind us, and she
kept close to us during the whole drive !
and I chanced to see  the person's face
(didn't we, Olive ?) and  and  it was you !
And you have only this moment sot
home  and there are your bonnet and
shawl  hid behind that chair ! and,
do you know,' added Dorinda, smiling
charmingly, ' that  I'm afraid  you are a
liar r

Olive thought she should have fainted ;
Madame Dubois only smiled  such a smile
as one would not care to see, for malignity
was in every dimple of it,  and she
turned and silently left the room.

Oh, how could you, Dorinda ?' said
Olive, terrified.

n2

I was determined she should not think
she had hoodwinked me !'

*You are too foolish, Dorinda! Be
sure a woman with such a face neither
forgives nor forgets !'

'Ah, well!' answered Dorinda, recklessly,
'she won't harm me, for I have one
friend  a very influential one  amongst
my husband's relations, too ! She will
defend me ! She smiles at me, when
others frown, and she will come down out
of her frame some night  when I am
restless,  sone of those dreadful nights
when I can't sleep  and she'll rock me
off!  won't you, madame ?' Dorinda said,
smiling at the ' grim old lady.'

Dorinda, you are so childish ! Ah, I

wish you would make friends with the
living about you  not with the dead !'

Do you ?' said Dorinda, dreamily ; ' I
wonder which will be of most use to me
soon ?'

But Olive had turned away and did not
hear these last words.

In about a quarter-of-an-hour Monsieur
Achille appeared, looking angry.

Now, Achille,' said the princess, ' I
know w-hat you are come about,  and I
won't be scolded I You should not have
sent her after me,  a direct insult to Lady
Olive  as if you could not trust her ! and,'
grinding her teeth savagely and stamping
her foot, ' she is a liar, and I am glad I
told her so !'

Achille looked attentively at Dorinda,
and said, calmly,

Princess, your behaviour is not only
wrong, but foolish  and, remember, you
are harming yourself and I will not leave
this room till you have apologised to
Madame Dubois !'

I won't, Achille !*

You will, Madame la Princesse !'

Who will make me do so ?'

Your own good sense.'

What will happen if I do not ?'

Madame, I never threaten, neanmoins 
now  I insist !'
She lied, Achille.'

You know your own proverb ; you
should have asked no questions ! After all,

she was only doing what she conceived
to be her duty ; so, Madame la Princesse,
you ivill apologise  and at once.'

Very well,' answered Dorinda, sulkily.
 Send for her !'

Here Olive left the room, and Madame
Dubois was sent for.

Were you out, Madame Dubois ?'
insisted Dorinda.

I was, Madame la Princesse.'

Then why did you say you were not ?'
asked Dorinda, rudely; 'but Monsieur
Achille says I am to apologise  and I do
so !  so, consider yourself apologised
to!'

Madame Dubois bowed coldly, and left
the princess, who burst into tears.

You are cruel, Achille. You pretend
to be my friend, and you should not have
sent her out to watch me !'

Madame, I did not say I had done
so. But she thought to do her duty  and
she must not  shall not, be insulted ;
you are very foolish  and make me very
unhappy !'

Achille  I am sorry  really sorry ! for
I would not make you unhappy ! dear,
kind Achille !'

' Bone said the little man, 'I will try
to make it right, but such an outburst
must not occur again ; for Madame Dubois
said she was afraid P

But she was not.'

She said she loaSj and that you were violent!
You are injuring yourself! Pray  pray
keep in mind what I learned you about. 

Ah, well ! Achille, 1 am no longer
afraid of anyone ! She can't injure me !'

What do you mean, princess ?' asked
Achille, looking thoughtfully at her.
Why have you no fear?'

Because, Achille,' said Dorinda, casting
herself in his arms, like an unhappy
child,  I have no hope ! but  I never 
never will offend you more ! Allons dear
kind Achille !' she added, affectionately,
be friendly again  for I am very  very
heartbroken!' And she confided to him
her meeting with her husband in the
brougham.

Deronda.

Passing her hand, the old doctor could
not trust himself to speak,  but he hurried
from the room, shaking his head mournfully.


CHAPTER XII.

Mercy
an attribute of God Himself,
And earthly power doth then show likest God's
When mercy seasons justice.'

FTER dinner, the princess
wept a good deal, and complained
of headache, said she
would retire early to rest, and would
Olive come and sit by her bed-side a
little r

Olive agreed to do so, and, in about an
hour's time, Estelle came and fetched Lady
Olive ; and as she entered the room she
thought she had never seen anyone, in her
life so beautiful as Dorinda !

She was lying in the old carved bedstead,
with its heavy vtsle hangings ; the
sheets were like snow, and frilled with
deep lace, and a large white satin coverlet
embroidered in gold was thrown over the
whole.

The princess was deeply flushed, and
her blue-gray eyes seemed to wander
anxiously around  like those of some hard-driven,
weary animal. Her night-dress
was of cobweb fineness, scarcely concealing
the dazzling fairness of the delicate body

and limbs. A heap of costly lace fell from
her neck, concealing her bosom, while her
long, gold-brown hair lay unfettered
around her.

She held out a burning little hand to
Olive, as she came in, and motioned
Estelle to place a chair by her bedside.


Try to prevent our being disturbed,' she
whispered to Estelle, for I have still a
great deal to tell Lady Olive.'

'I will  madame; and if I cough you
mil know you are being watched.'

She then left, and Dorinda at once
began :

Olive, I have a presentiment I shall
not live much longer,  my dear, don't interrupt

me, for time is precious, but listen !
I have got another confession to make 
which will ease my mind  and afterwards
if you are not too much shocked  I shall
ask you to do a few things for me,  and,
Olive, if, after you return to happy Old
England, you should hear that I have fled
to God's tender mercies  instead of remaining
under those of the wicked (which
are cruel, so very cruel) you will forgive
me all I have done,  and pity my
memory !'

Dorinda !' said Olive weeping, ' nothing
you can tell me  as I told you before 
will ever alter my love ; but, dear one,
before confessing to me, should you not do
so  to God ? for, oh, remember that if your

poor husband is unforgiving, your God is
not!'

Then  do you solemnly declare that
nothing I could ever tell you would alter
you to me?'

Nothing, Dorinda ! So help me
God!'

Not even if I were to tell you that, in
spite of your kindness and love, I have
been cheating you  deceiving you for
years ? That a common,  vulgar thief lies
before you,  smothered in white satin and
lace !' and, suddenly pulling down her
coverlet, ' Look here !' she said, and
to Olive's amazement she saw  beneath
the clouds of satin  a heap of jewels,
amongst Which she recognized many of

her own, which she had lost years and
years ago !

She was thunderstruck  and all the
more so when  on looking up,  she saw
Dorinda in fits of laughter  at her friend's
bewilderment,  and fi!lll of unmistakable
exultation at these trophies of her talent
and adroitness.

In much distress Olive rose,  but
Dorinda caught her hand, as though
fearful of her leaving, and said, still
laughing :

Yes, those things are mostly yours !
I took them, dear, from under your very
nose! Then,  this chain belongs to the
duchess,  and this pin to poor old ' Uncle
Chevy " ! He would have given me his

head, if I had asked it ; but I preferred

the pin ! and this belongs to Lady ,

and that to Lord , etc., etc. ; and oh !

Olive, it really tuas great fun ! I used to
hide, (and, I assure you, once or twice I
saw some very funny things), and then I
would pounce out of my hiding-place
(when people were gone)  and take
all I wanted. Although I had money
enough and to spare to buy anything I
wanted, that was not the same thing, 
/ wanted what other jyeojh had and I got
them I and, when I wore them, (which I
did  boldly  before their owners,) I invented
stories about them,  and gulled
them all ! Ha ! ha ! ha !'

Olive was alarmed, and for the first

VOL. III. O

time she felt that Dorinda was indeed 
mad ! and pity,  loving pity,  filled her
soul for the wretched woman !

Oh, Dorinda !' she said, sinking on her
knees by the bed, and hiding her face
upon the feverish hand that clutched her
own. ' Dont  don't laugh like that ! better
weep tears of blood, than exult over the
breaking of God's holy laws ! My poor, 
my beloved friend ! I love you, and would
give my life cheerfully to see you happy
to save your soul !'

Dorinda looked at her in a dazed, perplexed
way, and her voice had quite
changed, when she said, wearily :

What have I been saying ? Oh ! yes.
I know I have told you all  or nearly all

now ! but  get up !' she added, hastily,
to the still kneeling and weeping Olive 
for I hear Estelle coughing. She 
Dubois is near at hand ! For God's sake,
calm yourself

Three light taps on Estelle's floor soon
warned Dorinda that the danger was past,
so then she continued :

You know, Olive, I have had no friend
here but Estelle, and she has to pretend
she is my enemy ! Just think, Olive  no
friends! except  my old lady up there !
She smiles  do you see ?  and asks me 
sometimes to do  something for her.'

Olive was afraid Dorinda was getting
excited again ; but the princess restrained
herself, and said, quite calmly :

o2

What I want you to do for me  is this.
"When you get back to England and see
dear old Uncle Chevy, tell him I really
loved him  he was always good to me ; and
Margaret, poor Margaret, ask her for the
good God's sake to forgive rae ! Tell her Guy
never really loved me. Bernard thought
I was guilty, but I was not, Olive. Bernard's
vanity was hurt, and he did not
care to look closely into it, or he would
have known. Guy was not my lover. He
loved Margaret really, but  as men love.
And now, Olive, there is something very
sacred for you to do !'

I will do anything, my dear, dear
Dorinda, and you may be sure that God
will look lovingly and pityingly upon the

only reparation you can make ; and you
will yet live to be happy  and forgiven.
A monument of sweet repentance, and of
God's loving mercy.'

Dorinda smiled sorrowfully and passed
her hand caressingly over Olive's bowed
head.

'Listen,' she whispered, and putting her
hand into her bosom she drew out a paper,
and, opening it, disclosed a faded piece of
lilac ; pressing her lips to it, she said, ' Will
you  when  when you leave me, go to
Jasper  the only man I ever really loved
and give him this ; I picked it the day
I saw him last  from the branch that
always " tap-taps " at the window of his
sittings-room. Tell him I never loved but

him  I never stole anything from him for '
(with a sob and a little wail) ' my darling
-was blind  blind ! Oh, my Jasper ! Tell
him that  had he married me, he would
have saved my soul ! Nay, don't tell him
that  it would pain him. Tell him, rather,
that he has been my one holy thought.
Oh ! Jasper  Jasper !' and her tears fell
fast.

But, Dorinda, will you not try for your
husband's forgiveness ?'

Yes  yes  I am coming to that ; but
first promise me you will do all I have
asked you.'

My dear, I will !'

Thank you, darling ; and now about
the prince. Go, dear, now, and ask him

to forgive me,  to take me back to his
heart. If he will, I will be good, humble,
grateful  and a devoted wife ! I will live
where and how he chooses, so that he
forgives me. Tell him I have been weak,
worldly, silly, cold, heartless, but not
guilty,  so help me God !  at least, not of
the sin that he accuses me of. Ask him,
as he hopes for forgiveness himself, to give
me one more trial. Olive, say these very
words, " Bernard, if you will forgive her,
yuu loll save her life's those very words,
Olive, '"you will save her life'' Now go; but
kiss me first.'

I will go at once, Dorinda ; and God
go with me !'

Wait, love ! I will get up  and put on

a dressing-gown that he used to admire 
a pretty one  to receive him in  when he
comes !'

Calling Estelle, she put on a soft
white garment  in which she looked like
a being of the other world; then, dismissing
the Frenchwoman with a gentle
kiss, she sat down in a chair before the
cheval-glass.

Now, Olive,  go and beg him to
come !'

CHAPTER XIII.

Diseases desperate grown,

By desperate appliances are relieved.'

With fear and trembling Olive
left the room on her mission,
and the moment she was alone
Dorinda sprang upon the chair placed
beneath the * grim old lady's' portrait,
and, hurriedly reaching down the leather
flask she had concealed on the ledge

behind it, seized a glass, and poured out
the laudanum.

He said it was enough to kill a regiment
of soldiers,' she whispered. '* Poor,
kind old Achille !'

Then, kissing her hand to the ' grim old
woman,' she again placed herself opposite
the mirror  to await her fate.

If he forgives me  well and good !
but if he does not  ah, it is a pity'
(glancing at herself in the mirror) ' to
put an end to so pretty a thing !
but  it has been sucJi an xinliappy
thing /'

In about half-an-hour Olive returned 
pale, exhausted, weeping !

He will not come f she said. ' He will

not forgive  my poor Dorincla  my poor
poor friend !'

Dorincla sat quite calmly, looking at
her,  as though scarcely comprehending
Olive's words.

Merci, chere,' she then said, simply;
and, turning to the dressing-table, Olive
saw her reflection in the mirror, as she
coolly took a glass standing there, and
quickly drank some dark-looking liquid, 
drinking  drinking down to the dregs.

I am deadly thirsty' she said, noticing
Olive's questioning look in the mirror, 
and laughed.

'But ivhat are you drinking?' asked
Olive, uneasily  she thought Dorinda
looked so strange.

Toast-ands water, of course,  why ? But
tell me  what did my husband say ?' asked
Dorinda, rather unsteadily, and looking
fixedly at the clock.

'- Oh, don't ask me !' said poor Olive, in
an agony of sorrow ; ' my poor Dorinda,

he was hard, cruel ' and, approaching

the princess to kiss her, she started, 
then exclaimed, hoarsely,

'But what is that smell, Dorinda?
What have you done T

What neither God  nor the devil  nor
an angel like you  can undo !'

Rushing to the dressing-table, Olive took
up the glass,  smelt it,  and ran shrieking
into Estelle. ' Estelle Estelle get the
doctor  the princess has poisoned herself!'

And, as she returned to the room, she
was just in time to catch Dorinda,
who sank almost powerless into her
arms !

Fetch the doctor, for God's sake,
Madame Dubois, instead of standing
there !' exclaimed Olive, to the terrified
dame de comjyagiiie, who was quickly on
the spot ; ' and you, Es telle, come here !
Oh, Dorinda ! Dorinda ! what have you
done,  where can Achille be !'

But, as is generally the case in such
emergencies, the one necessary individual
Achille  was absent  not to be found !
Being past midnight, there was great difficulty,
 much delay in getting medical
aid ; then  when it was too late  three

or four doctors arrived simultaneously 
tumbling over each other in their hurry 
and hating each other with jealous hatred !
At last poor Achille appeared! Every
remedy had been  and was again resorted
to,  but unavailingly !

Lying deathly pale, in Olive's arms, her
hand clasped in that of the faithful
Estelle's, Dorinda makes Achille a sign to
approach.

Kiss me,  Achille ! Kind,  good
friend !'

He kisses her and sobs out the words :

Oh ! I loved you, dear ! I loved
you!'

At this moment poor weeping Estelle
takes a crucifix, and, with passionate eagerness,

implores her dying mistress to kiss
the emblem of a Saviour's everlasting love ;
and, as Dorinda reverently does so,  the
door opens,  and the prince appears, pale
and stern.

Dorinda opens her heavy eyes,  sees her
husband,  shudders, and whispering ' My
jailer !' turns her head wearily, drowsily,
 hides her face in Olive's bosom, 
and passes away into the Land where all
things are forgotten.

Thou shouldst not have been old till thou hadst been wise.

ADEN with sorrow, Olive still
remembered her words to Dorinda,
' I will never forsake
you !' and, taking them literally, she waited
with Estelle, to see the last of the lovely
dead face. Placing a cross of forest
flowers (which had been sent from Broke
Abbey, without the name of the giver)

upon the silent breast, she kissed the now
peaceful brow ; and the two faithful women
waited to see the cover  which was to shut
out so much beauty  placed and fixed
for ever ; at least, till that Great Day,
when the dead will burst their bonds, and
each take their own place in the long procession
to Judgment, and (thank God !) 
to Mercy,  the Mercy which endure forever
!

Less sickened at the necessary inquiries
into, and details of, the awful death (to
which she had been so innocent a witness,
and to which she had to attest) than at
the prince's scarcely-concealed satisfaction
at so unexpected a termination to what
had been to him a perplexity and con-vol.

III. P

stand source of annoyance, Lady Olive
left the Hotel de la Styrie, refusing to
take part in the funeral; but when the
ceremony was over (she having been a
spectator at a distance), and when both
guests and officials had departed, she
approached the grave, and as she was sitting
there  with Estelle, weeping  she felt
a touch upon her shoulder. It was Monsieur
Achille, pale and heart-broken.

'Come away,' he said; 'you are leaving
to-night, and must have rest.'

Olive rose, and, after one farewell glance at
the grave, she walked with Achille to her lodgings,
dazed and miserable. Throwing herself
down on a couch, she wept long and bitterly ;
then, taking Achille's hand, she said :

God bless you, dear friend, for having
been such a comfort  such a help to that
poor, erring woman lying out there  alone!
Oh ! guilty of many sins she may have
been  and was '

And hardly responsible for any !' put
in the old doctor; 'for the border-line
betwixt unrestrained badness and unrestrained
madness, is very faint  very
indistinct ! Indeed, there is no perception
of having crossed it, till many miles have
been travelled  on the other side, in the
regions of insanity ;  regions abounding in
bewildering mazes, out of which the poor
wanderer rarely can be extricated !'

'Achille!' said Lady Olive, after some

p2

minutes' thought ; ' what shall 1 do about
Estelle ? I feel as if I could not leave her
here alone. Shall I take her away with me ?'

Oh, dear lady, I have already settled
that ! I have a large house in the
country  full of patients ; (my life is spent
in the service of those poor creatures ;)
and she has promised to be housekeeper
in my Paris house. I shall always love
her for  her sake ! My dearest friend
(if I may call you so), I have just sent
her away  as I would not allow you
to say adieu to her ; you have already
as much as you can bear ! And now 
farewell !' (kissing Lady Olive's hand), ' I
will meet you at the Gare ; and he left her.

Olive now laid down wearily on the

sofa, with her eyes closed, trying to rest
till such time as she should start ; and she
was just falling off into an uneasy slumber
when she heard a footstep, and, looking
up hurriedly, she beheld the Prince
de la Styrie by her side !

She had done everything she could to
avoid this painful meeting ; so, springing
up from her recumbent attitude, she
exclaimed haughtily:

Monsieur le Prince, may I ask the
cause of this unwarrantable intrusion ?'

She felt she hated him ; as the last time
she had had any conversation with him,
she had pleaded for poor Dorinda's pardon
and in vain !

I know I am unwelcome, Lady Olive,'

the prince said,  'that I have no right here ;
but I wished to bid you farewell,  to say
a few parting words  to thank you for 
your '

Olive waived her hand with dignity.

I beg, Monsieur le Prince, that you
will leave me ; I am fatigued  distressed,
and require rest, before leaving for
England.'

Lady Olive ! I implore you to forgive
this intrusion ! I knew,  had I begged
an interview,  that (with scant justice  I
venture to think,) you would have refused
it ! And, having had a greater respect for
you than I have ever had for any woman,
I felt impelled to say a few words to you !
Will you listen to them?'

Lady Olive unwillingly bowed her head.

I suppose I have no choice,' she said.

The prince went on : ' Oh, forgive my
boldness !  I will not detain you long 
but I wished,  I implore you  not to judge
me harshly,  till you have heard me,  for
I value your opinion more than that of any
earthly being !'

Prince Bernard !' said Olive, wondering
what all this was to lead to, ' I am
quite at a loss as to what you can possibly
have to say to me now. Not many days
ago,' added she, with difficulty restraining
her tears at the recollection, 'your value
of my opinion and wishes was not very
great. If you remember, Prince, I actually
knelt at your feet  in an agony of

despair,  telling you that my poor friend's
reason  life  everything, depended upon
your forgiveness ; you turned from me
then '

(' Not from you,' interrupted Prince
Bernard.)

 But, thank God  now  our opinions
of each other  cannot be of the least
possible importance.'

Oh ! say not so, madame, and let me
explain to you  that you cannot  cannot
know  all the truth. She was not truthful
 I am  a man of truth !'

'Sir!' said Olive, with quick scorn, *I
was always taught that a 'man of truth"
and honour, was one who bore out both
attributes,  not only in his conversation

but in his relations in life,  to those
nearest to him.' (The Frenchman winced.)
'Truth and honour,' continued Lady Olive,
can only be proved by temptation ;
where were your truth and honour 
to your wife ? your marital truth and
honour !'

Once more, Lady Olive, she cannot
have told you all, so listen. When I married
her  I loved her '

Her beauty  perhaps,' broke in Olive.

Mais, mon Dieu ! c'est la meme chose !'

Olive smiled disdainfully.

I loved her  I gave her everything I
had  I refused her nothing  I forgave her
follies and imprudence  and I was  a
good husband  then. En revanche she

never loved me (she told me so), she took
everything; I gave her, and deceived me
whenever she could! (No doubt she
forgot to tell you all this ! Hein ?) She
brought me to the direst disgrace. No
other husband would have acted as I did
by her,  after discovering all I did about
her girlhood ;  no ! Others would have
discarded her at once. I did not,  I was
anxious to save '

An esclandre' said Olive, rather unfairly.


Well  yes ! an esclandre, which would
have injured her reputation as well as
my own ! I gave her a home,  money, 
(which was all she cared for)  what could
I do more !'

You might have forgiven her ; and have
saved a life certainly  and perhaps a soul!
You are wrong, Monsieur le Prince, in
thinking she did not tell me all her sins ;
she did  she told me all ; but, whatever
her sin, you dealt unfairly by her
thus : you wrote and told her you did not
part from her, (banishing her from a husband's
presence and love,) because of her
mania, hut because of Iter sin ivith Sir Guy ;
a sin  which I am prepared to swear she
did not commit, but which you would not
even search into,  nor would you allow her
any opportunity to clear or condemn herself.
No ! you shut her up  in a sort of
living tomb  and you drove her to her death.
Now listen, prince !  for the sake of argument,

let us say, she did sin with Sir
Guy! Believe me, that is not a sin I look
lightly upon,  1 abhor it; but, are you
the man to cast a stone at her? The
discovery she made that afternoon of your
sin, drove her to despair and death. The
sin you accused her of  and of which 1
know she was guiltless  you committed
openly  shamelessly (in that perhaps you area
man of truth !), and yet, when I implored
your mercy and pardon for her, you refused,
 and  you know the rest ! Prince !
your harshness and cruelty murdered her !
Take care ! The day lull come when you
will implore forgiveness, and be refused !
Prince! God concludes us all under sin,
(although perhaps not under that especial

one,) and all we can do is to forgive one
another ! That is  if we expect to be
forgiven ! Now farewell, Prince Bernard,
and may God teach you to be merciful
as well as just.'

Wait, Lady Olive ! I am full of sorrow,
of misery ! '

And what right have you to complain?
You have sinned also, and you have sent
her, for all you know, to an eternity of
sorrow and misery !'

' She was a bad woman !' he said,
passionately, ' and you  in your silly
championship,  are making a Heroine of
her,  because she is dead ! She may have
been  a Heroine ; but  one of the wrong
sort ! Your excessive love for her, makes

you blind  Lady Olive ! She was  I
repeat it  a bad woman !'

'And are you  good?' asked Olive, with
scorn. ' No ! you  and all like you  men,
are generally " bad " every day and all
day long! and yet  you go unpunished
here ! I may be,  and probably am, 
illogical in what I say concerning one who
sinned, (it is true,) but who suffered also ;
and whose suffering had so softened her,
that had you not hopelessly condemned
her, she would have been true to her
repentance, and to her love for the man
who had forgiven her  for Christ's sake !
But you rejected her despair,  her cry for
mercy, and her brain gave way ! God forgive
you Prince Bernard, " in that dread

day,"  and her also. Farewell !' and she
rose to leave him.

Olive !' he said, in great agitation,
can't you see ! can't you see ! Do you
not know that your truth,  your steadfastness,
 your power of love to her,
your hatred of sin, your bitter contempt
for myself;  all  all are killing
me ! For God's sake, Olive, give me hope
that some day  some blessed day, I shall
see you again !'

Prince Bernard !' exclaimed Olive,
soothingly, ' what do you dare to mean !
Let me pass ! and I pray God I may never
see you again !' and with these words she
left him.

. j U. 4f .U-St

"TT "Ts" "A* "n" 'Jr "**"

As the Prince de la Styrie will not reappear
in our pages, we may as well state
here that once more,  (a year later,)  he
endeavoured to re-open negotiations with
Lady Olive ; and she (whom time had
taught to modify some of her bitterness 
and to look upon Dorinda's wretched story
in a fairer light) answered his letter kindly
but firmly; and ere long Prince Bernard
took to himself another wife ;  young, 
fair,  and devoted to him. One son (the
child so unfortunately forced upon Dorinda's
observation) was legitimized ; and another
was also born to them.

To this day the elder son bears his
father's name, and possesses his vast wealth.

CHAPTER XV.

Heaven is above all yet.'

HEN Olive arrived at the Gare
she was almost relieved to
find that poor Achille had
done exactly what she suspected he would.
He sent her a large bouquet with a note
in it, to take his place,  but spared her
the pain of a farewell, and she had full
leisure to weep over his letter and recover

VOL. HI. Q

herself, before she arrived at Bouloo;ne and
got on board the boat.

She returned straight to Kensington,
and never rested till she had fulfilled
Dorinda's solemn charge, by restoring
all the jewels to their different owners ;
(some of them being individuals who have
never appeared in our story). Then she
started for Broke Abbey.

iona met her mother alone on her arrival,
and was wild with delight at the re-union,
and it was the first real happiness poor
Olive had tasted for weeks, to see her
child looking blooming and happy.

'Oh, mamma!' iona exclaimed, after
many kisses and embraces, *just fancy!
Miss de Broke was married this morning !'

'What! Henrietta Maria?'

Yes,  isn't it funny ! She has married
the new vicar, and will now live at the
Vicarage. The marriage was a very
quiet one, for Sir Jasper is ill, and could
not appear, so Julian  Mr. Julian de
Broke  gave her away ; and  would
you believe it !  she would wear white
satin and pearls  and a wreath of
orange blossoms  and she looked so fat
and red !'

Hush, iona ! She has been your

hostess, so you should say nothing about

her ;  but who will take care of poor Sir

Jasper ! She used to be so fond of

him  and now there are no ladies in the

family.'

q2

A bright blush suffused iona's face, of
which Lady Olive took no notice, although
she marked it  and she watched the girl
narrowly as she spoke.

And who is staying at the Abbey ?
Not anybody that I know, I hope, for I
feel very tired  very sad.'

the duchess is there, (she has been my
chaperon as you know,) and  and Mr. Julian
de Broke is there also. Leonora and Sir
Guy are coming next week  and that is
all ; but poor Uncle Jasper has been so ill
so low and unhappy the last few weeks.'

Uncle Jasper !' repeated Olive, ' has it
come to that, iona ?'

Oh, mother  mother !' said the girl,
throwing herself into her mother's arms,

I had meant to keep it in  till I get home;
but I can't ! for I am so  so happy !
Julian che Broke told me yesterday he
loves me, and I love him too  and oh,
mamma ! he is going to ask you, to give me
to him  and, to take him to your heart as
your son !'

A slight throb, like a stab, went through
the mother's heart, keeping her silent for a
moment, and the thought : ' iona is mine
no longer !' shot through Olive's brain ;
but checking it,  as an unworthy one, 
she pressed the child to her breast, and
said,

He shall be very dear to me  darling
! but tell me about it. I have come
out of so much grief and shadow, that

your happiness dazzles iii like light after
darkness,'

Oh, yes, mamma ! I hate myself for
feeling so happy, when you and dear Uncle
Jasper are so sad.'

Olive stooped and kissed her child.

'But tell me  darling  to which of the
twins are you ?'

Oh, don't you knoAv,' exclaimed iona,
gravely, ' that Edward Julian  the younger
brother  is dead ? He had some great
sorrow, Julian told me,  and could not get
over it, so he thought to comfort himself
(he was a great sportsman) by slaughtering
innocent wild animals, and he went out
to India. He constantly wrote to his uncle
and aunt saying he was well and happy 

and three or four mails ao, he told them he
was going the next day to a tiger-hunt.
The next communication we received was
written in a strange hand, from the Consul
of a place called Rained ;  stating that
a young man named Edward de Broke had
just been brought into his bungalow dangerously
wounded by a tiger. The young
man himself knew he was very badly
wounded, and at his desire the Consul wrote
to Julian to prepare him for any further
shock. We looked out anxiously for the next
mail,  and alas ! the letter had a black edge !
It was from the same Consul  saying poor
Edward had died,  after sending an affectionate
and grateful message to his uncle, 
and his watch and chain to his brother  to

my poor Julian !' (here iona dropped some
tears) ' and he also sent a message of forgiveness
to " Dorinda." He was buried
the next day  and the doctor wrote a
medical certificate.

Sir Jasper, who had been very depressed
for some weeks  no one seemed to know
why,' (' I know !' thought Olive, sorrowfully),
 'quite broke down after Edward's
death,  confined himself to his own rooms,
and has not been amongst us since ;  and
I hear he won't eat anything, and his only
pleasure is playing the organ. He is long .
ing to see you, mamma!  for, ah, mother
you comfort everybody.'

By this time they had arrived at Broke
Abbey. Lady Olive was warmly welcomed

by the duchess  and also by young
Julian ; and when she saw the duchess's
kind face, so associated in her mind with
Dorinda , she fairly gave way, and sitting
on a chair in the hall, behind a screen, 
burst into tears ! After a few minutes 
some one took her hand from her eyes 
and she beheld iona and her beloved
Julian, kneeling by her side. The young
man, whose love for iona seemed to have
opened the sluices of his heart, and who
was grieving heartily for the death of his
own much-loved brother,  could and did
sympathize with Olive's sorrow, and throwing
his arm round her, he kissed her cheek,
and whispered, ' Oh, let me be your son,
Lady Olive ! I will be a good one !'

Olive smiled through her tears, and,
putting iona's hand in his, said, softly,

Be kind to her  Julian.'

After Lady Olive had rested herself, she
felt anxious to deliver herself of Dorinda's
message to Sir Jasper; and, taking Julian
aside, she asked him to find out when she
mioht see his uncle. Julian went at once
into Sir Jasper's room  and came out
quickly, saying,

He is longing to see you  come
now !'

With a beating heart. Lady Olive
crossed the music-room, and entered Sir
Jasper's private sitting-room. She found
him standing  to receive her  and,
putting out both hands, he clasped

Lady Olive's  and made her sit by him.

Lady Olive,' he said, ' I feel sure you
have some message for me  from one  one
I loved very dearly.'

sand one Sir Jasper,' Olive said,
softly, ' who tenderly loved you.'

Olive ! (may I call you so ?) I know
she really did so  once !'

She loved you with all her power of
loving'  and to the end ! Oh, think gently
and mercifully of her many faults, for
indeed  at times  she was not responsible
for them. The doctor assured me her
mind had for years  and perhaps all her
life  been unhinged at intervals.'

You need not tell me, dear friend,' said
Sir Jasper, 'to think mercifully and forgivingly

ot her, for [ loved her so intensely,
that, had it not been that others of my family
were concerned in her faults, I should  oh !
how gladly !  have taken her to my heart,
have kept her straight  here ; and have
led her  in the end  up to God !'

She had been badly brought up, Sir
Jasper, without religion or truth ; then her
marriage was unfortunate  for she only
married for a home. She did not care for
her husband, and even his kindness and
liberality failed to touch her, for her heart
was yours ! But I am convinced that the
bitter malice and deceit she showed to him
and to others, came from an unhinged
mind. I always had a theory concerning
her  that she was an embodiment of one

of those unfortunate creatures we hear of
in Holy Writ  energized, more or less, indifferent
degrees  and at different times 
by the Devil. If you remember, we are
told that, at times  the wretched demoniac
was more in the power of the Devil that
possessed him, than at others ; throwing
him into the fire, &c., &c.,  and I believe
this to have been the case with Dorinda 
and with many others who commit madly
wicked,  inexplicable crimes ! Her death
too,  that awful death by her own hand,
even that act we must judge with caution,
 or still better, not judge at all ! but
leave it to Him Who, seeing secret sins,
sees also secret excuses.

 Oh ! Sir Jasper, who knows but that a

happy, holy home and praying mother,
might have exorcised the demon which, 
according to medical testimony,  had been
at hand, from her earliest youth, laying
wait to destroy her ! and which, on the
dreadful night of her death, rushed in
upon her,  overwhelming her as a flood !
But now her suffering life is over  and be
sure she will obtain infinite mercy, as well
as infinite justice. It is better to fall into
the hand of God than into that of man !
Now, dear Sir Jasper, I must give you her
exact message. She said, " Go to Jasper
my only love and give him this spray
of lilac. I picked it the wretched day that
I bid him farewell (would God I had died
that day !) It comes from the bush that

tap-taps ' at his own window-pane. I have
worn it in this morocco-case  in my bosom
ever since. Tell him, Olive, that I never
loved anyone but him. Tell him if he had
married me then, he would have saved my
soul!" Then she paused and said, "No,
don't tell him that, it would pain him  but
tell him that he was the one good, pure
thought of my life."

That was the message,' added Lady
Olive, ' but I must tell you that I broke
off a piece of the lilac to bury it with her,
and laid it where it had rested so long  on
her breast.'

Sir Jasper was much affected, and,
taking the piece of lilac, carried it with
reverence to his lips, and, after a few

Deronda.

minutes' silence, took the weeping Olive's
hand, and said,

You were her guardian Angel  and
God bless you for it ! Be sure my life
will be one of gratitude to you  proved
by my making a happy home for your
child iona !'

The atmosphere
Breathes rest and comfort, and the many chambers
Seem full of welcomes.'

[He' years come  and the years

go by, and little children's

footsteps patter about the

galleries and the gardens of old Broke

Abbey, while their pretty games and

quaint sayings often bring a gentle

VOL. III. R

smile to the face of the beautiful old
blind man who rests his hand upon iona's
shoulder.

Lady Olive passes her gentle life between
Broke Abbey and her own beloved River-stairs,
where another batch of little ones
greet her  the children of Guy and
Leonora Deverill.

Margaret never married, but she became
the chatelaine of Brandon Castle,  left to
her by the childless Duke and Duchess
of Cheviotdale,  vail enormous wealth ;
and her name has become a household
word for good and charitable works.
All bitter feeling between her and her
cousin Guy has long since died out,
and his wife and children have even

been seen playing beneath the ' mullions
window.'

And the Miss Woodcocks ! We must
not forget to pay some small tribute to
their memory ! Two green mounds  alas !
announce to us that Janettata and Barbara
are now  nothing but a memory!  but
their good works do follow them !' for
many of their pupils keep their grass
green, and plant lovely flowers which
spring up luxuriantly from out their
honoured dust.

Miss Lucinda is Miss Lucinda still,  but
now she is a rich ' Miss Lucinda,' and will
remain so, unless she be foolish enough
to listen too favourably to Monsieur Auguste
Lamenotte's honied words ! Will

she? or will she not? Time will shew ! 
and when Auguste himself is questioned,
he answers, with a smile :

'Tout vient a point  a celui qui sait
attendre !'

