Chapter I.

>vTwo MEN were sitting together over the dreary

embers of a dying fire, in the early twilight of

s a November afternoon. A small table stood

i

:l"|)etween them, covered with loose piles of

' closely-written manuscript, from which the
-elder of the two had been reading aloud with
such absorbed interest in his employment as to
>be quite unconscious of the ill-disguised impatience

of his listener.

4 He now leaned back in his chair with a
gesture of physical weariness, and, laying his

:, VOL. T. B

long flexible fingers caressingly on the sheets by
his side, surveyed his companion with an expression
divided between wistfulness and irritation.
You do not seem so much impressed by
the extracts I have read as I expected,' he
said, ' but then you are scarcely qualified to bea
competent critic you will at least undertake
my commission ? '

I will undertake it, of course, only I wash
my hands of all responsibility as regards successor
failure. You will be wise to expect the
latter.*

He rose as he spoke, pulling up the collar
of his coat and shivering with intention.

You have let the fire down with a vengeance,
Dorrimore, oblivious of vulgar sensations
in your intellectual zeal ; and yet if ever a
cheerful blaze were wanted it is in such a den
as this. I never come here but I wonder how
life sustains itself under such conditions.'

He went up to the window and peered out
into the semi-darkness ; there was just light
enough to discern the outline of objects.

A lawn of unusual extent  level as theodolite
could make it  and surrounded on
three sides with a belt of evergreens. The
choice pines and delicate conifers were overgrown
and irregular for want of judicious
pruning and thinning out, and the outlines of
the flower beds  once cut with geometric
exactness in the velvet turf  were now scarcely
visible in the long unmown grass, and were
destitute of growth save where weeds had made
an easy conquest of the soil.

The broad gravelled walk which divided
the house from the lawn was saturated-with
moisture, and so thickly coated with rank
vegetation as to be scarcely distinguishable
from the grass itself. The whole outlook had
that singularly forlorn and depressing aspect,

B 2

produced by a scene originally planned for
luxury and pleasure, but abandoned to absolute
neglect.

To look within was to confirm the impression.
The room was large and lofty, with,
ample conveniences for the library of a wealthy
and exacting student, but the book-shelves of
curiously carved oak, reaching from floor to
ceiling, were for the most part empty, except
in one corner where a few score of volumes
were scattered over the affluent space. Pedestals,
intended for bust or statue, stood void
and purposeless, and deep in dust, save where
their blank surfaces were utilised as receptacles
for domestic litter ; thus giving the finishing
touch of incongruity and disorder to the scene.
The once-polished floor of the same sombre
wood was dirt-stained and careless, and the
large mullions window, facing west, was
without blind or drapery of any description.

A substantial library-table covered with books
and papers, and the thickly-padded chair which
matched it, and in which the elder man was
seated, were the only comfortable articles of
furniture in the bare and meagre apartment.

'Mr, Dorrimore watched his companion with
an air of contemptuous impatience ; he had an
author's passion for his work and wished to
discuss it, but it was hard to force the subject
on the obvious indifference of the other.
When he at length tmiied round from his
post of observation it was to make the altogether
irrelevant remark : 

It is evident the children don't often play
round here.'

I should think not ; Sybil takes care my
leisure is not disturbed.'

And who takes care of Sybil's leisure ?
What does she do with herself in a hole of the
earth like this ? '

He moved away from the window and came
back to the fireplace, throwing on a log of
wood from a pile in the corner, and scattering
the smouldering ashes right and left.

If you could manage to tuck me up anywhere
for the night, Dorrimore, I would have
a chat with Sybil and a romp with the children


The thing is impossible, though I am more
sorry than I can express. We swarm with
animal life, and Hannah rules us with a rod of
iron. I dare not suggest such an idea.*

Then, during the half-hour it will take
you to pack up your papers, and the driver to
put in his wretched hack, I will at any rate
find my way to the nursery. The swarm
would not forgive me if they knew Uncle
Helstone had come and gone without counting
them over. Perhaps there may be one or two
missing since I was here last.'

Mr. Dorrimore rose from his chair as if to
oppose his intention, but there was something
in the easy determination of the other that did
not look like denial, and he sat down again.

Helstone glanced round the room to see if he
could discover anything in the shape of a light,
and observing a small spirit lamp on the high
mantel above his head, took it down and prepared
to light it at the failing embers with
considerable solicitude.

I look on these lamps,' he remarked, * as
an invention of the Evil One  they betray you
into darkness on the least provocation. I

should prefer a dip and flat candlestick if

I were a student.'

They are cheaper even than dips ; a flat
candlestick is an investment in comparison.*

You will excuse my leaving you in the
dark, for I have not a moment to spare. Will
you ring for another light, and order the trap

round ? If I am to catch my train to-night I
must be ofl in half an hour. Thanks ; I know
my way.'

He crossed the long room with a firm,
elastic tread. Outside of it he stood in a large,
bare hall of fine proportions, and with a tesselated
pavement of black and white marble. A
livid ray of light from the faint sunset sky
fell across the floor, and touched the lowest
steps of the ample stone staircase which rose
with a circular sweep to the upper stories of the
house.

Helstone cleared the shallow ascent with a
few inclusive strides, cherishing his feeble lamp
carefully from the perils of the strong currents
of air that met him on the wide landings. He
crossed a long corridor with closed doors on
either side, and made his way, being evidently
familiar with the locality, to a room at the
extreme end of the house, and from the half-open

door of which came the cheerful guidance
of peals of childish laughter, and the ruddy glow
of fire-light.

He deposited his lamp in an angle of the
wall, pushed the door open a little wider and
peeped in unobserved.

A lahore honos room, with a wide unsheltered
mullions window at one end, and at the other
a blazing fire of ash and fir-cones roaring up
the huge chimney, and casting fantastic effects
of dancing lights and shadows. A round oaken
table, without cloth but bright as elbow grease
could make it, was spread for tea, which was
evidently to consist of the home-made loaf,
fresh butter, and pitcher of new milk which
were already placed upon it.

Spoons and knives were obviously at a premium,
and the crockery was of the most promiscuous
and inadequate description, but that
was of small consequence to the eager spirits

and healthy appetites that were soon to gather
round the board.

Look at the group ; as full of vitality,
mental and physical, as the warmest friends of
the human race could wish them. Two lads
who looked like twins, so exactly were they
matched in height and feature, stood in a loose
embrace and attitude of critical attention,
watching what appeared to be a dramatic
representation of Mother Hubbard and her dog.
A girl, of about seventeen, was enacting the
drama, aided by a clever little Skye terrier,
with so much spirit and success as to call
forth shouts of laughter from a trio of younger
children, who occupied the floor between her
and the fire-light.

At the moment Helstone looked in, the dog
had I cached the flute-playing phase of his
history, the flute being represented by a
carefully whittled stick ; and was standing on

end, grasping the same between Its front paws
with a grave propriety  the outcome of many
previous failures  which brought down rounds
of applause from the house. But the girl's
face, with its expression of half-stupefied astonishment
passing slowly into triumphant recognition
of the gifts displayed by the remarkable
quadruped, was admirable, though probably
thrown away as too fine a touch upon her
audience.

Helstone however clapped his hands with
enthusiasm, and thus betrayed his concealment.
There was a moment's sudden, almost dread
silence, then, as the children recognised him,
there was a shout of welcome and a promiscuous
rush. The room rang with rapturous
shouts of ' Uncle Helstone! Uncle Helstone ! '
from the boys' clear treble to the tender pipe of
the four-year-old girl.

There ! there ! ' he cried, strusrgrlincr to free

himself from the encircling limbs that were
either grasping or scaling his six feet of height,
let me breathe I I have only half an hour to
spare and lots to say. Sybil, are you glad to
see me ? '

Too glad ! Papa never told us you were
coming ; ' and the girl lifted up a face so
radiant with spirit and expression that its
beauty seemed quite a secondary consideration.


Of course you will have some tea ? Sit
down, children, and show how well I have
taught you to behave. I hope you like new
milk and brown bread, for that is what we
always have.'

'And so would I too if I could get them.
Why, here are luxuries money can't buy  your
own butter and Hannah's matchless bread ! '

He drew up a chair to the table and began
to attack the loaf.

It's well money can't buy them,' said
Sybil with a delicate smile. ' or we should stand
small chance of oettincr them.'

'And,' cried one of the boys, 'isn't it a
burning shame, uncle Helstone ? Papa says
he shall sell Viper, for a man has offered five
pounds for him, and, more than that, he isn't
worth the tax. Xot  worth  the  tax ! '

He spoke with a flushed cheek and in a
tone of trenchant derision, but Helstone could
see it was only his incipient, manhood that
kept back the tears from his eyes, and the sob
from Ms voice. He glanced at Sybil, who was
busy pouring out the milk into the respective
vessels, and distributing them with noiseless
dexterity, and he fancied her lip quivered a
little.

Ah, well,' he said coolly, ' I didn't know it
was Mother Hubbard's dog when I bid for it.
However, I can't go back from a bargain 

your father must have his price, and the
animal is mine to do what I Hke with. Will
you take him back again, Sybil, as a present
from me  to please the children ? '

There was a shout of triumph, and a simultaneous
rush upon the ransomed treasure.

Sybil's eyes sparkled with delight.

Will I ? It is the very kindest thing you
could have done for us. But  are you very
rich, uncle Helstone ? Can you afford it  quite
conveniently ? '

Each as a Jew, Sybil, whenever inclination
comes into play. But order the children back
to their places, and, while they are munching
their bread and butter, come into the window-seat
and let us have five minutes' talk together.'

He drew her away to the further end of
the apartment, and, making her sit down on
the broad bench in the deep embrasure of the
mullions window, stood before her, looking at

her "svitli a mixed expression of curiosity and
tenderness.

Then it's the same old game,' he said at
last ; ' the master washes his hands of all
responsibility, and leaves the vulgar cares of
family life to you and old Hannah ? I am
bound to own you don't look like sinking inter
the burden. I have barely time to say two
words  is there anything you or the children
want ? Are you fairly happy, child ? '

As the days are long, and often I don't
find them half long enough for what I have todo.
Do we want anything ? Heaps of things
that uncle Helstone could not give us, but that
we all do very well without. Jack and Tom
could not laugh more merrily had they the best
new overcoats in the world, and, to my mind,
Bertie, Lucy, and baby could not look prettier
under any circumstances whatever.'

And you ? '  surveying the slight, tall figure

from head to foot, with a vague masculine perception
that the dress she wore was somehow
inadequate in warmth, texture and effect.

I ? What does it signify ? I have a better
frock than this, and we never by any chance see
anybody. When I am teaching the children,
or papa is teaching me, or I am reading to
him, my appearance doesn't count for much.'

Insensibly the bright voice dropped a little,
and as she met Helstone's intense gaze of
observation the colour suddenly flushed into
her face.

I see what it is,' she said with a little
laugh, ' you are thinking how shabby I look.'

Heaven forbid you should know what I
was thinking ! But '  looking at his watch
impatiently  ' do you still teach the boys ? '

At present ; papa says he can't afford to
send them to school, and that I can ground
them in the rudiments as well as he"; besides

they are very quick. He still gives me lessons
and he must have time for his great work.'

Helstone's lip curled. ' How great ? I am
taking a portion up to town to show to some of
the savants and sound a publisher. It will
not succeed of course ; that is '  seeing the
swift look of dismay on her face  ' too many
have attempted the task before to encourage
the hope that mr. Dorrimore will succeed
where they have failed. But you needn't
attach much weight to my opinion ; I am not a
Greek scholar like him and you, Sybil.'

Xo,' said she quietly, ' and you lose a great
deal thereby  for yourself, I mean  we could
not like you better.'

At this moment the door opened and
Hannah, the illusive help of the household,
came in to say the trap had just gone round to
the front door, and master had sent her to tell
Mr. Helstone.

VOL. I. c

But, goodness knows, sir,' lie added, ' ita
treat for sore eyes to see you once more, and
how pleased the blessed babies must have
been ! '

Helstone shook the good woman cordially
by the hand, dexterously conveying into the
honest palm a substantial token of his goodwill,
which he well knew from former experience
would be employed in the children's
service, and with some difficulty got himself
away from the clamour of affectionate lamentation.
His last words were to the twins, and
they were sotto voce : 

Write to me, boys, if things go wrong, or
you or your sister want anything. Hannah
knows my address.'

CHAPTEK II.

Eight years before the incidents just related
Herbert Dorrimore had deliberately given up his
professional struggles, as an ail-buts briefless
barrister, and withdrawn himself and his family
from their hard experiences of London existence,
under the conditions of debt and poverty, to
the profound seclusion of country life in a
remote south-western county.

A friend had offered him the old manor-house,
known in the neighbourhood as Ash-lands,
for a merely nominal rent, induced to
the step by the conviction that Dorrimore was
a scholar and genius over weighted by vulgar

c2

cares, who only needed the opportunities of
leisure and retirement to do great things, and
remunerative things as well.

In point of fact the chief subsistence of the
family depended not on his profession, which
had never brought him in a hundred guineas
since he had been called to the bar some fifteen
years before, but on the proceeds of his fitful
and eccentric pen ; and, since his speciality was
neither the reviewing of novels nor the
writing of leading articles, his work could be
carried on as well in the provinces as the
capital.

Dorrimore caught at the offer eagerly
without much consultation with his wife, who,
according to his estimate, had early merged
her individuality  never strongly marked 
into that of her children, and seemed to have
absorbed every human interest in the cares and
coiiipiansations cf her rapidly-filling nursery.

The eighteen months that Mrs. Dorrimore
lived after their removal to Ashlands were the
happiest in her experience since marriage. By
the sale of every article of value they possessed
their old liabilities were wiped out, and although
the result was that their new home was
furnished with a meagreness that left them
destitute of many of the necessary accessories
of life, yet this was little to her mind in comparison
with the blessed freedom from that pecuniary
care which had sapped the springs of
health and cheerfulness during her London

career.

Then, again, she had been country-born and
bred, and made the best of the certainly
favourable circumstances in which she found
herself so unexpectedly placed. There was a
farm of about twelve acres attached to the
house, and she had the rare good fortune to
find an honest, hard-working couple who were

equal to the management of the small demesne
between them.

The woman was frugal, capable, and industrious,
and made no objection to undertake
the duties of the house single-handed, save
for the efficient help rendered by her tall, fair,
and energetic mistress ; the man was above
his class in intelligence, and gave good advice
as to the best and most productive course to be
adopted with the land. Under his instructions
two cows were purchased, which were as much
as Mrs. Dorrimore's finances would allow, and
m order to do this she surreptitiously disposed
of certain trinkets that still survived the wreck
of their fortunes ; the pasture would have borne
six, but for such a consummation they had to
await the tardy multiplication of benignant
nature, which the poor lady herself never lived
to see fully realised. By such means not only
was the house liberally supplied with new

milk and butter, as well as with homely fresh
vegetables from the excellent kitchen garden 
new and rare luxuries to the town-reared
family  but there was a gradually increasing
surplus of these commodities for sale, on the
product of which all other additions to their
commissariat and family necessities depended.
Occasionally their means would be augmented
by casual investments, such as the purchase of
a few suck-lambs, bought each season from the
nearest shepherd, ostensibly as playthings for
the children, but with an ultimate view to the
profit of the household.

As for mr. Dorrimore, he by degrees made
it to be understood that his literary privacy was
inviolable, and that he shook himself free from
all participation in the practical conduct of
affairs. He gave his wife, whose new developed
energy occasioned a half contemptuous surprise,
carte blanche to manage matters as she pleased

SO long as he was spared all consultation and
annoyance ; at long intervals lie would give
her money, perhaps ten or twenty pounds at a
time, according to the proceeds of some unusually
successful article ; and this was his
chief contribution to the expenses of his family.
The pity was he would not write what he
knew would jay, unless driven by stress of
pecuniary pressure to the humiliation of literary
pot-boiling, his whole heart and intellect being
absorbed in the laborious task of a new translation
of the Iliad.

He was an admirable Greek scholar it is
true, but he had neither the breadth of mind,
nor delicate subtlety of brain, nor native gift of
rhythm, sufficient to ensure brilliant success or
paramount superiority over those who had
ploughed the same field before him.

One other duty he performed  the education
of this eldest child, to which he devoted

himself with an artois* excited and sustained
by the brilliant capacity and siogidar beauty of
the little girl. Sybil Dorrimore had been her
father's pupil from the time she was foi' years
old. He taught her the Greek before the
English alphabet, and pleased himself with the
idea of reproducing in her the prodigies of
erudition attained by other gifted children
under similar experiences. He had his reward :
at an age when other children are stumbling
over the multiplication table, she lead tripped
lightly across the pojis asinorum, With brain alert
and adequate for the pursuit of that beloved
science which divided his zeal with classical
scholarship.

At fourteen she had paraphrased Lucretius,
and her eager and precocious intellect had
forced her into premature and passionate
sympathy with the majestic sublimity of
-schvlus.

It was well for the result of this severe and
sustained mental pressure that nature had
endowed her with a superb physical constitution,
and that her interest in outdoor pursuits
and occupations led to her being in the open
air as much as possible, and qualified her
intense student life. Then her affections were
of a warm, natural and generous type ; she loved
her little brothers and sisters with a magnanimous
unselfishness that made scarcely any
denial or effort hard in their service. Indeed
she did not know, so limited was her experience
of other lives, how unusual were the
requirements made upon her.

After her mother's death the burden of the
household management fell upon her childish
shoulders, so far as mental prevision went.
Hannah, indeed, constituted herself the 
house mistress of the establishment,
in which no other change occurred except the

providing of a nurse-girl for the lovely six
months' old baby, which poor Mrs. Dorrimore
had left behind her.

The student-father buried himself more
profoundly in his library than before, salving
his conscience against its reproaches for his
selfish apathy by devoting nearly the whole of
his narrow personal income to the physical
needs of his family, and reducing his own
wants within the narrowest compass.

They led a strange, self reliant life. Xo
one visited them, except at rare intervals their
mother s kinsman, Gilbert Helstone, and they
never went out to other houses.

Their home was, as we have said, in a remote
part of a south-western county, and a mile
from the village, in which there was no other
gentleman's house but the vicarage. One or
two farm-houses stood near, but it was certain
that neither Mr. Dorrimore nor Sybil would

care to make friends of their occupants ; and
the few county families of the district altogether
refused to acknowledge their impoverished
and scrambling existence.

It was a strange experience for a beautiful
and gifted girl : she stepped out of childhood
into the adult and exhausting anxieties of
narrow means ; and if, in her case, they did
not quench the brightness of her spirit, it was
simply because of the abundant elasticity and
resolution of her natural endowments, in
.addition to her positive ignorance of different
conditions.

It often happened that, when constrained to
make a direct appeal to her father for money,
she was met by a statement of his absolute
inability to meet her requirements, while on
-those rare occasions when he was able to do
otherwise he was apt to survey her from head
to foot with a discontented expression, and to

add the injunction that part of the fund
should be spent ' in buying herself something
decent to wear.'

But there were so many of them that
wanted decent apparel, and Sybil always seized
these occasions to set them all up in new boots
and shoes, which was a terrible pull upon the
fund ; and Hannah also was sure to have
in reserve some pressing demand which absorbed
the residue.

But after all, they cared little for dress or
company either ; they were as happy as the
birds of the air and as full of resource as active
brains and bright natures could make them ; and
in their different and desultory ways the whole
brood loved books and study, whenever front
any cause the outdoor world was under a ban.

Sybil in great measure was the family
tutor, but they all had the happy art  only to
be found amongst children at the same time

clever and neglected  of teaching? themselves
and of teaching one another. The twin boys
were about this time twelve years old, five
years younger than their eldest sister: a boy
and two girls having been born and died
between them. One of her chief anxieties was
the education and career of her brothers, whom
her father still obstinately persisted in considering
and treating as children. It was probably
with some vague idea of helping their future
that, as time passed and developed her nascent
capacities, she betook herself secretly to
authorship. She had succeeded in furnishing
after a fashion the large, disused drawing-room
of the house, which had the same aspect and
proportions as her father's study, and she
passed hours of concentrated occupation and
delight over an old library table which had
been transferred for her use to this apartment,

and was ia perfect keeping with its litter
generous contents.

And of what vahie, do you ask, were the
crude lucubrations of a girl in her eighteenth
year, and which girl was also a recluse ? Stop
a moment, and consider what some of our most
honourable names in literature have not only
promised but achieved at that age, and take
into account likewise the training she had
received. She had been drilled from infancy
in linguistic criticism on the basis of the most
subtle and complete of human tongues. Xot
only could she read Greek tragedy, but she
had been taught to scan its heights and plumb
its depths with a disciplined faculty, which
stood her in good stead when it came to finding
adequate expression for lier own ideas.
Grant that her personal experience of the was
singularly narrow, her imagination was vigorous

and intuition keen : ignorant of the social
world in its practical manifestations, she was
versed in the literature of the day under all its
multiform aspects  new books being the only
luxury that ever found its way into their
house  and was well read in the dramas of the
old playwrights, and the virile romances of the
last generation.

Add something more : she had studied and
loved Shakespeare from a child ; that is to say,
she had sat at the feet of the master whose
mind is still the horizon beyond which none of
us  poet, philosopher or otherwise  are able to
project our own.

Enough : what she wrote was printed and
paid for, she being naturally well acquainted
with the modes of negotiation between writer
and editor ; and the small sums thus obtained
were a valuable addition to their straitened
means.

From some scarcely defined motive, Sybil
kept the secret of her authorship and its
success, and the impression in the family was,
when these casual windfalls occurred, that the
father's hand had bestowed them.

VOL. I.

Chapter III.

Let the children read the New Testament,
Sybil, and teach them the Lord's prayer.'

This was the sum of Herbert Dorrimore's
religious solicitude in regard to his family, and sofar
Sybil, in the first flush of mental and physical
strength, was unconscious of moral or spiritual
deficiency. Her healthful and highly endowed
organisation was not of the type that possesses
inherently a profound sense of the supernatural ;
there was no strong bias in her mind towards
obstinate questionings,' no eager looking before
or after, no tendency towards mystic aspiration.
She was thoroughly content with what this
perishable and imperfect world gave her. It

naturally followed from this training, that
attendance upon the formal services of the
Church had never been considered by the
household in the light of either a duty or a
privilege, and circumstances had hitherto forbidden
its taking rank as a pleasure.

The vicar of Eoosden Macrna was a man
of good birth and weak health, who devolved
almost all his parish duties upon a quick
succession of youthful curates, none of whom
remained long enough on duty to assimilate
themselves either to the people or their work,
and whose indiscriminate dismissal was popularly
attributed to the fickleness or irritability of
their superior. ' Our new curate ' was a stereotyped
phrase at Eoosden Magna.

Occasionally, during the progress of years
and the growth of independent action, some
stragglers from the Ashlands family would go to
church, just as chance or humour dictated, but

D 2

the services were so uniformly flat and spiritless,
that it would be long before the attempt
was repeated. Added to which their domestic
arrangements and frequently insufficient attire
would have served as grave obstacles to regular
attendance. At the date, however, which we
have now reached, two circumstances had conduced
to render Sybil Dorrimore's appearance
in the old family pew, with the younger children
as her companions, an event of more frequent
occurrence.

The money-tree, watered by a brilliant
little sketch of hers in one of the leading
magazines, had borne so abundantly according
to her limited notions, that she had been able
to make substantial additions to the family
wardrobe, and to supply herself with a blue
serge dress of unusual excellence, and a broad
felt hat in keeping with the same. Secondly,
the curate then in charge was more endurable

to her fastidious judgment than any of his predecessors
had been, and in the entire absence
of other like interests she felt a cold, critical
curiosity in watching his manifestations. He
had been in the parish longer than at one time
would have been thought possible for the
Hon. and Eev. Aubrey de Grey to endure the
same face and the same voice in perpetual
intercourse, being now in the third year of his
office ; and he was in a large and altogether
unprecedented measure popular among the
people. He was reported to be very kind to
the poor, to visit the sick dutifully, and to bear
with the vicar's exacting and difficult temper
with exemplary patience and tact. Further
than this her knowledge did not go, though, if
so disposed, she could have learnt much more
concerning him. He had several times called
upon her father, but she had not cared to come
into personal contact with him, and contented

herself with carelessly wondering how the
Eev. Julian Karslake made his visits acceptable
to the querulous student who was accustomed
to shut himself off entirely from intercourse
with the outside world. Now and again she
met him in her walks with the children, but he
had never made any attempt to stop and speak
to them ; a conventional salute in passing had
seemed recognition enough for all parties concerned.


Great, then, was her dismay when late one
afternoon in the early spring-time, just eighteen
months after Gilbert Helstone's last visit to
Ashlands, as she was sitting before her desk in
pleased enjoyment of her privacy, she heard
the click of the garden gate, and in another
moment the shadow of the coming guest fell
across her page.

She knew instinctively it must be Julian
Karslake, for no other stranger ever crossed the

threshold of their door, and at the same time the
recollection occurred to her that Hannah and
all the children were gone out for a walk, that
her father had strictly charged her he was not
to be disturbed, and therefore that she must
not only admit but entertain the visitor herself.

He had already rung the bell and was waiting
for admission outside, but she was bound to
keep him waiting longer while she buried her
books and papers out of sight, hid an old jacket
which she was going to mend presently, and
which was too disreputable for any alien vision,
and made a general abortive dash to reduce the
complex disorder of the room to some outward
show of decency.

But it was a forlorn hope, and all the hurry
and failure of the attempt was in the flushed
face of the girl, as she at last reluctantly opened
the door and stood before her visitor.

I am sorry to have kept you waiting so

long, but our servant is out, and my father is
particularly engaged.'

Her aspect and tone had a sweet inherent
graciousness, but she stood barring his entrance
into the house as she spoke, her impression
being that he would retire at once on hearing
her curt announcement.

Then may I not come in ? ' he asked. ' I
did not wish to intrude on Mr. Dorrimore.
My object to-day was to ask for an interview
with you. I am singularly fortunate in finding
you at home.'

He held his hat in his hand as he spoke
to her, and the keen east wind stirred the
hair on his uncovered head; an impulse of
hospitality induced Sybil to make way for him,
and mitigated the surprise of his address.

You wish to speak to me ? ' retreating into
the interior of the hall and laying her hand on
the lock of the drawing-room door ; ' then will

Tou please to come in here. There is no fire,
and it is not very comfortable. I am sorry,
but I have no better place to show you into.'

I am not cold,' he said, as he was in duty
bound to say ; ' and I should very much like to
come in.'

There was obviously no escape and they
entered, and as they did so, and Sybil saw his
glance traverse the room in one quick survey,
a ray of illumination struck her, and she
perceived all the indications of sordid poverty
and accumulated deficiency as she had never
done before. How must it all strike him whose
social position was said by public report to be
equal to that of the vicar himself, and whose
perfect dress, high-bred physique, and composed
manner, all implied this familiarity with such a
different order of tliinors ?

He was still standing hat in hand, for
indeed she had not asked him to sit down, her

supreme consciousness at that moment being
that his eye was caught by the aspect of the
huge fireless grate, where Hannah had recently
hung some tawdry paper abomination
which gave the finishing touch of vulgarity and
deliberate discomfort to the scene.

A new sensation, keen as a pang, passed
through her frame ; but she rallied her pride,
raised her head with an indefinable gesture, and
said with a smile : 

It hurts my feelings, Mr. Karslake, to see
you looking at our miserable fireplace, but
please don't accredit me with its barbarism. I
wish you had seen it in the summer-time, when
it was filled with ferns and flowers after a
private device of my own. You must know
we don't often have a fire here, and this is
Hannah's way of hiding the nakedness of the
land.'

She paused, then added in a lower tone,

and one that indicated some latent feeling; in
spite of her wish to speak Lightly : 

I do not doubt you know how naked the
land is.'

Such estimates are piu-ely conventional
was the reply ; 'one man sees deficiency where
another is only able to perceive abundance.'

You are very good to say so, but there is
hardly room for two opinions in our case. I
have wondered now and then what the people
in the village say about us. I know they
resent our poverty very much. You see we
live in a big house, which before our time was
occupied by some rich aboriginal family who
did good all round, and left a vacancy felt to
this day. eve have always been aliens.'

Here she stopped, suddenly aware that her
visitor was listening to her with a critical
intentness that caused her rather surprise than
embarrassment

You have taken great pains he said, ' to
maintain the alienation. During the last two
years I have felt what may seem to you a very
gratuitous interest in all the external details of
your life, so far as they could come under the
notice of an outside observer, and you have
always appeared to me to rejoice in your independence
of all your surroundings.'

Sybil smiled a little sarcastically.

Surely,' she answered, ' your interest must
have starved for want of supplies.'

The stress of starvation stimulates ingenuity.
Miss Dorrimore, and at Eoosden Magna
there are few opposing interests.'

He paused, looked at her anew with a
searching earnestness of regard, and added, ina
lower and more deliberate tone, to which the
singular sweetness of his voice and the faultless
purity of his accent gave an almost resistless
charm : 

I believe I know more about you than you
would think possible. I know you are a better
Greek scholar than myself, which may be buta
very doubtful compliment, for I have seen
some very clever Homeric paraphrases and
renderings of yours. I know besides that you
are a capable critic, as I have watched the
changes of distaste and weariness in your face
when listening to my poor sermons : also that
you are an admirable story-teller, as I have
heard you more than once in the chin-ch porch
with your little brothers and sisters about you,
while I have been kept prisoner in the vestry
by the spell. I am even familiar with your
handwriting, from constant attendance at the
village post office. I have met you summer
and winter, alone or more frequently in the
company of the children, and never without
receiving some keener impression of the brightness
and power of your influence.'

At this point he ceased as if to give her the
opportunity of reply, and Sybil, who had followed
his speech with increasing astonishment,
said with scarcely repressed indignation : 

You also know probably that I am a girl
standing almost alone in the world, and quite
unaccustomed to polite society and its pleasant
amenities, otherwise you would scarcely venture
to talk to me in this unusual and pointblank
manner. Would not the ladies in your
circle resent it as an impertinence ? '

I cannot say ; I have never tested their
forbearance, but I must not allow you to think
it an impertinence. I fear I am a very poor
diplomatist, and must have spoken very badly,
if I have been so unfortunate as to have already
incurred your displeasure. What I have just
now said, I meant as some kind of prelude or
explanation to what is to follow, and that 
however it gets said  swill seem to you, I

fear, incredibly presumptuous aud unconventional.'


Here he put down his hat and came a little
nearer to the window where Sybil was standing ;
a pale ray from the fading saffron of the skies
fell across his person, and she was quite cool
enough to mark how fair, and tall, and straight
her new companion was. The feeling uppermost
in her mind was the displeasure of a
proud and sensitive girl slightly modified by
curiosity.

I have heard he was eccentric,' she said to
herself.

I scarcely know,' he went on, ' what words
to use or how to defend myself from anger or
misconception. Let me ask if you have heard
that I am called suddenly away to attend the
death-bed of a relative ? '

I did not know. I am very sorry,' she
said coldly.

I am not sure I shall ever come back to
take up my old duties here, aud it is this that
has led to the step I have ventured to take today.
I was quite resolved not to go away
without speaking to you. Will you bear in
mind what I have already told you, that I
know more of you, of your real self, than a
score of conventional meetings in ball-rooms,
on garden-lawns, or at the afternoon tea-table
could have taught me. Add to the rest this :
I have often visited your farm servant and
heard anecdotes of you from your childhood
upwards ; and now will you promise not
hastily to resent, but to take into generous and
reasonable consideration what I am going to
say?'

He ' paused ; a sudden glow flushed the
healthy pallor of his cheek ; his hitherto mild
and deliberate glance scintillated and quickened.

'Is it necessary,' he asked in a low tone

but one that vibrated Yith repressed and
passionate feeling, ' for a man to excuse and
palliate as an offence the supreme proof he
can give of his loyalty and truth ? Simply, I
come to tell you I love you, Miss Dorrimore,
and to ask your pardon, not for the fact, but
for the long concealment of the same, and for
the strange abruptness with which I have at
last announced it. You may well believe this
reserve has been the result not of caprice, but of
hard necessity. Stop, I implore you, before you
answer. All I want now is that you should listen
patiently to what I have told you, and suffer mein
the future to do what lies in my power to
reconcile you to the idea of one day becoming
my wife.'

He spoke now vdih that complete control

of emotion, which was characteristic of the

man under the strongest excitement ; but none

the less was Sybil aware that it was rather force

VOL. I. E

of will than lack of feeling that kept outward
manifestation in check. Beneath this impression
her displeasure yielded to a confused sense
of difficulty and pain. How the girl of the
period ought to behave in circumstances so
unique and unconventional she had not the
slightest idea ; she followed the natural movement
of a frank and courageous mind.

I think,' she answered, with a certain
sweet gravity that kindled his admiration to
the point of pain, ' you have taken rather an
ungenerous advantage of my solitary position.
It is very hard to understand why you did not
tell me this before, or at least try to know me
personally. I fancy few girls would believe
what you have just now said to me ; they would
think you were playing some unmanly joke, or
winning some shameful bet ; but, strange as it
all is, I do believe you.'

Then, as the admission passed her hips, and

the sense of all that it implied flashed upon
her mind, her equanimity was troubled ; the
colour deepened on her cheek, and a sudden
suffusion dimmed the clear steadfastness of gaze
she had fixed upon his face.

It was scarcely well,' she added, turning
a little aside, ' to force upon me so strange and
painful a situation.'

Is it of necessity painful ? ' he asked, and
there was an inflection in his tone that made
Sybil glance towards him again.

It is painful to me to tell you, believing
you in earnest, that I can do nothing more
than thank you for the good opinion you
entertain of me. I am not at all the sort of
girl to whom the ideas of love and marriage
would be welcome under any circumstances;
I am pledged to quite another sort of life, and '
with a smile  ' 1 like the life to which I am
pledged.'

E 2

LfBRARY

 Illinois

That is to say you propose to sacrifice
your life to the interests of your family  pardon
me, Miss Dorrimore. Or is it that I individually
have no chance of pleasing you ? Surely
it is premature to decide against me on this the
first occasion of our speaking together ! All I
ask is leave to know you better ; I must go
away tomorrow, but you will not forbid my
coming to see you again on my return ? '

He approached her, not with any presumptuous
idea of even touching her hand,
though his whole being yearned towards her,
but simply to read the expression of her face
more clearly in the waning light.

'I can wait,' he added in his clear and
penetrating accents ; ' for I have the proper
temperament for a despised lover, at once tenacious
and constant, but  I shall persist.'

Sybil looked up quickly. ' I think I
know you well enough already, Mr. Karslake,

to feel sure you will not persist one moment
after you are convinced you are giving me
pain. You are doing that now; I would
rather we did not meet any more : it is no
question of sacrifice to my family  my whole
heart is theirs  it would be an impossible thing
for me to desert my sisters and brothers.'

But they should be mine ; I will assure
their future more certainly than you could do.
I am moderately rich and free from all personal
family ties .' His face clouded for a moment
as with an involuntary reminiscence of
pain.

Sybil smiled and shook her head. ' Thank
you for such a generous and inclusive proposal,
but we will bear our own burdens. I would not
suffer any man to accept such a responsibility
as that ; it is right it should rest where nature
has placed it. Nor is this quite all : my father
would never consent to part with me  I am

sometimes vain enoiigli to think he could
scarcely live without me.'

'Your father he repeated; and then he
looked into the speaker's vivid face, and an indefinable
expression contracted his brow. At
the same moment, to her infinite relief, Sybil
heard the sound of opening doors, and the
eager voices of the children. Julian Karslake
heard them too, and took up his hat to depart.

I should like to escape the observation of
your keen-eyed youngsters,' he said with a
quiet smile, ' which I can do by letting myself
out at the front door. For the rest, I shall
come back, Miss Dorrimore ; there are many
things unsaid, to which I shall ask you to give
another hearing.'

He bowed without any attempt at further
farewell, stopped on his way out to pick up a
book that had fallen upon the floor, and disappeared
in the twilight.

Chapter IV.

Ox the third morning after Julian Karslake's
visit, Sybil, on entering lier father's study at
the usual time, found it unoccupied. Mr.
Dorrimore's student habits were so regular that
the mere fact of not finding him in his
accustomed place at his accustomed hoi* had
the effect of a surprise.

Moreover, she had a special interest in her
studies that morning ; she held in her hand a
Greek exercise, on which she had bestowed an
immense amount of labour and enthusiasm, and
was keenly anxious for his estimate of the same.

Like others before and smce, she had been

charmed by the singular power and tenderness
of the scene between the shades of Agamemnon
and Iphigenia, as attempted by Aspasia in
rivalry of aeschylus in Landor's matchless
work, and had conceived the idea of putting
it into Greek, and thus, as it were, restoring
to the poem its original and appropriate investment.


When we say her whole heart had been
in the task, it will show how little the late
remarkable interview had disturbed the current
of her life. In short, after one half-hour's concentrated
reflection, she had dismissed the
matter as something to be put outside the pale
of her accepted experiences, and which should
never be allowed to enter therein again.

Sybil looked anxiously round the room for
some indication of her father's recent presence,
and perceiving none, went towards the library
table, which stood in the recess formed by the

large window, to deposit her papers upon it ;
in so doincr she naturally looked towards the
gardens beyond, and saw to her surprise that
Mr. Dorrimore was pacing up and down the
gravel walk outside, his hands clasped beneath
the flaps of his old study gown, and his head
bowed in evidently profound cogitation.

It was an exquisite morning in the beginning
of April, tempting enough to win any
student from his books ; but as she stood and
watched her father, Sybil had a curious perception
that it was neither the beauty of the day
nor even any intellectual pressure or perplexity,
which had led to this unusual proceeding.
Presently he looked up and saw her.

Come out,' he said, ' I want to speak to
you ; ' and in another moment she was by his
side, drinking in with conscious delight the airs
from Paradise which blew around her, the
scent of wild violets which grew in clusters in

the unweeded borders beneath the windows of
the house, the tender green of the budding
trees, and the unchecked, translucent azure of
the sky.

At that instant a solitary bird came in sight,
and cut the air above their heads with a swift
but almost imperceptible sweep of wing.

Look ! ' cried Sybil eagerly ; ' it is a
swallow  the first I have seen, the earliest I
ever saw. Why, it is only the twelfth of April !
He comes, I hope, as the harbinger of a
splendid summer.'

Mr. Dorrimore turned sharply round.

One would think sou were a child, Sybil,
and yet you have given me a very convincing
proof of the contrary. How am I to understand
a girl capable of practising the reserve
that you have done one day, and going into
puerile raptures over the advent of a swallow
the next ? *

For a moment she was at a loss to discover
his meaning, but he helped her understanding
by drawing out his folded hands from the
skirts of his coat, and showing an open letter in
one of them. He held it towards her : it was
of considerable length, and the writing
singularly clear and fine in character.

Do you know the handwriting ? * he asked.

A complex tumult of feeling of a passionate
intensity hitherto unknown to her experience,
stirred her soul. She straightened instinctively
her tall, lithe figure into an attitude of resistance,
the delicate tint of her cheek deepened to
carmine, the soft brilliancy of her glance
quickened and glowed.

'I have never to my knowledge seen it
before, but I conclude the letter is from the
Eev. Julian Karslake.'

'And you can guess the purport of the
same ? Child, why did you not tell me at once

of the offer he had made you ? Recluse as I
am, I had heard of his leaving Eoosden Magna,
and could not understand his conduct ; this
letter here, I am happy to say, restores my
confidence in his good faith and sincerity, but
it is written under the impression that my
daughter has not kept me in the dark.'

He stood still, turned and looked at her.
The drift of his words had changed the current
of her feelings ; the face she now raised towards
him was pale and set.

What am I to understand ? ' she asked.
'Can he have spoken to you on this subject,
and you have given him any encouragement 
the idea seems impossible ! '

And if he have, and I have given him a
civil hearing,' replied Mr. Dorrimore testily,
what have you to complain of . Am not I the
proper person to whom my daughter's suitors
should apply .P And do you think me so

selfish as to stand between you and an advantageous
marriage  however great may be my
personal loss ? '

The last words seemed to be thrown in asa
saving clause, and aggravated her sense of
cruel disappointment.

I had thought,' she said, ' that you would
never have contemplated the prospect of my
leaving you with satisfaction, or still more have
supposed me base enough to abandon my
brothers and sisters at the first chance. It
hurts me dreadfully that you can speak so
easily of letting me go ; not but that the thing
is impossible  I am not going to be cast ofi*.'

Sybil, my dear girl, you view the matter
in a very perverse light. Do not all parents
reckon upon the pain of parting with their
children, without being reproached for hardness
of heart? Heaven knows I shall miss you
more than words can express, but I shall weigh

against that loss the falling off from my shoulders
of a growing burden of care and trouble.'

As how ? ' she demanded eagerly. ' Surely
my presence at home makes your work and
cares lighter ? '

'My present cares he answered; 'but
time is running on, and the boys must go to
school. Putting puny earnings and miserable
income together, I can't see my way to sending
them. Then, do you suppose I have grown
blind over my books ? I see you growing into
womanhood, not only with gifts but graces
beyond the common, and know it is out of my
power to give you any of the pleasures and
opportunities of your age and sex. I can't
answer it to my conscience to keep you much
longer at home, as the perpetual governess of
the children, and with no knowledge of the
world outside the ring fence of Ashlands ; you
would soon become aware of other needs

and requirements, and reproach me in the long
run for neglecting and ignoring them. When
you grew old and grey, Sybil, you would find
imperfect consolation even in Greek tragedy 
what do you say ? *

He looked towards her as he spoke with an
air of some deprecation ; she was keeping even
step by his side with head erect, and pale
resolute countenance.

Tell me,' she said, ' how all these difficulties
are to be met.'

He tapped the letter he held impatiently
with his delicate fingers. ' Yhy do you presume
to put me to the question thus ? has not
Julian Karslake told you by word of mouth
how he proposes to meet them ? or if not he
has told me in unmistakable lanoruae. This
young man has a romantic attachment for you,
Sybil, and where could you find a suitor better
fitted to meet all the traditional requirements

of your sex? From the moment you accept
his addresses, he will help the boys to a career,
and fulfil the duties of a son towards myself.
He is rich and independent, and asks for
nothing better than the opportunity of proving
his devotion.'

And you would suffer him to prove it
thus  at my expense ? ' Mr. Dorrimore raised
an appealing hand.

Let us go back into the house and discuss
this matter quietly, since I see you are inclined
to be excited, Sybil. Not another word till
the library-door is shut behind us. How chilly
this spring sunshine is ! '

She thought so too ; the glory of the earth,
so apparent to her senses ten minutes ago,
seemed departed, the buoyant energy of her
mind collapsed. She followed her father passively
into the room, and sat down in her
accustomed place : her eye fell upon her Greek

translation lying on the desk, and a vague
feeling possessed her that that phase of her
life had passed away for ever. A new leaf
had been turned in her history, and one
that was unspeakably distasteful to her
sight.

Aye, what is this ? ' said Mr. Dorrimore,
whose eye was instinctively caught by the
finely charactered sheets ; ' some original effort
on the part of my ambitious little girl ? But it
can wait, Sybil, it can wait for another opportunity.
What I want now is for you to tell me
what answer I am to give to the letter under
discussion.'

He smiled as he spoke, archly he thought,
somewhat spasmodically in fact.

You forget that I do not know the contents
of the letter ; would you wish me to read
it?'

On the contrary, I will read it aloud to

VOL. I. F

you myself, it deserves a second perusal. I
defy any man to write on so delicate a subject
with more exquisite propriety and nice
feeling. Nay, child,' responding to some involuntary
gesture on the part of his daughter,
you need not fear there is a word in it that
can wound your pride.'

Sybil rose up and walked to the window,
and stood looking steadily into the garden,
while Mr. Dorrimore read the letter aloud in a
finely modulated and deliberate tone. He was
anxious to give it all the effect he could.
When he had finished he came and stood
beside her, and laid his hand kindly on her
shoulder. ' Little one,' he said, ' could any
man make a fairer or more generous offer?
has he not defended every point from objection
? '

'No,' she returned in a low concentrated
tone, for she was resolved on maintaining her

self-control in lier father's presence. ' You and
I see it from different points of view. To
you it all appears as the disinterested offer of
a man who proposes to relieve you from the
charges you cannot meet : to me it is a covert
bribe to induce me to forego my freedom of
choice and action. Don't you perceive how
ignoble that love must be, founded on sight
and hearsay, and treated for as a matter of
sale and barter ? '

I perceive that my little girl is very angry
and therefore very unreasonable : he does not
propose to marry you on the terms you mention.
What he asks for is leave and opportunity
to make your personal acquaintance and
teach you to love him.'

I shall never love him,' said the girl ; ' it
is on my hips to say I hate him, only I feel it
would be unreasonable to go so far.' Mr.
Dorrimore's sallow cheek took a paler tinge ;

F 2

he was deeply disappointed and strongly displeased.


At least, Sybil,' lie said in cold acute tones,
I shall expect you to yield so far, say to our
family interests, as to receive Mr. Karslake's
visits and put the experiment to the test.
Selfish as we may be all round, we shall at
least never call upon you to offer up yourself as
victim in the matter ; rely upon it, no one proposes
to coerce your precious freedom of choice
and action.'

The tone and sneer were so unusual as to
bring the unaccustomed tears to her eyes.
Did she deserve the taunt ? Would she had
some friend to whose equal tenderness and
judgment she could appeal ! for herself she
felt as if she were groping in the dark. Presently
her face brightened.

'Did you not tell me yesterday you expected
uncle Helstone on a visit ? When he

comes, would you mind asking him his opinion
of Mr. Karslake's offer ? '

Upon my word, child, you are hard to
understand ! On one side your delicacy is so
acute as to be wounded by the guarded approach
of a young man's love, and on the
other, you propose to discuss the pros and
cons, of the matter, with a rough and ready
fellow like Gilbert Helstone ! His opinion
would not have a straw's weight with me.'

Sybil was silent. She was not accustomed
to argue with her father, but none the less she
caressed the idea of the despised Helstone in
her mind.

Presently Mr. Dorrimore added : ' I think
it is high time this childish nonsense was
stopped in regard to him. " Uncle Helstone "
was well enough in your mother's lifetime,
and when you were a baby in Queen
Street nursery, but it is necessary you should

now understand it was a mere bacon de
parler. Helstone is some distant kinsman of
your mother's, and a well-meaning man
in Ms way, but no uncle of yours, and
without the shadow of a right to interfere,
as he is so fond of doing, in my private
affairs.'

It was in Sybil's heart to reply, ' that they
had always been the gainers by his interference,'
and it was rather an instinct of courtesy than
affection which restrained the words.

Her loyalty to an absent friend, however,
compelled her to say, though in a lowered
tone,

We did not love him because he was our
uncle, but because he was so good and kind.'

'Psha, my dear, we will hope to extend
your notions of masculine goodness and kindness.
I think we shall scarcely settle to
lessons this morning ; I will look over your

translation at my leisure. Will you go to the
boys, or take a little walk by yourself to recover
your usual tone ? And, Sybil, one last
word on a subject to which it will not be my
way to be often referring  do nothing rashly.
Don't sacrifice the interests of so many to a
perverse, illogical prejudice.'

And with this caution he dismissed her,
opening the door for her departure, for perhaps
the first time in her life.

Sybil stood for a few moments in the
empty spacious hall, now flooded with sunshine,
uncertain where to go, or what to do. The
gentle sway of the trees seen through the wide-open
door, the scent of the daffodil meadows
and the gay carol of the birds seemed to invite
her out of doors, and in her usual mood she
would have summoned the children, and led
them off on some wild joyous ramble in which
her own passionate delight in the sights and

sounds of the improving season would have
stimulated and exalted theirs.

But now she had no such inclination. On
the contrary, after the first glance outwards,
she suddenly dropped her bowed head upon
her folded hands, and a few heavy unwilling
tears fell through her fingers to the marble floor.

She had hardly cried since infancy, save
with childish grief when her mother died, and
she resented the weakness she was unable to
overcome. Her sensations of trouble were
intense if somewhat vague : she had spoken an
absolute truth when she told Julian Karslake
that she was a girl to whom the ideas of love
and marriage were unwelcome, for she had much
of the inherent asceticism of a highly wrought
intellectual organisation which would need no
ordinary influences to vivify and subdue. The
unexpectedness and directness of her lover's advances
both startled and displeased perceptions

she had not known till then she possessed, but
the feeling had been qualified by her perfect
confidence in her own power to reject them
finally and without appeal. But now complications
had arisen which seemed to threaten the
loss, not only of her happiness but her dignity.

Her pride of independence was almost morbidly
acute ; she could scarcely have borne
Julian Karslake's eager offers of assistance to
the family at large, had she not known how
promptly and absolutely she would repudiate
them ; and the knowledge that these or similar
proposals had been previously made, and since
renewed to her father, and were accepted by
him as substantial arguments in favour of the
young man's suit, was a humiliation so bitter as
to force the tears from her eyes.

Under this pressure her indifference was
fast quickening into active dislike. Xot that at
this time she allowed entrance to the idea of

yielding either to the urgency of Karslake
or to her father's ignoble pressure, but she
recognised the fact that she was suddenly cut
adrift from the joyous security and sufficing
interests of the past, and that the future
stretched before her under the hitherto unknown
conditions of repugnance and apprehension.


Chapter Y.

It is perhaps superfluous to say Herbert Dorrit
had not much delicacy or strength of
moral fibre. The inevitable shifts and evasions
of poverty and debt, the pressure of paramount
natural claims, which can neither be satisfied
nor disallowed, are apt to attenuate that form
of sensibility.

He had become aware that outside attention
was being attracted to his domestic management
; that people said it was time his two handsome
spirited lads either went to school, as became
their seeming position, or were put in the
way of earning their own living if the paternal
funds were nil : also that it was a crying shame

the eldest girl, who was so marvellously pretty,
should be always kept at home to teach and
mind the rest of the family.

Eighteen months ago he had been sanguine
about the success of his great work, and had
talked hopefully of sending the boys to Winchester
; but here grievous disappointment had
attended him. No publisher would undertake
the risk on the magnificent terms Mr. Dorrit
thought his due. A subscription edition
had been suggested, but he had not sufficient
influence to make the plan a profitable one, and
his pride, tenacious where his literary honour
was concerned, disinclined him to the attempt.
The matter had ended in the first instalment of
the book being published by one of the trade
magnates in sumptuous style, on the principle
of divided expenses and profits.

The balance-sheet of the same had been
recently received and presented a dismal study ;

he details of expenditure were elaborately
minute and doubtless absolutely correct, but the
issue of the business was a heavy deficit on both
sides of the account, and a polite but urgent representation
that an immediate instalment of his
personal share of the liabilities was expected.

It was about this time that JuHan Karslake
had communicated to Mr. Dorrimore his wish to
be allowed to pay his addresses to Sybil, backing
the request by a statement of his position
and income, present and contingent, of so satisfactory
a character as to commend the offer at
once without hesitation to the harassed and
impecunious scholar. The idea of his daughter's
reluctance never occurred to his mind ; he concluded
that the advantages offered would commend
themselves to her understanding as they
did to his own, and he may at least be excused
for the opinion that the young man was eminently
calculated to attract and win a secluded

girl, to whose vanity such a potent appeal was
to be made.

To himself the whole affair was a godsend of
unqualified good luck, relieving him at a stroke
from difficulties which must otherwise overwhelm
him, and generally smoothing the
rugged road of life for all of them.

Sybil's contumacy had taken him painfully
by surprise, but reflection had assured him that
unreason was the inherent possession of every
feminine nature, and that his influence, backed
by the irresistible flatteries of a handsome
lover, would soon bring the girl to another
mind. Of that mind as a receptive medium he
knew much, of its special idiosyncrasies scarcely
anything at all.

A week had passed since their last interview,
and the subject had not been alluded to again ;
also, as if by mutual consent, she had ceased to
come to his study for her daily lessons.

Xo other of her piu'siiits had been intermitted
; he knew she gave much of the time
thus gained to teaching the boys, and continued
to spend hours of the lengthening days
out of doors with the children, as had always
been the family custom. He felt that he must
wait till some incident occurred.

Unfortunately for his impatient and irritable
temper the progress of asia's dragged considerably
; more than a month elapsed before he received
a letter from Karslake, telling him of the
death of the relative he was visiting, and that
consequently he should not be able to return to
Eoosden Magna till after the funeral and the
settlement of certain affairs. He also told him
that the deceased was the only relative he had on
either side of the house, and that he was sole heir
of an accumulated fund of personal property.

Mr. Dorrimore closed the letter with
something of the feelings of having become

unawares the possessor of a mine of unlimited
resources.

Ten days afterwards Mr. Karslake returned,
to resume, it was understood, his clerical duties
in the parish till the vicar could provide himself
with a substitute.

The morning after his arrival he called at
Ashlands, and Hannah, knowing him to be a
guest favoured by her master, showed him at
once into the library, where Mr. Dorrimore was
seated tete-astute with his friend Gilbert Helstone.

It was a moment of mutual embarrassment.
Mr. Dorrimore held at his entrance an open
letter in his hand, which obviously he had
been reading aloud to his companion, and
which Karslake could not fail to recognise as
his own. He had ridiculed his daughter's suggestion
of consulting Helstone, and then, with
the weakness of a nature so lacking in self-reliance
as his own, had taken the first opportunity

of pouring forth the whole story of the
prodigious incident which was to bring prosperity
to every member of the family, if only
Sybil could be brought to hear reason. He
hoped to fortify his own purpose by extracting
from Helstone the admission that there was only
one reasonable course of action to be pursued,
and thought no way better calculated to
produce this result than reading to him the
letter in which the lover at once urged his suit
and stated his means and intentions.

The appearance of Julian Karslake himself
upon the scene was a contretemps difficult to
evade successfully.

Mr. Dorrimore rose hurriedly from his
chair, pressing the letter with overt precipitation
into the depths of his pocket, and introducing
the two men to each other in that
formal and laboured fashion which comes of
long seclusion and desuetude.

VOL. I. G

Karslake bowed with conventional courtesy,
the other nodded abruptly, while keeping his
keen gaze fixed on his face.

It was a face almost perfect in outline, with
a singular clear pallor of complexion entirely
removed from any hint of unhealthiness, and
which rather served to exalt its typical
beauty; but it was not a face to give up its
secret to the first scrutiny of even a penetrating
observer. The look which encountered
Helstone's from the large-lidded luminous blue
eyes was at once steady and serene ; the
firmly moulded lips, shaded but not concealed
by a golden moustache, indicated a suave
but resolute self-control, while the short cleft
chin and low broad forehead, with a slight
suggestion of tension between the level brows,
enhanced the power but contradicted the mildness,
of the physiognomy.

Helstone, conscious of being baffled in his

investigation, prolonged his gaze till the slightly
raised colour on the young man's face recalled
him to a sense of his rudeness.

Julian Karslake turned with marked intention
towards Mr. Dorrimore.

I must apologise,' he said, ' for calling at
so unreasonable, an hour, but I believed I
should have found you alone. I will call
again at any time later in the day, when you
are likely to be disengaged. I hope Miss
Dorrimore and the children are well ? Perhaps
I might be fortunate enough to find some of
them in the garden ? '

He took up his hat, bowed, and turned to
depart. His voice was singularly low, distinct,
and musical, but none the less accent and
manner, quiet and courteous as was the latter,
grated on Helstone's perceptions. Before Mr.
Dorrimore could speak he answered sharply : 

You are mistaken ; I am the intruder,

and will leave you at once to transact the business
you have on hand. The children are
never at a loose end at this hour of the day. I
will see, Dorrimore, you are not interrupted ; '
and with a slight, brusque nod towards Kars-
lake, he strode out of the room.

When he reached the hall he paused and
stood still, moved, as Sybil had been a few
weeks earlier, by an entirely new sensation,
and anxious both to understand and subdue the
disturbance before going to the school-room.
The sounds from the room behind him reached
his ears indistinctly, and seemed to fire his
blood ; the querulous and apparently apologetic
tones of Mr. Dorrimore had a quality of sharpness
which almost rendered his words audible,
but the low, modulated voice of his companion
would have defied the keenest listener. For
all that, Helstone put his fingers to his ears
with a gesture of repugnance, and moved

slowly towards the door through which the
radiant spring-time smiled and invited him.
He stood leaning against the lintel, with crossed
arms and knitted brows, resolved on the rare
effort of introspection.

What ailed him ? what was required of
him as a friend of the family but to rejoice at
the good fortune that had befallen the daughter
of the house, and offer his congratulations to
her ? He might be disgusted with the grasping
meanness of the father, but the good faith and
generosity of the lover were indisputable. And
as for looks and manners, he said to himself with
a sneer, why, he was a clerical Narcissus !

And then, somehow or other, he recalled
to himself the image the glass was accustomed
to show him. The strong, square features,
loose, untidy brown locks, and careless beard.
He looked as it were into his own small eyes,
deep set under shaggy brows, with their

keen, uncompromising expression and lack of
physical charm, and the cynical smile deepened
on his lips. Could it be that, unknown to himself,
an infant hope had lurked in the recesses
of his unchallenged heart, as presumptuous and
untenable as ever fooled a reasonable man ?
that he had thought to have been through life,
say, the trusted friend and champion of Sybil
Dorrimore, and that to see himself thrust aside
as no longer needed caused this sense of bitter
pain and injury ?

He was roused by seeing a tiny figure flit
across the garden grass, with a flapping sun-hat
shading the dainty face, and a flower-basket
on her arm ; the next moment he heard the
shouts of the boys, and perceived that the
family were starting for their daily noontide
constitutional, for Sybil herself was bringing up
the rear. He was obliged to go forward and
meet them, for they had seen him standing idle

in the sunshine, and were clamorous for him to
join their walk.

'We are going to Datchley Wood,' said
Lucy, looking up smiling into his face, and
shipping her morsel of a hand into his large
palm, ' and this basket is for cowslips. Perhaps
you don't know it, but Hannah makes the most
beautiful wine ! '

Then I shall certainly ask her when we
get home to give me a taste of its quality. May
I, Sybil ? ' he asked, falling into place by her
side while the rest of the party rushed on in
advance.

May you ! as if you were not quite sure
that you could not please me nor the dear old
woman better than by so delicate a piece of
flattery,' she answered, turning to him with her
radiant smile. 'But is it really true you are
going to stay with us more than a week ? '

It was the first sufficient view he had had

of her ; lie had reached the house late the
night before, and his host had kept him in such
close attendance on his own humours, that he
had only been able to pay a flying visit
to the nursery before breakfast, and then
Sybil was not there. She had given him justa
brief greeting on his arrival, but had disappeared
immediately, under the plea of looking
after his sleeping accommodation. He had
thought then she looked paler and graver than
in the old times, but had put it down to her
growing womanhood ; now, as he gazed intently
at her, as the sweet welcoming smile
faded from her face, he saw there was trouble
in it.

Child,' he said, in a low tone of infinite
tenderness, ' are the old ties to be broken between
us? Am I not still the friend of the
family? Your father at least has treated meas
such, and told me the strange story there is

to tell and instructed me to offer my congratulations.
Am I to wish you joy ? '

Sybil looked up Yitll an eager, questioning
expression.

My father has told you ? ' and a smile
rather compassionate than scornful touched her
lips ; ' then I am free to speak.'

They had entered the wood, and the child
had run on to join the others in their search
for flowers, so that the two were alone in the
delicious privacy of the tender vernal shade,
with a cloudless heaven above, and their feet
deep in the thick undergrowth of ferns and
flowers. A felled tree was lying near them.

Let us sit down,' said Sybil. ' I have
a great deal to say.' She took off her broad
hat and laid it on the grass beside her, and
then, as if still oppressed, pushed back with
her slender unloved fingers the sombre masses
of her hair.

The action showed the perfect contour of
the rounded wrists, the graceful poise of the
firm white throat, the exquisite profile of the
face turned aside from him.

He watched her but did not speak.

You are not in a hurry ? ' she asked at
length ; ' not bound to return at any stated
hour ? I mean my father will not be expecting
you ? '

'Mr. Dorrimore has a visitor who will
make my goings and comings of no consequence.
I will not beat about the bush,
Sybil. Mr. Karslake is with him and I have
seen him.'

She started a little, but her answer was
not what he expected.

I am very glad,' she said in the same low
concentrated tone as before, one which he
knew was strange to her. ' I am very glad ;
you will be able to tell me how you like

his appearance  what conclusions you draw
from it.'

I should be a bold man to draw conclusions
from barely live minutes' speech and sight
was the answer after a momentary pause
of consideration. ' At least he has soot looks
and good manners, and the reputation of good
character as well  aye, Sybil ? '

All that and more. He is very religious
and devout, and seems to hold his riches  you
know he is rich?  more as a trust for the
benefit of those in need than as a means of self-indulgence.
Perhaps that excuses a little the
thing which I find so intolerable.'

'And that is,' said Helstone with a short
laugh, ' the high-handed way in which he osiers
his purse to the impoverished family. The
boys shall go to Winchester  he will charge
himself with their future career ; the little girls,
deprived of their natural guardian, shall have

the best of bonnes or governesses ; the father's
debts, if any, and his wants, whatever they maybe,
shall all be met and satisfied in full. In
short, he presents a blank cheque to Mr. Dorrit
and bids him fill it in at his discretion 
only there is a consideration ! '

Sybil's face kindled, she drew a deep
breath.

You see it in the same light as I do ; tome
there is nothing but shame and humiliation
in Mr. Karslake's overtures ; but there may be
circumstances which make even self-humiliation
a duty.'

Her companion was silent.

The boys are so clever, and so sweet and
good as well '  looking towards them with
yearning eyes  ' that to deny them any possible
chance of distinguishing themselves seems cruel
and unjust. Jack tells me he means to be the
Lord Chancellor of the future, and dear Tom

has a secret desire to go into the Church.
Then the little ones are growing up and asking
for more every day than it is in my power to
give them. All this presses upon me with a
painful sense of responsibility. But granting
that I could face the idea, you who know more
of the world than I do, tell me, is it not an
unheard-of things for a man to charge himself
with the support of a whole family ? would not
people cry shame upon us for suffering him todo
so, and the time come when he would
repent of his bargain and find the consideration
a very poor equivalent ? '

The girl rose as she spoke and buried her
flushed face in her hands for a moment, then
slowly raising her head and straightening her
slight, supple figure with a gesture of dignity
mingled with deprecation, she added with
unconscious pathos : 

'You will not think it unwomanly for me

to talk to you like this ? You know I have no
friends and have always loved and trusted you
tell me what I ought to do.'

Helstone got up in his turn and walked a
few paces from her. When he came back he
was paler than usual, but he had taken his
resolution.

Let us sit down again and talk this matter
over, as though we were brother and sister.
You do right to trust me, for I have lived so
much amongst women as to have become almost
an old woman myself '  she stopped a moment.

Yes,' she said, looking at him affectionately,
I do not forget what you have sacrificed to
your mother and sister, but what I am so
afraid of is lest sacrifice should not pay. I am
not of the devout nor yet of the heroic type.

I want a great deal in life and if I made

a terrible mistake it would help my misery very
little to know I had done it from a good

motive. Tell me your experience it may
help me.'

There is precious little to tell, and I see
you have an exaggerated notion of that little.
Just as I was called to the bar my father died
in unsuspected debt and difficulty, and the
maintenance of my mother and sister naturally
fell upon me. I was engaged to be married at
the time, and thought the break-up of my
hopes and plans a terrible business, lout there
was no help for it. Thank God the girl, who
was a dear little thing, soon consoled herself
with a better match, and so lifted off mv
shoulders the heaviest weight of all  the fear I
had made a human creature permanently unhappy.
I have lived long enough since then
to see it was all for the best. I doubt if we
should have made a happy couple. That
is aU.'

'Xot quite all,' she answered. 'You tell

me nothing of the protracted self-denials to
clear off your father's debts and  forgive me, I
hardly dare to touch so sore a point  but you
hide the fact that there is that in the condition
of your mother which has made of your daily
life a dread and a martyrdom.'

She leaned towards him as she spoke, her
vivid face illuminated with the ardour of her
enthusiasm : he had turned a little away from
her, so that she could not see his face, but she
took up the hand that was lying loosely on his
knee, and touched it reverently with her lips.

I have done you such scant justice all
these years,' she said gravely, as if in explanation
of the action.

Helstone sat quite still enduring the contact
that thrilled every nerve with an ecstasy of pain.
After a moment he took her little hand that
trembled with emotion, into his cool and
friendly grasp.

You have redressed the balance, my dear
he said quietly, ' by the artois: of your recognition
now. I thank you for it, for I won't
deny it is sweet ; but you must remember if my
duty has been a little hard, it was simply my
duty, which none but the basest of men could
have foregone. And now to go back to your
own affairs. There is one way of making the
rough places smooth  I speak to the girl I
have nursed as a baby  give this young man
what he wants and the weight of obligation
will be lost.'

Sybil cid not blush, but looked dreamily
through the leafy shades of the wood.

'I have thought about love and read
much about it of course, and even '  with a
little laugh  'ventured to write about it too.
I have my theories and my ideals Hke other
girls, but '  she paused abruptly, and a wave of
colon: swept over her cheek. Her keen vision

VOL. I. H

had discovered the figure of Julian Karslake in
the far distance making his way towards them.

She pointed him out to her companion, and
almost unconsciously passed her arm through
his.

Do not leave me she pleaded ; ' hear forme
what he has to say. My father has sent
him, or he knows our habits and has found
us out. But it is an unwarrantable liberty to
have taken ; he must have known we were
gone out with you.'

Helstone smiled. ' Let us admire his
courage,' he said. ' Come, it behoves us to
take a leaf out of his book and stand our
ground  it will scarcely do for us to run away.'

And yet as he glanced for a moment at her
set pale face, and felt the trembling of the
hand that rested on his arm, his own self-possession
almost failed him, and he clenched
his tooth within his closed lips.

A rare fern growing till then unheeded at
his feet suddenly caught this downward glance ;
he stooped and picked it and showed it to
Sybil with due botanical comment, anxious to
see the tension of her mood relax ; and as she
fingered and examined it with real or assumed
interest, he breathed more freely, and standing
a little apart, watched the progress of the young
man towards them with a smile half cynical,
half sympathetic.

It was unquestionably an awkward position
for any man to fill, approaching a reluctant
mistress under the eyes of her approved and
confidential friend, but there was no apparent
awkwardness to be perceived. Even to
Helstone's unfriendly scrutiny Julian Karslake
seemed endowed with every charm of person
and grace of manner which could win a girl's
free heart ; and he acknowledged with a bitter
reluctance that lier yielding must be only a

H 2

question of time. He also acknowledged, as
Karslake drew near enough to raise his hat and
address Sybil, that there was a rare absence of
self-consciousness, a composed and dignified
sweetness of personal manifestation, that could
scarcely be compatible with anything but the
finer traits of character.

Already, he said to himself, the girl felt the
charm, for her face relaxed and she lowered a
little the proud level glance.

Hannah was right,' she said, replying to
his explanations, ' in regard to our whereabouts,
but she ought to have told you we had
planned to spend the afternoon in a long
ramble with our friend Mr. Helstone : it is very
seldom we have the privilege.'

Karslake smiled slightly in a grave deliberate
way.

That is an unmistakable dismissal. Miss
Dorrimore, but I was prepared to find myself

unwelcome. I was also charged with a message
to Mr. Helstone, but I have scarcely the com-age
now to deliver it.'

You will hardly be able to persuade either
of us that you feel any difficulty ou the score
of modesty,' said Helstone drily, for there was
something in Karslake's composure that tried
his temper. ' Speak out, man ! I don't belong
to the ceremonious school myself.'

Mr. Dorrimore wished me to remind you
that this hour for luncheon is two o'clock, and
that he objects to be kept waiting.'

An angry flush rose to Sybil's cheek.

I will call the children,' she said, ' and we
will all return together. Shall we wish you
good morning, Mr. Karslake ? '

Undoubtedly the young man had courage :
he raised his eyes and met the gui's cold and
angry glance, but it had not the effect of daunting
his purpose for a moment.

Pardon my persistence,' he replied, ' but I
know your hours for meals are different, and it
will not interfere with them to stay here a little
longer. I am come on purpose to speak to
you  will you not allow me the opportunity ? '

Heist one glanced at him curiously and with
a sense of increasing antagonism. His colour
was scarcely raised, his voice touched the same
low modulated key as seemed habitual, but
there was a quiet power under this mask of
gentleness that made itself felt. He saw that
Sybil would yield. Was it not inevitable that
she should ? At least, whatever the final issue,
he would force her to listen to Mm  as well
sooner as later.

You may as well stay, Sybil,' he said with
that air of natural authority acquired by their
life-long relations ; ' the children are not ready
to go home, and I should be sorry for the
family to lose their potential beverage. As forme,

I have no option but to obey my host's
commands.'

He gave her a smiling farewell nod, as careless
as if his heart had not been full of bitterness
and pain ; to Karslake he bowed stiffly
enough ; he was quite sure now that the feeling
lie had excited was one of absolute antipathy.

Chapter VI.

They were left standing by the felled tree :
Karslake indicated it to Sybil.

Will you not sit down ? ' he asked. ' You
look pale and fatigued.*

It was on her lips to resent his remark and
refuse his suggestion, for her whole spirit was
in revolt against this forced interview ; but it
seemed to her finer sense unworthy to betray
a petty irritation, therefore she walked slowly
towards the place and sat down.

Her hat was still lying on the ground ; she
took it up and put it on  it was a relief to
have a shade for her clouded and expressive
face.

Then silence fell between them; she sat
motionless, her head a little averted, her hands
folded loosely in her lap, and the leafy branches
above her chequering her girlish figure with
dancing light and shade. She was aware that
her companion, who was leaning against a tree
near her, was watching her intently ; but what
he was about to say, or what answer she
should retiuii when he had spoken, she had no
prevision or fixed purpose.

It was this absolute irresolution of will 
this silence of conscience and conviction apt to be
so prompt and decisive, which baffled her : she
had a vague feeling of being outside her own
destiny, waiting to see the die cast over which
she had no control.

It seemed to her, as she sat waiting to
hear Karslake speak, as if he would never
break the irksome silence ; but he did so at
length.

'I see he began in the sweet measured
tones ]that thrilled her nerves with a sense of
keen irritation, 'that you have scarcely
patience to listen to me, and yet it is necessary
that I should speak to you again. It is precisely
six weeks to-day since I saw you last :
through every hour of that time whether by
the bed-side [of the dying, or in the thick of
secular affairs  I have thought of you, and
every thought has been a kind of wordless
prayer that your heart might turn towards me.
Is there any hope of my prayer being
answered ? '

He paused and tried to look into her face
that was turned steadily from him ; paused a
moment longer waiting for her to speak, but as
she remained silent he went on : 

You must answer me : tell me at least
what you wish me to do

Then she lifted up her eyes full of repressed

and passionate trouble, and looked at
him steadily.

What I wish you to do ? ' she repeated.
'You cannot fail to see that no change has
taken place in my mind since I saw you last.
What does an honourable man do when he
knows the woman he professes to love is distressed
by his importunity ? Do you need me
to tell you that ? '

Leave her unmolested, you would say ; but
m that case his love must be either less than
mine, or the obstacles greater than those which
divide us. Why should you not love me,
Sybil?'

As he spoke he came towards her and
knelt in the grass at her feet, not so much as it
seemed in the character of a passionate lover,
as that the position enabled him to constrain
her movements and to read the effect of his
words in her face. From the same motive he

suddenly seized the hands lying passively in
her lap, and held them in a close and strenuous
grasp.

Why should you not love me, Sybil ? ' he
repeated. 'There is nothing in my body or
mind to provoke instinctive aversion. I offer
you the best that any man can offer  not the
mere accident of wealth, but the vigorous firstfruits
of an honest passion. Perhaps it goes
beyond that limit, for I love you with much of
the heat, unreason, and determination to win
what I want that I have scorned or condemned
in other men. Without you life
seems not worth having, and duty becomes
a dead letter. What have you to oppose to
the strength of such a feeling as this ? only
the insensibility of a recluse and studious girl.
There is but one barrier I should recognise
as insuperable ' 

Up to this point the measure of coercion

he had exercised, and the resolute persistence
of his speech had overborne her faculty of
opposition, but the last words supplied the
arrested power.

Tell me what it is,' she cried passionately
and freeing her hands fi'om his grasp, ' and I
will not fail to tell you it exists.'

For a moment there was a scintillation of
anger in his eyes, and the slight contraction of
the beautiful level brows deepened to a frown.
He rose and stepped back to his former
position.

'I could almost believe it does,' he said
sternly, ' or the lack of womanly kindness on
you* part would be inexplicable.'

Sybil had risen too, and stood facing him
pale with agitation, but otherwise self-contained
and erect, and demanding an explanation of
his meaning by a proud questioning look.

'You do not understands I meant that

perhaps I was mistaken in thinking that the
chief obstacle to my hopes arises from girlish
reticence and over-taxed mental pre-occupation.
I do not know the secret of your life  you
may love some other man.'

The words dropped from his lips with painful
reluctance, and in full expectation of provoking
her to still deeper displeasure, but he
was mistaken. A slight flush of colour passed
over the delicate cheek, and the fine curves of
the lips relaxed and softened to a dreamy
smile.

'I have loved many men from childhood
upwards,' she said, ' with an ardour no living
creature, I think, will ever excite in my mind :
they have been heroes, saints, philosophers even :
Pericles, Caesar, Marcus Aurelius in the old
times ; and in the present.  I am not sure it
would be wise to tell you the names of those
who stir my enthusiasm most. You are quite

right about my mental pre-occupation ; these
are the things I care for, I have been a
student all my life, I hope to be a writer in the
future.*

And he replied, ' it would be the aim
of my life to win you from all this impersonal
devotion to a humbler love and a finer ambition

There,' said Sybil with a sudden brightening
of her mobile face, ' speaks the absolute
antagonism between us. What the one
holds as most precious the other imder-esti-
mates and contemn. I doubt if we have any
interests in common. I shall write under any
conditions of life, as inevitably as the birds sing
and the trees grow. Just now you asked me
what I wished you to do ; my answer is ready.
Explain to my father that your unreasonable
fancy for a girl you did not know, won't
stand the test of nearer acquaintance, and
release me from the trouble and pain you have

caused me. You are on the point of going
away from here amongst your own people,
where this shadowy impression in my behalf
will vanish into thin air, and the old times,
before we ever met or spoke, will come back
again to both of us

She smiled as she spoke with almost her
usual radiance of expression ; her voice had
taken a gladder tone, her very gesture as she
turned to move forwards, indicated a sense of
freedom restored.

It was the keenest pain to him to observe
these signs of her absolute indifference, but
except a little added pallor and firmer compression
of the lips he did not allow the feeling
to appear, nor did he attempt to dispute her
estimate of his feelings.

Sybil had turned to follow the children
into the depths of the wood, and he walked
quietly by her side.

Before,' he said in a constrained tone, ' I
take my final dismissal from your lips, will
YOU tell Mr. Dorrimore you: decisions also,
can one so generous and sympathetic as yourself
feel no pain for the pain she inflicts ? '

But it is so difficult for me to believe that
it is possible for me to give you pain ; but if I

do ' she stopped, and raising her eyes looked

at him with an expression full of tenderness and
regret. She would have bestowed the same
look on any suffering creature, but it seemed to
Karslake to suggest some degree of personal
relenting.

You deceive yourself,' he exclaimed ;
there is no real antagonism between us.
Sybil, I shall yet teach you to love me ! '

He tried to take her hand, but she snatched
it away ; her forbearance was exhausted.

Hear me once and for all,' she exclaimed,
and let this matter be ended between us.

VOL. I. I

When you spoke to me before, did I not tell
you that the offer of your love was thoroughly
disagreeable to me, that all my nature ran in a
different channel from your wishes? If today
I have seemed less resolute, it was partly
from respect to your feelings, which appear
more deeply implicated than I could have
believed possible, and partly from obedience to
my father's command. But no consideration
shall bind me to do the falsest act of a woman's
life  accept a love I cannot return.'

You forget,' he answered in a low incisive
tone, ' that you are refusing a request I have
never made. I have asked you for your love,
but not for the disdainful acceptance of mine.'

In that case we are agreed,' she said
haughtily, 'and need not protract a painful
interview. Nothing remains but for me to
thank you for the offer of a privilege I am unable
to appropriate, and to bid you a final farewell'

She quickened her steps as she spoke, vitli
the motive of joining the children and protecting
herself from further importunity by
their presence. They had seen her approach,
and were shouting to her to make haste and
look at their spoils; but Karslake suddenly
stepped before her so as to intercept her progress,
at the same time making a peremptory
movement of restraint towards one or two
stragglers of the band who were inclined to
run and meet them.

You do not know what you are doing,' he
said ; ' you have no comprehension of the
extent of your own ingratitude.'

Sybil turned a little pale, a sickness of
heart seized her, but she did not lose her
courage.

I know,' she replied firmly, ' that you
have gained my father's favour by liberal
promises of help to all of us, and you may

I 2

well judge how poor and harassed he is when
he has been led to listen to them instead of
resenting them. But I cannot look upon this
as a claim upon my personal gratitude ; to my
mind it wears quite a different aspect, and does
not touch at any point my notions of generosity.
Shall I add I think you forget your position in
reproaching me in this way ? '

Did you think,' he asked, ' that the ingratitude
with which I ventured to charge you
had anything to do with benefits either offered
or conferred? No man with any instinct of
decency would claim anything from the
woman he loved on the ground of obligations
received. The fault I find in you is the
absolute indifference with which you throw
away a love such as mine, without a single
effort to estimate or pity its reality and strength.
Fortified by your coldness against suffering, my
suffering is of no account to you. But as I

told you before, I am not soon daunted :
I shall leave no effort untried to gain that
Without which all the world is loss tome.
I believe I shall yet conquer your insensibility
 sooner or later you shall love me,
Sybil.'

Involuntarily the girl shivered. There was
a concentration of purpose in his low tones
which seemed equal to the accomplishment of
his will. Some shadow cast by future experiences
seemed to chill and darken her spirit,
and induced her to speak with a passionate
asperity alien to the intrinsic nobleness of her
nature.

'Have you the power of destroying my
free-will,' she asked, ' or am I bound, under
penalty of moral condemnation, to accept your
own estimate of the good you offer me ? Do
you think no man as much in earnest as yourself,
has ever failed before? I know  you

have reminded me  you are well qualified to
win a girl's heart, but I am different from
other girls. I see you are beautiful, but what
is your beauty to me if it does not touch
me ? I believe you are good and kind, and
still my desire is to escape from you. Can I
say more ? '

She stopped and turned towards him in the
energy of her expostulation, every point of
face and figure irradiated by the tender spring
sunshine, falling in broken lights through the
foliage above their heads.

There was much of the virginal majesty
and proud self-reliance of a Diana in the poise
of the tall and supple figure ; the perfect hues
of her face, the vivid crimson of the sensitive
hips, the passing glow of indignant feeling on
the clear pale cheek, the angry sparkle
of the eyes which met his in unflinching
protest, stirred the hot blood in his veins

and shook him with a paroxysm of mortal
passion.

For a moment he hesitated whether to turn
and flee from her in despair at her coldness, or
to seize her in his arms and try and melt her
heart against the fire of his own.

This was the transient impulse in one over
whom impulse had lost its sway. What he did
was prosaic enough.

He held out his hand to her with the
ordinary action of leave-taking.

Let us at least part friends,' he said. ' I
have not the courage to withstand your hard
words  at least to-day. Good-bye.'

Their hands met. He scarcely touched
the warm unloved finger-tips, but there was
something in his very abstinence that brought
a sense of keen compunction to the girl's
chivalrous soul.

'Forgive me!' she pleaded, attitude and

expression changing to sudden softness ' I
have been rude and harsh in trying to be plain,
and your forbearance makes me doubly
ashamed. I should be proud to call you my
friend.'

She held his hand in her own in a generous
clasp, and he endured without returning the
pressure ; endured to look into her tender eyes,
full of sweet self-reproach, with no further
betrayal of himself. And then when she had
turned away he went deliberately towards the
children, greeting them all by name, and
saying something apt to the individuality of
each. He even waited to examine and gauge
the contents of their baskets, which they
pressed upon his notice in the eagerness of their
childish competition.

Go,' he said after a few minutes, ' your
sister is waiting.'

And he stood tranquilly watching their

departure till the last childish figure had faded
from his sight, the clear treble voices  all
talking eagerly together  had fainted on the
distant air. They left a solitude profound
enough to sanction any demonstration of self-indulgence,
and for a moment the young man
felt a wild desire to throw himself prone on
the grass where she had sat, and bury his face
in the feathery blades caressed by her unconscious
fingers.

He contented himself, however, with
stooping down and picking up a bunch of wildflowers
she had held and dropped ; amongst
them were the rare fern leaves Gilbert Helstone
had given her. These he threw away with an
instinctive impression of repugnance and mistrust
; the rest he shut up between the leaves
of a little book he carried in his pocket.

Then he too turned and left the wood.

CHAPTER Vn.

The old manor-house of Ashlands stood about
three miles from the sea-shore, and Gilbert
Helstone, with all a Londoner's desire to drink
in as much pure air as possible during his brief
holiday, was in the habit of striding down to
the beach and back again before breakfast.

On the third morning of his visit he had
accomplished his constitutional at an earlier
hour than usual, and, finding he had time to
spare, he ascended the precipitous cliff which
formed the eastern point of the long line of
rocks stretching far beyond the range of
vision, and threw himself on the turf. It was
a morning in the middle of May, but the

season was early with the fretful uncertainty of
our English climate, and the temperature was
as high as midsummer. The sky was a fleck-less
dome of pale blue, palpitating in the white
light of the unclouded sunshine, and the sea
shone with a metallic lustre m the unmitigated
glare. A few fishing-boats, for the most part
gone out to empty the lobster pots of their
night spoils, dotted the surface here and there,
or the sails of a distant vessel struck suddenly
into sight on the verge of the horizon.

On the beach below two tiny figures were
stripping ofi* their clothes preparatory to a
plunge m the sea, for the coast was secluded
enough to make it free to any bather.

At the height he was above them Heist one
could not recognise the boys, but as their
young shrill voices rose in the silent air he
detected a familiar ring, and identified them as
Jack and Tom Dorrimore. He was, however.

in no mood to discover himself, nor was lie
anxious for their gleeful companionship back to
the house, for there are times when the careless
light-heartedness of children jars with intolerable
discord on the adult mind, harassed with
the cares and disappointments of life.

He was aware that the twins were accustomed
to come down and bathe alone, but they
generally went to a different part of the shore,
considered safer and more remote from observation
than this. The whole range of beach at
Eoosden Mana was of shingle, and regarded as
dangerous and treacherous in the extreme for
any bather who was unfamiliar with the features
of the coast, and Helstone had even
expostulated with Sybil on the risk she suffered
the children to run.

But she had answered brightly that the
danger did not exist for those who knew as
they did almost every pebble, rock, and pool,

every shelving slope and sudden pitch of coast
from infancy.

He threw himself down on the turf and
watched their gambols with no feeling of uneasiness
; the tide was ebbing fast and the sea
superficially calm, though with an ominous
ground-swell undetected by this unpractised eye.

He was reassured, too, by the sight of another
bather at a considerable distance from
the boys, who had rowed out from the shore
into deep water, sprung into the sea with the
cool dexterity of a practised diver, and had
been for some time swimming luxuriously in its
warm pellucid depths.

Helstone felt inclined to envy him that
power over the element which he himself had
never acquired; and there was an obvious
mastery and vigour in his movements which
struck even the unprofessional observer.

The man who cannot swim is maimed of

another sense,' he said to himself ; ' I suppose
these lads can do a little in that way.'

He approached the edge of the cliff to watch
them ; they were still playing ' like troutlets
in a pool,' running races with each other,
diving, dipping, and wading far out into the
receding tide. Now and again he could only
see their curly black heads bobbing up and
down like corks in the water, and a feeling of
considerable uneasiness possessed him. Still,
they never failed to scramble back in safety to
the shore, their merry laughter sounding far
and wide in the clear air.

Helstone shouted to them it was time to go
home to breakfast, but apparently his voice
was not heard. They rushed back into the
water as before, intent on securing a prize of
magnificent mares' tails sea-weed which was
floating past them.

Jack, the most adventurous, had seized it

in his grasp, as he thought, when the slippery
object escaped him ; he made another dash
after it, lost his foothold on the treacherous
slope, and before he could recover himself the
ebbing tide had sucked him inter and was
carrying him out to sea beyond any chance of
his power of recovery. '

Tom, who had struggled back in safety to
the shore, uttered a piercing shriek, running
frantically back into the sea at the peril of his
own life.

It was a terrible moment. Helstone's position
was one of such absolute powerlessness as to
bring with it almost the experience of madness.
He could not annihilate the awful distance
between himself and the drowning boy, though
the first impulse of frenzy was to leap sheer
from the cliff on which he stood ; but granting
that he had failed to dash out his own life in so
doing, of what avail would it have been ?

He could not swim ; he was as helpless to
save life as the shrieking child below. Was he
then to stand, with the sweat of mortal terror
on his brow, and passively watch the destruction
of that cherished life, and take back the
news to Sybil ? All this occurred to him with
the instantaneousness of thought, and then a
gleam of hope struck across his mind.

That stout swimmer he had seen before,
and who was now leisurely putting on his
clothes, must surely have noticed the boys
at play, and might have seen the danger;
or, if the curve of coast had hidden them
from his sight, Tom's screams for help must
surely reach his ears.

No ; he could perceive from his movements
that he was unaware of the tragedy being
enacted before his eyes ; the poor boy's cries,
choked with sobs and abortive efforts at help,
had not penetrated to the ledge of rock on

which he was sitting, full in Helstone's sight.
But his voice should reach him ; and Helstone
gathered up his strength into a mighty shout
for help that, in its strenuous agony, might
almost have roused the dead.

The other has heard the sound, and looks
quickly up to see whence it proceeds, but, God
of mercy, how deliberately he moves ! Another
minute and it may be too late, if not too late
already ; does he not see the tiny figure tossing
on the crest of the outgoing wave ? He does ;
there is a moment's pause, a quick glance
around as if to gather some comprehension of
the facts, and then he rushes to the water's
edge and flings himself into the sea.

To the man standing in speechless agony
above him and watching his movements, the
sea looks calm and his progress slow and
unsatisfactory, but he cannot estimate the cruel
force of the heavy ground-swell against the

VOL. I. K

swimmer's limbs, nor the fact that the ebbing
tide carries its victim still beyond his reach.

What he sees is that the boy is not yet saved,
and he almost curses the inadequacy that mocks
his hopes.

Again and again, yielding to a useless impulse,
he shouts encouragement or invective,
until at length the blessed moment of fruition
comes  the boy is in the grasp of his saviour.
Then Helstone prepared to rush down the cliff,
eager to be at hand to receive the "piteous burden,
never doubting that his Hfe is still in him.

Standing now on the sea-shore, he is better
able to judge how severe a struggle it has been ;
the swimmer is still some distance from land,
and he has evidently some difficulty in breasting
the waves that beat him backwards, with one
arm encumbered with his helpless load-they

stand and watch him, man and boy
on either side.

Poor Tom, with set white face, shivers
naked on the beach with his eyes strained
towards his brother, and scarcely conscious of
the tender pity with which Helstone has drawn
him towards him. The other two are near
enough now for speech and recognition.

It is Julian Karslake,' gasped Tom. '
Jack  look at Jack!' The boy's nerveless
arm hung over Karslake's shoulder, his face
pale as a lily rested upon the same, the
salt ooze dripping from his hair over the
closed eyes and parted, breathless lips. The
limbs, of marble amiss, seemed to Helstone's
shocked perceptions to have already the
rigidity of death.

He would have waded into the sea to take
him into his arms, had not Karslake shouted to
him to stand back.

You do not know the coast ; it is steep
as a hill-side. I shall be all right in a minute.'

A few moments longer, and he had put the
boy carefully into Helstone's arms.

Keep his head raised,' he said ; ' and Tommy
boy, run for my coat yonder.'

Tom flew speechless and heedless of the
stones that cut his naked feet.

He is dead,' said Helstone in an awed tone.
'0 God, that I had been on the spot, and had
skill and strength to save him ! '

We cannot decide that he is dead ; let us
lose no time in useless regrets. Here ! wrap
him in this coat and carry him to the Harbour
Inn, close at hand. We can try some simple
remedies till medical aid is brought.'

By this time the news of the accident had
spread, and stragglers were gathering from every
part. There was no difficulty in finding a
messenger to the nearest doctor, and suggestions
were poured in on all sides. Karslake's advice
could not be improved upon, however, and

Helstone followed it, making his way as swiftly
as he could over the heavy shingles, with Jack's
head pillowed on his arm and a crowd of fisher
folk, men, women, and boys, bringing up the
rear.

Tom, pale and hushed, stayed of necessity
behind to put on his clothes, looking from time
to time at Karslake, who had volunteered to
wait for him, and was standing a little way
off wringing the water from his hair and garments.


A stifled sob reached his ears.

My hands shake so I can't dress myself 
would you mind helping a fellow a bit ? '

Karslake came towards him. ' I am a little
shaken myself, Tom, but we shall manage
between us. Come, you cut a much more
respectable figure than I. Now you have your
boots on (we will not wait to lace them), I
think I must ask you to run for my other

clothes under the clifF. Don't forget the shoes,
and I will not keep you two mutes.'

Tom was there and back in a flash, and in a
few moments they were walking hand in handover
the beach towards the inn.

I did not know it was you, Mr. Karslake,
at first. Oh, what will poor Sybil say ! '

ov did I know it was Jack Dorrimore,
so that Sybil at least will have nothing to say

to me, besides ' he stopped short, for he

saw the boy had no doubt that his brother's
life was saved.

As they approached the house, the crows
which was momently increasing gave way with
a murmur of pity and approval.

It was passion who went in after him 
they do say he's the finest swimmer in all the
country round. Aye, thick's the little lad's
brother.'

The drowned boy was lying on a couch,

wrapped in a blanket, in the best parlour of
the inn, as Karslake and Tom entered.

A bath with hot water stood near, from
which it was evident he had just been lifted,
without any effect on his condition being
produced.

Gilbert Helstone was hanging over the head
of the sofa with intense anxiety written on his
face, and the motherly landlady was on her
knees chafing, with patient assiduity, the yet cold
and rigid limbs. Tom gazed about him for a
moment with distended eyes and then, uttering
a piercing cry, rushed forward, and before he
could be restrained had flung himself on his
brother's body.

Jack,' he sobbed, hugging him in his
warm arms and pressing his now glowing face
against the lips, and cheek and brow that were
the counterpart of his own, save in their still
pallor, ' why don't you open your eyes and

speak to me? You are not drowned, you
know  Julian Karslake has saved you. Why
don't you do something for him ? ' he demanded
almost fiercely of the pitying group who stood
around  ' it is cruel to let him lie here like
this.'

My boy,' said Helstone tenderly, ' we
will do our best, and in order that we may do
so you will get up and go away and wait
patiently in another room till we can bring the
good news to you. He cannot breathe while
you are holding him so tight.' Tom released
his grasp and rose to his feet.

I can do no harm by looking at him and
watching,' he pleaded ; ' let me stay.'

At this moment there was heard the distinct
sound of wheels, and a stir and movement
in the little crowd outside the windows. The
announcement that the ' doctor be coming ' flew
from lip to lip. Tom caught the welcome

sound and his look of agony lightened. Dr.
Bertram was an old friend in whose power to
save he had the most implicit confidence, and
he flew out of the room to meet him.

The doctor was just stepping out of his high
dog-cart. The boy rushed towards him to help
and quicken his movements.

Come ! ' he gasped, ' it is Jack. He
would have died if you had not come  new
it will be all right.'

We will hope so, my boy, we will do our
best. Let us see Jack at once.' He went
straight up to his patient, after a keen glance
round the room at its several occupants and a
friendly nod to Karslake.

He stood for a moment by the couch
shocked, in spite of his professional training, at
the aspect of the pathetic little figure stretched
upon it, whose vitality of yesterday had been
so abundant and joyous a possession.

He felt his pulse and tested this temperature
without suffering his face to betray to those
who were watching him anxiously, the impression
produced.

How long was he in the water ? ' he asked
abruptly.

Not a quarter of an hour, I should think,
but we had no means of measuring the time.*
It was Helstone that answered.

It was longer than that,' said Karslake ina
low tone ; ' I did not notice his danger at
first  there was a heavy sea on and the tide
carried him out.'

Dr. Bertram nodded. Then he sat down
by the side of the boy and raised his head carefully
on his arm, compressing the delicate
nostrils and wiping out his mouth and throat
with assiduous tenderness.

Let us have fresh hot water,' he said
cheerily, ' and hot bottles to succeed ; we have

perhaps some hours' work before us, and I
must have the room cleared except of our good
hostess and the one of you Uvo gentlemen who
can best trust his own nerve and patience.
Please God, we shall vet bring him to.'

The two men looked at each other, both
recognising the sacrifice demanded.

Then Karslake rose.

Mr. Helstone is an old friend of the family
against whom mv claims to make myself useful
count for nothing.'

Bertram looked disappointed. ' We have
worked together ]before, Julian, at such tasks
as these ; however, settle it between you. And
you may as well take the earliest opportunity
of changing your wet clothes and getting a cup
of hot coffee. Then if you want to be otherwise
useful, go up to Sybil Dorrimore and
break the news gently to her.'

Chapter VIII.

It was afternoon on the same day when Gilbert
Helstone entered the Library at Ashlands. He
had seen as he passed the window that Mr.
Dorrimore was not there, and that Sybil was-standing
at her father's writing-table, so intent
upon a strip of paper she held in her hand,
that she had neither heard his footsteps nor
perceived his approach. Also, there wa
something in her air and attitude that told him
she was still ignorant of the events of the morning.
He went in quietly and closed the door
behind him.

Sybil looked quickly up ; there was a contraction
of pain and displeasure on her face

that passed away immediately beneath the
sudden anxiety his aspect excited.

'What is the matter? has anything happened?
Have not Jack and Tom been with
you?'

Helstone hesitated. ' They are all right
now,' he said hurriedly, as he watched every
trace of colour receding from the vivid face
before him, and the eyes dilating with an instinct
of almost maternal apprehension. ' You
may well bear to hear of their danger when I
tell you it is over. Have you seen no one this
morning ? '

'Xo one. You are not keeping anything
back from me in mistaken kindness ? Am I
wanted ? Is there anything to be done ? I can
be quiet in an emergency.'

My dear, thank God the emergency is past.
In one word. Jack has had a severe ducking,
but a good night's rest will set him right again,

and he will be able to walk home tomorrow
to tell his own story. Tom simply stays beside
him because it seems to be a law of nature
they should not be parted.'

And that is all  all the truth ? no reservations
 no after-claps of pain ? May I go to
him?'

Certainly you may if you will, only I
hope you will first give me some dinner, of
which I stand sorely in need. Come, child,
drop your mistrust of my statements and sit
down like a sensible girl, and I will tell you
the whole story point by point. But were
you not uneasy at our non-appearance at
breakfast ? '

Not in the least ; I knew they were gone
down to bathe and would meet you on the beach,
and I concluded that you were giving them a
breakfast at the Harbour Inn, as you have sometimes
done before. But Jack  tell me about

Jack ! And yet I hardly need to be told.
He was battling  lie went out beyond his depth.
And I owe his sweet life to you. I do owe it ?
he is saved ? ' she added passionately.

Helstone's swarthy cheek flushed. He felt
as if he wold almost have given his right
hand to have been able to answer in the affirmative,
and have established such a claim upon
the ardent, gratitude of the tender, pain-stricken
girl who was hanging on his lips.
'He is saved,' he said in a dry, measured
voice, 'but not by me. You owe your debt
to Julian Karslake.'

Sybil recoiled as if a blow had struck her,
and though no exclamation had escaped her
self-control before, she now uttered a low sound
almost like a moan of pain.

Helstone watched her with acutest interest.

She stood for a few moments a little turned
away from him, evidently striving to rally her

forces, then sitting down in the chair he had
before offered her, she said in a quiet constrained
voice, ' Please tell me all about it.'

When he had done she lifted up her pale
set face, but there were no tears in her eyes.

But he ran no risk in saving him  he has
the reputation of a champion swimmer  on
such a morning as this the sea would be calm.
It was an act of simple humanity that cost him
nothing.'

Helstone was silent.

Was it not so ? ' she asked with a vibration
of pain in her voice that touched him to the
quick.

Not quite so easy as all that, but I am a
poor critic of aquatic feats ; but it seems,
according to Dr. Bertram, he has a specialty
for saving life from drowning, and we are all
fond of exhibiting our prowess, whatever form
it may take.'

And then suddenly changing his tone, and
speaking with a bitterness which he no longer
tried to repress, he added 

You will have to sive in, child ; you will
never be able to withstand these accumulated
inducements.'

Her answer startled him, it was so different
from what he had expected. ' Yes,' she said
drearily, ' I am being driven by circumstances
beyond my power of self-direction ; each new
incident seems to bind me hand and foot.
Look here ! '

She took up the same slip of paper he had
seen in her hand on entering the room and
showed it to him. It was a cheque to Mr.
Dorrimore's order, drawn by Julian Karslake
on the local bank for 850/.

Helstone took it from her hand, examined
it curiously, and put it down without comment ;
but one glance at Sybil's shame-dyed cheeks

VOL. I. L

was such an appeal to his sympathy that he
said 

You see men view pecuniary transactions
so differently. I should find it hard to accept
hi. from my best friend if I were starving 
Julian Karslake would tell us that Alas unchristian
pride, and that he would take alms if
he needed them. Your father has no sensibility
on this point  he has long lived out of the
world, and he thinks the world ought still to
find him means to do so. He considers himself
defrauded of his dues as a writer, and
accepts a bonus like this as a providential righting
of the scale.'

But consider,' she said almost with a
shudder, ' how my father must have confided
all the secrets of our position to him  have
shown him his loss of spirit and dignity, before
he would be able to make him fully understand
that he had no pride nor manhood left to be

insulted ! Mr. Karslake must know this is a
free gift ; I mean there cannot be the smallest
pretence of future payment, nor do I feel sure
that this is all. What I do know is that weare
at this moment pensioners upon his
bounty '

Xot quite so bad as that, Sybil ; a man's
loan to a friend is not accepted as an obligation
by every member of the family, and, after all,
there is no doubt that Mr. Dorrimore calls this
a loan. It is at least in our power to make
Karslake understand that you and the children
are so far provided for as to be independent of
his good offices, and that what transactions take
place between him and your father are simply
their own affair. Will you leave these matters
in my hands, child ? '

Sybil looked up with an ironical smile.

And you will undertake to tell him too,
that I equally refuse to acknowledge any claim

L 2

upon my gratitude for this saving Jack's life 
that, precious as my little Lord Chancellor is tome,
I have bought him back too dearly if thanks
and deep obligation to him are to be the
price ? No, Mr. Helstone, no ; you cannot
help me. The idea of discussing these matters
of . s. d. with Mr. Karslake makes me
sick at heart. His beautiful, high-bred face
would express nothing but cold surprise. Matters
must rest as they are for time and chance
to settle, and what that settlement will be it is
not very difficult to guess.'

Her voice sank to a tone of utter dejection.


Even now,' she continued, as Helstone
remained silent, ' I am fully aware our affairs
are falling from bad to worse. My poor father,
discouraged by ill success, docs not write with
the talent and spirit of old  we all want the
sunshine of a little favour to develop and

sustain our faculties. The last two seasons
have been bad, and that makes all the difference
between paying our narrow way with
great difficulty and much self-denial, and not
being able to pay it at all. Bills, not of extravagance
but of barest necessity, haunt my dreams
like a nightmare ; it is no good to take them
to my father, for he has no money to give me.
If the children are sick, I tremble with apprehension
quite apart from love or fear, lest I
should be constrained to call in Dr. Bertram,
whose last account has remained for yeai unpaid.
\yhat little I can do to reduce expenses
seems so poor and useless as almost to paralyse
my efforts '

Stop I ' he cried, deeply pained ; ' can this
have been the case, and you have not claimed
my right to help you ? Sybil, I thought you
had more faith in me.'

I have perfect faith in you,' she answered,

with a sweet gravity, ' but I have learned only
very lately the details of your domestic life,
and I doubted your right to help us. If you
had been alone in the world, I almost think I
should have told you all this before, and asked
you for what 1 wanted ; and if I tell you now it is
that sou may understand the resistless pressure
upon me. The case stands thus : we must
continue to struggle on, sinking year by year
into deeper poverty  my brothers denied their
natural rights  or I must go to Julian Karslake
and tell him the truth.'

And what is the truth ? ' demanded Hel-stone,
almost harshly.

That I showed a total misconception of
my true position when I dared to reject his
advances with so much decision and pride of
independence  that I am so hampered by
responsibilities, sacred responsibilities, that
I cannot escape  that if he is still willing

to help us '  her voice fell  ' I-will acknowledge
his charity in any way he chooses to
dictate.'

If the dictation assume the form of a
brief engagement and speedy marriage ? '

Sybil looked at him with pained surprise,
but to protest or complain was contrary to her
nature.

You make me feel,' she said, ' how unnaturally
I am situated in having no womanly
guidance. It is scarcely seemly to discuss such
closely personal matters, even with a kinsman
and life-long friend like you. But as I have
gone thus far, I will go on to the bitter end,
and answer your question. Don't feel too
much ancjjer or disgust, for all this is the outcome
of very hard and very painful thinking.
If Mr. Karslake will accept my submission
after all I have said to him, I will leave every
future arrangement in his hands.'

And will you tell him that you love him,
child ? He will want that.'

No,' she cried, passionately, ' I will not
tell him that, but I will tell him that I will
order my life and conduct in obedience to his
will. And if it be possible to coerce one's love,
I will love him yet with all my heart and all
my strength.'

Her eyes flashed, and her pale cheek took
that slight transient flush that strong emotion
calls up in high-strung temperaments such as
hers.

Helstone gazed upon her with a strong
yearning pain, and then, mistrusting his own forbearance,
got up and began to pace the room.

One more unworthy question from my
lips, Sybil, and I have done ; and think of meas
the life-long friend in answering it. It
seems so strange that a man like Julian Kars-
lake should fail to please you, that I am half

inclined to believe that you have seen some one
else that has taken your girl's imagination captive.
Is it so ? Does the man live whom you
would rather marry ? '

He turned suddenly round and faced her,
his own deep-set eyes and cheek aglow, but
there was no answering fjleam in hers, and he
scarcely cared to wait for the quiet disclaimer
that fell from her lips.

The sudden entrance of Mr. Dorrimore was
a welcome relief to each.

Aye ? ' he said, looking suspiciously round,
a cabinet council of two ? I look upon this
room as sacred, Sybil ; strange that I should
have to tell you so at this date. Have you
been meddling with my papers ? surely I did
not leave them open like this ? '

He went eaojerlv to his writings-table, shuffling
the papers right and left, and covertly
slipping the cheque out of sight.

I came in as usual after dinner to see if
you wanted me,' began Sybil, but Helstone
interrupted her by rising to leave the room.

I am going to the nursery, Sybil, to try
and induce Hannah to find me something to
eat. She will not prove hard-hearted I trust,
though I ask for it in canonical hours.'

He nodded to his host and departed.

Mr. Dorrimore's pale fastidious face contracted
into a frown.

Is it that man who influences you against
your true interests ? Sybil, I have something
very serious to say to you.'

He sat down in his padded chair, clasping
each arm with his thin flexible fingers as if to
impart resolution to his purpose and looked
his daughter steadily in the face.

I am prepared to listen,' she said in a low
voice, ' but before doing so I am bound to tell
you I have seen Mr. Karslake's cheque. I

could not help cloiDg so  it lay open on the
table.'

A slight flush passed over Mr. Dorrimore's
cheek. Sybil observed it. and it drew her
heart towards him and strengthened her purpose.
She was going to add another item to
her confession when her father interrupted her.

It is of little consequence,' he said coldly,
it would have been part of the business I have
in view to tell you of it. That cheque represents
a loan without which open shame and
disgrace must come upon us. Which shame,
think you, is the worst  to accept such a loan
from a man who will not miss it, or to leave
oiu- village tradesmen's bills unpaid till their
forbearance is exhausted, and they drive us to
extremities and out of Ashlands ? '

Sybil remained silent.

Out of Ashlands I ' repeated Mr. Dorrit
cynically  ' that will follow. The same

post which brought this timely aid from Julian
Karslake, brought also a letter from the new
owner of the place  my old friend's nephew.
He writes to say his uncle was rich and
eccentric, but he is poor and practical, and the
only terms on which he will accept me as a
tenant are that I pay a sufficient rent for
house and land. Now, the fair marketable
value of Ashlands woidd absorb every shilling
I could lay my hands on.'

He paused again and looked at the pale
girl opposite him with an expression of bitterness
almost vindictive in its intensity.

I have not yet finished the list of our woes :
I am growing old and weak, and the brain no
longer answers the demands made upon it.
My girl can criticise her father. For years my
pen has helped to feed my brood, but it will do
so no more. I must stand aside for younger
men and lesser gifts. You will perhaps answer

that I have spent as little on my children as it
was possible to do, and nothing at all on their
education. It is not true. I have emptied my
mind into yours so far as it could hold the gift,
and if in turn you communicated what I gave
you, I am still the fountain-head.'

Father ! ' cried Sybil, rising in distress and
going to his side  ' have I ever dared to reproach
you ? have I ever, even in thought,
presumed to judge your conducts What have
I done that you are so angry with me ? '

She had laid her hand tentatively on his
arm, but he pushed it away.

What have you done ? ' he repeated with
a sneer :  ' vindicated your woman's right of
free-will, and rejected the man who alone
could stop our fall to ruin. As you examined
the cheque just now in defiance of all the laws
of honour, perhaps you also read the note in
which it was enclosed ? Xo ? It is no matter,

you shall know the contents of the one as of
the other. Mr. Karslake followed you on
Tuesday to Datchley Wood  he did so at my
suggestion, or at least with my sanction.
What reception did you give him ? '

She was silent ; such a change of feeling
had passed over her since then, that she was
inclined to wonder at the vehemence and determination
she had shown.

Give me an answer, Sybil ; I am disposed
to hear your version of the tale.'

If,' she replied coldly, ' Mr. Karslake has
laid his complaint before you, there is nothing
for me to tell. Doubtless he speaks the truth.'

Mr. Dorrimore pushed back his chair so as
to increase the distance between them ; he was
apt to express his displeasure by such puerile
manifestations.

You are insolent ! ' he said in a tone new
to her. ' Is it on the strength of your youth

and beauty, or because you are so learned and
so clever? So far as that goes, Julian Kars-
lake would like you better a little less exalted ;
and for the rest '

He broke off suddenly as if his measure of
self-restraint, poor as it was, had given way,
and went on more vehemently :

Placed as we are, I might have been forgiven
if I had urged you to accept any decent
offer of marriage that would have helped us
out of our difficulties. But what can any
woman desire that this young man does not
possess ? What inexplicable kindness and insensibility
is it that leads you to drive him away
almost with insult and contumely ? I am not
selling you, as we are told our high-born
mothers sell their daughters, to old age, vice, or
infirmity, but to '

But here Sybil interrupted him in her turn.

Spare me,' she cried passionately, ' spare

me the reiteration of Julian Karslake's perfections
 I admit them all ! I am blind and
insensible, and am prepared to own I treated

him with insufferable arrogance, but ' with

a sudden fall of her high spirit and a burst
of reluctant tears, ' my excuse is simply this 
I do not love him.'

You talk like a heroine of penny romance,'
said her father contemptuously. 'Matrimony
is a matter of mutual adaptability and respect,
hot passion soon grows cold. If your personal
fancy is for the role of a Juliet, I should advise
you to thwart it, I don't think it would add
much to your charms in Mr. Karslake's eyes.
But we are talking beside the point ; he has
withdrawn his  persecution, shall we call it ? '

Sybil wiped away her tears. ' And all his
liberal offers of help ? '

'That, girl, is my affair,' returned Mr.
Dorrimore angrily, 'So much have I told

you, that if the ruin that impends is averted,
you may be quite sure I have had outside aid.
Whence it comes is no longer business of yours

There was a brief silence. Presently she
asked : 

Is he going away ? ' and Mr. Dorrimore
repeated drily : 

He is going away, so soon as our vicar can
provide a substitute. You would not have
the church orphaned even for your sake ? '

Sybil walked to the window and looked
out. Her heart was full almost to bursting,
but there could be no outpouring before this
cynical father. The remembrance of her
mother  the tall, fair, gracious presence of her
happy childhood  glanced across her mind,
evoking a passion of regret and yearning that
almost amounted to agony. As she stood with
her wistful gaze fixed on the outer landscape,
she perceived that the wind had risen there

YCL. T. M

was a delicious murmur in the trees and a
breath of salt air from the distant sea. She
could scent the fine aroma, and feel its refreshing
breath upon her aching brow through the
half-open lattice. It brought back suddenly to
her mind the accident of the morning and her
renewed obligation to Karslake, of which her
father was still ignorant. Was she bound to
tell him ? Yes, by every instinct of honour, yes.

She told him in as few words as possible
that the boys had gone down to bathe ; that
Jack had lost his footing and might have been
drowned, if Mr. Karslake had not been on the
spot and saved him. Her own face was pale
with intensity of feeling, as she spoke of the
terrible possibility.

Little fool ! ' apostrophised the father ; ' we
will put a stop to those games for the future.
Jack is thirteen and shall begin to earn his
living. I have had an offer from a respectable

chemist at Dorchester, and shall
accept it ; he has seen the boy and taken a
prodigious fancy to him. I am a poor man,
and must accept my position.'

Sybil's lips parted in voiceless appeal. Jack
her little Lord Chancellor  the ardent, bright,
imaginative student, relegated to a chemist's shop
in Dorchester  to a dreary drudgery that would
eat into his soul and, worse than all, divided
from his other self, his twin existence ! If the
balance of her purpose had hung in equal poise
before, her ardent sisterly affection supplied the
determining weight. She looked at her
father, but this unusual energy seemed to have
collapsed ; he was bending over a newspaper
he had taken from a table. As she watched
him he threw it from him with an expression
of impatience.

My sight fails me ; life on the terms I
hold it is scarcely worth living.'

His daughter went up to him and kissed his
forehead; there was a deliberation in the action
that made him suspect a hidden significance.

'You will have occasion to answer Mr.
Karslake's letter,' she said in her low vibrating
tones ; * tell him that I want to see him to thank
him personally for what he did for Jack.'

Mr. Dorrimore had no fine intuitions. He
caught her hand to detain her, for she was
about to leave the room.

You mean that you will smooth my path,
to possible blindness, Sybil ? '

Her heart swelled, her eyes dilated, and a
painful glow suffused her face and neck.

Simply : I will make Mr. Karslake understand
that I will be his wife if he still wishes to
marry me.'

CHAPTER IX.

Many admirable and more false things have
been said from age to age of the relation of
the sexes ; that the one is meant by nature as the
complement of the other, in default of which
the existence of each remains maimed and incomplete.
But assuredly as there are men, not
spiritual ascetics only, with whom devotion to a
cause, be it one of principle or passion, fills
every interstice of their nature to the exclusion
of those inherent yearnings, so are there women
in plenty with whom to stand alone seems the
necessary attitude for the full development of
their powers.

They are not quick to love : not that their
nature is unloving, but that they demand more
than the individual can give ; not that the sweet
instinct of maternity is dormant within their
bosom, but that they would not limit it to the
brood that might cluster around their own
knees. Such have felt they could grow better
and freer with more room to grow in than is
possible to any woman who has bound up her
life with that of another, and is limited and restrained
by the pressure of baby fingers.

Vows make duties which otherwise one is at
liberty to ignore and pass by.

From this class have sprung some of our
finest intellects and most honoured philanthropists.
And to this class young Sybil Dorrimore
conceived herself to belong ; not perhaps with
perfect justice, for as yet the passionate capabilities
of her own nature were both latent and
Unsuspected. Her instinctive recoil from Julian

Karslake arose more from the abruptness and
determination of his advance, and the unsuspected
favour given by others to his suit,
than from any reasoned antipathy. At the
same time it was no petty conflict she had passed
through, nor was it any perfect victory she lead
gained. Circumstances had driven her to the
edge of the circle she would fain have
avoided, but she said to herself there was
small chance that she should ever be induced to
enter in and sit down at the central point of
warmth and contact.

Three days had passed since Jack's accident,
but Julian Karslake had not obeyed the
summons contained in Mr. Dorrimore's note of
acknowledgment.

I shall have humbled myself in vain ! *
thought the girl, and though her cheek burned
with shame at the idea her heart leapt with a
sense of recovered freedom.

During that short period she endured a
humiliation so intense that it was in itself
calculated to harden her heart against the
kindness that caused it. So many outstanding
bills had been paid, that the neighbourhood
woke up to the conclusion ' that Mr. Dorrimore
must have come into a fortune.' Hannah for
the most part disbursed these moneys, and every
report she brought back to her young mistress
of the equal surprise and satisfaction of the
recipient, was a separate sting and wound to
Sybil's pride of independence.

Then again Tom delighted, now that all
danger was over, to have such danger to
describe, and feeling himself to hold a
superior position as witness of the scene, was
never tired of going over the details of Jack's
accident, and bearing his hearty boyish testimony
to Karslake's pluck and good-nature.

Next to the disparagement of those we love,

I

there are few things more trying to poor
human nature than the exaltation of those we
dislike.

As Sybil looked at her two brothers lounging
in the sunny window-seat, and stimulating
each other in these reminiscences with a
perpetual ' Don't you remember, Tom ? ' and
an ' Ah, Jack, you couldn't know  of course '
a feeling of irritability, quite new to her
experience, russet her temper and gave a
certain sharpness to her voice.

My dear boys, do try and forget it all, and
give your minds to your lessons, as you used todo
before Jack was half drowned and wholly
saved ! '

'Why, Sybil,' said Tom reproachfully, 'I
thought you liked a noble action ? '

My darling ! ' she answered with prompt
compunction, stooping down and kissing them
both, ' so I do. But a noble action is something

that costs us hard, and it didn't hurt Mr. Kars-
lake much to jump into the sea and fish Jack
out.'

Another almost intolerable vexation washer
father's petulant anxiety at his non-appearance.


'Has he not called ? have you not seen
him, Sybil .' he would ask again and again in
the course of the same day. ' Surely he must
have received my letter ! ' he would remark,
and then he would speculate on the chances of
miscarriage, and even propose to write again,
had not his daughter's passionate protests
sufficed to induce him to postpone his purpose.

Gilbert Helstone had returned to town, buta
circumstance had occurred on the day of his
departure of which the family at Ashlands
naturally knew nothing.

The nearest railway station was fine miles
from Eoosden Magna, and the way to it

lay direct through the village itself. As he
passed in his hired fly along the principal
thoroughfare he saw Julian Karslake in the
little garden belonging to the house where he
lodged, evidently intent on some work amongst
the flowers.

A sudden impulse seized Helstone to stop and
speak to him ; and having looked at his watch
and found he had ten minutes to spare, he
called to the driver to stop, jumped out and
approached Karslake with outstretched hand
and a cheery ' good morning,' not suffering himself
to be daunted by the fact that though the
other had turned on hearing wheels and recognised
him, he showed no inclination to come
forward and speak.

'I have ten minutes to spare,' continued
Helstone with rather forced heartiness ; ' better
here in this charming old villa ce than at the
station. Are you given to growing flowers ? 

Wliat a kindly dispensation of Providence it
is that country curates can find interest in these
rural pursuits ! '

I thought you grew flowers at the Temple?
At any rate, I am so addicted to the pursuit,
and so far an expert in it, that I sometimes
doubt if I have not missed my vocation. Are
you a connoisseur ? examine these pansies.'

As before, there was something in the suave
and unruffled composure of his companion that
chafed Helstone's temper and made him say,
more from the desire to test Karslake's equanimity
than from preconceived intention : 

Excuse my turning the conversation
abruptly. I just want to say two words to you :
I am not only an old friend, but a relative of
the Dorrimore household, and have nursed
Sybil as a baby. I know the girl's heart and
character better than she knows them herself,
and I want to warn you. She is capable of

any sacrifice in the interest of her family, and
of a ife-long repentance afterwards.'

Karslake was silent for a moment. ' Is he
honest ? ' was the question he was debating in
his mind, and then he turned his clear, direct
gaze upon Helstone's face, without a shade of
embarrassment or excitement in his aspect.

'Well, on the strength of your intimate
connection with Miss Dorrimore, I must perforce
excuse an interference that would otherwise
appear to me unwarrantable. Are the two
words spoken, or is that but one of them ? '

Curse his insolence ! ' muttered Gilbert to
himself; but aloud he answered, ' I was afraid
you would resent my speaking, but her happiness
is of more account to me than a mere
breach of conventional courtesy. If I should
find it at any time wrecked in your hands, I
shall not need permission to make my protestor

even to come to her relief. What I say I
mean  I have given you fair warning

He turned and went quickly out of the
little garden-gate, without giving the other an
opportunity of reply, but as he jumped into the
fly he looked curiously back to notice what
might have been the effect of his words. To
all appearance Karslake was bending over his
flower-beds with as complete an interest as
before the interruption.

A cool hand ! ' he said bitterly to himself,
but the mischief is I leave him here to win.'

But for all that Julian Karslake had not
yet gone up to Ashlands to receive Sybil's
proffered thanks.

Chapter X.

Mk. Dorrbiore's scholarly repose was disturbed:
as day succeeded day in unbroken
monotony, lie began to realise with increasing
exasperation that he was to be disappointed
after all. Deliverance from debt, and peace of
mind as regarded the future, had been offered
to him on the very easiest terms, and he was to
be flung back again into the slough of impotent
anxiety, owing to the contumacy of his
daughter. What could have been the character
of her refusal, when so determined a
suitor was not to be wpn back by the extended,
ove-branch ? Then came the rumour that the

vicar had found another curate, and that Mr.
Karslake's departure was imminent. Surely
he would not leave the neighbourhood without
coming to bid them good-bye ?

More than once her father had summoned
Sybil to his presence under some shallow pretext,
and then taken the opportunity to resume
his cross-examination respecting the interview in
Datchley Wood, as well as his acrid reproaches
of her perversity and blindness.

To the high-spirited sensitive 'girl it was a
moral torture hard to be endured, and all the
harder that her life-long reverence for her
father, and her noble tolerance of his infirmities,
prevented any adequate expression of her
feelings.

But the repressed passion naturally served
to stimulate her irritation against the man who
brought this humiliation upon her.

Things indeed went very hardly with the

family at this time. Hitherto, so long as they
left their father undisturbed they had been
allowed to follow their own free-will. Sybil
had ruled without interference from, or reference
to, his authority. But now Mr. Dorrimore,
unable to settle to his books, took to wandering
in and out of nursery and school-room, and
to finding fault with every detail that came
under his notice.

The boys were blamed, and that harshly,
for idleness and uselessness, when in point of
fact no occupation was open to them beyond
their studies and games ; the inevitable noise and
ready laughter of buoyant spirits and sound
health were rebuked and ridiculed as indications
of stupidity and childishness. The father
who had never spent half-a-dozen hours in his
life on the training of his children, now put them
through a rigorous examination, and was unutterably
disgusted to find that their mathematical
VOL. I. N

and classical attainments were greatly below their
sister's at the same age. He forgot that her
education had been systematic, and her intelligence
exceptionally keen, and that all that the
boys had acquired  which was fairly creditable
had been derived from her in an uncertain
and scrambling fashion.

Are they dunces or fools ? ' he demanded,
angrily eyeing her with that bitter irritation
which the present state of affairs had induced.
I supposed you had done better for them than
this.'

I have done my best,' said Sybil bravely,
and stretching out a hand to each of the shamefaced
lads with a burning sense of wrong and
injustice, ' and they are equal now to the third
form either at Eton or Rugby. Give them
a fair chance and they will soon show you what
they are able to do.'

And whence,' he asked with a sneer, * do

you get your knowledge of third-form requirements
at either of the schools you mention ?
Is it derived from Gilbert Helstone, who scarcely
knows door-latin enough to make his law-books
intelligible ? For the rest, I have no power to
give them a fair chance; such was offered them,
but you rejected it. Jack will have Latin
enough to spell out the labels on Mr. Freeman's
drawers and bottles. Can the other children
read and write? '

He wheeled his chair round suddenly so as
to face the three little fissures crowded together
in the ample window-seat, and who were
watching his unusual proceedings with mixed
wonder, fear, and dislike.

Bertie, who was ten, lifted up a pair of clear
brown eyes and said : ' I can read and write
too. I can say the Lord's prayer in Greek and
Latin. Sybil is the cleverest girl in the world ;
but I want a pair of new boots very "badly, and

X 2

Hannah says my knickerbockers can't be
mended any more. Lucy and Clare want some
too  boots I mean.'

The sweet boil face of the boy touched a
chord in the father's heart, a chord that could
scarcely but vibrate again, as his eyes fell on
the upraised countenances of his lovely little
daughters, who were both gazing at him with
the solemn round-eyed astonishment of childhood.


I can't help Jack and Tom to the fourth
form at Eton,' he said drily, 'but I can find you
and your sisters some new boots. Here are five
sovereigns, which the cleverest girl in the world
may spend as she sees fit.'

He rose as he spoke, took out the money
from his purse and laid it on the table ; the
children gathered round it and began to
handle the gold coins as a natural curiosity.

'Will that buy Tom and me a new suit too?*

asked Jack! ' It looks a lot of money  why,
Syb, what s the matter ? '

The girl's face was crimson ; there where
tears of shame and anger in her eyes and her
heart beat passionately.

Don't touch the money, Jack ! ' she said ina
whisper. 'Xo, it would not be enough, nor do
you want a new suit.'

'I am of a different opinion,' said Mr.
Dorrimore, looking at her steadily ; ' you seem
to have a very imperfect understanding of the
family necessities. Here, Jack, I will give both
you and Tom a couple of sovereigns apiece ; you
can rig yourself out for that sum, I suppose ? '

Once more he applied himself to his well-filled
purse, which it seemed to his daughter he
handled with an ignoble satisfaction, counted
out the money and handed it over to the
astonished boys.

Don't lose much time about the outfit.

Sybil,' he said, preparing to leave the room and
shooting this Parthian arrow behind him:
when Jack is decently clad I will take him to
Dorchester.'

On the head of the stairs he encountered
Julian Karslake coming up, and started back
nervously, his self-command quite shaken at the
unexpectedness of the recognition.

Aye ! Mr. Karslake  at last ? ' he stammered
; ' better late than never. I am very
glad to see you ; shall we go into the library ?
We have a good deal to say to one another.'

Thanks ; but I was told you where out and
that I should find the children in the nursery 
I want to know if Jack has quite got over the
fright he gave us.'

Oh, quite unnecessary, he is right enough!
Come this way with me. I have been
expecting you every day for the last three
weeks.'

A flush of annoyance rose to Karslake's slice ;
lie could not be rude to his host, still less to the
man who was in his debt, but he was equally
resolved against a private colloquy with Mr.
Dorrimore. He knew Sybil was within the
apartment, for he had heard her father address
her, and it was to her only he wished and
purposed to speak.

'If you will excuse me,' he said, and went
forward and knocked at the door.

Come in ! ' cried a chorus of voices, and he
entered.

It was the first time he had ever penetrated
so far into the family interior, and the first
glance at the assembled group told him something
was amiss.

Sybil was standing by the table with an
expression of mingled trouble and pain in her
pale face ; she and Jack seemed to have started
apart from some closer embrace, for the boy

was still hanging about her with the spaniel-like
demonstrativeness of his age. Tom had turned
eagerly about to face the new comer.

Oh, is it you ? ' he cried with a pleased
look : ' we wondered who it could be. No one
ever comes up here  or at least no one ever
knocks when they come. Why, we have never
seen you since that morning, and now you are
going away ! '

Yes,' said Karslake, ' I am going away, and
that explains the reason why I have taken the
liberty of coming up here. I wished to say goodbye
to you all ; also I wished to see with my own
eyes that Jack was none the worse for his
ducking. I need scarcely ask if you are all
right again.'

Yes,' answered Jack sheepishly, ' I am all
light, thanks to you. Perhaps I ought to have
written to thank you  you see, I didn't know

it at the time  but all the same I am very
much obliged to you, and so is my sister, aren't
you,Syb?'

She had not yet raised her eyes and looked
at him. Her attention seem fixed upon the
five golden sovereigns that the little girls were
still fingering upon the oaken table, her
strongest mental impression at the moment
being that he saw them and must know whence
they came. The shame of each separate coin
seemed to burn like red-hot metal into her
soul. None the less was she. bracing her
courage to go through the task to which she
had pledged herself.

I am so very much obliged to Mr.
Karslake,' she answered, still without raising her
eyes, ' that I should like to thank him alone by
myself. Tom, dear, take all the children away
for a little while and give them a swing.'

There was a murmur of approval, and then
they all trooped out at once, smiling and
nodding at the visitor as they passed him ; and
the two, for the third time in their lives, were
alone together.

The meridian sun of a fierce June day was
blazing through the wide draperies window,
revealing with ruthless splendour all the
bareness and ugliness of the large, half-furnished
apartment. From the uncarpeted
floor to the blank walls, from the clumsy
cushioned wooden chairs to the broad deal
shelf that ran the length of one side of the
room, and was covered with a miscellaneous
litter of the most incongruous description, there
was not a point of comfort or touch of beauty.
What charm there was gathered round the
living figures : the girl whose shabby clinging
dress seemed to possess the grace of classic
drapery because it defined accurately the

faultless lines and curves of the figure beneath,
and whose sad proud face, with the hair
brushed back from the temples and gathered
up into a heavy coil behind, could have won
no higher beauty from the most elaborate
costume of Worth or Elise.

On the other hand, the simple perfection of
Karslake's mourning dress seemed precisely
in keeping with the singular refinement and high
breeding of his physique. A beautiful woman
may be able to defy the accessories of dress, buta
man, however graced or gifted by nature,
suffers more or less, but suffers inevitably,
from obvious deficiencies of the same.

Sybil was still standing at the table with her
interlaced fingers resting upon it. Her dress
was of some dark blue fabric ; and the sleeve
tight to the arm, without ruflSe or white linen
to soften the contrast between it and the fair
rounded wrists. The delicate symmetry of the

small flexible hands, a little browned by exposure
to the sun and air, he had noticed before,
but he did not therefore fail to notice it anew.
From them his eyes slowly travelled to her face,
the pain and pallor of which struck him with a
pang.

Why do you stand ? ' he asked ; ' there is
a chair near you, will you not sit down ? '

That seems to be your formula,' she
answered with the faintest possible smile
touching her hips ; ' those were the first words
you said to me in Datchley Wood. But I
would rather not sit down. I have a great deal
to say, and I like to stand at my work.' Then
at length she raised her eyes and looked at
him, but still she did not blush : she had strung
her courage and resolution to martyr-like
tension. What lay before her was no girlish
difficulty, but a stern duty, to be fulfilled
without betraying the weakness of the flesh.

Her companion had some intuitive perception
of this ; he apprehended by magnetic
instinct that she was going to offer herself as a
victim on the altar of family expediency, and
involuntarily his brow contracted and his face
grew stern and set. He would accept no such
sacrifice  cold surrender for living devotion ;
nor would he help her reluctant attempts at
self-immolation.

He remained silent therefore, as if awaiting
further explanation, although he knew he made
her difficulty greater ; but her spirit rose to the
emergency.

May I ask why you are come ? ' she said with
gentle deliberation  ' whether it is in answer to
my father's request, or just simply to say goodbye
to us all before you go away ? '

Just simply to say good-bye to you all.'

He was well aware this was not the answer
she expected ; he even perceived that she

doubted its truth, from the brief flash of
indignation which lighted up her face. He
met her glance, however, with the same quiet
resolute look as before.

At the same time I quite understand that
you wished to thank me personally for saving
Jack's life. I did save it undoubtedly, but at so
little personal risk as to reduce the obligation
to a minimum. Still, as a matter of course, you
would be sorry to owe to me even so little as
that : did you expect me to say I was come to
receive your reluctant gratitude ? Let it pass,
I will consider myself thanked.'

And have I nothing to thank you for but
saving Jack's life ? '

Nothing.'

She smiled a little bitterly. ' I quite understand,
but there is no need to try and spare my
feelings. I know all we owe you. You have
saved us from disgrace and ruin. It is through

your intervention that we are able to remain a
little Ioniser in our old home. It is through you
again that my father is able to supply the
pressing wants of the children, on a scale to
which we have never been accustomed '  she
indicated the money on the table as she spoke.
'In plain terms, we are pensioners on your
bounty  nay, do not deny it. I have seen the
cheque you gave him.'

He suffered her to go on, for he saw she
was bent on accomplishing the task she had set
herself, nor was it his intention to betray the
intense sympathy he felt as he watched her
victory over her shame and her pride. He
was scarcely conscious how his own cheek
flushed, aruihis gaze softened and kindled as he
dwelt on her vivid, expressive face.

I am scarcely likely to deny a fact,' he
said. ' It is quite true I have persuaded Mr.
Dorrimore to accept an inconsiderable loan, but

I am grieved that you should know of the
transaction, and extract all this weight and pain
of obligation from it. Simply, it was not on
your account but his  you have no debt to pay.'

She was silent ; what was she to conclude
from this guarded reticence on his part ?
Would her submission come too late ? had he
reconsidered the matter, changed his mind,
given up his persistence, and decided to
accept his ungracious dismissal ?

A trifle turned the current of feeling in
each : at the same moment she heard Mr.
Dorrimore's voice in the garden below, protesting
sharply against some childish transgression,
though her anxious endeavour to distinguish
who was the culprit was unsuccessful.

The eager solicitude of her look touched
Karslake to the quick.

I wish you would sit down,' he said,
coming near to her and pressing the comfortless.

wooden chair on her acceptance ; ' and do not,
I entreat you, think it necessary to thank meany
more for my good deeds. They have
failed utterly since they have become an
additional burden to you. I had bound myself
to complete silence on the old theme this
morning,' he continued ; ' but to see you like
this  pale, harassed, unhappy  is more than
I can bear. Under what conditions and restrictions
will you allow me the blessedness of
helping  not you, but yours, for whom you
feel so keenly -just as friend or brother
might?'

Sybil drew a deep breath. He had taken
her unresisting hands quietly in his, and she
suffered them to remain. She felt the power
of his self-restraint as well as the beauty of the
face bent down in anxious scrutiny of her own,
in every nerve of her susceptible and high-wrought
temperament. But she was equally
VOL. [. o

aware that no touch of passion or thrill of love
responded to his own.

He was all that Alas qualified to inspire it,
only  he did not inspire it. Even now her
cheek was pale, and the look that she raised
to his, steadfast and unabashed.

You are very good,' she said, ' so good
that I shall take courage and say all that was
in my mind. My poor father has the sad
prospect of a disappointed and harassed old age
before him ; I see my daring brothers growing
up without training and fit education, and
threatened with a life of drudgery and separation,
and  I cannot bear it ! You have offered
before to help them on certain conditions, and
I was blind to their needs and my own duty.
Tell me again it is in my power to rejDay your
charity ! ' she concluded with sudden vehemence.
' Make my task a little easier I '

And then a wave of painful crimson slowly

dyed lier cheek and neck, and she withdrew
her hands from his grasp and turned away from
him.

What should he do ? should he anticipate
her further humiliation and accept the sweet
boon that a few weeks ago had seemed hopeless
of attainment, and smother his refined objections
in his love ?

While he hesitated she spoke again in a low
subdued voice : 

It is not possible that I have been mistaken
in thinking that your liberality to my father
arose in a measure out of your professed regard
for me ? that when you first spoke of what you
could or would do for us, it was to reconcile
me to the withdrawal of my poor faculty of
help ? Also you have pressed the same offers
upon him by letter as well as by speech  offers
that met all the conditions of our need. In
return, I understood  I believed '

That I wanted you so sorely for my wife
he interrupted at length, in compassion of her
cruel embarrassment, ' that I increased the bribe
doubled the bidding  according to the measure
of your reluctance? Is that what you
thought ? '

I think it was something like that she
answered, with a dreary smile, ' and I thought
it an ignoble proceeding on your part to attack
me on my weakest side, my love to my family.
But I was wrong ; you are not that, and I was
arrogant and ungrateful; since then  that is
since I saw you last  I have been taught
humility ; and now if the gift of all I have at
my disposal is still of any value '

'My darling, my daring,' he said, approaching
her passionately, 'I do want you
sorely for my wife. The desire of yesterday is
cold to that of to-day. I love you, Sybil, with
a perilous strength, but yet not quite in such

unmanly fashion as to take you on these terms
of sacrifice, as a mere equivalent for paltry pecuniary
claims. Ko, not if I loved you better
than I do, and you were still nobler and fairer
than you are.'

Then,' said Sybil, lifting up her sad pale
face, ' I have nothing more to say, and all is
over between us. You must leave me to bear
my own burdens, of which my unpayable debt
to you will be the heaviest of all.'

But you have made it more than ever impossible
that 1 should leave you thus. Under
tiny circumstances I shall try and assuage the
keenness of my disappointment by persuading
sou to suffer me to help you to bear your
burdens. And then from time to time I shall
ask you, as I ask you now, if there is no other
alternative possible but gratitude or rejection ? '

He had seized her hand and felt she was
trerablinjT from head to foot, her colour

changing, her eyes veiled and downcast. These
were hopeful symptoms to the yearning passion
he was holding in check. He tried to draw
her towards him and she offered no resistance.

Sybil,' he whispered in tones dissolved to
tenderest appeal, 'I can be content with a
little  a tithe of what I give you. Speak ! I
ara hungry for one kind look or word  is it too
much to ask ? '

A slight repressed shudder passed through
her frame ; the conflict in her mind was different
from what he supposed, but it was over.
If she would have her sacrifice accepted it
must be more absolute than she had contemplated
at first. She raised her sweet eyes
to his, wet with emotion.

You threatened to constrain my love,' she
said, 'and such prophecies fulfil themselves
sometimes. I will pay our debts with the
devotion of my whole life.'

He seemed to snatch the words from her
lips with passionate, resistless kisses. What
further admission could he ask from the proud,
ascetic girl? Then he paused on his sudden
and unexpected rapture.

You love me, Sybil ? say it again ! '

She bent towards him, for he was almost
kneeling at her feet, and touched his forehead
with her lips with a sweet pathetic gravity.

I have never loved any one, nor will I ever
love any one but you. Will that suffice ? '

There was the sound of heavy footsteps and
the rattle of knives and glass, announcing
Hannah's approach with the preparations for
their early dinner, together with the rush of the
children's feet and the clamour of the voices.
Sybil drew herself away.

Go,' she entreated. ' I am not equal to
any explanations to-day. Meet the children
and say good-bye to them outside.'

'And you  when may I sse you again ? 
this evening ? '

She started. So soon ! was the inward protest
of her mind, but to him she answered : 

Yes ; only you must let me fulfil my promise
to the children, and go with us for a walk
to Flood Common.'

CHAPTER XI.

There is a dim region in the distant wilds of
Bayswater called Burnham Square. It is of unimpeachable
respectability and of a gloom that
may be felt. The houses surround on three
sides a sylvan enclosure in comparison with
which Draper's Gardens and Finsbury Square
are gardens of delight ; but the inhabitants who
have the right of entry to the same regard their
privilege as a badge of distinction. The fourth
side opens on the main thoroughfare, and commands
the doubtful advantage of uninterrupted
omnibus traffic.

In one of the smaller of these substantial
houses Gilbert Helstone lived, his household

consisting of himself, his mother and sister, and
three female servants. One of these, a powerful
middle-aged woman, was rarely, if ever, seen
by the world outside, being in fact, as it is notour
object to be in any way mysterious, the
personal attendant or keeper of the lunatic Mrs.
Helstone.

Why a man of worldly experience and practical
sense should burden himself with so tremendous
a responsibility, and by so doing
destroy the happiness of two lives, may appear
strange, but it was the issue of a point of
honour.

He had pledged himself to a dying father
not to place her in an asylum, at a time when
her mania was but slightly developed, and her
physical health seemed sinking fast, and he had
renewed the pledge again and again under
stress of piteous pleading in the lucid hours of
the unhappy woman.

Since that time, dating now far back to the
years of early manhood, the mental disorder
had increased, and the bodily weakness diminished
in an inverse ratio, until the hope of
release by death faded into an incalculable
distance.

For the most part the madness took the
form of obstinate and destructive imbecility, but
there were occasionally bursts of violent frenzy,
which taxed the resources of the household to
the uttermost. Theirs was a secret difficult, but
necessary to keep, and the very length of time
it had been preserved strengthened the necessity
for keeping it.

Sara Helstone had sacrificed her youth and
happiness to this terrible claim, or rather had
chosen to share her brother's burden in spite of
protest and disclaimer on his part.

She had once been fliir, but now at thirty-five
had scarcely a trace of beauty remaining ;

solicitude that never slackened and watchfulness
that dared not relax, had lined the smooth brow
with wrinkles, contracted the open gaze, and set
hard lines about the once curved and smiling
lips. Character and temper had suffered equally :
she was heroic enough to remain at her post
and keep the long day's guard in Gilbert's
necessary absence, but not sufficiently heroic to
keep in considerate check the passionate irritability
and impatience which meanwhile had
been seething in her taxed heart and brain.
She reserved the outcome for him, often making
his daily life intolerable, spoiling his dreary
meals and sending him from his home, or
receiving him back again so sore and embittered
in spirit that it was hard to forbear
telling her that the greatest mercy she could
show him was to leave him to fight his battle
alone.

Look at her now as she sits at the 

waiting for Gilbert's appearance
before she pours out the coffee, carefully prepared
by her own hands according to his taste,
and you can perceive that the comparative
placidity produced by a tranquil night's rest is
yielding to angry vexation caused by his being
late. She is tall and thin, with clear-cut
features sharpened now to unlovely acuteness ;
she has a mass of light brown hair, ill arranged
and abbacy breaking away in slovenly disorder
from the confinement of the comb. It is hich
summer, and the sun that streams into the
room has almost a tropical power, though it is
not yet nine o'clock, but her dress has no
seasonable coolness or freshness, and the linen
at throat and wrists is soiled and crumpled.
One would say to look at her she had scarcely
cast a glance in her glass, and indeed it is many
a day since Sara Helstone had cared to study
the points of feminine nicety of attire.

The door opened and Gilbert entered.

I am afraid I have kept you waiting,' he
said, ' but  I overslept myself.'

She 'looked at him steadily, and a change
came over her face ; the knitted brow and
tetchy lines about the mouth relaxed, and an
expression of softness and tenderness succeeded
that for the time being was almost a transfiguration.
The hand that was holding his cup
towards him shook a little, and as her eyes met
his the colour rushed into his face.

It was a blundering lie, Sara, and you
have detected it. Sto matter : I am glad you
were not disturbed. It is over now ; she is exhausted
and quiet.'

She did you no harm ? '

None,' he answered, meeting her searching
gaze frankly ; ' none, beyond robbing me of my
night's rest. Is the post come in ? '

She rose and pushed the letters towards

him, and watched him curiously as he turned
them indifferently over. Presently she saw the
languid look quicken as she expected.

Aye, what is this ? A letter from Dorrit
! wonders will never cease.'

He broke the seal and read eagerly, and ashe
read his face flushed and darkened, and a
scarcely restrained oath broke from this lips.
He put down the letter with a gesture of
repugnance, and looked across the table at his
sister.

'Are you in a mood for a guest, Sara ? ' he
asked, and it was not difficult to guess at the
hidden pain from the sneering bitterness of his
tone. ' A young lady with a pot-full of money
coming up to London to buy her wedding
clothes, and who can think of no other friend
to take her in but you, of whose existence she
has scarcely been aware ! It is of a piece with
Dorrimore's selfish impudence.'

He tossed the letter to her as he spoke,
pushed back his cup and chair, and began to
pace the room impatiently. His nerves were
unstrung from the cruel experiences of the past
night, and there was consequently less power
of resistance to the rage and passion of his
soul.

Mr. Dorrimore wrote blandly to say his
daughter was definitely engaged to Julian
Karslake ; that the marriage was fixed for the
early autumn ; that Eoosden Magna, or even
the county town, scarcely furnished sufficient
facilities for providing a suitable trousseau ; and
that it had occurred to him his old friend,
Gilbert Helstone, would receive Sybil for a few
weeks in order that she might have the benefit
of his sister's judgment and experience. He
also added that Mr. Karslake's London living,
to which he had been recently appointed, being
in their immediate neighbourhood, would give

the young people opportunities of meeting frequently
under Miss Helstone's chaperonage, and
that her advice would also be invaluable to
them in regard to the furnishing of the rectory
house.

Since when,' asked Gilbert, stopping before
his sister's chair, ' has Herbert Dorrimore had
this lively sense of your capacity ? Faugh !
the base satisfaction of the man with his infamous
bargain makes me sick ; he has not the
spirit of a whipped hound.'

Sara folded up the letter deliberately ; on
this point she had no sympathy with lier
brother ; the symptoms of a mental disturbance
she could not understand vexed and irritated
him.

Why does all this put you out so much ? '

she asked in the cool measured tones which are

best calculated to chafe the temper of an angry

man. ' I thought you were very fond of the

TOL. I. p

Corridors' eldest girl ; why do you object to
her making a good match ? And it must be a
very good match indeed if Mr. Karslake is
the bridegroom.'

Helstone gnawed his lip savagely under his
thick moustache ; this phlegmatic recognition
of the position of his rival was like pouring
vitriol into his wounds.

How comes it,' he asked sharply, ' that
you are so well acquainted with Mr. Karslake's
income ?'

I am not only acquainted with his income,'
replied Sara, buttering her dry toast v/ith careful
attention, ' but I am in a sense acquainted
with Mr. Karslake himself. If you ever went
to church you would know he read himself
in at St. Mark's about three greeks ago. The
living is valued at 1,200/. a year, and his
churchwarden told me  you know he is our
grocer  that he has considerable private means

besides. He has already begun to furnish his
rectory en prince''

And on what law of shameful inequality
was a living like St. Mark's given to a man rich
enough without it, and with no qualifications
for its duties ? '

Sara shrugged her shoulders. ' Does your
ignorance of church matters go so far as to
make you think preferment is bestowed according
to need or merit? Though as for the
latter, Mr. Karslake seems a very excellent
young man, and with no conceit about him in
spite of his good looks. I think I shall like to
have the girl here. If you like, I will answer Mr.
Dorrimore's letter.'

He stood by the window a few minutes
before making any reply, and looked out into the
square. Every leaf on the trees was white
with dust, and not a leaf stirred in the still air.
A nursery-maid with a troop of children were

slowly perambulating the dismal enclosure, and
so quiet was it that he could distinguish her
shrill impatient tones as she checked and scolded
her charge with quite unnecessary zeal.

As he gazed there came over him a profound
sense  perhaps deepened by this trivial
incident  of the injustice and contrarieties and
burdens of life. The lurid scenes of last night,
the wearing trouble of his own lot, mixed
themselves up with the sense of Sybil's sacrifice
and Karslake's easy unmerited triumphs.

But the triumph was not yet completed ;
perhaps it was not altogether an adverse fate
that was drawing the lines of Sybil's destiny
under his own hands. He turned round and
sat down to his untasted breakfast.

Write if you please,' he said ; ' we could
scarcely refuse to take the girl in. It will bea
diversion to you to buy wedding clothes, only
ours is a dangerous house for a guest.'

'She need know nothing, but that our
mother is an invalid unfit to be seen by
strangers, and a girl with her head full of a
handsome lover and pretty gowns will not be
over curious in such matters  nothing makes
us so selfish as happiness. But her coming is
not all ; we shall have to invite Mr. Karslake
to visit her here : no doubt they will have
arranged that he should meet her at the
station.'

If Sybil Dorrimore is to be our guest, Sara,
no one will meet her at the station but myself.
Mr. Karslake will have to postpone their

reunion. As for coming here ' he set his

teeth hard as if to keep in the infamous
expressions that rose to his lips, and, meeting
his sister's steady look of penetration, added
quietly 

We will wait and consult the lady on the
matter.'

I must be off,' he added presently, after a
few minutes' rapid discussion of his neglected
breakfast. 'I have an appointment with
Stanford at the House at twelve, and great
men must not be kept waiting by little ones.
Good-bye.'

Three days afterwards he was standing on
the platform of the Great Western Railway
waiting for the arrival of the Dorset train. It
was not due till five o'clock, but he had been
there for the last hour, pacing up and down with
a restlessness as uncontrollable as it was new to
him.

He had hitherto been a patient, self-controlled
man, accepting his hard lot with a quiet
magnanimity, and considering himself as irretrievably
cut off from the hopes and passions
of his happier neighbours. Now he was
conscious that all this was changed. The stern
hand of Necessity pointing back from love

and bliss to the rugged heights of Duty, no
longer swayed him to obedience but provoked
a sense of protest and defiance. Since he had
admitted to himself that he loved Sybil
Dorrimore with all the strength of his strong repressed
nature, and that she did not love the
man she had consented to marry, he had
begun to question what should withhold him
from trying his own chances and upsetting a
mercenary bargain.

Was it not a crime to condemn any woman
to a loveless marriage ? still more, one of her
strong capacity for joy or sorrow?

Karslake utterly failed to move her. Might
it not be in his own power to stir her latent
heat and and wake up the slumbering passion
of her nature ? That such susceptibilities existed
he was certain : God forbid that she
should first become conscious of them when
that consciousness was sm. From such a

contingency it was duty as well as interest to
save her.

And yet he knew while he argued thus that
he was cheating his own soul  planing the
downward slope to dishonour. But he had
chosen to shut his ears to his voice of conscience,
and give the reins to self-will and
opportunity.

The bell rang, the hiss of the expected train
was to be heard, and he had only just time to
turn sharply back to that point of the platform
where he had ascertained the passengers would
alight. He was under the impression that
Sybil would travel first-class, and lead taken his
stand accordingly ; but he was at fault. In vain
he looked for her sweet face at the blue-curtained
windows.

At the same moment he was aware that he
had received a checkmate  Julian Karslake,
who had only stepped u])oti the platform five

minutes before, had found himself almost
opposite to the second-class carriage where
Sybil sat, and was now in the act of helping her
out. In the state of mind into which Gilbert
Helstone had worked himself, the natural
incident seemed a premeditated insult and
interference : he cleared the space between them
in a couple of strides.

Excuse me,' he said hotly, ' you take my
duties ujDon 3'ou  Miss Dorrimore is my guest.'

Karslake dropped the hand he had taken
and stepped back, possibly to avoid the chance
of a collision, then slightly raised his hat in
recognition of the speaker.

 I did not see you were here, but even asher
host you will scarcely object to my paying
my respects to my future wife. I conclude
you know we stand in that relation to each
other, and I must ask your leave to allow me
to visit her at your house.'

He spoke with perfect temper, and as if
slightly amused at Helstone's heat, and as he
finished he took Sybil's hand again in his and
looked at her, as it seemed to the other, with a
cool proprietorship hard to be endured. Still
he was conscious that he could not make a fool
of himself on the Haddington platform, and he
compelled himself to some barely conventional
phrases. Sybil herself had stood gravely
looking from one to the other during the brief
colloquy ; she now drew away her hand from
Karslake and gave it to Helstone.

It is rather hard,' she said, ' on Miss
Helstone that she is not only asked to entertain
a girl she does not know, but the girls friends as
well. Mr. Karslake will let us have this evening
for becoming acquainted with one another. You
will not mind his calling upon me tomorrow ? '

He knows my sentiments towards him,'
answered Helstone with a harshness he made

no attempt to subdue ; ' it remains for him to
decide whether ith such knowledge he can
come as a guest to my house, and for you in
that case to fix the times and seasons. But I
shall take it as a favour if he will confine
his visits to the hours when I am absent fi'om
home.'

'The master of the house has a right to
dictate his own terms, and I have no choice but
to accede to them,' said Karslake. ' I will call
upon you, Sybil, at twelve o'clock tomorrow.'
He took her hand, bowed over it till his lips
touched it, raised his hat and departed.

The girl watched him out of sight with an
indefinable expression in her eyes and an
aching sense of pain at her heart ; as she
lowered them she met Helstone's intent gaze.

You see,' she said in a low tone, ' it has all
come about as I told you it would. But why
are you, the kindest of men, so uncivil to him?

Had he been any other but himself he must
have quarrelled with you.*

He was busy securing her luggage and
made no answer, but when they where seated in
the cab and fairly on their way he said; 

'I mistrust the man who can keep his
temper under any and every provocation. I
see your future, Sybil : he will wear out your
living soul with that mechanical and perfunctory
goodness of his ! He excites in my mind
an instinctive antipathy and suspicion.'

Then we will not talk about him, for if he
did not excite in mine the warmest gratitude
and esteem I should be a base and disloyal
creature. I don't know why you describe his
goodness in such harsh terms  it is not justified
by my knowledge of him.'

She spoke with the generous warmth of one
defending the wronged and the absent, but it
was natural that he should attribute the glow on

her cheek and the vibration of her voice to
some deeper feeling.

You will find my sister more sympathetic ;
she " sits under " Mr. Karslake, and is prepared
to admit all the perfections you have so opportunely
discovered.'

Sybil was silent ; there was a chill on her
feelings caused by finding her old friend less
generous and true than she had expected :
it jarred on her delicate sense of honour that
he should disparage her lover to herself. She
leaned towards the window and watched the
dreary suburb through which they were
passing.

Helstone's irritation would not allow him to
remain quiescent.

What have become of the objections and
drawbacks that were so influential three
months ago? There seems now an absolute
unanimity between you.*

She turned round and looked at him with
a grave reproach in her beautiful eyes. ' Do
you quite understand that I have promised to
be his wife ? '

And your blind submission begins this side
of the altar ? '

Precisely so, if you will convey a reproach.
I look upon a contract as binding when the
agreement is made  the adding of the signatures
is but a matter of form. And the contract on
one side is so unequal that it will be hard work
for me to redress the balance.'

Come ! ' he replied cynically, ' this is a
different mood from that you showed in
Datchley Wood  in the forlorn old library at
Ashlands. I scarcely thought that you had
such a full share of the prudent attractiveness of
your sex. How long did you take to discover
Mr. Karslake's merits? you were stone-blind to
them when we parted last.'

I refused to admit them,' she answered ina
low suppressed voice, 'but I knew all the
time that they existed ; and from the moment
I made up my mind to accept the generous
help he offered us, I bound myself to pay the
debt with every equivalent in my power.
Would you have me do less ? you whom I
have always fancied honest and chivalrous as
the knights of old ? '

He met the wistful sweetness of her eloquent
face, and had some difficulty in stifling a groan
beneath a sneer.

Take care,' he said ; ' you are wronging us
both. I am myself about as poor a moral hero
as you will be likely to meet, and if Mr.
Karslake is the piece of matchless perfection
he would have us believe, I will never trust my
instincts again. But we will waive the discussion.
Here we are at the door of my house, and
the next step is to introduce you to my sister.'

CHAPTER XII.

The condition of engaged lovers is popularly
supposed to be idyllic. The cynical may sneer
at the period of illusion, and foretell the swift
awakening at the touch of rude reality, but
even they admit the existence of a sweet
spring-time. We doubt, however, very much
if the enchantment is often so thorough or
beatific as imagined, especially in these days of
clear-sighted calculation of ways and means and
of complicated yet imperative requirements.

And it is not as if the desire and demand
only touched outward and secular needs, there
is less simplicity of feeling and singleness of
purpose than of yore. The old superstition of

the omnipotence of love is laughed to scorn ; it
is no longer held to be equal to the constant
harmonising of discordant elements or to the
providing of a perennial stimulus to exertion.
The man ponders now on the eventualities of
the girl's development and the contingent results
of her previous experiences, and she, in lier
turn, pauses to deliberate whether, when the
flush of love-making: is over, there is race and
Strength enough in her lover to sustain the stern
ordeal of perpetual companionship.

Sybil Dorrimore had not only asked herself
these questions, but had decided to answer them
in the negative. On the strength of her superficial
acquaintance with his character, she had
reached the conclusion that she and the man she
was going to marry were not akin. She knew
equally well that she did not love him : she was
.simply marrying him in the interests of her
family, as absolutely a sacrifice as modem

VOL. I. Q

conditions would allow ; but in order to make
that sacrifice effectual she must not suffer
Karslake to knoAv that anything of the kind
was involved. And also, in order to meet the
demands of personal honour and truth, she
must live and move and have her being
towards him animated by so devoted a loyalty
that the absence of a tenderer emotion should
defy detection.

She did not deceive herself so far as to
think this would be easy, but she did think it
would be possible. Outward observance should
be so solicitous and so complete that the
living fire of loving impulse should never be
missed.

Happily, she said to herself, her lover was
not demonstrative or exacting ; in truth he
accommodated his demands to the natural reticence
and tender asceticism of the girl he loved,
taking what she allowed or gave him with a

generous forbearance to which she did very
inadequate justice.

On all practical points she deferred to his
and her father's wishes implicitly. Although
nothing could have been more distasteful to
her mind than such a hurried fulfilment of
their engagement, she made no overt objection
to the proposal that they should be married in
the autumn, and yielded still further when it
was suggested that she shoidd go up to town to
superintend the furnishing of her new home
and to afford the opportunity of daily intercourse.


Xo one who watched her  and Gilbert
Helstone watched her very closely  would ever
have imagined how intense the tedium of that
daily intercourse sometimes became. The sweet
solicitude of her manner towards Karslake, the
real warmth of her gratitude for the services he
had rendered, took so bewitching a form it
q2

would have been difficult to distinguish it from
tenderness.

Then she could not help taking a healthy
girlish interest in the furnishing and decorating
of the gloomy but substantial old rectory-house
which was to be her future home. It was an
appeal to an indulgence of artistic tastes and
womanly instincts which had hitherto been
denied all scope. To make the rooms beautiful
and harmonious as far as might be, was a task
that excited her easily kindled enthusiasm.
Karslake supplied the experience and judgment
needed in the work, she the invention
and attractiveness. And there was small
difficulty in carrying out mutual schemes and
theories with all the art resources of London at
command, and a balance at one's banker's that
seemed to Sybil to represent the idea of exhaustless
wealth.

But we will not fill up every nook and

crevice,' Karslake had said on one occasion;
we will buy some of our household treasures
in Italy, Sybil. I have seen such things in
dingy stores in the back streets of Milan, and in
holes and corners of Eonie and Venice, as
would make your eyes sparkle with wonder
and delight. We will go together and hunt
them out.'

I fancy,' she answered, looking at him with
the crave but tender smile that crave such a
charm to their intercourse, ' that if I am ever
happy enough to find myself in either of these
cities, I shall have something better to do and
think of than finding bric-a-brac for our
drawing-rooms or even pictures for our walls.
If we go, Julian, shall we ever be able to persuade
ourselves to come back and live at
Bayswater ? '

To him, with her for his companion, Some
or Bayswater were alike, or rather on all

grounds, he preferred the latter ; to her, life
under southern skies and in the art cities of
Italy, would have such fresh springs of inspiration
and delight as would make the forced
observance of her duty almost an easy thing.

Since she had left Ashlands and, as it were,
washed her hands of her responsibilities, she
had experienced a painful sense of loss and emptiness.
To live and work for others had been
the business of her life hitherto, and now that
she found herself standing at ease and an object
of ceaseless attention and solicitude, the novelty
of the situation was positively distasteful.

A few days before coming up to town she
had parted from her brothers on their way to
Winch estei Karslake having run down to
Ashlands on purpose to take the boys to school.

They were in the highest delight, only just
qualified by the pain of separation. Jack said,
his foot was now on the first runs of the ladder.

and it would be his own fault if he did not get
on in the world. Syb should see.'

As they all stood together waiting for the
train at Crewkerne Station, her thoughts
recurred to the contents of the trunk at their
feet which included such schoolboys' outfits as
had completely staggered their crude ideas of
what was necessary or desirable. The boys
were allowed to believe all this outlay was met
by their father, which was ostensibly the case
and were full of surprise and gratitude, but she
knew from what source his purse was supplied,
and moreover whose was the generous kindness
and good sense that had arranged the details.

When she had made some objection to
what seemed to her the extravagance of the
outlay, Karslake had said with a singularly
pained and reluctant manner 

You must let me manage these matters ; I
am no stranger to them. I had a brother once

to whom I stood in the relation of fatherly
care-taker, there was so much difference of age
between us. He taught me exactly what boys
want at school.'

A brother ! You had once a brother and
this is the first time you have mentioned him ! '

There was an implied reproach in her
astonishment ; a secret sense in her mind that
here  in this lack of fraternal feeling  was
another proof of the want of sympathy between
them.

It is probable,' he answered, ' that I shall
never mention him again ; I have done so
now from a scruple of conscience which already
appears to me unnecessary. I considered you
ought to know.'

Sybil looked at him in earnest surprise.
There was a contraction of pain on this face, a
vibration of suffering in his tone, that struck lier
as different from anvtliinjz she lead observed in

]him before. Was it possible his quiet exterior
concealed some family secret or corroding
memory ? And if it did, she had no right to
press with questions the man to whom they
were all so heavily indebted.

'You will, of course,' she replied gently,
always obey a scruple of conscience for your
own sake, but never think it necessary to tell
me anything that is painful for mine.'

Thank you ! ' he had replied as if he felt
her absolution a profound relief, and no more
had been said on the subject; but the incident
had left a shadow on her mind.

Now that she found herself a guest for an
indefinite time under Miss Helstone's roof, and
cut off, as we have said, from her natural duties,
Sybil's instinctive desire to help and identify herself
with the needs and interests of those around
her, had no outlet except towards her reserved
and irritable hostess. It was very easy for her

to perceive that Sara Helstone carried a burden
of care, and the girl did her tender and skilful
best in the effort to lighten it. Her intellectual
gifts and exceptional training had never induced
any weariness of, or distaste for, the common
routine of daily life and practical duties,
and she offered her services about the
house, or at the work-table, or in any way
her kindly ingenuity suggested, with an eagerness
to be useful that could scarcely be withstood.


Miss Helstone felt her heart softening
towards the stranger in a way that surprised
her. She had never expected that a girl that
knew Greek and understood logarithms could
have been so unassuming and engaging. She
ceased to wonder at the infatuation of her
brother in Sybil Dorrimore's regard, or that a
man like Julian Karslake, who might have
chosen where and whom he pleased, held that

he had won in this ol)sciire and portionless
creature the priceless pearl of his life.

How it came about she scarcely knew, but
before Sybil had been her guest a fortnight, she
had confided to her their household secret, and
felt an infinite relief in pouring forth  when
once the flood-gates were opened  to the grave
and tender girl, the pent-up sorrows and denials
of her life. And as Sybil held her hand
meantime, pressing her lips with reverent
sympathy upon it, the elder woman was
conscious of a balm and solace in the contact
that seemed to quicken the slow courses of

her blood.

Child,' she said, wiping away the unaccustomed
tears, ' I need scarcely, impress upon
you that what I have told you must not be told
to Julian Karslake, no, not even when he is
your husband. Gilbert would never forgive
me if he thought I had betrayed our secret to

him. But somehow, without assurances, I feel
it will be safe with you.'

Quite safe. I Avill never have a secret of
my owen from Mr. Karslake, but I shall know
how to keep those of my friends.'

And will you be willing to let him have
secrets from you?' asked Sara, more from a wish
to divert the conversation into a lighter channel
than from any special interest in the subject.

Sybil's mind reverted instantly to the air
of mystery with which her lover had referred to
his brother, and her face clouded with an expression
of anxiety and dissatisfaction.

I cannot say : the idea is a very disagreeable
one to me, but I suppose all of us reserve
certain rights. If I were aware of a secret, I
should, I think, ask to have it cleared before
wee stood in the relation of husband and wife.'

The more she thought about the matter  and
she did think of it continually  the more did her

judgment confirm this passing impression, until
she had come to the deliberate decision that
she would take the earliest opportunity to
re-open the question with Karslake.

Such an opportunity occurred a few days
afterwards, as they sat resting on a solitary
couch in the vestibule of Burlington House after
a long inspection of the crowded walls.

Do you remember,' she asked, ' telling me
how much you knew about me even before our
acquaintance began  how minute and intimate
your knowledge was? Since then there are
few of our family concerns that have not come
under your notice, but I seem to know so little
about you.'

In what way ? You know my pedigree

who was my father, who was my mother.
Mine has been a very uneventful life. I was under
the care of guardians from a boy. I went to Winchester
and Oriel. I spent two years in foreign

travel. I took orders, and Wooden Magna was
my third and last curacy.'

She was silent, but her eyes met his with a
pained, dissatisfied expression.

This is the barest outline of your life,' she
said at length. ' Do you wish me to believe it
has been so bald and meagre as to furnish no
personal experiences at all ? '

I should make a bad autobiography.
Question me on any point and I will answer
you.'

Were you alone on your travels ? '

No,' he answered, smiling ; 'my guardians
would have thought it an obvious neglect of
duty to have trusted so raw a youth to his own
devices amidst the snares of foreign lands ; my
tutor went with me.'

She hesitated and the colour rushed into
her face. 'And your brother being so much
younger than yourself was still at school or

college ? I am a poor diplomatist, and will own
frankly that I am very anxious to hear something
more about your brother.'

His brow contracted ; it was not a movement
of pain, but one of absolute displeasure.

Then I must have misunderstood what
you said to me when this subject was last
mentioned between us ? or else the delicate consideration
you showed then was a mere passing
influence. Sybil '

He spoke her name and paused upon it as
if to demand her solicitous attention ; and she
who had never known him before under this
aspect, drew herself up involuntarily and returned
his grave attend gaze with proud
surprise. Having hitherto been sued as
goddess, a fall to merehumanity chilled her for
the moment.

May I ask if any circumstance has quickened
your curiosity on this point ? '

She did not speak, simply because her
spirit rebelled against replying to a question
asked in such a tone of cold authority. After
waiting a reasonable interval, he repeated it
with a slif]ht variation of terms. As in all
moments of strong excitement, her eyes Hashed
and dilated while her cheek grew pale.

It is an insult to my feeling in this matter
to stigmatise it by such a term as curiosity.
Cannot you understand that reflection may
have led me to think differently from my first
impression, and to object to the existence of a
mystery between us as a constant source of
speculation and uneasiness ? To my view it
must be something terrible that makes one
brother cut himself off from the other. On the
eve of a life-long companionship,' she added ina
lower tone and one that trembled with
passionate emotion, ' there should be no disloyal
reserves or concealments ; they will make

danger for the future. My whole life is open to
you; yours is a sealed book to me  is that fair?
is that Avise?'

Fair ! wise ! ' he repeated. ' I think you
scarcely recognise that your language implies
not only condemnation but a threat, and yet it
is scarcely possible for me to resent any words
of yours. Unhappily, I see you have imbibed
an impression on this point unfavourable to
myself, though it was equally open to you to
believe that my reserve, far from being disloyal,
was an act of reluctant fidelity elsewhere. The
silence I should have maintained respecting my
brother had he been having, is additionally
binding upon me now he is dead. I have
nothing more to say on the subject. I do not
think we will discuss the point any longer.

Sybil's lip curled a little, though hitherto a
sneer was almost unknown to her face.

It would not be seemly to do so,' she

VOL. I. R

answered, 'for your manner implies not a
request but a command.'

Only  you are deeply offended and your
faith in me is shaken?'

There was nothing of deprecation in his
tone ; the lines of the straight brows and round
the finely cut mouth where deepened, and there
was a latent fire in his eyes that testified to
strong feeling held in check. As she glanced
towards him she received a renewed impression
of the beauty and power of his face. She
turned a little aside and shuddered slightly;
she felt at once repelled and attracted. If
hitherto she had cherished some unconfessed
idea of easy conquest over a nature weaker
than her own, it was gone for ever.

I suppose,' she replied, ' I am offended
but not deeply, I have no right to be that ; and
I have the same faith as ever in your honour,
but not in-the simplicity of your character. I

feel as if I had been looking up into a cloudless
summer sky, and some drops of a sudden
.thunder-shower had fallen on my face.'

'And do these new lights make you hesitate
about the safety of trusting your happiness in
my hands ? It is not too late : draw back,
Sybil, if you are afraid.'

Her heart gave a great leap. The idea of
recovering her liberty stirred her for the
moment like trumpet-tones, but the next she
remembered her bonds. There was but one
chance of freedom.

Shall I ask you, in my turn, if you want to
cast me oiT?' she asked with a slight smile.
'For my own part, I have no wish to drawback.
I am not afraid, though the path is not
so clear and straight as I thought it.'

I cannot talk in tropes. Yesterday I should
have thought it was impossible that I could
have offered to release you from your engage
E 2

merit, but yesterday I should equally have
thought it impossible such words as have passed
to-day could have been spoken between us. In
spite of your assurance to the contrary, you mistrust
me ; there is a lurking doubt in your mind
as to what your judgment would be if you knew
all the facts concerning my brother and myself.
I see plainly that your own passionate sisterly
affection distorts the matter out of due proportion.
Another point is this * he stopped

as if to give her the opportunity of reply, but
as she remained silent, he went on : 

'I love you already immeasurably more
than you return the feeling, and have tried to
reconcile myself to the difference by believing
that my devotion, proved in daily and hourly
intercourse, would quicken yours ; but there is
no hope or chance of this if your trust in me is
weakened. Think it over, Sybil. Discuss the
subject, if you choose, with Mr. Helstone and his

sister, and let me know your decision when we
meet again.'

She was silent with pain and astonishment.
It Alas a turn of affairs so unexpected as to
leave her at a loss how to speak and act. One
confused thought at length found utterance.

'It is hard to believe in the strength of
your love when you can so easily conceive the
idea of letting me go.'

It is not easy, but there are circumstances
in which a man had better pluck out his right
eye or cut off his right hand than peril his
future. A married life even with you, where
faith was lost, or at least suspicion lurked, is an
experience I could not endure. Sooner than

that, utter loss  unsatisfied yearning ' his

voice fell.

You conquer me,' she said, ' as you have
never done before.'

She was hardly aware she had made the

admission until the words had passed her lips,
but there was no sign of the triumph she had
feared in his face.

There was the same quiet intensity,
thoroughly under control, which had characterised
his manner throughout the discussion, and
which she recalled to her mind was in a lesser
degree his habitual manifestation, but never
before had it so seemed to subjugate her
senses and her imagination. He was still silent
as if her answer had not satisfied him. What
extent of admission, what measure of assurance,
did he want ? She could not bring herself to
lay her pride lower at his feet. At the same
moment she perceived Gilbert Helstone making
his way towards them.

Here is Mr. Helstone,' she exclaimed with
a sense of unspeakable relief. ' He promised to
come and show me his favourite pictures if he

could get away from the Temple in time. Shall
we join him ? '

He bent towards her so as to look into her
face.

You have not answered me he said.

What do you expect me to say ? I will
consider the advice you have given me and
adopt it, at least so far as concerns myself.
You will come and see me when you see fit, and
learn my decision ? '

He signified assent and rose up. The
shadows of late afternoon were gathering round
the place ; the scattered groups of sculpture
gleamed more vaguely in the softening light ;
only a few knots of people stood here and therein
the thinning galleries, talking; and lausrhinir
in a lowered key, for every sound was becoming
more audible in the increasing silence.

'I can leave you now in Mr. Helstone's

care : he is a better cicerone than I. Farewell.
I shall see you again ere a weak is out.'

He bowed over her hand till he touched it
with his lips as was his habit, stopped on his
way to say a few words of courteous greeting
to Helstone, and passed out.

Chapter Xm.

Helstoxe strode up to the coiicli where
Sybil was seated and threw himself beside her.
He leaned forward and looked anxiously in her
face.

What is wrong ? There is trouble in the air.
Has he brought that pathetic droop to the lips
and intense light to the eyes ? '

He compressed his own hips to restrain the
injurious epithet that always sprang to his tongue
with any mention of her lover's name.

Have you quarrelled  parted, please
God ! '

Sybil felt distressed and uncertain. Her

experiences hitherto had granted her little
practice in that absolute control or concealment
of feeling which intercourse with society, and
the buffets of every day fortune, help to give.
The painful perplexity of her mind showed
itself in her expressive face, do what she would
to banish or regulate expression. Moreover,
there was something in the suppressed eagerness
of Helstone's manner and the flash of his
eyes as he bent towards her, that gave her a
sensation of embarrassment.

I am ashamed to be so poor a dissembler,'
she said, rallying her spirit. ' You are right in
thinking there is something wrong, and I am
distressed at having offended him.'

He uttered a passionate expletive. The
thought in his mind was how he would have
watched and waited on her mood, and fenced
her round from the faintest brush of care : 
distressed I

Child,' he said, ' you cut me to the quick.
I have given up pretty well all concern for my
personal happiness, but yours is dearer to me
than that ever was. It must not be spoilt by
this man. That he has the power of distressing
you makes my blood boil. You have trusted me
hitherto : trust me now I '

She passed her hand over her brow deliberation.
She had been bidden to consult this
friend, but her native sense of loyalty revolted
from the idea. It was perhaps well that at
this moment the beU for departure rang, and
the few stragglers that remained began to move
towards the stairs. He drew her hand through
his arm with the tenderest solicitude.

At least,' lie said, ' it is in my power to
take care of you a little longer. Your precious
lover has never thought of iiivinof you anvthincr
to eat, I'U warrant. We will take a hansom,
and recruit nature at Blanchard's, and then  it

is the last night of ' Les Huguenots '  we will go
and hear Nilsson the Divine, and forget all the
troubles of earth. To my mind she is the
ideal Valentine

They carried out his programme very much
to Sybil's delight. In Helstone's society there
was a sense of ease, a happy consciousness of
loving favour and absence of criticism that she
certainly did not as yet enjoy with Julian
Karslake. On this occasion she gave herself upto
enjoyment without stint and without alloy of
care. She would waive the consideration of her
difficulties till alone at night ; they should not
come between her and these hours of passionate
rapture.

Possibly the charming little dinner a deil,
in which Helstone had taxed his ingenuity to
provide those dainties which were likely to tempt
a girlish epicure, had something to do with
raising her spirits and touching her cheek with

its lovely carmine tint, seeing that she was no
spiritual ascetic but a sentient human creature,
apt to receive pleasure at every pore of her being,
physical as well as mental. The keenness of
delight she now experienced as she sat rapt and
inspired inter the combined spell of the
magnanimous pathos of the play and the
witchery of the singer, was intensified to absolute
anguish  her own identity for the time
being lost in that of Valentine. Helstone sat
well back in his chair and gazed his fill at her,
knoncr she was unconscious of his regard.
He too was wont to lend his whole soul to the
adoveihle pri ma-donna, but to-night, if her charm
were not less, it only served to stir and deepen
personal feeling.

Every impassioned accent, each yearning
embrace, stimulated his own love, and quickened
the restrained heat of his own heart. The
face and form of Sybil Dornnmoe, her very

posture and expression, had enough of charm
and grace to excuse some extravagance of
passion ; the beautiful intent face, with its
luminous eyes dilated and delicate lips
tremulous with ardent sympathy, did it not
indicate a depth and power of sensibility that
would faint and sicken in the dull and torpid
atmosphere of Karslake's measured love ?

Would she not wake up sooner or later 
aye, it would be later  to find herself bound to
that most bitter and ignominious of all slaveries
a marriage of the corporeal alone ? Worse :
he had already troubled her peace of mind;
now in these halcyon days of their courtship
she had spoken of herself as ' distressed ' at
having offended him. Offended him! she whom
he himself knew to be generous and good to the
stretch of magnanimity, to be cast down under
the displeasure of a man who had purchased her
regard by a kind of underhand bribery, and whose

quiet assumption of superiority was as smoke in his
nostrils, utterly to be mistrusted and contemned.

And yet, were all this doubly true, she was
his guest under conditions that appealed so
strongly to his honour that he was tongue-tied.
He could not reveal his love to a girl who was
trusted to his care as a betrothed bride : only if
he saw just cause to interfere in the interests of
ker own happiness, he would use his opportunity
of deliverance to the uttermost. And farther, he
said to himself, as he watched the changes of her
expressive face, he would not force the truth upon
the unconscious girl to whom he was nought
but friend and brother, even if he were free to
speak. What had chiefly disgusted him with
Karslake had been the cold-blooded pertinacity
with which he had constrained her to his will.

That night, after Sybil had gone to her
room, it was her turn to sit and consider the
future about which Helstone's mind was busy.

The moon was at its full, and sailing through
ether as blue and cloudless as was at the same
hour arched over the hills and downs of her
beloved Dorset. She put out the candle and
sat down by the open window. The dust laden
trees and formal paths of the square below
were transfigured into beauty in the moonlight
air; the traffic of the neighbourhood
was at its lowest ebb, for it was long past midnight.


She crossed her arms upon the window-ledge
and pillowed her dainty chin upon them,
looking out into the night with grave introspective
vision.

'Many a time,' she said to herself, 'if I
marry Julian Karslake, shall I look out upon
such a scene as this and yearn and long for the
old house at home ; many a time shall I feel
the same doubt and discontent and impatience
with my life. How I shall miss the kisses of

the little ones and the fierce leggings of my'
boys, and dear old Hannah's friendly gossip !
Shall I seize my chance, and tell him I will
take him at his word and get back my freedom
? '

Yes, that was the question to answer. Her
head sank lower till it was buried in her arms,
and for a few moments of concentration she
weighed the arguments for and against the
decision.

Had he a right to claim from her this blind
trust in his perfection ? it was in that way she
put it to herself. Did he suppose her a girl
likely to surrender her faculty of judgment sofar
as his conduct was concerned, and accept
his brief assurances with the implicit docility of
a child ? Oh, if they did but stand on equal
ground she would let hin go, albeit there was
an unconfessed attraction that even now brought
a faint flush to her cheek and a quicker pulse to

VOL. I. s

258 JULIAN karslake's secret.

her bosom ; but how was it possible when they
had taken his money and his gifts to deprive
him of the only recompense in their power ?

Could the boys be fetched home from
Winchester again, and her father held responsible
for the large sums of money he had
shamelessly accepted from his son-in-law ? Or
could she support life under the burden of such
obligations if he refused, as he probably would
refuse, to withdraw them? JSfo, better than
that the fulfilment of the contract under any
conditions.

And in truth,' she said to herself, ' I do not
doubt his sincerity ; I seem to accept without
misgiving the quiet and unostentatious evidence
of his daily life. Also if the noble sweetness
of his face bees him, he must be a consummate
dissembler indeed.'

She closed the window and lowered the
blind, the unclouded moon still giving light

enough for her simple preparations for bed.
But at that moment the silence of the night,
brooding and solemn as it always is, was
broken by the sound of an unnatural scream or
rather yell, again and again repeated. There was
the simultaneous sound of hurried footsteps,
voices in eager interchange, and of heavy weights,
it might be of furniture or otherwise, dragged
persistently over the floor.

For a moment Sybil stood stricken with instinctive
terror, the next the recollection of the
miserable calamity that hung over the Helstone
household rushed across her mind. Here was
the explanation of the sounds which seemed to
grow more horrible as she listened. The tones
of the maniac's voice became articulate, but
could it be a woman that vented her rao-e and
malignity in curses so appalling that they might
have chilled the blood of the most hardened
s 2

blasphemer? What, too, was the meaning of
the ominous movements that seemed to gather
significance as the minutes succeeded each
other? She fancied she could distinguish
Helstone's voice, but it was low and suppressed,
suggesting the sickening idea of a mortal
struggle ; then there were the prompt but
heavy footsteps and low authoritative tones of
a woman's voice ; all other sounds, however,
were blurred and dominated by the discordant
shriek, or oath, or laugh of the maniac.

It was not many moments Sybil remained
a passive listener, the impulse was instinctive
to offer what help was in her power.

She had extinguished her light, and the
upper storey of the house was unfamiliar ground
to her, but the moon was still shining in a
cloudless sky, and the noise itself would guide
her to the scene; she swiftly bound up lier
loosened hair and laid her hand on the handle

of the door. At the same moment it was
opened from without by Sara Helstone.

She was ghastly pale and trembling from
head to foot ; the look of determination in
Sybil's set pale face struck her \iih surprise ;
she set down the lamp she carried and put her
back against the door.

Where were you going, child ? '
To help, if possible. I wonder you are
not there  are you afraid ? '

Afraid ! yes. for him, not for myself. I
have attempted to enter and was thrust out.
Do you think you could do anything ? a baby
like you snatch him from a madwoman's grip !
Hush ! '

She stopped and listened intently to the
sounds overhead : the scuffle seemed to become
more desperate, then there was the noise of a
heavy fall succeeded by an awful silence.

The two women looked at each other with

eyes glazed with terror, then Sara turned and
laid her shaking hand on the lock of the door.

God in heaven ! ' she gasped, * has the
worst happened? My limbs fail me, I have
not the courage I once possessed. Child, if
you will, go and see what has happened

Then, rallying as suddenly, she seized Sybil's
arm, who had turned at once, eager to obey.

Am I mad too to send you on such an
errand ? Gilbert would never forgive me.
Stop, listen ! is that his voice ? thank God, it is :
then, no matter, no matter.'

She grew calmer, still holding Sybil's arm
and interpreting the sounds that reached their
strained ears.

Those are his footsteps ; then it is she who
has fallen. He is speaking to Mrs. Joyce, they
are lifting her up, carrying her to her bed.
God, would it be a sin to pray she might never
rise from it again ? '

Then a brief silence fell between them.
Sybil drew a long breath of relief: she could
gather from what she heard that her worst
fears were groundless. Helstone's voice was
clear, his footsteps firm, but still a great
horror held her. That miserable woman
was his mother ; had she received hurt at his
hands ?

A little longer and they heard him coming
downstairs ; Sara flung open the door and
called him.

He came eagerly towards them.

That is right,' he said, ' to find you together.
All is well. I was coming to Sybil's room to see
how she had borne the fright. I cannot forgive
myself for having subjected her to it. We
should have no friends, Sara ; our roof should
never be offered as shelter to outcast or
miscreant even ; still less to her.'

He was gazing at her with eyes still aflame,

as she thought, from his recent excitement,
rendered all the more conspicuous by the
pallor of his face and the disorder of his dress.
In point of fact he was drawing rash deductions
from the sight of the passionate sympathy with
which she was regarding him.

She had come quite close to him and laid
her hand on his arm ; 

Is it true that all is well ? ' she asked in
her low vibrating tones ; ' you are not seriously
hurt ?  nor she ? '

His brow lowered a little. ' She is more
hurt than I could wish, though her hurt is small.
Her keeper, thinking me unable to take care of
myself, interfered between us and threw her by
some sudden manoeuvre learnt in other scenes
than these. But it was an alternative to which
I pledge myself, Sybil, she shall never resort

adam.

Sara had not yet spoken, but her eager eyes

had been examining his person from head to
foot, and now she touched his throat and
pointed to the left hand that was hanging by
his side.

This must end,' she said in a dull saturnine
voice, ' even if I turn informer myself. How
little more would have made this horrible
struggle a death-struggle to you ? Look at the
print of her murderous fingers round his throat,
and the mark of her teeth in his hand ! And
yet he will scarcely exert his man's strength
against her fury. This is not the first time bv
fifty '

For God's sake hold your tongue, Sara,
and don't scare Sybil out of her wits ! Mine is
the best of sisters, but she has the gift of magnifying
our troubles. I have a scratch on my
hand that a sponge will wipe out, and for the
rest  ' he smiled a little faintly  'it was
perhaps the maternal instinct exaggerated and

distorted by disease. Poor soul ! do you forget
how she loved us once, my girl ? '

The tears welled out over Sybil's eyelids ;
she scarcely knew how eloquent was her face
of tender pity and approval, till Helstone
suddenly snatched her hand and pressed it to
his lips.

God bless you, child,' he said hoarsely,
and pay you back for all the sweet sympathy
and love you have shed around you ! Go to
bed now and sleep in peace : she is quiet and
exhausted, and these outbreaks don't often
occur. Come, Sara, bid us good-night.'

Not till I have seen for myself that things
upstairs are as safe as you say. Why, Gilbert,
this girl was coming to help you ! '

She moved away as she spoke and began
to ascend the upper flight, leaving the two
standing alone together.

It was in Helstone's mind, still overwrought

as he was by the late excitement, to yield
without resistance to the impulse quickened to
passionate intensity by Sybil's tender sympathy,
throwing on one side the scruples that had
held him hitherto, and plainly telling her that
he loved her as no other man did. Was not
the moment auspicious when her own feelings
had been so strongly moved in his behalf,
and she had also just quarrelled with her lover .

Could a woman who looked at him with
such passionate pity in her lovely eyes be hard
to win to a feeling deeper and stronger still ?
He came nearer to her.

You would have come to my help ? ' he
said.

The words were simple enough, but the inflection
of voice, the eager glance, the scarcely
restrained gesture, gave them a meaning difficult
to misunderstand. A certain vague uneasiness
she had felt before in their recent intercourse

returned upon her mind, and sent a flame of
colour into her pale face. But to doubt the
honour of the man whom she had loved and
honoured all her life, was an idea to be rejected
with indignation, if possible.

She returned his burning gaze with a direct
steadfast glance.

Can you doubt I would have helped you
if it had been in my power ? ' she said gently.
'One would have felt the same impulse towards
a stranger, much more towards the oldest and
best of friends. The only comfort I can find
in the midst of this terrible trouble of yours is
that you are equal to it, and justify the affection
and trust we all feel for you. Do go and rest
now, or you will not be fit for your duties tomorrow
; we idle women can do as we please.'

She held out her hand with her sweet grave
smile, and he was scarcely aware in what a
strenuous clasp he held it. He was full of

yearning admiration for the tender seventy
with which she had recalled him to his duty.

I am very tired too,' she added. ' I hope
we may all sleep too sound for dreams.'

Good-night,' he said, and dropped her
hand, and then stood for several minutes longer
watching the door that shut her out from his
sight.

CHAPTER XIV.

Whether it were the result of physical or
mental causes, Henslowe felt so little in tune for
work the following morning that he left his
chambers, after an abortive struggle to fix his
attention to the matters in hand, in despair of
doing any good.

It was Saturday, and a long summer's
afternoon stretched its weary length before
him. He had no wish to go home. Then it
occurred to him that the operatic concerts at
the Crystal Palace were in full swing ; he
would go there and kill the hours. He could
sit and devour his own heart unnoticed amidst
the crash of the orchestra, or cheat his pain as

the solo of some incomparable singer reached
his ears.

He went, but found it was still early when he
arrived ; even after the diversion of luncheon,
to which he had recoil-se in the extremity of
his weariness, there was a long hour before the
concert began. Many of the people, indeed,
had already taken their seats and were possessing
their satisfied souls in patience, but his
mind rebelled against such vapid inaction.

He strolled vaguely over the building,
looking absently at everything but receiving
no definite impression, till he found himself at
length in one of the least known and
frequented of the Eastern courts. There
was no great attraction in its desolate bareness
save its coolness and repose, and Helstone
had sauntered almost round the enclosure
before he became aware that there were other
occupants of the place besides himself.

But with the discovery every trace of
languor vanished, and he stood rooted to the
ground with an astonishment that almost
amounted to disbelief in his own senses, and
then shaken by a spasm of wrathful indignation
it was a hard matter to hold in check.

A man, woman, and child were grouped
together in a recess formed by the pillars of
the structure. Concealment had evidently been
their object, and under ordinary circumstances
it could not have failed to have been obtained.

The woman was young, and beautiful as
well, so far as Helstone could judge from the
imperfect view her position allowed ; she held
her hat drooping from her hand by its string,
and she was sobbing so bitterly as to be fain
to lean for support on her companion's shoulder.
At least the golden head was pillowed there
without let or hindrance on his part.

A boy of three or four years old, prettily

dressed in the extreme of a fantastic fashion,
stood on his other side and pressed with
childish exigence against his knee, evidently
trying to divert his attention towards himself.

The man was Julian Karslake, and the
little face lifted towards him was a tender
miniature copy of his own, so absolute in resemblance
that the most casual glance from the
dullest observer could not have failed to mark
the fact.

It was a pregnant discovery, and the rush
of emotion it excited was, as has been said,
almost beyond Helstone's control.

His first impulse was to rush towards them
and charge Karslake on the spot with the
infamy of his treachery  force the truth from
the weeping woman, and hurl his wrath and
defiance at his head.

But a moment's reflection forbade this:
whatever the turpitude of the man's dishonour,

VOL. I. T

the grief and privacy of the woman were
sacred. 'No : he must restrain his vengeance
till a more convenient season. All he did was
to cross the court swiftly so as to pass directly
before Karslake's sight, confronting him for a
moment with a gaze of uttermost aversion
and contempt.

As he strode out of the Palace (for the
amenities of the concert were no longer to be
contemplated), his brain was in a whirl, but
unquestionably the paramount feeling of his
mind was one of triumph. He had always
disparaged and mistrusted the man, and his
prescience was justified by the event.

Now, without controversy, he was at liberty
to snatch Sybil from the hands that would
have dishonoured her ; now there was cause
enough to break that hateful bargain. Nor
was there any chance of escape for the criminal,
for this was no case of circumstantial evidence ;

the facts of the accusation liacl been seen by his
own eyes. An absolute passion of disgust
moved him as he recalled the late scene. The
studied privacy of the locality ; the beauty and
distress of the girl ; the lovely child-head
raised in innocent appeal, and the pallor and
dismay of the central figure, as he perceived
Helstone's recognition, were so many damning
points against him.

And this was the man who had played the
pious curate for three long years at Eoosden
Magna  who had knelt by dying beds, mouthing
the prayers of the Church with elaborate
hypocrisy, and pressing first to his own perjured
lips the sacramental cup  who had professed
a Joseph's chastity as a lure to the girl
who hung back from his advances, and who
made a parade of every cheap virtue under
heaven : of saving life when there was no risk
to his own, and of heaping alms because he

T 2

held wealth as nought beyond a loan for his
neighbours' needs ! This was he who must
have broken the heart and ruined the life of
the woman who had trusted him, and repudiated
every tie with the child for whose existence he
was responsible ! The beauty of his person, the
charm of his manner, the secret attraction of
his individuality only enhanced his guilt.

Thank God it was not yet too late to save
Sybil ! What steps should he take to make
his discovery effectual? That was the next
question. Had Mr. Dorrimore been a man
other than he was, the most natural and
straightforward course would have been to put
him in possession of the facts and take his
advice upon them. But so great was Helstone's
contempt for him, that he doubted whether
the father would not choose rather to sacrifice
his daughter than his own pecuniary interests.
No, he must act on his own responsibility,

and also must be on this cuarcl ajainst beini]

CO o

carried beyond reason by the strength of personal
feeling.

Helstone's first idea had been to relate to
Sybil the discovery he had made, convinced that
the indignant and outraged girl would cancel
the engagement at all costs. But as the first
excitement cooled, wiser and juster thoughts
prevailed.

True, it was inconceivable that any exculpatory
explanation of the scene he had witnessed
could be given by Karslake ; but perhaps
honour, or at least generosity, demanded that
the latter should have the chance; a chance,
however, which Helstone's generosity woidd
scarcely have afforded him had he not been
morally convinced of its futility. Distasteful as
the proceeding would be, he would see him
face to face in his own house, prefer his accusations,
and give hun the opportunity of defence.

Neither would he take him at unawares ; he
would write and fix day and hour for the
interview.

By this time it was close upon the dinner
hour at Burnham Square ; and he had walked
and reasoned himself into a calmer and healthier
condition of mind. He would go home as
usual ; on this occasion he was sure to find
Sybil there ; her lover was otherwise engaged,
and the perpetual companionship would not be
enforced to-day. He caught his train, and was
fortunate enough to report himself in such
unusually good time as to win Sara's approval
of his punctuality.

As he stood in the little dining-room,
waiting for the entrance of the ladies into the
opposite apartment, which he never cared to
enter alone, he could not help observing that
there was a completeness and grace in the
arrangement of the table that had hitherto been

an unknown condition in his experience.
Linen and silver had always been fairly , clean
and bright under Sara's rule, but now there
was a charming arrangement of fruit and
flowers in ruby Bohemian glasses of which both
form and colour were perfect.

Doubtless the manipulation was Sybil's ; but
whence had come those costly and fragile
vessels ? His brow contracted as the thought
occurred to him they had probably been an
offering from Karslake to his sister, for he was
quite sure such an investment was equally
beyond her taste and means. In that case it
was the last time his table should be polluted by
their use.

Then he strolled towards the window and
took up a book open, face downwards, on a
chair from which he had seen Sybil rise to
greet his return. It was a volume of Dr.
Newman's sermons, and Karslake's name, in his

own admirable handwriting, was on the title-page.
He flung it from him almost with a
groan of disgust, and then hearing the ladies
come downstairs, joined them in the drawing-room.


At dinner there was a restraint over the
whole little party. Helstone naturally was
inclined to be taciturn, and the others had
scarcely rallied from the excitement of the
previous night.

Sara, keen to notice any change in her
brother's physiognomy, was struck by the preoccupation
of his manner and the restlessness
of his aspect, and did her best to stimulate him
to talk as he was always wont to do when
Sybil was present.

Sybil has had a very dull day,' she said.
Mr. Karslake has not been to see her, and she
has been reading sermons. In my young days
people never read sermons except on Sundays.'

And that is the day returned Sybil
smiling, 'when I particularly enjoy a novel.'

I should fancy your knowledge of sermons
rather limited,' said Helstone. ' Did you ever
read one before P Xewman will scarcely get
the benefit of comparative criticism. Do you
profess to like the book ? you read to order, of
course ? '

I never profess, and I frankly own I do
not like it. But then I imagine the voice of
the Baptist crying in the wilderness was very
unwelcome to the mixed population of Judea.
Newman's preaching is quite outside my own
experience ; at present I have never felt that
strong coercion of disappointment and vanity
which is the dogma of all moralists from Solomon
downwards.'

And you fondly hope to escape it ? '

Xot entirely, but I do not mean to let it
crush all my hope and faith in human nature

under its weight. Newman is a modern
Baptist, denouncing what seem to me even
natural and legitimate instincts as sin in the
sight of God. You know I have not been
brought up to think much about sin.'

My dear,' said Sara, ' Mr. Karslake would
be very much shocked to hear you say so.'

It was very much to the credit of Helstone's
forbearance that he made no reply to his sister's
remark, though a smile of bitterness curled his
lips.

Is that sneer meant for Julian or me ? '
asked Sybil ; ' for his scrupulousness or my
laxity ? But please understand me, Miss
Helstone :  I do not mean I have not been
taught to distinguish right from wrong, only it
has been on broader grounds  the sense of what
was due to my own moral being and my
neighbours' welfare. That minute accountability
of a creature to a personal God on which

Newman insists, seems to me mechanical and
dogmatic  at least it is alien to my turn of
mind.'

Dogmatic ! ' repeated Helstone. ' So far as
I know anything of Newman's speciality, he is
simply nothing if not dogmatic'

The eloquent blood rose in Sybil's cheek,
her eyes flashed ; for this girl coidd defend the
honour of an author with the passionate ardour
most of us reserve for oiu' own predilections and
interests.

Little as I know of him,' she said, ' I
know more than that. Dogmatic he is, but
with such a power of personal conviction and
such uncompromising courage in expressing it ;
such a superb indifference to the judgment of
his fellows, and such marvellous faith in God,
as stir my lighter soul to its depths, or rather
reveal to me a depth I had no knowledge of
before.' 

Her voice sank a little ; she was confused
by Helstone's intent gaze.

Dear me ! ' said Sara Helstone sarcastically.
I looked at one of the sermons, and I thought
it rather common-place, but then I am not
clever or a critic. I see the sermons are called
"plain and parochial*' and I thought they
answered exactly to their title.'

Sybil smiled, but with no touch of mental
superiority,

There is a refreshing absence of fine
writing, an absolute disdain of rhetoric  I think
few of us like that in a sermon. This man
seems to me as if he had deliberately stripped
himself of intellectual graces, holding that he
was pledged to present the truth of God in its
naked simplicity and sternness. But what is the
result ? A power, an intensity, that penetrates
below all superficies to the very core and marrow
of one's being.'

That is scarcely the style of Julian
Karslake's sermons ? ' remarked Helstone sardonically.


That is scarcely the style of one man in a
thousand,' said Sybil smiling ; 'but it 'strikes
me you have never heard Julian Karslake
preach.'

And God forbid I ever should ! ' muttered
he as he rose to open the door for their exit.
You need not hope to enjoy a long gossip
tete-astute ; I shall drink no more wine to-night.'

He wrote his note to Karslake, however,
before he joined them in the drawing-room ;
proposing to call upon him on Monday evening
at eight o'clock, if he would give him an
interview.

I hope I shall trouble his Sabbatic tranquillity
 he will scarcely have the audacity to
see Sybil between this and then. Faugh !
Conceive of him standing up before the people

and exhorting them in the way that they should

go!

The letter was posted late at night, and the
second post on Monday brought an answer to it.
It stated in cold but sufficiently courteous terms
that Mr. Karslake was unavoidably compelled
to be absent from town on Monday till a later
hour than that named by Mr. Helstone, but
that he should be at home at the time mentioned
on the following day.

Helstone crushed the letter vindictively in
his hand : there was a coolness of effrontery in
it, he considered, hard to bear with patience.
Possibly, nay probably, his engagement might
be in the interests of Sybil's rival ; and he had
the weight of his unspoken condemnation to
endure for another twenty-four hours longer.

As he set himself anew to a stern consideration
of the matter, a certain feeling of impotence
came over him . How he wished that Karslak

offences brought him within the pale of thekw!
If he should deny the facts, what testimony had
Helstone to bring in support of his accusation ?
If he chose to assure Sybil of his honour and
fidelity with that smooth tongue and unabashed
steadfast mien, would not the girl believe her
lover rather than her friend ? The more so ashe
had openly acknowledged prejudice and
mistrust.

On the preceding day, Sunday, the ladies,
as usual, had attended morning service at St.
Mark's, and he had ascertained that, also as
usual, Karslake had done the duty.

Sara had remarked that she very much
preferred his style of sermons to Dr. Xewman's,
and though Sybil had looked with an amused
smile at Helstone, she had added ' that she liked
his sermon herself better than usual, and almost
thought it would have won a measure of approval
from him.'

Helstone looked at her steadily. ' You
have the most implicit faith in this man's
sincerity ? ' he asked almost sternly.

In what way do you mean ? do you ask if
I believe him to be as religious a man as he
appears ? '

Not precisely that returned Helstone
impatiently ; ' I mean, that whatever he chooses
to tell you about himself you accept with complete
reliance on his word ? '

Sybil changed colour and was silent. Was
Helstone acquainted with the point at issue
between them? could there be acts in his
possession of which she was ignorant ? The
anxiety that still possessed her mind stirred
painfully and quickened into new life.

Instead of answering his question she asked
another.

You did not know Mr. Karslake before you
met him at Ashlands ? '

I did not,' he said drily. ' The only point
I wanted to settle was whether you would
break your heart if you found him unworthy ? '

At another time she would have resented a
vague accusation as a breach of honour, but
now this partial mistrust was contending against
her generosity.

You have some (definite charge to bring
against him ? ' she asked in her low sensitive
voice. ' Will it not be better to speak out at
once ? '

I would only too gladly speak, but I am
tongue-tied at present. Have I troubled your
peace of mind, child ? Well, it was out of
pity, lest the shock should be too sudden and
severe.'

He spoke ironically and turned sharply
from her, vexed that he had spoken at all. If
there was anything needed to stimulate the

VOL. I. u

rancour of his feelings towards Karslake it was
the unexpected look of pain in Sybil's face.
The belief he had entertained of her fundamental
indifference which would induce her to
welcome any sufficient cause for breaking the
engagement, had of necessity mitigated in his
view the consequences of her lover's treachery.
But if he were mistaken, and she would suffer
at his hands ?

In that deplorable case what adequate
vengeance would be in his power ? He could
take from him the girl he had outraged by the
reversion of his ignoble love ; possibly he might
expose him before the world and cover him
with public contumely ; for priests were unfrocked
even in these neutral days, and
ignominiously turned out of the church they
had dishonoured. But granting all this, the
shame and ruin of Karslake's life would be

but a poor equivalent for Sybil Dorrimore's
suffering.

He felt as if he could scarcely control his
impatience till the hour arrived when he would
be face to face with his enemy, and able to take
the first steps towards his chastisement.

v2

CHAPTER XV.

At seven o'clock on the following Tuesday
evening Gilbert Helstone knocked at the door
of the old-fashioned, massively-built, red-brick
house known as S. Mark's Eectory, and was
at once shown into the library, evidently as an
expected guest.

Let your master know at once that I am
here,' he said, flinging down his card with an
abruptness he was little accustomed to use
towards his inferiors ; but the sleek, conventional
manner of the man, and the abundant
evidences of wealth and luxury by which he
saw himself surrounded, stimulated the acrimony
of his feelings.

Mr. Karslake is at dinner, sir, but I will
take in your name at once.'

He felt relieved on hearing he was in the
house, having entertained some suspicion that
he would cheat him of the interview.

The man went out shutting the door
softly, but before doing so he put some coals
on the fire which was already too bright and
fierce for Helstone's comfort, and placed some
newspapers at his elbow as a suggestion for
his amusement. Helstone pushed them aside
impatiently, and getting up from the comfortable
lounging chair into which he had flung himself,
began to walk about the room and inspect
its multitudinous contents with an ever-deepening
indignation and disgust.

The apartment was of excellent proportions,
and might have been called lavishly furnished
and adorned, had not the strictest taste subordinated
and harmonised its details. Not only

was the furniture that marked its intention as
library of the most complete and costly kind,
but ingenuity seemed to have been exhausted
in its construction to adapt means to ends, or
rather to suggest ends that would never have
occurred to the ordinary student. Even this
Helstone might have pardoned in a weak-brained
professional man who was conventionally
supposed to spend a good part of his life
in his study and at his desk ; but what could
excuse the Turkey carpet on the floor  the glow
and texture of the wine-coloured draperies
at the windows  the aesthetic pedantry of the
high carved mantel and tiled grate  the fine
bronzes which lurked unostentatiously here and
there, and the precious engravings on the wall ?
Hailstones mind recurred to the forlorn old
library at Ashlands, which had been sybil
Dorrimore's only experience of literary ease,
and he asked himself with a sneer if the man

furnished his own rooms in this fashion, what
more could he deem necessary for his bride's
special apartments. Then there was a fire in
the grate ; and this also seemed to him another
proof of effeminacy and self-indulgence, though
the July evening was sombre and chilly enough
to excuse the same.

He sat down again with a more concentrated
feeling of animosity than before : hypocrite and
Sybarite combined !

A little longer and he been to grow impatient
and to resent his being kept waiting as
an intentional insult : he was yearning for the
conflict  for the certain triumph of confronting
and confounding his foe, almost with the
intensity of a wild beast held at bay. He had
pat his hand on the bell with the intention of
sending a message to the master of the house,
when the door opened and he entered. Hel-stone
turned sharply round.

Karslake was in evening dress, as perfectly
attired as if he had been entertaining at his own
table or going out to dinner, and the fact marked
a sharp contrast between himself and the negligent
morning costume of his visitor ; as sharp
as between the statuesque beauty of his face,
the close cut hair and delicate golden moustache,
and the irregular features, bushy beard and
generally careless physique of the other.

He went close up to the fire-place near
which Helstone was standing before he spoke,
and then he said in the cool but courteous tones
of distant acquaintanceship : 

I am sorry to have kept you waiting, Mr.
Helstone, especially as it must be a matter of
no common importance that has induced you
to come to my house.'

For a moment Helstone was staggered by
the audacity of his self-possession. Was he
about to ignore or deny the incident of Saturday?

but he was on his guard against injuring
his own case by any premature violence of
speech or manner. He contented himself nth
surveying the speaker from head to foot with a
deliberate insolence of regard which, if bestowed
upon himself, he would have held as the most
intolerable of insults, but he spoke almost as
quietly as Karslake himself had done.

Do you remember the warning I gave you
in your cottage-garden at Eoosden Magna 
namely, that I constituted myself the guardian
of Sybil Dorrimore's welfare ? I am come to
redeem the pledge.'

I remember the circumstance perfectly, and
I am as much at a loss now as I was then to
recognise your right of interference. Let us face
the matter at once, mr. Helstone ; there is no
need of any circumlocution between us. I know
what has brought you here to-night, and it is
quite superfluous for you to come to the attack

with the foils on. Denver your soul of what
you think it right to say. I am prepared to
listen.'

His colour rose a little, there was a latent
fire in his glance, and an inflection of repressed
indignation in his voice, but tone and manner
were under perfect command. The cold
authority of his speech exasperated Helstone
beyond endurance. Were the tables to be
turned upon him and he, the accuser, challenged
to the encounter with an effrontery beyond calculation
? An oath escaped his hips ; he pushed
back his chair and took a turn or two through
the room, then stopped abruptly in front of
the other.

You presume to question my right of interference
! Who should save Sybil Dorrimore
from the wretched fate of marrying a villain
but the man who knows she has no other
friend ? If I were a stranger, and accident had

revealed to me the truth as it did on Saturday,
I should be justified in warning a hio'h-hearted
and sensitive girl of the fraud practised on her
credulity. You can hardly be prepared to go
the length of denying what I saw  another
woman in your embrace and the incarnate
pledge of your loves by your side ! '

He stopped as if to give Karslake the option
of reply, for he had made an instinctive movement
that seemed to express repudiation ; but
as he showed no disposition to speak, the other
went on with increased bitterness.

I have no strained notions of masculine
morality, God knows, and have run riot like
other men, or, may be, worse than many ; but
you have coerced Sybil Dorrimore on the
ground of special purity and devotion, and a
holy immunity from vice and folly. The
condemnation one feels for the lusts of the
common-place profligate becomes absolute

loathing when one recognises the priest and
saint in the transgressor. You have spoilt the
life of one fair woman, but, please Heaven, you
shall not spoil the life of another ! You have
flung out one little child upon a nameless existence,
but you shall never be the father of
Sybil's possible children ! '

It is very difficult, under any circumstances,
for one human being to defy the overwhelming
and conscientious accusation of another, with
perfect success. And it was no simulated
reprobation that animated Helstone, and moved
him to an almost feminine eloquence of vituperation
: the hate and contempt were alike
genuine and generous. Nevertheless Karslake
stood, as he had done from the moment of his
entrance, in an attitude of cold attention,
offering no interruption, betraying no sign of
emotion.

He did not even lower his eyes, but continued

to watch the speaker through every
passionate clause of his attack, with an air of
unmoved and critical observation.

Helstone felt himself foiled and exasperated
by his failure to provoke him to reply.

'You do well to be silent he said contemptuously,
' and my task is almost done.
I felt it incumbent on me to tell you my intentions
previously to putting the facts of the case
before the lady to whom you are engaged. Thank
God, it is not too late to save her I What further
action I may see fit to take in the matter, in
the interests of religion and decency, I have
not yet decided on.'

You mean, that you threaten to inform
Miss Dorrimore of the incident you witnessed
last Saturday ? '

Such is my precise meaning ; that I have
not done it already is a stretch of forbearance
on my part you had no right to expect. But,

as a matter of form, I am prepared to listen to
any attempt at palliation you will probably be
anxious to make

You are mistaken,' relied Karslake ; ' I
have no such anxiety. Whatever explanation
were possible I should emphatically decline to
give it to you. I repudiate your right of
interference in our affairs. The patience with
which I have listened to what you have had to
say is due only to the regard which I know
Miss Dorrimore feels for you, and perhaps
to the belief I entertain of your sincerity.
But I am none the less relieved to hear that
you consider your duty as accomplished ; mine
forbids me to utter one single word otherwise
in reply.'

'Any other word would be superfluous,'
returned Helstone with a sneer. 'No man
listens tamely to such language as I have used
to you to-night, unless he recognises its justice.'

Karslake smiled. ' I am scarcely to be
entrapped into denial or admission by any
superfluity of insult. I could almost congratulate
you, Mr. Helstone, on the vent you have
found for the ill-wil you always bore me.
But, in reproducing the tableau you just now
so vividly described, for Sybil's enlightenment, I
demand you will not distort or exaggerate the
facts, nor force your conclusions upon her mind
as proven.'

Your solicitude is in vain, Julian Karslake ;
there is a weight of evidence in one single circumstance
that no sane mind could resist. In
the minute resemblance of the child to yourself
there is a damning proof of your relationship
which no ingenuity of false swearing or fervour
of denial on your part, can break down. And
you may rely upon it, I shall not let any scruple
of mawkish delicacy invalidate the strength of
my case. You shall not marry Sybil Dorrimore,

though your house is furnished and her wedding-clothes
are bought ! '

For a moment Karslake seemed to hesitate.
A spasm of pain, beyond even his strong power
of self-repression, contracted his face. He
turned away from Helstone's ruthless scrutiny,
and leaning over the high mantel, shielded
his eyes with his hand.

Wait a moment,' he said ; * I will consider
it assail.'

Hel stone watched him curiously : kindly as
his nature was, he had no more sympathy
for Karslake's evident suffering than the
schoolboy for the cockchafer on the pin. Sto
mental distress, in his opinion, could be
adequate to the punishment deserved. He
could not even leave him alone, but broke in on
his considerations.

'Let me warn you that, if you were to propose
to swear on the Bible the child were none of

yours, it would not shake my conviction one
jot ; one breach more or less of what the
lowest amongst us hold binding would be of
small account to you.'

Karslake looked up quickly. ' Thank you,'
he said, ' for }'ou have unwittingly done me a
service by the brutality of your insult. Had
there been one human touch of pity in your
reprobation, I might have been Betrayed into
the weakness of self-defence. As it is, we have
surely now met and parted for the last time.
It will of course be necessary for me to see
Miss Dorrimore again, but it shall be elsewhere
than under your roof.'

If it is in my power to prevent it you shall
never have speech with Sybil Dorrimore anymore.'


But it will not be in your power,' said
Karslake. ' And now, with your leave, I will
ring the bell and bid you good-night. You

VOL. I. X

hesitate ! Have you any wish to try another
turn of the screw ? '

Helstone rose ; he was going to speak when
the door opened, and the servant appeared in
answer to the summons he himself had not
heard. There was nothing for it but retreat.
He took up his hat and went out, feeling he
had not half triumphed as he wished and expected.
But perhaps he would have held a
different opinion could he have seen the gesture
of mental and physical collapse with which
Julian Karslake flung himself into a chair, and
buried his face in his arms on the table before
him.

CHAPTER XVI.

When Sybil came clown to breakfast the following
morniuCT Sara Landed her a letter.

Four days off duty have made me very uncomfortable,
my dear ; but now comes the explanation,
and all will be right.'

Sybil took it with seeming composure, for
she knew Helstone's eyes were upon her, but
she felt the colour rise in her cheek and was
conscious of a quicker throbbing of her pulses.
She was full of extreme anxiety as to the purport
of that letter, an anxiety which a few

VOL. II. B

Both host and hostess watched her while
she read it ; the latter from the friendly desire
of discovering whether Sybil was pleased with
it, the former from the equally unmixed motive
of observing how she received what there might
be of dissatisfaction in it. He saw that it was
very short and that she grew grave over the
perusal ; also that she read it through a second
time before slipping it into the pocket of her
dress. He waited for her to speak, but she
remained silent and preoccupied, without
glancing in his direction. It was a relief when
his sister broke in impatiently.

Well, Sybil, are we to hear nothing ? are
not his excuses sufficient ? '

I believe he makes none, but he proposes
an excursion to Hampton Court, and asks if

you and I will meet him at the station at two
o'clock this morning. Will you be disposed ? '

Helstone interposed harshly. ' It is out of
the question ! you are under my protection,
Sybil, and I forbid it. I am prepared to give
you my reasons as soon as you please to listen,
but neither you nor Sara shall consort with this
man any more.'

Sara stared at him with blank amazement;
had it been nioht instead of mornings she would
have thought him under the influence of wine ;
as it was a vasfue doubt made her shiver  was
he losing his head ?

Sybil seemed less surprised but very much
more displeased ; there was a very calm but
resolute purpose in her tone as she replied, still
without looking at him :

I am sure you will not lay any commands
upon me that I could not obey, or dissuade Miss
Helstone from giving us the pleasure of her

B 2

company. As soon as breakfast is over I shall
be glad to hear whatever you may have to say
to me.'

Hailstones swarthy cheek grew pale ; the
girl was already in opposition.

Does this does this ' he hesitated ;

to forbear to pronounce Karslake's name without
some opprobrious epithet required an effort
of self-command, one too which he perceived
from Sybil's now grave and steadfast look that
she fully perceived and understood.

Does he write with the same assurance as
before, without any recognition of difference or
hindrance ? '

Sybil hesitated. ' Do you think it is quite
fair to either Mr. Karslake or myself to
ask these compromising questions, especially
before a third person and one who is his
friend? Not,' she added quickly, turning
towards Sara with that sweet graciousness

which was so winning a charm, ' that there
shall be any reserve between us, so soon as I
know the meaning of all this. Just now a
little misunderstanding has arisen, about which
Mr. Helstone seems to know more than I ; but
I do not believe it to be serious.'

A look of almost superb scorn lighted up Hel-stone's
face. Sybil encountered the expression
and a burning colour dyed her face, the sensitive
lips quivered a little. She turned to Sara.

When Mr. Karslake parted from me at
Burlington House last Friday, it was quite
understood that a few days should elapse before
we met again. In this note he tells me that
Mr. Helstone has an important communication
to make to me, but requests that, if possible,
after having heard it we will meet him as I
have told you.'

If possible ! Precisely so, the words are not
ill-chosen, and I tell you it will not be possible

On that point I reserve my right of
private judgment. May I go into the drawing-room,
Miss Helstone, and wait there till your
brother is ready? I have not much zest for
breakfast.'

She stood for a moment and drank the cup
of coffee already poured out for her, and as she
thus stood Helstone's eyes dwelt upon her with
an admiration kindled and quickened by hope.
The graceful poise of the tall slim figure, with
its delicate and tender curves, the beauty of
the face, full as it was of emotion and expression,
touched every fibre of his being. Should
this guileless and noble loveliness fall to the
share of a traitor and a cheat ? Never while
the power of protest and exposure was his.

I will follow you almost immediately,' he
said, but before he could do so Sara called him
back.

Gilbert, I know your secret, and I want to

say just two words. You have heard some
scandal about h\ Karslake, and are going to
take an advantage of it that in another man you
would call infamous. Think twice before you
meddle with what may turn out a more serious
business than you expect. Mr. Karslake is nota
man to be trifled with, nor, for that matter, is
Sybil the girl.'

I have heard no scandal,' he replied drily ;
what I am about to tell Sybil Dorrimcre are
matters of fact that have come under my own
observation ; ' and he went out, leaving his
sister staggered for a moment by so clinching
a rejoinder.

He went straight to the window where
Sybil stood awaiting him ; there was something
in the wginal calm and dignity of her aspect
that checked for a moment the eagerness of his
purpose.

My child,' he said tenderly, ' you and I

have had many unconventional confidences
before now : you will not hate me if what I
am obliged to tell you hurts you very much ? '

If you are obliged,' she said, ' there is no
question before us, whether it hurts me or not

There was such a quiet air of unshaken
confidence in her tone that it restored the
former bitterness of his feelings. He turned
from her and threw himself into a chair at a
little distance.

I did not tell you last Saturday that I
struck work, feeling more unhinged by the
events of the night than I ever remember to
have done before, and that in order to kill the
time I betook myself to the Crystal Palace.
There, quite unexpectedly, I met your husband-elect.
How long is it to the wedding-day,
Sybil ? ' She turned and looked at him with a
sort of pained surprise.

I cannot bear to hear you speak of Julian

Karslake, not because you disparage him, but
because you do such injury to your better self.
As for our marriage, you know quite well the
month of September is spoken of

My God ! ' he exclaimed harshly, ' you
try my temper more than I can bear.'

And then he told his story, deliberately,
pitilessly ; reproducing the scene as he thought
with strict accuracy. But it was not so ; he
conveyed the idea of passionate response on
Karslake's part towards the lovely woman
weeping on his shoulder, whereas in point of
fact his attitude had only been one of passive
sufferance.

Sybil listened as a martyr may bear his
torture ; the blood rising and pang in her
cheek, the eyes veiled and downcast, the
interlaced fingers which had been hanging
loosely before her, tightening gradually their
repressive grasp ; but offering no interruption

and asking no question. Even when lie paused
she did not speak nor look up, but he saw she
was trembling from head to foot, in spite of
her proud effort to control the manifestation.
He could not resist the impulse to rise and go
near her, but she stepped back, and for a
moment the luminous eyes, suffused with tears,
met his with a flash of indignation so intense
that he almost quailed before it.

You call yourself my friend,' she said, ' and
are able to tell me this without one scruple of
compunction, one touch of pity! You are
prepared to blast the life of this man with no
feeling but triumph in your heart and a sneer
on your lips ! Even the pain and shame that
I must feel are of no account to you '

None,' he interrupted, ' in competition with
the pain and shame I shall spare you in the
future. But I have not done yet : you think
that Mr. Karslake can clear his reputation ? I

thought it was possible and have given him the
opportunity  in vain ! '

He went over rapidly his visit to the
Eectory, detailing every damaging incident and
presenting his own deductions from them as if
they had been facts rather than impressions.
Once or twice Sybil made a movement of interruption
or inquiry, but checked it ; she was
very pale but he saw from expression and attitude
she had taken her resolution.

Is that all  at last ? ' she demanded. ' You
have closed your case ? You can at least have
seen or heard nothing since last nijht ? '

I have nothing more to add,' he replied
sternly, ' except to renew my protest against
your meeting Karslake to-day. It would not
be seemly, it would scarcely be womanly, but
you do not think of it ? '

Sybil smiled bitterly. ' You forget I have
had to take care of my OAvn honour and welfare

since I was a child, and am scarcely likely to
accept dictation in a matter like this. I shall
meet him to-day according to his arrangement,
and I hope for my sake you will allow Sara to
go with me. It is hardly likely Mr. Karslake
and myself will return together.*

A spasm of anguish constricted her heart as
she spoke, induced, she thought, by the keenness
of the sense of her outraged dignity and faith ;
for if love betrayed had caused the pang, she
would have refused to acknowledge it even to
her most secret consciousness.

He does not expect it,' urged Helstone,
even he puts it as a contingency more than
doubtful. " If possible : " that is, if you can
stoop so low as to hear and see him again.'

I would not condemn my worst enemy unheard,
still less one who stood in so close a relation
to all of us as Mr. Karslake does. Would
it be reasonable to refuse him the opportunity

of speech in a matter that is almost more than
life or death to each of us ? '

To each ? '

Yes ; you must think me strangely insensible
if such a blow as this is to be struck upon my
faith in human nature and leave no trace. You
will let me go now, please ; I must have a
little time to collect my thoughts.'

He got up and opened the door for her
his eyes following her with a passionate yearning
pain. If he had not been checked by the
certainty of her indignant contempt at such a
crisis, he could have fallen on his knees before
her and begged her to take pity on his love.

Chapter XVII.

It was a sultry morning, the first day of August ;
the heat was oppressive to exhaustion in town,
but would only enhance the enjoyment of the
green swards and sylvan alleys of Hampton
Court Gardens. What outlet could be more delightful
for lovers m their heyday of passionate
altruism, and so richly endowed with all that
could give additional charm and zest to life ?

Something like this were the questions Sara
Helstone was asking Sybil a few hours later,
kindly bent on bringing back a smile to her
lip and a little colour to her pale cheek, also on
superintending her toilette and preventing her

from making a gus of herself because she was
in trouble.

Her own faith in Karslake was unshaken.
Helstone had departed for town without
vouchsafing her any explanation, and her own
good feeling withheld her from questioning
Sybil, either directly or indirectly. To render
such forbearance easy she was to be her companion,
and would be able to make her own
observations and draw her own conclusions.

Do not consider me in the least, my dear,'
she said to her as they walked slowly towards
the station. ' I have a novel in my pocket and
so soon as we get to a shady seat all I shall ask
is to be left alone with it. But do you think it
wise to look so pale ? ' she added, tapping lier
hand affectionately.

I look as I feel,' said Sybil, smiling down
gratefully upon her friend.

And you are pretty enough to dispense

with colour. I never flatter, but you look as if
you had stepped out of some old canvass  say
of Titian or Vandyke  with all the warm tints
mellowed and harmonised by age.'

The praise was not exaggerated ; the girl
wore a black dress of some thin texture over
silk of the same colour, draped with almost
Grecian severity ; some adjustment of muslin
and lace about her shoulders, which had the
tint of old ivory, and a broad brimmed Leghorn
hat with white feathers and black velvet.

You have spoiled your pretty costume with
that ugly sunshade,' remarked Miss Helstone
again, seeming to think conversation necessary
to keep up her companion's spirits. ' Where is
the dainty toy Julian Karslake brought you the
other day ? Has it gone so far that his gifts are
tabooed ? Well, this is our platform, and there
he is now to speak for himself. I never saw
him in a grey morning suit before ; how well

he looks in it I but then nature has ordained he
must look well in anything.'

Until that moment when her eyes fell upon
him, Sybil had under-estimated the anguish of
the situation. Her colour changed rapidly,
her pulses beat with excitement. Would he
venture to approach her with that sweet dignity
of mien to the charm of which she had never
been insensible, and hold out his dishonoured
hand? What was implied  woman-like she
asked herself  in the unusual style of his dress?
did it mean a tacit abrogation of functions of
which he had been proved unworthy ?

He was at the farther end of the platform
as they stepped upon it, and had all the distance
to measure beneath the easy scrutiny of the
one woman, and the veiled observation of the
other; undoubtedly there was a measure of
constraint in his manner, and as he came nearer
Sybil saw the large-lidded blue eyes looked

VOL. 11. c

/v.

darker and heavier, and the slight habitual
tension of the level brows was deepened into a
fixed contraction. No one looking into his face
could fail to see there was the repression of
pain in it, but the shamed humility of the
criminal was wanting.

He shook hands with Miss Helstone first,
who advanced exclusively to meet him,
anxious to show there was no change in her
feelings towards him. Then he turned to Sybil
with a luminous smile that banished all the
shadows from his face, and was as far removed
from deprecation as possible.

I knew you would come,' he said, ' but
none the less am I grateful for your coming. I
ask nothing more at present.'

He did not touch her hand, but his glance
conveyed such tender admiration as must be
hard, thought Sara, for any girl's heart to resist.

I will take our tickets for East Modesty,'

he said, ' for the heat in the train will be suffocating,
and then we will take the water and row
up the river as tar as you please.'

Sybil so far forgot the situation as to allow
her face to brighten at this announcement, but
it fell again immediately. She ensconced herself
in the remotest corner of the railway-carriage,
and looked steadily', with averted head, out of
the window. It was a relief to her that
Karslake considerately placed himself on the
same side, so as to spare her the embarrassment
of his regard, and made no attempt to draw her
into conversation. But the brief journey soon
came to an end, and then as the three were
bound to walk together for a time through the
leafy lanes and fields of East Modesty, the
restraint that weighed upon them all became
more irksome.

Look here ! ' said Miss Helstone, suddenly
stopping short and facing round on Karslake inc

2

her abrupt but friendly fashion, 'I know it
must be hard work to be talking civil platitudes
to me when your mind is full of other things.
Put me out of consideration entirely, and fall
back with Sybil and have it all out at once.
My theory in life is never to carry a burden a
step further than necessary.'

You are very good : I did not quite know
that you understood so perfectly the position of
affairs,' replied he, with a slight inflection of
annoyance in his voice, ' but what I have to say
could scarcely get said between this and the
river ; it is only a few steps now to the place
where we shall find the boat.'

He led the way till a turn in the path they
were following disclosed the river, winding
between its lovely wooded banks. A charming
little Thames pleasure-craft, with luxurious
cushions and awning, was moored to the willow
boughs that drooped over the steps of one of

the many little landing stages of the neighbourhood.
The man in charge, half asleep in the
drowsy sunshine, roused and sprung out as they
approached.

You are not afraid to trust yourself to me,
I hope ? ' said Karslake, smiling as he saw some
hesitation on Sara's part. ' The river is smooth
as glass, we are beyond the swirl of the
steamers, and, to add to your confidence,
I must tell you that I have pulled an oar
on two occasions as one of the 'Varsity eight ! '

Sybil, who had already sprung into the boat
and taken her place with a feeling of perfect
security, looked up. He had thrown off his coat
and settled to his work, with one easy sweep of
the oars propelling the light craft far out into
the smooth current. He looked the very prototype
of youthful vigour and comeliness, but
some subtle and indefinable feeling rendered
the very charm of his aspect and his easy conventional

manner an offence to her perceptions.
He seemed at once to baffle and displease lier.

Spare us,' lie said in a low tone, ' any
further disclosure of your merits ; what we know
already is as much as we can bear.'

She would fain have recalled the words the
moment they had passed her lips  she hated
herself for having thus spoken  but it was too
late. Karslake crimsoned all over face and
throat ; the very hands that grasped the oars 
and she could see how he tightened his hold of
them  grew red, but he held his peace. It
would have been a relief to her sense of keen
compunction had he thrown her an indignant or
reproachful glance. But if his face expressed
anything, when he was resolutely bent on controlling
expression, it was grieved surprise.

What we know already ! ' repeated Sara,
with rather too obvious an effort to cover the
mutual embarrassment ; ' Sybil's saucy words

might starch as the text of our modern speculations
; they are the moot question of the day.
I have often wished to ask you, Mr. Karshike,
what you thought of all this agnostic controversy.
I lead a dull life, and read a great
deal;

He looked up after a moment, and smiled at
the kindly speaker.

I fear I am not an expert in the tenets
of the school, but I suppose it is the inevitable
outcome of dogma without faith, and of the
fatal tendency to divorce reason from religion.
An inflexible belief is perhaps a lost possibility
to our age.'

But does not your esteemed Dr. Newman
hold an inflexible belief ? '

Who knows . at least he has secured it
under the padlock of infallibility.'

Sybil scarcely followed what they said ; her
whole mind was bent upon drawing conclusions

from every look, or word, or gesture that
escaped him. Was it possible that treachery
and imposture could take so consummate and
gracious a form ? but then again the essence of
the charge against him was that his duplicity
had been so complete and unsuspected.

Shall we keep to our original intention and
get out here ? ' he asked presently ; ' this is the
nearest point to the gardens.'

Sara assented, and as no direct appeal had
been made to her opinion Sybil remained silent.

She would willingly have protracted the
water-course indefinitely, dreading the. ordeal
before her with an intensity of pain and distress
that increased as the inevitable moment drew
nearer.

However, there was no alternative. Karslake
pulled the boat close to the bank and hell it
firm while she first sprung on shore, and then
turned to assist Miss Milestone, who performed

the feat as ungracefully as do nine women out
of ten under the same circumstances. But this
arrangement precluded the necessity of Karslake
offering her his hand. He moored the boat
firm to a post sunk in the bank, and a few
minutes more brought them within the royal
enclosure.

It is not a free day for the palace,' he said,
now directly addressing Sybil, 'even if you
cared to explore it. There is very little interest
inside of it, barring a few insipid portraits,
and our object to-day is not to look at pictures.
1 have a pass for the private gardens
if Miss Heist one would prefer them, and for
the rest, will you walk with me in another
direction? I know the grounds thoroughly,
and can find a place where we can talk undisturbed.'


Sybil looked at the chestnut shaded bench
on which her friend had taken her seat, having

declined the offer of the seclusion of the private
gardens and already drawn forth her volume
from her pocket, with a strong desire to place
herself beside her and postpone the painful
interview that impended ; but Karslake stood
awaiting her instant obedience as it seemed,
without the possibility of objection or refusal
on her part having occurred to him.

And how should it occur to him ? ' she
asked herself, ' when the one object that has
brought us together is that I may hear what he
has to say to me ? '

For all that she rose slowly and with evident
reluctance ; so obvious was it that, when
they had moved a few paces out of ear-shot,
Karslake stopped and said :

Are you repenting already that you have
consented to meet me to-day ? I was more
grateful for your goodness than words can express,
but some change of feeling on your part

seems to have taken place. I do not blame
you. Shall I take you back at once to Miss
Helstone and say what is necessary by letter ?
I would rather have spoken, but if it is disagreeable
to you  as who can wonder?  my personal
wish counts for nothing.'

He spoke not only with that silvery clearness
of utterance and absolute composure of manner,
which had often jarred before upon the girl's
eager and sensitive nature, but there was an
unquestionable restraint and disappointment of
tone that seemed to her out of place in their
mutual relations.

She lifted up her eyes, alight with indignation
and pain.

Is the matter before us one of choice or
inclination ? ' she asked, ' or can you fail to
understand how much of personal feeling I
must have sacrificed to my sense of what
justice to you demanded ? It is as much as I

can bear to hear you coolly propose delay, as
if such a thing were possible in a case like
this;

He looked at her earnestly ; not so much
with tenderness or sympathy as with the long,
sustained gaze of one bent on solving a doubtful
problem, and who accepts the solution at all
costs.

Pardon me,' he said gently, ' there shall be
no delay ; but I find we cannot talk here,
every passer-by turns and looks at us. We
will go to the private gardens ourselves, where
we shall escape the glare of the sunshine.'

He turned, and she walked by his side in
silence; walked with a haughty erectness of
gait and a hard set expression on her face, of
which she was scarcely conscious, but after the
long look of searching inquiry he had not
glanced at her again.

They passed before the long facade of the

quaint old structure, standing out in sharp relief
against the radiant azure of the sky, every brick
of which seemed to glow and radiate heat in
the sultry, oppressive atmosphere. Karslake
showed his pass to the lazy official half asleep
on his bench beside the entrance-gates, and
then they were free of the delicious greenery of
those gardens which are perhaps the most
charming and complete specimen of the Dutch
taste in Europe. He led the way to a certain
thick-pleached alley with which he was acquainted,
where the light came cooled and softened
through branches trained and interlaced
for centuries, and the turf beneath their feet
was a vivid and elastic carpet, velvet piled.
There, too, was a comfortably cushioned bench,
on which he placed Sybil with that sweet and
courteous solicitude for her comfort which,
though habitual to him, seemed to her now an
ironical mockery of the momentous issues

between them. He himself declined to sit
down.

'The criminal stands before the judge he
said with a slight smile, ' and such it seems are
our relations to each other. I own, Sybil, I
had no sense of them when I came to meet
you to-day, and I see you have missed in my
manner the humility and anxiety you expected.
Shall I tell you what I expected ? '

He took off the soft felt hat he wore and
threw it on the ground at his feet, and for a
moment passed his hand over his forehead with
a gesture difficult to define, but which seemed
to indicate a sense of weariness, not so much
the outcome of the present moment as of the
long experiences of the past.

I asked you in my note of this morning to
come if it were possible ; did you think the"
words meant that, after having heard Mr.
Helstone's story, your reception of it would

create the difficulty? Ten thousand times no!
I expected nothing from you but the more or
less indignant repudiation of his slander, and
the prompt action of a generous nature to
assure me of your unshaken belief in my
honour. The only fear in my mind was that
he might succeed in coercing your inclination.
!Now I perceive that I was all wrong  utterly
and miserably wrong  in those expectations,
so much so that nothing occurs to me to say
but to ask you what motive induced you to
come at all ? '

Surely,' replied she in a low agitated tone,
for every word that he spoke was an appeal to
the chivalry of her nature, ' surely you were
unreasonable in your expectations ? It is not
some idle gossip of society which has reached
my ears, but the statement of a fact attested by
one in whose integrity I have perfect confidence.
I am come here, in defiance of his protest, to

give you what I think is the right of every man
the opportunity of clearing your character
from injurious charges. I own,' she added,
with a burning bhish, 'that my confidence in
your being able to do so, fell far below your
own estimate of what ought to have been my
feeling in the matter.'

And suppose,' he answered, ' I tell you that
I deliberately refuse to clear my character from
these accusations  or rather, for 1 wish to hide
nothing, that I am absolutely unable to do so 
what then ? Now, as before, when my loyalty
and good faith have been under discussion, I
have nothing but my bare word to produce for
the satisfaction of your doubts. I am constrained
to confess that I have no explanation
to give of the incident of Saturday : if my
silence on the subject is accepted by you as
proof of my guilt '

He stopped abruptly, his eyes dwelling
on the fair bowed face, and the quivering

and contraction of the lines round the lovely, sensitive
mouth. An expression of passionate, but
hopeless yearning gathered slowly into his gaze.

Perhaps you are right,' he said sadly, ' and
I am mad to expect that your belief in my
rectitude should withstand the weight of Mr.
Helstone's evidence. I own I had credited you
with a finer gallantry of temper than most women
possess : I thought, too, my life would have
spoken for me, and you would have recoiled
from the suggestion of such absolute baseness,
as I should have done had a slur rested on your
fair lame.'

The cases are not parallel,' was her reply.
I do not know enough of your real life to
depend upon its outward testimony, and as I
have said before, this is not a slur  a breath of
opinion. Why do you refuse to take into consideration
that this is not an accusation based
upon suspicion but upon facts ? '

VOL. II. D

He smiled bitterly. ' And I will ask you to
take into consideration the medium of prejudice
and personal enmity through which your eyewitness
gazed and beheld these facts. Bear
with me a moment if I recall the situation in
its simple reality ; a woman in sore distress
leaning against me for support, and a little child
standing by my side and demanding the
meaning of his mother's grief. Simply the
deductions he drew were false. I find it hard
to say even so much as this, but I have nothing
further to add to my absolute denial.'

Then there was a pause between them.
Sybil sat with her arm on the padded elbow of
her seat and her averted head bent upon her
hand. The situation was exquisitely painful
both to her tender maidenly reserve and to her
womanly pride ; a conflict of feeling stirred
within her. While the attraction which
Karslake exercised had never been so potent,

her spirit of reason and independence rebelled
against what seemed to her the almost tyranny
of his requirements. Perhaps some subtle
magnetism conveyed this impression to his
mind, for he broke the silence by saying :

You think I ask too much ? I ask you,
standing to me in the relation of promised wife,
to accept implicitly my solemn assurance of
unmatched honour, and if this is more than
you can do  and I know you will speak all the
truth about it  then nothing remains but the
rupture of our engagement. Do you remember
my once telling you that without you life would
not be worth living, and I should have no more
zest for duty ? Well, I do not say that now,
although my love for you has strengthened
since then ; but the worth of a life after all is
not to be measured by the happiness enjoyed,
and may very well be lived with all the high
lights and warm colours washed out of it, I

have never felt quite sure of getting you, Sybil,
as a man is apt to fear to miss the prize on
which he has staked his best. I have loved
you, too, in that sort of fashion which does not
often meet with adequate response or fulfilment.'


Also in that fashion,' she answered, raising
a proud, reproachful glance, ' which withholds
confidence while demanding implicit belief.
What proof have I of the strength of a love
which is too feeble to break through all
this painful mystery and reserve? I must,
indeed, be dear to you when you will not forego
your pride for my sake, and choose to cast me
oiF rather than satisfy my most reasonable
requirements ! '

Sybil, my love, my darling !' he said, with
an impulsive movement towards her, which he
checked however almost immediately, ' how am
I to answer you ? My love for you is the one

love of my life  you are now, at this moment,
as you have been the last three years, the wife
of my desire. I have kissed no woman's hips,
nay, no woman's hands but yours : try and
believe this, and then ask yourself if it is
possible that I could let any mere question of
pride or personal injury stand between us?
Instead of doubting the reality of my love,
consider what must be the stress of circumstance
to which I am bound to sacrifice it.'

If it is something so grave and solemn as
you imply,' she answered passionately, ' it only
adds force to my plea that you should trust me
with the truth. Do you fear that I am too
weak to keep an honourable secret, or to share
a burden that you uuist carry ? '

Karslake's resolution must have been superhuman
had it not for a moment faltered under
the tender pathos of her appeal.

Is she not right ? should I not do well to trust

her ? ' was the prompt temptation that assailed
him. There was a brief breathless pause,
during which he revolved the question in his
mind with a desperate hope that reason or conscience
would return a different verdict from
before, and Sybil watched the conflict of his
mind with an eagerness that checked the beating
of her pulses. Then he turned and came
close to her, the beauty of his face exalted to a
sensible influence by the power of its expression.
One of us must yield,' he said in a low
passionate tone, ' and it must be you, Sybil, for
I dare ; not nor, on the other hand, will I
give you up without a struggle. If I had
not fought this battle in advance you would
have conquered me. Understand, my choice
lies between honour and dishonour, between
love and shame : yours is simply a question of
faith, more or less. If you will not deal out the
larger measure I must of necessity let you go 

that surrender is just possible to me  but it
would be impossible to live under my own contempt
or the shadow of your suspicion. Be
generous, then  you to whom generosity has
been so easy, and trust me utterly, now and forever
! '

He bent towards her suddenly, snatching
both her hands in his, and straining his lips
upon them.

God knows,' he murmured, ' it would be
easier to give up life than you ? Will you go ?
surely, surely you must love me a little ? '

Sybil looked up, stirred and thrilled with a
passionate sympathy unknown to her before.
Her eyes swimming with responsive tenderness
met his, her light flexible fingers returned the
strong Pressure of this own.

Ox

Xot a little,' she answered, ' more I fear
than is either wise or well.'

My daring, my darling,' he whispered ; and

then he sat down beside her, and for a few
moments time ran unmeasured, and care had no
existence.

He was the first to arouse himself with a
painful sense of a duty half done.

And when you go back to Burnham
Square, how will you satisfy Mr. Helstone's
inquiries ? Do you quite realise that even to
you, my love, my wife, I have no explanation
to give  not a syllable to add to my naked
disclaimer ? that you yield yourself to me under
these hard conditions ? '

She looked at him steadily, with a gaze that
seemed to reach his soul, but he endured the
solemn scrutiny unflinching.

I do,' she said. * I believe in you with an
inflexible belief, though surely never was a
woman's faith so strained before ! '

Chapter Xviii.

A MONTH later Julian Karslake was married to
Sybil Dorrimore in the old parish church at
Eoosden Magna. It was a very quiet wedding ;
the bride had no crowd of attendant maidens
about her, or interested friends watching every
manifestation, and criticising every arrangement.
One carriage took her and her father and the
three younger children from Ashlands to the
church, which was filled with as many of the
rural population of the village as could manage
to spare the time, and a few select stragglers
whom curiosity had attracted.

She walked very slowly up the aisle leaning
on her father's arm, who was conscious of an

unusual sensation of complacency as he looked
at the tall slight figure at his side, clothed in
grey from hat to heel, and looking lovelier in
her quiet pale emotion than he had ever
thought her before. But then the aureole of
her married dignity was round her head.

The three little children clustered about
her, in their simple but pretty attire, as a bodyguard,
Lucy pressing close against her sister in
defiance of all formality, in order not only
to fulfil her delicate function of bridesmaid,
but to make quite sure that Sybil was not
crying ; Bertie, who also had his misgivings,
fixing Karslake with a round-eyed gaze of half
shy, half defiant curiosity.

The bridegroom with his imperative friend 
a Avell-bred stranger whom no one knew and
everyone seemed to ignore  had been waiting
at the altar fully twenty minutes before the
arrival of the bride, and it was noticed by many

'v\'ith what an expression of intense anxiety he
watched her slow progress to his side. But it
was also observed that when this position was
reached and the eyes of each encountered the
other in involuntary greeting, the expression in
his face was that of passionate inquiry, and in
hers of grave and tender response. She even
covertly stretched out her hand towards him,
which he clasped and retained unbidden while
the old vicar slowly droned through the time-honoured
service, which surely challenges the
revision of this age of reason and culture.

The ceremony over and all formalities duly
observed, Sybil had to make her loving adieux
to the dear little household band who, in
spite of Mr. Dorrimore's impatient reprimands,
climes sobbing; round her skirts. She herself
was not much given to bootless tears, but none
the less her pale eloquent face showed how
much she suffered, and her last words to her

father, before re-entering the carriage which
was to take her and her husband at once to the
station, were 

For my sake be good to them  don't let
them be afraid of you ! '

The marriage had been accomplished in
spite of the active and persistent opposition of
Gilbert Helstone.

Sybil had returned home to Ashlands, with
the full permission of her sympathetic hostess,
the day following the incidents at Hampton
Court. On that occasion she had simply announced
to Gilbert her renewed and unshaken
belief in her lover, and had refused to listen to
protest or expostulation on his part.

He had felt driven to despair by her infatuation
; it seemed to him incomprehensible  a
judicial blindness, nay, an almost diabolic prepossession.
His first idea had been to go down
with her into the country and tell his story to

her father, and rouse up what there might be
of manhood left in his nature ; but he decided
it would be in vain.

Mr. Dorrimore believed in his future son-in-law
to an extent that would make him impervious
to suspicion, much more conviction, and
he had a supercilious contempt for Helstone s
opinions. To this would be added the potent
influences of self-interest, and the force of his
daughter's deluded purpose. He would do no
good in this direction. But there were other
ways; he might investigate the scandal and
bring such proofs of Karslake's double-dealing
as should convince doubt and credulity, and to
this end he must endeavour to trace the woman
whom he had seen with him.

During the three weeks that elapsed before
the wedding he inserted obscure but
catching advertisements, daily, in three of the
leading newspapers, varying their character and

phraseology with an ingenuity that seemed
exhaustless, and spending upon the experiment
a great deal more than he was able to afford.

He had observed the details of both appearance
and dress in mother and child with instinctive
professional acuteness, and indicated
his clue in a manner that could not have been
missed had the appeals ever come under the
eye for which they were intended ; but there
was no response. The only satisfaction he was
able to extract from the proceeding was the
idea of the annoyance and anxiety they must
excite in Karslake's mind, for there was no
doubt of his both seeing and comprehending
them.

Indeed, on this point his certainty was
confirmed in an unexpected manner: he met
Karslake at King's Cross station about a week
before his wedding day, and was surprised to
see him approach with the evident intention of

speaking. He himself was on the point of
turning his back upon him contemptuously,
but the thought that he might slater something
to help his purpose induced him to alter
his mind.

You have something to say to me ? ' he
asked with look and accent of studied insult.

Karslake returned the gaze with his usual
quiet but complete self-command, which coidd
not, however, * conceal the fact that he was
looking pale and harassed.

Yes,' he said. ' I have a request to make.
If you should have any reply to your advertisements,
will you inform me of the fact? Not,
I need scarcely say, with any view of influencing
your action in the matter, but simply that I
may know the ground I stand on.'

Helstone surveyed him with an expression
of contemptuous surprise.

Do you think me fool enough to stultify

the object I have in view ? forewarned is forearmed.
Come ! you have succeeded in doing
what I should have said was impossible, 
increased my bad opinion of you. Have you
turned coward as well as traitor ? '

'What I ask,' returned Karslake without
the slightest change of manner, ' is a bare point
of justice or at least of honour. You are benton
my ruin  of course with the inflexibility of
righteous condemnation. I demand that you
do not strike in the dark ; that you give me
warning of the steps you may be led to take
towards this end.'

Helstone's dark face paled with excess of
passionate feeling.

Take the warning on the spot,' he
answered harshly ; ' I shall never give you any
other ! You have got what you wanted  the
noblest, sweetest creature on God's earth, and
all that now remains for me to do is to try that

her eyes may be opened, and to take her from
you in the end, though I have failed in the
beginning. Am I likely to help you to baffle
me?'

He did not consider that he was betraying
his own secret, or perhaps he disdained to do
so, until he saw that Karslake's face expressed
a sort of surprised pity which, in his present
mood, irritated him almost to madness.

For God's sake spare me your damnable
sympathy and go, having your answer ! At all
costs, I count my honest loss better than your
shameful gain, and no weakness of compassion
towards the woman I love will prevent me from
carrying out my purpose. When the time
comes, as come it will, I shall choose for her
misery rather than disgrace.'

He stopped, glanced at his companion
keenly, and added with a sneer :

You don't look a very jocund bridegroom,

VOL. II. E

your courage fails ; else, why this change of face ?
Your perjuries of a week or two back could
not have lacked unction ; why do you come tome
now with a tacit admission of your guilt
and a squeak for mercy on your lips ? It is
not quite too late  I will offer you another
chance. Give up your claim even now at the
eleventh hour to Sybil Dorrimore, and I will
drop my persecution. Leave her alone, and
you may pose to the end of the chapter as saint
and ano'el for what I care. You hesitate ? Is it
possible ? '

I hesitate as to whether it is worth while
to try and disarm your enmity, and set your
judgment right in this matter, and that not
from auy personal apprehension but in consideration
of your kindness to the Ashlands family.
When I saw you last I could not bring myself
to deny your infamous conclusions. You know
I have done this since, and I will do the same

again. Is it quite hopeless that you should be
induced to believe I speak the truth? '

He spoke with a natural reluctance but still
Without hesitation or slur of word or phrase,
and Helstone felt himself baffled by an equanimity
that it was out of the power of his outrages
to shake. Perhaps it was the sense of this that
added a sharper venom to his reply.

After all,' he said, ' you lack the spirit of
the full villain and have not the courage of your
infamy. But reserve your pathos for the
pulpit, and your protestations for the women
you have deceived. To cheat me out of the
conclusions of my eyesight is hopeless. Good
morning.'

He turned on his heel and was going when
a thought struck him.

I guess there is not much love lost
between us, though I give you credit for an
amount of self-control no honest man would

E 2

care to display. Console your hatred with the
idea that, in marrying Sybil Dorrimore, you will
put an end to a friendship that has been the
solace of a hard life before it became a passion
and a regret. Don't wonder if I curse the day
on which your eyes first fell on her sweet face.'

Will you be leaving the neighbourhood ? '
asked Karslake.

Helstone's eyes sparkled with anger.

Were you going to suggest a more convenient
locality  a safer distance from yourself
and her ? Too many ties bind me to my present
home to make it easy to leave it, and the
last will not be the weakest  the need of
keeping up a surveillance over your movements.'


Karslake smiled a little contemptuously ; an
angry rejoinder had risen to his lips but he
checked it, as it almost seemed in compassion
to his companion. Instead he answered :

I shall never try to put any pressure upon
Sybil's inclinations ; if she should still wish to
keep up her friendship with you and Miss Hel-stone
she will be free to do so.'

Free to visit at our house without penalty
or protest from you ? '

Free absolutely from any restriction on my
part.'

Helstone looked at him curiously. 'In
what sight am I to view the concession ? as a
covert bribe to condonation ? '

You are at liberty to view it in whatever
light you find most satisfactory ; only in giving
this permission to my wife, it is in the belief
that all your instincts of honour and manhood
are not buried under your hatred to me.' He
made a slight gesture of leave-taking, and
turned away too quickly to give his companion
the chance of reply.

A few days later Gilbert Helstone sat in his

chambers \ith the announcement of the marriage
in the ' Tones ' open on the table before
his eyes, and though he uttered no sound nor
shoved any sign of feeling, the iron of irrevocable
disappointment was entering his soul.
Had he ever loved her as he loved her at that
moment, when nothing was left him but absolute
loss and futility ? Did the past ever rise before
him in reminiscence more cruelly distinct and
tender ?

He thought of her as the lovely child who
had sat on his knee in the old Queen Street
nursery ; as the growing girl seen, watched,
admired from year to year, as the fine possibilities
of her nature ripened and developed.
Her gallant endurance of the manifold hardships
of life, her high-minded indifference to common
pleasures and loving devotion to the interests of
her family; the brightness of her spirit, the
sweet womanliness of her nature  he dwelt

upon it all as plea and justification of his own
idolatry. But a lover, however mature or
reasonable, does not dwell alone upon the moral
and mental endowments of his queen. To
Helstone's inward gaze Sybil stood before him
in all the sweet perfection of her physical beauty
He knew every hne of her tall, lithe figure,
every feature and turn of her face ; the sweep
of the heavy braids of hair from the delicate
straight brows, the habitual look of radiant
softness in the large tender eyes, the pale bloom
of the clear skin, the warm crimson of
the perfect mouth, were as present realities to
the keenness of his introspective vision. He
recalled the latest expressions he had seen in
that vivid countenance ; the indignant protest
with which she had encountered his
accusations, the passionate zeal with which
she had afterwards defended her own faith
in her lover ; the eyes suffused with tender

friendship as she had bidden him and
Sara farewell at the railway station ; the lingering
touch of the small, brown, unloved fingers.
As he sat with folded arms and lowering
brows thinking about it all, he knew that every
grace and charm, each endowment and capacity
was henceforth invested with a new potency of
allurement  the mad craving for the unattainable.
His love for Sybil Dorrimore had been a
holy affection ; his passion for Sybil Karslake
was an inordinate hunger of the soul. And
then his mind slowly and reluctantly took up
the idea of the man who was the present and
inalienable possessor of all these adorable perfections.
There had always been an instinctive
antagonism between them, but circumstances
had intensified the feelings into a reasoned and
deliberate principle. Helstone religiously believed
in his own suspicions, and in so doing
was justified in the strength of his reprobation

and disgust. The known respect, not to say
admiration, in which the other was regarded by
the world, the charm of his person and manner,
the characteristics of his individuality  in which
there was so subtle an attraction that he was
not wholly insensible to it himself  only served
to exasperate the sense of his real worthlessness.

He had failed miserably to open Sybil's eyes
to the truth ; on the contrary, the attempt had
stimulated her languid regard by appealing to
the chivalry of her native.

Poor girl,' he thought with tenderest pity,
not all her gifts of mind and intellect availed
to save her from the extremity of feminine
infatuation. But when the illumination comes,
when it is in my power to put the proofs of her
husband's guilt before her, how will her boundless
indignation and scorn, and the completeness
of her repudiation, avenge that period of delusion
! '

Well, he would work for this end ; to the
outside world he was nothing beyond the plodding
professional man, making fair headway at
the bar by dint of a certain reliable astuteness,
but with no aptitude for brilliant successes, no
characteristics beyond the most prosaic of this
class.

And such, hitherto, he had in fact been ;
but now, below the surface, lay a fiery impatience
of the restrictions of his condition, and a
resolute purpose to bend and mould all the
circumstances of life to the achievement of
Karslake's disgrace and Sybil's enfranchisement.

Therefore in order to attain this end he must
renew the attempt to discover the hiding-place
of the discarded mistress. It would be strange,
with all his acuteness in fullest exercise, if
Karslake should succeed in baffling him in the
end.

Chapter XIX.

The following sLx: months were spent abroad by
the newly-married pair, Sybil seeing as much
of southern Europe as wealth, culture, and
devotion could procure. They traversed Italy,
explored Switzerland and the Tyrol, wintered in
Eome ; they visited Greece, and returned slowly
home through Germany and France. Their
experience of life during that time was as
of an enchanted cup held to their lips, brim full
of the essential wine of life.

To the one, to have only witnessed these
scenes of matchless interest, of glorious decay
and supreme physical beauty, would have been
a rapture of satisfaction had she been a poor

pilgrim on foot and unaided, hit doubtless
adventitious circumstances enhanced the charm.
If her husband's genius were less and his ardour
cooler than her own, his experience and culture
were greater ; if she could quicken and fire
his intelligence by the inspiration of her spirit,
he in turn could guide and qualify the swift
conclusions of her intellect. If, beneath the
transcendant harmonies and soul-stirring benedictions
of the Christmas Eve services at St.
Peter's, or before the matchless statues and
bronzes of the Vatican, or some panorama of
snow-capped mountains kissed by the rising sun,
he retained his composure while her soul was
drunk with excess of passionate rapture, there
was no lack of generous and tender comprehension
of her keener sensibilities. And then his
physical beauty, his sweet and gracious
manners (how sweet and gracious towards
herself !), and the fine chivalry of thought and

principle betrayed in conduct rather than in
words, quickened and confirmed the coy and
half-reluctant passion he had slowly excited in
her mind. In perpetual contact with the
seeming purity and simplicity of his nature, the
remembrance of the incident that had so
troubled their pre-nuptial peace almost faded
from her mind, and the constant change, variety,
and excitement of their nomad life prevented
the touch of weariness or monotony.

But now the end of all this was drawing
near. Karslake had stretched his furlough as
far as his conscience would allow, and in spite
of Sybil's undisguised reluctance decided upon
going home.

 You forget,' he said smiling, ' that I have
my work to do.'

And will you be able to give me some
work to do ? You must always remember I have
lived a hard-working life, and shall never take

kindly to elegant idleness. I am not quite sure
I shall be able to adapt myself to a house like
yours, where there is nothing to mend or make,
to supplement or desire. I shall need to take
surreptitious lessons from my own servants. Do
you know I am half afraid I was not meant for
luxury and ease.'

S. Mark's is a large parish,' he said ; ' there
are ten thousand human creatures in my so-called
cure. Don't you think a large-hearted,
gifted girl like you may find some employment
for your time amongst them ? '

Possibly, but I doubt if I shall. If it were
a rural Dorset parish I could go in and out of
the cottages, teaching a woman here how to
make bread, washing and dressing a neglected
infant there, and talking to them all the time in
their own native dialect, but I am desperately
afraid of these Londoners; their training,
notions, and aspirations are foreign to all my

experiences. And then, Julian, another point
it will be well for me to make plain at once.
I could not go to anyone in the character of
clergyman's wife  I mean in the sense of being
a teacher of religion. If they were in pain or
trouble I could feel with them, but I could not
talk to them about another world of which I
know nothing, or of God's plans, providence,
and requirements, about all which I am equally
in the dark. You look grave : you know it is
not I that have subscribed the Thirty-nine
Articles.'

But you will go to church ? ' he asked.

Yes, because it would be an act of discourtesy
towards my husband if I did not ; but
I think I shall ask you to accept it as a proof
of my wifely devotion. You know how I have
been brought up, how little I have been used
to Church-going, and, to be quite frank, I feel
no sense of deprivation in the past or of gain

in the present. Sometimes '  with, a radiant
smile  ' if my mind is very weary, or again
if it be very full, say, there is a new poem of
Browning's to read or a novel of George Eliot's,
I am afraid I shall beg you to let me off.'

But you do not call yourself an unbeliever,
Sybil?'

No. I stand, I think, just outside the pale
of religious belief, listening to a voice that may
one day speak to my inmost soul, but has not
yet spoken. I am in suspense on all points of
dogmatic teaching : God has only one aspect tome
 the beneficent Creator of a world of magnificent
possibilities of enjoyment, who has also
endowed my own being with the capacity of
tasting, perhaps of exhausting them. You may
not think it, Julian, but mine has been a very
happy life.'

It must,' he answered, ' when you describe
existence in such terms as these.'

There was a ring of pain in his voice that
struck her with a feeling of surprise, but some
finer instinct prevented her from expressing her
comprehension of it, nor did she give any
expression to the thought that rose in her mind
that his experience lead surely been a happy
one too. She did not care to pursue the conversation,
having already said enough to satisfy
her conscientiousness, but it was a great relief
to her mind that Karslake had neither deplored,
protested, nor argued.

It was the absence of all ethical exigence
on his part, his ungrudging readiness that all
those about him should follow their own convictions,
while never relaxing the strain of duty
for himself, that made him one of the most
lovable of comrades, the easiest of household
companions. His unconscious unselfishness was
a new and delightful study to a girl whose most
intimate male connection had been of so different

VOL. II. F

a type, and whose innate enthusiasm for moral
excellence fed with healthy delight on these
endearing manifestations. Her love for her
husband deepened and broadened, leaving no
room for the tameness and dissonance she had
dreaded.

They had now got back to Bayswater and
fallen into the routine of ordinary English life.
The best members of a wide district and of several
social circles, as followed from his profession,
were anxious to become acquainted with them,
and she was the most easily pleased and winning
of youthful brides. She was prompt to recognise
the smallest kindness and to be grateful for it, and
her generous estimate of others and many-sided
sympathies, not in the least narrowed by her
intellectual bias, produced a natural charm
and grace of manner which all pronounced irresistible.
She could not only endure but disperse
the tedium of the morning call, for in her intense

vitality there was something that evoked and
quickened that of her neighbour ; and even the
formal dinner-party had points of interest to one
to whom as yet there was nothing flat, stale, or
unprofitable in life.

In fact, she performed all the ordinary functions
of high middle-class society, with a
completeness and success which could scarcely
have been expected from her character and
training, or at least only by those who looked
very far beneath the surface.

And at the same time and almost unknown
to Karslake, she had made herself acquainted
with some of the poorest and most miserable of
his parishioners, and had so softened and won
them by the freeness of her tender charity that
she helped them one step nearer to the conception
of the Divine. Karslake, too, soon
learnt to discuss with her his plans of organisation
and amelioration on all points of moral or
p 2

social reform, and to receive help and encouragement
from the ardour of her sympathy and the
breadth and keenness of her intelligence.

Then there were the old home ties and
interests still in unbroken force : the boys had
spent half their long vacation at S. Mark's
Eectory, and Sybil had been proud and pleased
at their improvement both in mind and manners,
putting them through their scholarly paces with
unabated zest and capacity, and stimulating
their ambition by the greater ardour of her
own.

She went back with them to Ashlandg fora
week's breath of Dorset air and the delight
of embracing her little ones and seeing for herself
how things worked under the new regime 
the regime being a sensible middle-aged governess
for the children and an efficient help for
Hannah  and went back refreshed in spirit, and
with a deeper impulse of loving gratitude

towards the man to whom all this new comfort
and brightness were owed.

In this even flow of tranquillity passed the
first year of their marriage  no ominous event
of the future casting its shadow before, and
the only perceptible difference that time made
in ]Mrs. Karslake's feelings was that, as the
novelty and excitement of her new position
subsided into custom and routine, the old
literary and intellectual instincts stirred within
her.

She had always been in the habit of concealing
her authorship, and it scarcely glanced
across her mind to break through a reserve
she felt necessary for success by taking even
her husband into her confidence. He was out
as a rule for several consecutive hours in the
day, and two or three of these Sybil devoted to
her desk.

Her work was somewhat diversified She

had sent a translation of one or two fragments
of the ' Prometheus which had been graciously
received by a leading review ; she had reviewed
a popular novel in one of the weekly papers,
with a fine discrimination of judgment and
finish of style that had brought her a complimentary
invitation from the editor to work
on the staff; and, still more, she had published
an imaginative sketch in the shape of a short
story, in the pages of a Scotch magazine, which
by its united strength, delicacy and originality
was attracting general attention and setting
eager speculation on foot.

For all these things she was well paid, and
this fund she set aside untouched, animated by
the proud hope that by the time the boys were
ready for college, it might be of sufficient
amount to help considerably towards their
expenses.

For it must not be supposed that because

she had consented to the liberal arrangements
made by Karslake, they ceased to bea
burden to her pride and love of independence.


She was content personally to receive what
he chose to bestow, but it still seemed distasteful
to her that he should be the support of the
family at large. Especially she felt the weight
of obligation as regarded her brothers. Jack
was earnestly bent on winning a scholarship at
Winchester, to which she lent all the aid her
sympathy could supply ; should he succeed it
might then be possible that both should run
their University course without an application to
her husband's purse.

The incentive was so powerful as to lend
a more engrossing fascination to her labour
than she had ever known before. Lie carried it
on in her own charming morning-room before
a writing-table at once adequate and elegant,

and oddly in contrast with the old dilapidated
desk of the Ashlands days. Karslake never
came into this room without knocking for
admission, nor she into his library, for he had
a deep-rooted objection, he was wont to say, to
the abolition of all courteous reserves in married
intercourse. Sybil had none of the tendency
to make a litter supposed to be common to a
literary woman ; the neat manuscript she was
engaged on was easily put out of sight in the
few seconds before he entered, and he was not
one of those men who invariably ask their wives
what they have been doing ? '

Sometimes indeed there was a certain aspect,
a faint carmine tint on the clear pale cheek, and
a shining light in the dark eyes, that fixed his
attention, but he never associated it with any
unknown or concealed employment. He
thought the pleasure of his coming had caused
it, or perhaps the book she had been reading,

for she was always surrounded by books, or the
letter he had interrupted, had kindled her sensibility.
And as his eyes dwelt upon her he
also thought that she grew more beautiful and
lovable every day, and he thanked God afresh
for his felicity.

Chapter XX.

It had been Gilbert Helstone's decision, after a
good deal of painful vacillation, to abstain from
using the permission he had been granted to
maintain his friendship with Mrs. Karslake.
His sense of decency prevented him from setting
foot in the house of the man he had so grossly,
if justly, insulted, and he entertained strong
doubts, which events seemed to justify, that
Sybil would care to renew their intercourse.

For all that his patience had been sorely tried
by the protracted absence of the married pair.
Now and again Sybil had written to Miss Hel-stone,
and though these letters were chiefly of
a narrative or descriptive character, there were

slight incidental allusions to her companion that
positively thrilled his disordered mind with
jealous rage. How absolutely the man had
fulfilled his own prophecy that he would make
her love him !

It was a slight, though he felt unworthy,
vent to his irritation to animadvert on the gross
neglect of clerical duty which was involved in
this half-year's abandonment of his parish,
though Karslake had left an efficient substitute
behind him, and to ridicule with the most
scathing criticism every individuality of person,
manner, or conduct. Some scarcely defined
scruple of honour had prevented him from
telling Sara in detail the scene he had witnessed
at the Crystal Palace ; he had contented himself
with the assurance that when he condemned
her model parson as liar and hypocrite, he spoke
with sufficient cause, and sooner or later would
prove his words.

Miss Helstone did not attaeli very much
importance to these declarations ; she looked
upon her brother as a free-thinker who condemned
as impostors all teachers of religion,
and was also fully aware of the nature of his
own feelings towards Sybil Dorrimore. All
this made her tolerant but neglectful of his
manifestations. This was so much the case
that when they at length returned home Sara
made the usual formal call with as little delay
as possible, and brought back to her cynical
companion the most enthusiastic account of the
condition of things all round at S. Mark's
Rectory.

Did Karslake welcome you with effusion ? '
he asked. ' If you had taken the trouble to consult
me I should have told you not to go.*

I thought it likely, and avoided the collision.
As for Mr. Karslake he never is effusive, and no
doubt he resented your absence.'

He would be quite prepared for that, Sara.
My good girl, you must promise me not to go
again.'

Helstone's voice as he spoke took its rarely
tender tone ; his sister looked at him anxiously.

 Xot go again because of your unreasonable
prejudices, Gilbert? Do you consider
they are almost the only people I care to
meet, and that I love the girl as if she were a
younger and nobler sister P '

Sybil must come and see us here,' he said
in a low tone, and without looking at her ;
but you cannot visit at the house of a man of
whom I entertain such an opinion as I do of
Julian Karslake, and have moreover insulted to
his face. I am very sorry, but it cannot be
helped.'

He got up and left the room ; his way of
closing a discussion.

Sara sulked, rebelled a little, and finally

yielded, contenting herself with the mild
revenge of constant attendance upon the frequent
services at S. Mark's, which she knew
tried her brother severely, though on this point
he did not interfere.

The constitutional perversity of her temper,
added to a conviction of the inexpediency of
bringing Mrs. Karslake into intercourse with
Gilbert, influenced her so far that she made no
attempt to induce Sybil to visit her for the first
few months after her return ; but as time passed
on the desire to renew the old friendship and
confidence grew too strong for her objections,
and she wrote her a long explanatory letter,
which ended by entreating her to come and see
her sometimes, in spite of Helstone's unjust prejudices.


This letter Sybil having read and pondered
over, took to her husband. She went direct to
the library, believing him to be there, but

receiving no answer to her summons opened
the door.

To her startled surprise she perceived that
the room was not empty, as she had expected,
but that Karslake was sitting before his writincr-
table with his head buried in his hands, in the
attitude of a man lost in profound and painful
rumination. She observed, too, in the first
anxious survey that there was no evidence
about him of any immediate employment 
books and papers having been swept apparently
on one side.

At the opening of the door, however, he
looked up, but even when he saw who it was
there was an absence of the usual brightening
of expression.

He rose at once, and drew a chair for her
nearer the fire.

I need not say I did not hear you,' he
said, and then he continued to stand opposite

to her, leaning against the high mantel with
his face somewhat averted, and again relapsed
into silence.

Sybil sat down in the seat indicated and
made some casual remark ; that there was
something wrong in all the vague amplitude of
the phrase, she felt certain. His face was very-pale
beyond its habitual lack of colour, and
there was a fixed contraction of the brows, and
a hardness altogether unknown to her observation
before, in the lines of the mouth. Moreover,
she perceived that his trouble or pre occupation
was so great that he found it difficult, or
perhaps impossible, to rally that power of 
which so seldom deserted him.

It followed inevitably that her mind should
recur to the painful incidents which had preceded
their marriage, and to which the slightest
allusion had never since been made, and that
the recollection should excite an involuntary

spasm of pain. Moreover, it made the task of
introducing Sara's letter more difficult ; her name
would be a link of association with this hateful
mystery.

To have asked him point-blank, as some
women might have done, what was the matter,
would have been impossible to Sybil's sensitive
delicacy. She got up and went to his side : in
that position he was not exposed to the embarrassment
of her full gaze.

I am afraid I have interrupted Sunday's
sermon,' she said in her low vibrating voice,
which seemed to give eloquence to her most
careless words, ' for you have all the writer's
look of preoccupation. I don't wonder you did
not hear me, I knocked so softly.'

For answer he stooped down and kissed her
hand, not with the tender passion of a lover
or husband, but with an unmistakable movement
of grateful thanks.
VOL. ir. G

Then she looked up into his face and saw
there an intensity of distress and pain greater
than she had estimated at first, greater than it
was possible for her love to ignore. As they
stood thus side by side, her graceful head
touched his shoulder ; she turned round and
clasping her slender hands .about his neck
looked earnestly into his face.

'Can I help you in any way, by speech or
action I mean ? If you can tell me what is the
matter I am here* to listen : otherwise you are
free not to speak. I mean it will cause no
soreness, no mistrust in my mind.'

He drew a breath of intense relief ; his brow
cleared and the usual expression of sweetness
came back to his face. He bent towards her
and kissed her sweet lips, but without the
siL<n-cstion of strained feeling he had shown
before.

You have helped me already to the uttermost;

there are few women capable of your
magnanimity, Sybil : trust me, I will never
prove unworthy of it.'

I do trust you,' she answered in a low
tone, and then there was a pause between them.
He held her hand still clasped in his, but it was
evident he was not going to confide in her, and
she felt a sharp pang of cruel disappointment.

In her anxiety to conceal this fact she
reverted somewhat abruptly to Sara's letter.

I should like to read it to you,' she said. ' I
do not quite know wdiat answer to make.'

Having fulfilled her task and shown a great
deal of unconscious zest and fellow-feeling with
the writer in so doing, she looked anxiously
towards Karslake, who had now recovered his
usual equanimity, and had listened with quiet
attention to the recital. He could not fail to
see which way her wishes inclined, and the

G 2

strong natural reluctance he had been on the
point of expressing he decided to conceal.

Go and see her, my darling, by all means
 it will be an act of charity and friendship
combined ; and tell her what a warm sense I
entertain of the old kindness she showed me.
It is not my fault I do not call and thank her in
person.'

Is there no hope, Julian, of the misunderstanding
between you and Gilbert Helstone
being arranged? He was such a generous
friend to us all when we had no other.'

Sybil,' he answered with a grave smile, ' I
scarcely think I shall find it possible for my
wife to reconcile friendship for him with loyalty
to me, though I am very sorry to say this. But
if you think otherwise '

I own,' she replied eagerly, ' that the
-strength of my indignation against him has
been greatly lessened by the experiences of the

past year. He has not spoilt our happiness, he
has forced it to a higher level. Is not my
belief in you at this moment implicit, and what
then does it matter that he tried and failed to
shake it ? Then 1 have so many dear memories
connected with the old home, in all which he
seems to have had a share, that I do not like to
give him up ; and very likely he has abandoned
long before this the injurious suspicions he
entertained at one time respecting you, Julian.'

Her voice fell and her colour rose a little as
she spoke.

'No, he has not abandoned them,' replied
Karslake quietly ; ' but you are right in thinking
his devotion to you: family outweighs his
enmity to me  from the virtue springs the vice .
Do exactly as you wish, Sybil, not only in
respect to Miss Helstone but her brother.'

The crirl's beautiful face slowed and brightened
; it was one of her strong crest desires to see

Gilbert Helstone, and overwhelm his prejudice
by proofs of her husband's merits.

I will take you at your word, and go and
see Miss Helstone after luncheon ; and now ' 
more seriously  ' I will leave you alone.'

She looked at him anxiously, half expecting
and wholly hoping, he would seek to detain
her, but he did not. He opened the door for
her departure and closed it slowly after her, and
then as slowly walked back to the seat he had
occupied before she interrupted him, and bowed
his face once more upon his hands.

He sat as motionless as if he had been
turned to stone ; there was no trembling of the
strongly interlaced fingers, no groan or sigh to
testify to the severity of the inward conflict.
After a time he roused himself, and, taking two
letters out of his pocket, prepared to re-read
them, perhaps for the third or fourth time that
morning.

The first was a daintily-tinted but ill written
note in a woman's handwriting, and ran thus : 

I must see you to know what I am to do.
My darling is dying and he is come back, and
I am more than miserable.'

The other was a man's letter, and the writer
was Gilbert Helstone. This was the wording of
it:

I am on your track at last and see my
triumph close at hand. Take notice, I am better
than my word, and give you the warning I
refused.*

The bell rang for luncheon ; Karslake refolded
the letters, and rising wearily from his
seat approached the hearth, and dropped them
both into the glowing heart of the fire. He
stood for a few moments watching them consume
and trying to rally his courage and composure,
and then as a test of his success went
into the dining-room, and ate his luncheon in so

much his accustomed manner that even Sybil's
tender penetration was at fault.

As they rose from table she said :

I am now going to Gilbert Helstone's, but
I am not wilfully bent upon doing so. One
lightest word from you, Julian, and I will give
up the idea.'

He went up to her and kissed her with a
grave tenderness.

Go, by all means, my dear. If I should
not be at home when you return do not wait
dinner. I am obliged to ceo out on business.'

On business,' she replied, ' beyond our late
dinner-hour ! '

Perhaps I ought to have said on duty. I
am going to visit a sick child, and at a long
distance from here.'

So be it,' she answered ; ' then I can sit
and gossip with Sara Helstone without compunction.'
And so they parted.

Chapter XXI.

A SICK child  is there anything on earth more
pathetic ?  the heaviest burden and sorest
penalty imposed on the infant pilgrim in the
rough road of humanity.

It is nine o'clock at night and the late
October rain is falling in torrents. In a small
house in one of the most remote of the eastern
suburbs, this common tragedy was being
enacted. The child was lying in bed in an
upper room simply or rather meagrely furnished ;
the disease was typhoid fever, but the stages of
heat and frenzy had been passed, and he was
now exhausted and comatose, and unconscious
of all surroundings. The soft moulded limbs

have lost their roundness, and the face, touched
and marred by the foul fingers of disease,
much of its seraphic beauty, but to those who
knew him it would still not be difficult to
recognise him by the cloud of golden hair shed
over the pillow, the large-lidded eyes and
contour of delicate perfection.

A shaded lamp burns on a distant table and
throws heavy shadows around it. The neglected
fire in the untended grate is burning out to its
last embers, for the woman who is kneeling by
the bedside has lost all interest in external
comfort. She has knelt there hour after hour,
her elbows on the couch, her chin supported
on her hands and her distended gaze fixed
unweariedly on the boy. If you watch her you
will see how her whole being is absorbed in
her pitiful contemplation, for she reproduces as
if instinctively every slight movement on the
part of the child ; her dress and appearance

show those signs of disorder and negligence
which suggest the idea of having watched day
and night  perhaps days and nights  by the sickbed
; but weary and worn as she is she is still
very pretty, with a soft childlike loveliness that
possibly has gained interest and expression from
the intensity of her present suffering.

Mother and child are not the only occupants
of the room : on the further side of the bed,
almost beyond the range of light, a man is
seated in a comfortable American rocking-chair,
smoking a delicate cigar With apparent insensibility,
and with a tumbler of brandy and soda
conveniently placed on a small table at his
elbow.

It is curious to observe how entirely alien
and aloof the two groups appear from each
other ; her senses perceive nothing but the
child, his seem concentrated on the coarse
physical sensations of his employment. He is

so placed that the bed escapes the fumes of the
tobacco, and as he reclines at his ease lazily-watching
the thin cloud he expels from his well
formed lips, it might be supposed he has no
interest or anxiety beyond.

But the conclusion would be wrong : in
his turn he has watched the child till bis poor
powers of endurance are exhausted; she can
still kneel and agonise till the end ; the strain of
the masculine mind must be relieved, and this
is the only relief that suggests itself to him.
Besides, it assists concentration of thought, and
he has a great deal to think of.

The silence is so profound, except as broken
by the heavy breathing of the boy, that the
sound of the door-bell, though evidently rung
by a guarded hand, startles them like an
electric shock.

Then the woman, who has turned perceptibly
paler, looks across the bed at her companion.


It is Julian,' she says in a low nervous
manner. ' I have sent for him. I did not
know what else to do.'

He sprang up from his seat with a coarse
oath upon his hips, flung his half-finished cigar
under the grate, and seemed to hesitate about
treating the contents of his glass in the same
way, but on second thoughts he changed his
mind and drained it to the bottom.

The next moment Julian Karslake entered
the room : he took in the scene at a glance 
the peril of the prostrate child, the despair of
the mother, the incongruous, defiant bearing of
the man.

For a moment the two stood on either side
of the bed gazing at each other, in height,
feature and general physique so singularly alike
that the most casual observer must have pronounced
them brothers. But how much of
dissonance is compatible with likeness ! The one
looked as if the beauty of the i award nature

had moulded into affinity the outward aspect ;
the other, as if the reckless and sensual soul
was gradually degrading and blotting out the
lines of physical perfection.

Why are you here ? ' asked the elder
sternly ; ' if your own promises do not bind you,
have you lost sight of the risk you run ? '

I run ! ' repeated the other with a sneer,
you run rather ! It is self-interest makes you
so keen a watch-dog, good Julian, but there is
a specific against misery even in misery itself.
For my part I defy the law to condemn me to
a more wretched life than I lead, while exposure
to you would be as bad as the felon's dock
or a cell at Millbank. Why am I here ? Look
at the poor little chap on the bed and answer
that question for yourself.'

The excuse would be sufficient  only you
did not know he was ill.'

Then, hang it, I came to see my girl, and.

by God, not even you shall come between us.
Had it not been for this '  pointing to the bed
' you would not have caught me off my parole
or she here. Your saved Maoxlalen was oroinof
back to her sins.'

Is this true ? ' said Karslake, looking down
at the kneeling figure at his feet. The girl
winced and shrank beneath the compassion of
his tone as if a blow had struck her.

He has been here since yesterday,' she
muttered, ' but I have scarcely looked at him
or moved from Harry's side. I did not know
he was coming nor why he came. I told you
as soon as I could ; what does it matter now ? If
Harry dies I shall have no heart to be good I '

Her voice rose in a wail of anguish : she
suddenly flung her arms round Karslake's
knees.

Pray to God for me,' she sobbed, ' He will
not listen to me. If you want to save me,

save him! Is Heaven so hard upon nie
because I have no right to be a mother ? '

In a moment the younger brother had cleared
the space between them, and tearing her from
her knees by an exercise of muscular strength,
he caught her in his arms and strained Tier
against his breast, soothing her and kissing her
wet cheeks with passionate abandonment.

My poor Nell, my precious girl ! ' he said,
has he brought you to this state of slavish
terror ? God ! if there be a God, who is dearer
to Him, think you  he in his prosperous, cold-blooded
formality, or you, sweet broken-hearted
darling? Come what may, my girl, we have
met and parted for the last time now.'

At first she had struggled to free herself
from his embrace, more from the sense of
Julian's presence than from any inward reluctance
; but as the familiar tones and tender
caresses stirred the chords of old associations,

she grew passive and ofierecl no further resistance.
Her weary golden head, heavy with
pain and sorrow, rested on his breast with a
sense of habitude and languid pleasure ; for a
few moments she forgot her child.

Karslake watched them both with sensations
of mingled pain and sympathy, but he
abstained from interference till the first burst of
passionate feeling was over.

Then he went up to his brother and laid
his hand on his shoulder.

Harry,' he said, ' there Is but one way of
righting this wrong  will you do it. '

The other suddenly released his hold of
Nell, as if the suggestion unnerved him ; he
looked up with his flushed face blanched with
fear.

What do you mean ? Have I not proved
to you again and again the thing is impossible,

VOL. 11. H

absolutely more impossible than in the times
gone by ?'

In the times gone by you based your
objections on the plea that it would be below
your social standing to marry the woman you
had dishonoured; now you have lost that
standing by an act of fraud that has, to my mind,
not more of moral evil in it than much that
you have done before, and through it all Nell
continues to love you. Edward her fidelity by
making her your wife, and she will not refuse
to share your exile. Acceplhe one point of
reparation in your power.'

Accept my ruin ! You mean I should
marry her in my own name in the light of
day ? In other words you would give me up to
justice, and so end the tax on your purse and
your patience. You think you could face the
world as a convict's brother ? Not you ! nor
would Nell have much to thank me for if at

this time of day, I made an honest woman of
her in such a doubtful fashion. Xo, no, Julian,
you salve your clerical conscience by offering a
suggestion you know I shall refuse, and which
otherwise you would never propose. It is scarcely
worth while  we shall stick as close to each
other as if your precious palaver had been
spoken over our heads.'

'I am quite prepared,' replied Karslake
quietly, ' to take my share of the risk and to
smooth your way so far as it is in my power.
You might meet at Bristol  it is easy to hide
amongst the teeming masses of a sea-port town
and go straight from the church to the first
vessel bound for the Antipodes. I will secure
your berths and find all necessary funds.'

Harry burst into a coarse laugh. ' Are you,
after all, in earnest in making such a proposal,
or is it a trap to catch me unawares ? Have
you never heard of an extradition warrants

H 2

What ! my own name on the marriage licence
and parish register ! Shall I send my photo to
Scotland Yard, and detail my dress, appearance
and contingent whereabouts in the " Hue and
Cry? " By God, Julian, parsons are the weakest
fools on the face of the earth ; for the sake
of a contemptible social scruple to risk my
liberty like that ! '

So weak a fool am I,' replied his brother,
that I have reached the conclusion that the only
right thing to do is to drop this miserable concealment,
declare that you are still a living
man, and take all the consequences of the confession.
It may be the man you have wronged,
or even the law itself, would deal leniently with
you ; but otherwise I would rather face life as a
convict than live under such conditions as yours
and mine,' he added in a lower tone.

The other looked at him in speechless
rage.

You would betray me ? ' he asked in a
suppressed choking voice, and making a menacing
movement towards him.

I shall never betray you, but if you decide
to reject these terms you must at least keep
those already made. You risk too much all
round by coming here, besides destroying Nell's
peace of mind. Also, except as your wife, she
goes not with you. I will not ask you to go
away to-night, while your boy is hanging
between life and death, but you must leave this
house ; we will watch and let you know
when the crisis is over. There is a little inn a
stone's throw from here where you can sleep.
I suppose you have some sort of disguise ? '

Harry's lowering brow cleared a little.

You mean straight and fair ? You will not
fail me ? You have money with you ? '

Karslake nodded assent ; Avoids were harder
to produce.

Nell, meanwhile, had relapsed into her
former mood, and was again kneeling beside the
bed with her eyes fixed on the pallid, changeless
face of the unconscious child. Julian went
to the other side, and stooping over him took
the tiny hand tenderly in his, in order to test
the fluctuating feeble pulse, as well as to close
a useless controversy.

Again at this moment the door-bell rang.

Nell looked up in alarm. ' It is the doctor!
Harry, there is time to hide  that door leads
into my dressing-room.'

Julian had turned quickly as the street-door
was opened, and the voice of the childish
maid servant could be heard distinctly in
parley with the visitor; he put gently down
the frail hand he held, but his own shook
perceptibly.

He had recognised the voice as Gilbert
Helstone's. It was one of the crises of life ; his

own honour or his brother's safety hung in the
balance.

One keen glance in Harry Karslake's face
would have solved the mystery of the Crystal
Palace, and wiped the infamous conclusions out.
Two strides would have brought him within the
shelter of the dressing-room, or otherwise he
might have barred his brother's retreat ; and
the risk incurred by the latter was less than the
certainty of his own injury and wrong.

But there was not the vacillation of a
moment ; to say the idea of self-preservation
did not occur to his mind would be false, but
it occurred only to be instantaneously rejected.

He stepped forward and opened the door
behind him for Harry's hurried concealment,
and closed it noiselessly again.

Then Nell spoke. ' You will not leave me !
you will wait and hear what the doctor says ?
Or perhaps I ask too much ?'

It is not the doctor,' lie said gently, ' or if
it is, he is not alone. I recognise the voice of a
man I know who has business with me and, I
suppose, has followed me here.'

He hesitated, scarcely knowing what step
to take or suggest. Was he tamely to submit
to the insufferable outrage of Helstone's espionage
? And yet of what avail would protest or
controversy be when his lips were sealed to
silence, even had such resource been possible
under existing circumstances.

It was now evident from the sound of voices
below that Helstone was not alone  he had
probably entered the house with the doctor,
who was questioning the servant-girl as to
whether he should go up to the sick room at
once. Nell sprang to the head of the stairs
and begged him to do so, and the next moment
both he and the stranger entered the room
together. ' .

So great was the poor mother's pre occupation
that she scarcely heeded the intrusion, or
accepted Julian's explanation as sufficient ; he
on his part raised his eyes and met Helstone's insolent,
defiant glance with dauntless equanimity.
There was no opportunity for the exchange of
words ; Karslake was standing on the further
side of the bed, which the doctor had immediately
approached in order to examine his
patient ; Nell awaiting his fiat with her eager
gaze fixed on this face, and her whole soul in
her gaze. But the mind of the professional
man himself was alert and open , though his
first keen glance was at the child his next was
at the stranger, whose striking personality
challenged attention. It was the first time in
his visits to mother and son that he had seen
any man about the house, and his curiosity had
been considerably excited as to the status of his
clients ; the rapid conclusion he now reached as

his eyes searched Karslake's face, was a very
satisfactory one to the doubts he had entertained.


Your husband) I presume, my dear
madam .' he said, acknowledging Karslake's
courteous recognition of his approach.

Poor Nell's face and neck were dyed crimson
with complex confusion and shame ; she
cast an agonised glance of deprecation towards
Julian, to whose pale cheek also the colour
slowly rose. He knew Hel stone's cruel cynical
eyes were watching every manifestation, and
translating each into damning evidence against
him.

For all that neither gesture nor voice
betrayed the slightest agitation. He replied
quietly :

You are mistaken, but none the less I am
deeply interested in your patient. What do
you think of him ? I have thought his sleep

more natural during the last quarter of an
hour, and there is a little moisture on the
skin.'

The doctor shrugged his shoulders almost
imperceptibly ; he concluded he understood the
situation perfectly, and was a little revolted by
the coolness of the speaker : besides, he resented
instinctively any unprofessional opinion of the
case. He began feeling the child's pulse,
testing the temperature, and then raised the
heavy lids and peered into the dilated pupils
beneath. At the end of his investigation he
shook his head ominously.

Surely you find some hopeful symptoms ? '
urged Karslake in the same tone of anxiety as
before, and trying to direct the doctor's attention
to the white face of the stricken mother at
his side ; ' I have seen patients rally from a
state of coma as profound as this, and begin
to revive.'

It is possible  just possible,' was the reply,
but the boy appears to me to have been a
little neglected ; to be sure, my dear madam,
you could not know what to do in these
changed conditions. Everything now depends
on the nursing he gets ; he must be watched
hour by hour, and every symptom observed and
provided for. Tired eyes and weary limbs
won't do  you must go to bed and find someone
else to sit up ; ' he looked at Karslake a
little maliciously. ' His lips must be moistened
continually with wine and water or milk, if you
have got any. I will send a draught that must
be administered in case of returning consciousness
 that is, if he is able to swallow.'

Then Helstone spoke from the remote corner
of the rooiTi, where he had been standing a
silent spectator of the scene.

It will, no doubt, be a great disappointment
to Mr. Karslake that his engagements will

make it impossible for him to spend the night
with the child, in spite of his natural desire todo
so.'

The unfamiliar name fell flat on the doctor's
ear, and he made no sign. It could not be
otherwise than that Julian understood the
animus of the speaker, but no change of expression
bore witness to the fact.

It will be inconvenient for me to sit up all
night,' he said, addressing the doctor, ' but not
impossible. It is necessary that the mother
should rest, and there is no one else to take her
place. But in that case I must find a messenger
to deliver a note at my own house.'

I am going home immediately,' said
Hebron, ' and must of necessity pass your door.
I will deliver a letter if you think me sufficiently
trustworthy.'

There was a ring of almost diabolic triumph
in his voice, and for the first time Karslake

turned and looked at him with an expression
that indicated something of the moral recoil he
excited. He did not however refuse the offer.

If you will come down-stairs into another
room we can perhaps arrange it : ' and then he
turned to Nell to make some inquiries about
writing materials, speaking to her in his usual
tone of gentle consideration, to which his present
sympathy gave an added touch of tenderness
and respect.

She, poor soul, to whom he had always
appeared as an angel of God, looked up to him
with eyes so full of passionate feeling that
Helstone might well be excused for thinking
the last point of confirmation had been added
to his conclusions. He preceded Karslake
down-stairs, with such a tempest of rage and
hatred in his heart that he half doubted his
power to hold it within decent control.

Here was evidence sufficient for the Divorce

Court  evidence that must rouse the meekest
and most credulous of wives into relentless revolt.
Sybil, the barely year-old wife, already wearied
of and betrayed, while the husband returned to
his earlier and baser passion.

He had not himself expected anything so
bad as this ; he had indeed firmly believed in
the guilt and dishonour of the past, but had
supposed that marriage would have put an end
to it. Even the easy morals of society would
have exacted this as an indispensable point of
decency, but the effrontery of the priest's transgression
mocked at even conventional limits.
Then his mind dwelt on his own strong love
for the wronged and outraged girl ; how the
lightest touch of her hand on his, still more the
tender kiss of friendship she had sometimes
given in the sweet past, made every pulse in his
being thrill with the agony of vain desire. She
had given herself body and soul to this man,

with the most insane but generous confidence
and this was her reward !

And  the pity of it ! the pity of it !  not
two hours before he had seen her dear face
kindle, and tender voice take a sweeter inflection,
as she described and eulogised the daily life
and character of the husband who was at that
very moment renewing his vows to his mistress
and soothing her maternal grief.

The little parlour down-stairs had no fire, and
was only lighted by the candle Karslake had
brought down in his hand. He placed it on a
table, found pen and ink as if familiar with the
arrangements of the place, and sat down to
write his letter without word or look towards
his companion.

Helstone had closed the door and stood
glaring at him with his back against it. It
was not his intention, if he had sufficient
restraint over himself, to vent his wrath and

disgust iu speech : lie could afford to wait now
that he saw his way to his perfect revenge.
He watched him as he wrote with venomous
intensity : as the sickly ray of the candle fell
direct on his enemy's face he saw with a thrill
of triumph its extreme pallor, and that the hand
that dipped the pen into the ink shook perceptibly.
He could hardly refrain from tearing
the paper from under his fingers, and refusing
to be the medium of convenience his words of
falsehood and cajolery to the unhappy and
deceived wife at home : only his success would
be all the more complete if he could abstain
from violence or threatening now. Some
slight contemptuous surprise he felt at Karslake's
invincible firmness and composure under the
knowledge of his own complete exposure, of
the scathing reprobation excited and the consequences
that must ensue. But that reserve
of outward manifestation was one of his most

VOL. II. I

baffling characteristics ; and it was precisely
to such consummate aptitude for deception that
Sybil owed her ruin and his hate its keenest edge.

The note was brief and penned rapidly after
the first pause of deliberation ; then Karslake
sealed the envelope in which he had placed it
and rose from the table.

Before putting this letter in your hands,'
he said, 'you will not think it unreasonable that
I ask for an assurance that you will simply
deliver it at the door. I mean that you will
make no attempt to see Mrs. Karslake.'

'I shall make no attempt to see Mrs.
Karslake to-night. It would be too late. My
compact goes no farther.'

In that case I will light you to the door.
I am anxious to return to the sick-room, and I
imagine your object is gained.'

Aye, beyond my most sanguine expectation
! But I will dispense with ceremony. I

prefer to let myself out with my own hand.
You will scarcely expect me to say good-night 
there is not a curse in the repertory of the
blasphemer that I would not rather invoke on
your head.'

And with these words he opened the door,
groped his way along the dark passage, and let
himself out into the still falling rain.

Karslake stood for a few moments after he
had heard the door close behind him, poured
out and drank a glass of water fi'om a bottle
that stood on the table near him, and then
slowly took his way upstairs again.

CHAPTER XXII.

The first thing Karslalce did on returning to
the room, after the departure of the doctor,
was to organise arran (cements for the nicest, and
make some change in the pillows and position
of the still unconscious child, for Nell, though a
devoted mother, was a bad nurse. Then he
dismissed the exhausted girl to bed, advising
her to take the servant into her apartment with
her for further precaution.

I will see Harry safely off the premises,'
he said, ' and you may depend upon my calling
you if any change for the worse should occur
in the child.'

But the doctor's boy has not brought the

medicine yet,' she answered fretfully ; ' the maid
or I must sit up for that.'

There is no need. I will open the door
"myself and then shut up the house.' Seeing
she still hesitated, he added :

Are YOU afraid I shall not understand the
directions on the bottle ? '

'0 no, not that ; but lest you should do
yourself still more harm,'

That will not follow,' he said kindly. He
did not add, ' because all the harm possible has
been already done,' though that was his inward
comment. ' Try and dismiss all your anxieties
and sleep soundly, so as to be fit for the work of
tomorrow. I hope and believe he will rally,
but he will need a good deal of patient nursing,
and you must not wear out your strength.'

She went at last, and then, after having
surveyed his little patient and wetted the
parched lips according to instruction, he opened

the door of the inner room, where his brother
lay concealed, and went in.

There was a couch in one corner of the
apartment, and on this Harry Karslake had
flung himself, and was at the moment lying
fast asleep. The light from the adjoining
room was just enough to reveal the attitude of
careless ease, the quiet, untroubled slumber he
was enjoying, and, as is often the case, his face
under this aspect seemed to have recovered
much of the innocent repose of youth.

The elder brother leaned against the wall
and looked down upon him ; then, moved by
that instinct of protection which had always
marked their relations, he took up a woollen
shawl that was thrown over the back of the
sofa and spread it over him. Light as the
touch was it was sufficient to awake him ; he
sprang up with an anxious and aggressive air.

Oh, is it you, old fellow? ' he said testily.

Come to tell me it is time to be moving ? A
limited man sleeps like a hare. Hang it, Julian,
there are days and hours when I am half
disposed to take your advice, throw up the
sponge, and give in. Five years of pious
propriety would see me out of Dartmoor with
a ticket-of-leave ; then Xell and I could be
spliced without further bother, if she had proved
faithful, and we would hide our disgrace in one
of the cities of Australia. 1 the little chap
lives he should go with us  what do you say ? '

As I have said before ; that it is the only
way back to peace and honour, if you have
courage enough to pay the penalty

The words were spoken almost mechanically,
and the other looked in his face and uttered a
low mocking laush.

I am scarcely the dupe you take me for,'
he said ; ' if you really thought I spoke in good
faith your shame and terror would be tenfold

mine. You would urge me for our mother's sake
to save the name you bear from public disgrace,
and double your bribes for my expatriation.
Own it ! You have married lately  was that
an honourable thing to do ? '

It would have been a dastardly thing to do
if I had known you were alive and a criminal
when I first sought to win my wife. I learnt
the former fact from Nell Trevelyan a month
before my marriage, and the latter not till my
return from my wedding tour. From that hour
to this I have incessantly revolved in my mind
the right course to pursue. I am pledged at
all points not to betray you ; but decide to surrender
yourself to justice, and you may count
upon me to back you at all costs.'

To stand in the dock at my side at the
Central Crim,' s]]cered Harry, ' ind subsequently
to face your church and fine wife in
the ncAv character of convict's brother ? You,

whose whole life  come, I'll allow that much
  has been given to the pursuit of whatsoever
things are lovely and of good report, to be
flung so deep into the mire ? Xo, no, Julian ;
you are a very good fellow in your little way,
but take my word for it, you are not quite
tough enough for that.'

Try me I ' was the almost passionate
answer. ' Give me leave to go to Mr. Antrum
and tell him you are the one survivor of
the wrecked fishing-smack in which you made
your escape, and that you choose to stand the
penalty of a half-involuntary crime rather than
to spend life in vagabondage and exile. It is
possible that time has softened his enmity : I
would offer him restitution to the farthest
claim of principal and interest, and if not '

Aye, there comes the pinch I I own my
heart leaps at the chance of being a free man
once more. How I curse the moment when I

was fool enough to add that little nought to
his niggardly cheque  seems to me now that
the incarnate devil himself would not tempt me
to such idiot folly again. A stroke of the pen
the impulse of half a moment  to wreck a
man's whole life ! But I know Mr. Anstruther ;
there is the venom of the Scotch trader in his
blood, and he has hated me like poison from a
child. No, Julian, no ; I'll not risk it : nothing
would induce him to forego his pound of flesh.
They might give me twenty years.'

Karslake was silent.

I must be off,' resumed the other. 'I shall
find my way down to the docks in the morning,
and book myself as an Ab. in the first ship
chartered for the Antipodes. So I found my
way home  even Nell's faithful memory did
not penetrate my disguise at first. I suppose,
cowed by your croaking, there is small chance
of her joining me, should I send for her in time

to come ? And now to business : are you prepared
to bleed freely ? '

I have two hundred pounds with me ; when
you reach your destination write, and if possible
I will arrange the transmission of periodical
sums. But you will work ? '

As an alternative to starving I will work, not
otherwise; but what you propose can't be done.
Fate makes me a vagabond ; but I will let you
know, depend upon it, when and how money can
reach me.'

He took and secured the leathern purse
his brother held out to him, and then stooped
and lifted a heavy carpet-bag that was pushed
out of sight under the couch.

This is my toggery of transfiguration,' he
said, with forced gaiety ; ' but I will put it on
down-stairs before the little glass in the parlour.
I would rather you did not see me in it : at
some future time it might put yom: truth-speaking

to an awkward test. You will bid her
goodbye for me ? '

I will, but wait a moment ! It is almost
more than I can bear to see you relegate yourself
to a life of hardship and wretchedness ; is there
no other alternative possible ? '

None ; as a man sows, &c. The parting is
a pinch  to you  but you will soon get over it.
And, to help to harden your heart, remember the
life I led you in the days of old ; how I ridiculed
your affection, mocked your advice, and aggravated
my sins out of very wantonness, to
give you pain. Look at the sequel as the
whipping I have richly deserved, and  goodbye.'


What I remember,' said Karslake retaining
his hand in an almost painful grasp, ' is the
innocent curly-headed child who lay sobbing
in our dying mother's arms, and the promise she
extracted from me then  " to strive for your

welfare at any personal cost." IIow miserably
have I failed in its fulfilment ! '

Not entirely your own fault, my good
Julian ! My bias unfortunately seems to have
been the same as the Psalmist's  ' I went
astray from the womb speaking les." I don't
think I was ever an innocent child ; I told
fibs, and rigged the sugar and jam long
before the period you mention, though the dear
guileless creature never suspected it. And fora
while I hoodwinked my big brother too. But
it is time to have done with these reminiscences
only you have recalled the old pledge given
on a death-bed  you will never force it ? '

So far as the memory of it can help you, I
will never forget it.'

You are very fond of your wife, Nell tells
me ; also that she is wonderfully pretty. There
are moments of conjugal lapse and softness
when a man lets his very soul leak out its secrets.

You will be on your guard against such?
You will never own your brother is a living
man ?  renew your promise ! '

I promise.'

" At any personal cost," the dear mother
said,' continued the younger man bitterly, ' and
I have cost you something already. None the
less, you have all the good things of life in
possession, and the darling is the outcast !
There is precious little you can do for me
now. Still my mind would be easier if you
would clinch your naked promise with an
oath.'

My word binds me for life or death,'
answered Julian, ' you need no other security.'
Then looking again into the sullen, dissatisfied
face of the other, he added, ' As you will ; dictate
what words you please, short of impiety, and I
will repeat them after you.'

A twinge of compunction pierced the

callous sensibilities of Harry Karslake as he
encountered his brother's glance.

Let it pass ! ' he said impatiently ; ' 3'ou
would cavil at my prescription for certain. Only
remember, I hold you bound in tighter bonds
than if you had called down hell and damnation
upon your head.'

He turned abruptly from him, and going
into the other room stood for a moment by the
bed and looked at the child.

Julian followed him, full of anxiety for his
involuntary neglect, but there was no change to
be perceived.

 I wonder if this youngster and I will ever
see each other again ! ' muttered Harry. ' Not
much matter if we don't. Mind, I leave him to
you as my representative of virtue and honour
make a better man of him than his father !
I would kiss him but he smells of fever. Xo
more farewells  I'm off  don't follow me ! '

He went down-stairs, and Julian heard him
shut and lock the parlour door upon himself ;
in less than ten minutes' time it was reopened,
and the wanderer let himself out into the darkness
of night.

Chapter XXIII.

It was ten o'clock in the morning of the
following day. Mrs. Karslake, who retained
her country taste for early rising, had already
breakfasted and dismissed her light household
duties. The persistent rain was still falling so
that she could not go out ; her husband had not
yet returned, and this would give her a longer
spell of leisure than usual over her beloved
manuscript.

She went into her morning room, where a
bright fire gave the effect of homely comfort
to enhance its dainty luxury and ease. For a
few moments she moved about among her
cabinets, her soft gray dress and light footfall

VOL. II. K

making no sound, taking up with a tender wistful
air some of the costly trifles with which
they were strewn. As she thus handled and
examined the perfect bronze, the priceless bit of
old china, the thought that passed through her
mind was how soon she had familiarised herself
to this new atmosphere of lavish expenditure,
this indulgence of aesthetic instincts ; and how
the value of one of these artistic toys would
have seemed a mine of wealth to her but a short
year ago.

She had known so much of the pressure of
poverty that she was half doubtful of the right
of spending so much on the externals of life, and
like all beings of deep feeling and high aspiration,
was inclined to ask herself what right she
had to a happiness so exceptional as her own.

She had her husband's note in the pocket of
her dress, and she drew it out and read it over
again. All she knew was that it had been left

by a messenger at the door the previous evening,
and she did not read it again from any
sense of dissatisfaction with its contents, for her
loyal and unsuspicious nature accepted the explanation
of his absence as thoroughly adequate.

Her motive was to see if she had missed
any intimation of the time she might expect
his return that day.

She still held it in her hand when a servant
entered with a card.

Was she at home to so early a visitor ? '

The card bore Helstone's name, and Sybil
turned a little pale as she read it, some subtle
impression touching her that there was a connection
between this unusual visit and Karslake.
Had it not been for this indefinable suspicion
she would have felt a ghiish pride in receiving
her old friend in her new home.

Yes,' she said, ' I am at home and will see
Mr. Helstone at once.'

When the door opened she crossed the
room to meet him, but started back involuntarily
at the sight of his pale and haggard
countenance.

What is wrong ? ' she asked eagerly.
'Has something dreadful happened at your
own house ? '

Helstone looked her through and through
with his keen hungry eyes : he had spent not
only a sleepless night, but had made no attempt
to court sleep, counting the slow hours till the
time when he could decently call upon the
woman he loved and pitied beyond measure,
in order to fulfil his stern duty towards her,
and inflaming both his love and his hate during
the protracted vigil.

And now he saw her for the first time withall
her luxurious surroundings, ha23py and
smiling in perfect ignorance of the blow with
which he was to destroy her peace. There was

no anxiety in that clear glance, or shadow of
conjugal suspicion in tone or aspect. For a
moment he hesitated. Had it been a question
of pure self-sacrifice he had been equal to make
it, but it behoved him as a point of relentless
duty to open her eyes to her own dishonour ;
his heart would bleed for lier, but he had told
her husband that when the hour arrived for lier
enlightenment, he would choose niiseiy for her
rather than disgrace.

My dear,' he said, taking her hand quietly,
It is not in my own house that something
dreadful has happened, and you may be quite
sure I should not cross the threshold of sours
except under some form of compulsion.'

There was a deliberate solemnity in his manner
that could not but produce its effect. It
was unlike the vindictive prepossession he had
revealed on other occasions when her husband
was the subject of his warnings and reproach ;

lie could not help recalling, with a pang, the
agitation she had witnessed the day before, and
dreading lest some inevitable connection was to
be traced between it and Karslake's singular and
unexpected absence. For all that, the courage
and loyalty of her nature moved her to repress
the slightest sign of misgiving.

Sit down,' she said, drawing a chair
towards the fire and taking another herself,
opposite to him ; ' it is such a pleasure to me to
see you at last in my own house that I will
not inquire too closely into the motive of your
coming. I am quite sure it is out of regard to
what you think my true interests.'

Think ! ' he repeated, with a sort of
pathetic bitterness ; and then he took the chair
offered, and sat for a moment or two gazing
into the sweet serene face with a feeling of
remorseful tenderness.

I am risking' all I care for most in coming

here to-day,' he resumed. ' Whether you
believe or pretend to disbelieve the truth of
what I am going to tell you, you will equally
hate me for the telling of it. You got the
note I brought last night ? '

You brought ! '

Yes ; strange as it may well appear that I
should play lackey to Mr. Karslake. But I
spared you a night of watching and anxiety 
that was my actuating motive. He is not come
home ? '

Xot yet,' she answered, with a tender
dignity that touched him to the quick. ' I do
not expect him yet.'

It may be,' he rejoined passionately, ' that
even his audacity is scarcely equal to facing
immediately the wife he has outraged. Nay,
Sybil, command yom patience a few moments,'
for she had made a gesture of indignant repudiation
 ' you must listen to what I have to say.'

But I refuse to listen ! It was incumbent
upon me to do so once, as a guest in your house
and before any legal ties bound me to Julian
Karslake. Now I am his wife, and even you
shall not malign him in my presence.'

Malign ! ' he repeated, almost maddened by
her expression of proud confidence and the fear
of defeat, and pouring out his words in defiance
of her protest, ' do I malign him by the statement
of plain facts ? I saw him last night leaning over
the bedside of his dying child, and admitting
to the very doctor in attendance that the tie
that bound him to its mother was an illicit one.
It was to console that unhappy mother that he
absented himself from home last night.'

Sybil had tried and failed to arrest the
words, and now that she had heard them it
was as much as she could do to repress the cry
of anguish they seemed to tear from her heart.
She got up from her seat pale as death, but still

maintaining "her proud and resolute demeanour.
Her first impulse, doubting her own strength,
had been to lean against the mantel-piece for
support, but she checked it as an indication of
weakness.

She felt like some stout swimmer from
whose grasp the saving rope has been torn, but
Who still relies on his own ability to remain it.
For a brief space, while those cruel words were
in her ears, she felt her hold upon her husband's
honour slackening, and it was a space that
seemed to enclose within it the very bitterness
of death ; but already her faith revived. It
had only been a momentary and instinctive disloyalty.


Helstone, intensely observant of the effect
of his words, had made a movement of eager
sympathy towards her, but she repelled him
with an imperious gesture. He misunderstood
her entirely.

Sybil,' he murmured, devouring the pathos
of her face with his burning gaze, ' when the
first shock of outraged womanhood is past, you
will learn to thank me for putting it in your
power to prove your right to freedom. Never,
surely, was so sweet a woman so sinned against
before ! '

Is it possible,' she asked, with a brave and
successful effort to speak calmly, 'that you
believe that I have accepted your assertions ?
My trust in Julian's fidelity at this moment is
as absolute as if you had never spoken. What
grieves me is the determined malice and cruelty
of one who has been my friend until to-day.
Henceforth, Mr. Helstone, you and I are
strangers.'

He stared at her for a moment in incredulous
astonishment, then broke into a derisive
laugh.

Child,' he said, ' what good will it do to

play off these queenly airs on me ? Will your
infatuated refusal to believe in facts rob these
facts of their remorseless stubbornness ? All
these circumstances, which a happy chance has
brought under my own cognisance, I shall lay
before the next meeting; of Mr. Karslake's
parish. As a parishioner I have a right todo
this, though even as an outsider I shoidd be
justified in exposing such a nefarious imposture
as his. I can produce witnesses in support
of my accusations. Shall you be content to
wait and see how he rebus the charge ? '

She looked at him with a sort of confused
horror. His relentless face, the cruel tones of
his voice, seemed to obliterate the individuality
of the kind and genial man she had known informer
years, and the threat he now uttered
was a formidable one. Would he do this thing ?
She saw at a glance it involved ruin to her
husband; for frantino that he consented to

repudiate the accusation, no reputation is fair
enough nor virtue sufficiently pure to resist the
tarnish of so foul a suspicion. And if, as she
knew was possible, he should refuse to consent P

You cannot mean what you say,' she
answered at last, passing her hand over her
brow with an irresistible movement of oppression
; ' it would be an act of absolute malignity.
Why do you make so sure of his guilt P
I should have thought your professional knowledge
of life might have taught you how often
appearances and truth are at variance. Cannot
you conceive of circumstances that may bind
the lips of an innocent man to silence ? '

An innocent man ! By God, Sybil, you try
me more than I can bear ! An innocent man,
whom I have seen with his dominie mistress at
his knees, and his false face white with anxiety
for the bastard he denies ! You, blind with
conjugal passion, believe I am going to throw

dirt on the white raiment of a saint. Instead,
I am going to discover the vilest hypocrite that
ever walked.'

You think so. I know you conscientiously
think so, but you are wrong.' She spoke in a
voice of passionate though controlled emotion,
but it only served to intensify his sense of her
incredible delusion.

You plead in vain,' he said sternly, ' for it
is my zeal for your own honour and happiness
that moves me in this matter. It is just possible
that I may have an alternative to propose
hereafter, but that wil need further consideration.'


There was a pause between them, during
which Sybil's ears caught the sound of the doorbell
and the slight bustle of an arrival. The
next moment she heard Karslake's voice
inquiring of the servant where she was. She
rose immediately.

My husband is come,' she said, ' and I
must go and meet him. I will return and
speak to you again, if you think fit to wait ; ' and
then she crossed the room swiftly, ' on the
wings of her insensate love,* he thought to himself,
and went out, closing the door upon him.

The next moment she had joined Karslake
in the hall, where he still stood somewhat slowly
and wearily divesting himself of his overcoat ;
and drew him with a gracious smile and touch
into the library, which was the room nearest at
hand.

Come here, and let me look at you,' she
said, with an assumption of rare playfulness.
I want to see how you bear the brunt of a
night's watching.'

She was standing in the embrasure of the
bay-window, but the dismal October day shed
but a murky light. He went close up to her,
put his hands lightly on her shoulders, and

looked down into lier upraised face. Their
eyes met with meuse though restrained expression.
He looked not only pale and weary,
which fatigue might easily have justified, but
absolutely wan and haggard, but for all that
the gaze that met hers was as clear and steadfast
as ever.

Have you some questions to ask, some
misgiving to satisfy ? You look at me, Sybil,
as if you wished to question not my face, but
my heart and soul. Are you displeased ? '

Is the child better ? ' was her answer.

In point of fact she had probed as deep ashe
suggested, and was fully satisfied with the
result, but some subtlety of feeling induced her
to play on the verge of the escaped danger.

He is conscious this morning, but I fear
will scarcely have strength to rally.'

And that will be a great grief to you ? '

It will be a o-reat nef to me,' he answered

gravely, ' and almost a death-blow to his unhappy
mother.'

In spite of her firmness, Sybil involuntarily
drew back a little and changed colour. Then,
as she met his questioning and almost stern
glance, the crimson rushed into her face; it
was she who dropped her eyes as if conscience-stricken.


Can it be possible,' he said, * that you have
seen Gilbert Helstone ? '

He is in the house at this moment. I
have only just left his presence to give you a
welcome home.'

Karslake turned pale even to the lips ; his
eyes kindled and scintillated with passion.

This is an outrage that cannot be suffered,'
he said hoarsely, and crossed the room to lay
his hand on the bell.

Sybil sprang forward to arrest the movement.


What are you going to do, Julian ?
Summon some servant to dismiss him and exasperate
him still further ? Xo, no ; I want you to
take another course from that ! '

He forbore in deference to her entreaty, but
at the same time he turned from her with a
haughty coldness that cut her to the heart.

You said just now you came to welcome
me home. What am I to think, Sybil,  that
you are able to reconcile your duty to me with
Gilbert Helstone's intolerable persecution?
Have you allowed him to tell you what happened
last night ? '

'I have allowed it,' she answered, with a
sense of injustice that brought tears of agonised
disappointment to her eyes, ' simply because
it was physically impossible to prevent it.
What more could you require than that I
should protest against his calumnies before they
were uttered, and indignantly repudiate them

VOL. II. L

afterwards ? Do you count it nothing that in
face of the evidence he puts forward, I still retain
my faith in your fidelity ? '

That is,' he said, in a low suppressed voice
of concentrated indignation, ' that I am to be
grateful because you, my wife, hesitate to
believe me guilty of an almost incalculable
depth of baseness and treachery,  that the
perjured lover of last year is the shameless
adulterer of to-day? You imply that the
evidence is so strong to that effect, that you
go beyond reason and claim the dues of magnanimity
in not accepting it ? And I, on my

part, say ' and then he stopped abruptly.

'I am not equal to this contention to-day,'
he added, more calmly, ' and the less I say she
better. I will accept the faith you still retain,
Sybil, and try and be thankful that you are
disposed to welcome me home.'

He stooped and kissed her as he spoke, as

if he remembered this conventional act of
greeting had not passed between them, and then

turned and left the room.

Sybil drew a breath of intense mental pain,
but it was for him not for herself. The measure
of passionate feeling which he had manifested
had shown her, as he had never done before,
what was the extent of suffering produced ley
the false position in which he was placed,
and excited her minutest comprehension and
tenderest sympathy.

He was right in resenting her appeal to his
consideration. To believe in him was indeed
the most elementary of duties, and his own
acute sense of outraged rectitude might well
render him sensitive to doubt or hesitancy on
her part. Never should he accuse her of such
laxity again !

She sat down in his accustomed seat, and
covering her face with her hands, tried to concentrate

her mind upon the situation. This
state of things could not continue ; and she was
unable to deny that the position was not only
inexplicable, but to the cool eye of reason incredible
as well. Granting that their conjugal
happiness could stand this desperate strain, what
motive was adequate enough to justify her
husband's exaction of it ? She was certain of his
love for her : what then must be the power of
this terrible influence which could neutralise
so many and supreme obligations ?

At this point she recalled Helstoue's
recent threat with a feeling of abhorrence that
was increased by reflection, but at the same
time with some dawning sensation of relief.
The remedy was, indeed, nauseous and desperate,
but it might succeed in effecting the result
desired. It was morally impossible to suppose
that Karslake would sacrifice his public
character and credit, and cut short a useful and

exemplary career by persistence in this obstinate
silence. The spiritual martyrdom of such a
course of action would be so terrible to a man
of his temperament, that the prospect of it would
surely suffice to shake his resolution.

At this moment she heard and recognised
Helstone's step in the passage ; he was doubtless
tired of waiting for her return, and on the
point of departure. She rose and went out into
the hall to meet him, for though she would
have disdained to propitiate him on her own
account, she stifled any such reluctance where
her husband s interests were concerned.

I was coming back to speak to you,' she
said. ' Have you anything more to say to me ? '

Only to bid you ponder what I have told you
this morning, and to convey to Julian Karslake
my intentions as regards the future. Ah ! that
touches you, Sybil, but I have no pity I Father,
mine is a sort of heavenly discipline. I will not

spare a single stroke of the rod that may serve
to break your famous union.'

And how would that do it ? ' she asked,
with a smile of quiet contempt.

How ? If he should continue to refuse to
tell you the truth under the pressure I am going
to put upon him, even you can no longer affect
to doubt his guilt ; and that admitted, Griselda
herself would refuse to hive with him. A wife
that could condone such offences would sink to
the level of the man's degradation, or below it.
You think me hard ? I am, and nothing could
have made me so, short of infamy like his and
infatuation like yours. But there is your
luncheon-bell. I will wish you a better appetite
for your repasts than I have had for mine
lately.'

Chapter XXIV.

When husband and wife met ag-ain there was
no reference made to the painful incidents of
the last twenty-foi' homes. Karslake had
recovered his usual composure, and Sybil perceived
by his manner that he strictly guarded
himself against inquiry or explanation. She
said to herself, ' he does not fail to take me at
my word, and stretch ''my inflexible belief" to
the uttermost.'

But as her loving faith responded to the
demand, she felt no sense of injury ; only in the
near future it would behove her to enter again
on this controversy, and demonstrate to him
that silence and secrecy could be maintained no

longer. For the present each took up their
respective interests and duties with the same
zeal, to all appearance, as before.

Perhaps, as regards Karslake, it was in fact
the same, as his conduct was dictated by principles
beyond transient and external influences ;
or it might even have been that the ceaseless
watchfulness necessary against self-betrayal, the
added strain upon his moral nature, led to a
more thorough and determined devotion.

At least so it seemed to the tender and penetrating
eyes that watched his daily performance
of his routine duty, with inhaling interest and
approval. She had known him at times, and
cordially excused it, a little impatient with the
incessant claims upon his time and energy
naturally occurring in a parish like S. Mark's,
where the rector was known to identify himself
with the life and welfare of all classes of his
parishioners ; but now his readiness to meet

every demand was unfailing in its quiet promptitude.


Xor did this additional stringency assume a
harsh or ostentatious character, or lead him to
neglect or curtail any of the social or intellectual
indulgences in Which she took delight. To
her his manner had the same tender suavity as
before ; a little less caressing and light-hearted
perhaps, but still more earnest and solicitous.
Wherever she went amongst the poor she heard
his praises spoken, and discovered that scarcely
one-half of his self-denying labours in their
behalf came under her own observation or
knowledge.

But, in spite of all this outward calm, Mrs.
Karslake owned to herself that her blessedness
was a thing of the past. To watch the rigorous
performance of duty in the man she loved,
under conditions of harassing personal anxiety,
no allusion to which he ever allowed to escape

his self-control, might exalt the passionate
esteem in which she held him, but, at the same
time, it was a laying of the axe to the root of
her peace of mind. There was none of the
happy freedom from care, the assured confidence
in the future which had made the first
year of her married life almost a festival.
Christmas was drawing near, and Jack and Tom
were again to be their guests, but she knew
that the girlish gaiety that had been so exuberant
at Midsummer was as extinct as its flowers
and fruits.

The one point that filled her mind, almost
to the exclusion of every other, was the approaching
vestry, and the action that Helstone
had threatened to take. She had never seven
Karslake the warning with which she had been
charged ; it seemed to her a thing almost
impossible to do, and she still clung to the hope
that Helstone Avould abandon the intention.

But if that hope were fallacious I Julian
must not be suffered to meet this enemy iu ignorance
of what awaited him. He must be told,
and told by her, the shame and ruin that were
preparing for him. Under this coercion he must
give the explanation hitherto withheld, or what
was the alternative ?

She knew the character of the mixed crowd
that made up the usual vestries at S. Mark's,
and shuddered as her imagination suggested the
details of the possible scene  the venom of
the accuser, the stupefaction of the audience, to
be succeeded by vulgar curiosity and noisy interpellation
; and, worst of all, the inward suffering
of the accused ! He would bear himself 
of that she was confident  with unshaken
courage and constancy, but at what a cost?

Whether he justified himself, or refused to
justify himself, the dignity and moral prestige
of his position would be lost. There is, alas !

very little difference in the result, between suspicion
and accusation and the desert of the
same ; the purity in either case is tarnished, and
the outside world stops to make no rigorous
analysis. At all risks, this public exposure must
be prevented ; and perhaps the best and most
legitimate method would be to induce her husband
to confide his secret to her, and authorise
her to communicate it to Helstone, and thus
deprive him of his power of injury. She would
do this at the first opportunity.

By this time, however, the boys had arrived,
and took up a good deal of her time and attention,
besides reducing her hours of privacy with
Karslake to a very few. She was inclined to
think, also, that he availed himself of their presence
to withdraw himself more and more into
the solitude of his library ; and on three several
occasions he had repeated his visit to the
mother and child, always informing her of the

fact, and expressing his unfeigned satisfaction at
the boy's recovery, but with the most scrupulous
abstinence from any word beyond the barest
statement.

It was now within a week of New Year's Day,
and he had excused himself from joining her
and her brothers in some morning expedition,
on the plea that he had a good deal of work todo
at that time of the year, in the way of
balancing accounts and regulating the distribution
of the charities of the parish.

But that is precisely the work, Julian, for
which I have a special aptitude,' she answered,
with a smile. ' After dinner I shall come in
and help you.'

You forget you have promised to take the
boys to Covent Garden. You would not disappoint
them of their pantomime ? '

I would disappoint them without hesitation
to be of service to you  to bring back

some of those happy working hours we used to
enjoy together.'

Used ! ' he repeated ; ' is our happiness of
the past, Sybil ? '

She hesitated, knowing that at any moment
Jack and Tom might rush into the room ; this
was not a suitable opportunity for the hard
task she had before her. Still she might pave
the way.

It would be idle to say it has not suffered
she answered gravely. ' Our love and trust maybe
the same as ever, but we have lost our
light-heartedness. The question is, cannot we
win it back ?

He did not answer : if he had expressed what
he felt it would have been a despairing negative.

I have a matter to discuss with you when
we have time,' she continued. ' Let us find time
for it to-night, after we come home from, the
theatre and the boys are in bed. I wish you

would go with us, and we would make up the
arrears of work together. Could you sit out
the " Forty Thieves ? " '

Yes,' he said, gong up to her and kissing
with concentrated feeling the beautiful, beseeching
face, ' why not ? I have taken no vows
against the innocent pleasures of the world. It
will do me a world of good to hear Jack and
Tom laugh, and you too, dear, I hope.'

There are few prettier sights than one of
our popular theatres during the Christmas
holidays. We do not refer to the splendour of
the spectacle or the almost noontide radiance
of the lights, but to the crowd of happy childish
faces that look down from the front seats of
the boxes, or upwards from the stalls or pit :
some the dainty pets or cried darlings of fortune,
all the source more or less of love, or
pride, or interest to the friends that have

brought them there. An atmosphere of goodwill
and indulgence towards the children, of
sympathy with their delight  a softening reminiscence
of the blessed days when we too were
young  seems to pervade the house, and the
sweet treble laughter rippling on all sides adds
a further element of purity.

Karslake's forethought had secured one of
the best boxes for his party, and Jack and Tom
were enjoying their privileges to the uttermost.
They were not town lads, blase with juvenile
dissipations, contemptuous or even critical of
pantomimes. It was positively the first they
had ever seen, and the intensity of their interest
and zest of their enjoyment was proportionate.

Sybil had forgotten all her domestic
anxieties in her generous identification with
the rapture of her brothers, and was still more
oblivious of the attention excited by her own
exquisite face as she sat between them, unweariedly

responsive to their enthusiasm. Her
quiet toilette of ivory-toned silk, high to the
throat, where it was edged by lace and pearls,
harmonised perfectly with the character of her
beauty.

Karslake, who sat behind them, soon became
aware that their ovn ,box was becoming a centre
of attraction, and he had risen to suggest that
Sybil should change her place for one which
enjoyed the doubtful privilege of the curtain,
when it occurred to him it would be an infinite
pity to disturb their enjoyment and introduce
the disagreeable element of self-consciousness
into her mind.

At that moment she was looking so radiantly
happy that he almost caught the infection
of her mood ; at least, he would not risk
the smiling of one drop of her pleasure. So he
sat down again, and watched the changes of her
vivid face, and listened to her low murmuring

o
VOL. li. M

laughter, with a passionate tenderness that
seemed to gather concentration with reflection.

Was he, with his bondage to a miserable
slavery, to be the blight of that full and joyous
existence, when it had been the hope and purpose
of his life, ever since he first saw her, to constitute
himself the source .and crown of her
happiness ? Her growing anxiety, her deepening
gravity of late, caused him a pang of keenest
compunction. What was possible to him
towards the lifting of this burden he so unwillingly
imposed? He dreaded the discussion
she had proposed for that evening, for he knew
that if it was her intention to touch the theme
of his secret trouble, however tenderly or forbearingly,
he must be subjected again to the
exquisite torture of refusing her the satisfaction
she wanted.

At this moment the curtain fell between
the acts, and the boys turned eagerly round to

talk to him. Sybil's attention, however, had
become suddenly fixed ; she was constitutionally
so keen of vision as to be independent of an
opera-glass, but now she slowly took up Julian's,
which was lying close to her hand, and levelled
it at the pit below. She gazed intently for the
space of several consecutive minutes, and when
she laid it down at length, it was not that she
had gazed her fill but that she mistrusted the
strength of her shaking hand.

What is the matter, Syb  are you faint ?
What has made you turn so white all of a
sudden ? ' cried Jack suddenly. ' Look at her,
Julian ! '

A country girl never faints.' she answered,

with a desperate effort to rally her firmness,

but the more observant Tom interrupted her

eagerly.

It was something she saw down there ! '

pointing to the pit, and he pressed forward to

M 2

the front of the box and peered eagerly into the
abyss below. Julian came forward and looked
over his head.

He had stooped anxiously towards his wife
and questioned her with the tenderest anxiety,
but for once there was no response on her
part. She had withdrawn her pale face well
back now behind the shelter of the curtain, and
she neither raised her downcast eyes nor replied
by word or gesture. But as the power of the
shock subsided, and the fugitive blood returned
to her heart and cheek, she recovered sufficient
firmness to smile away the boys' vague concern
with some plausible explanation, and then she
concentrated her attention upon her husband,
as he swept the pit with his glass in search of
the key to her agitation.

But Co vent Garden is a large theatre, and
not only was the pit densely crowded, but there
leas the usual commotion of the going out and

coming back between the acts, and lie seemed
baffled.

Then came swiftly the flourish of instruments,
the fanfare of trumpets ; the curtain
rushed up and the last act and crisis of the
piece had begun. Jack and Tom, leaning over
the box, forgot everything else in the culmination
of the brilliant spectacle, and Julian stood
motionless behind them, passing in patient review
every face and figure below, within his
range of vision.

Sybil, screened from observation, continued
to watch him, and at length her heart leaped
within her as she perceived his glass become
stationary. He has hit the right focus  he is
looking now at the lovely woman and lovelier
child with whom their own fate seems so inextricably
entangled.

What she had seen was this ; a young
mother take up her drowsy child from his

place, and stand him upon her knees, evidently
with the intention of rousing him up. The
beauty of the girl and the tenderness which
had accompanied the action, had first caught
Sybil's attention, but as the boy, obeying the
stimulus applied, shook back his golden curls
and straightening his tiny figure, daintily clad ina
picturesque costume, looked up and around
him  the light from above seeming to fall direct
upon his face  she felt as if she had received an
electric shock. She could not analyse it ; she
could not say whether it were jealousy, doubt,
or conviction : all she was conscious of was
sharpest pain.

Karslake continued to hold the glass with
unshaken firmness ; he was well within the
shelter of the box, and the objects of his attention
were now intent upon the stage, or, if
otherwise, had but feeble interest in the circles
above them. He did not in any way blench or

change colour, although he was quite aware his
wife's pathetic eyes were on his face ; the hues of
brow and mouth deepened a little  that was the
only external sign. The inward sensation was
that of a man who sees the resistless waters
coming nearer, to overwhelm the point of safety
on which he stands.

He put down the glass at length, and leant
towards Sybil.

Will you like to go home ? ' he asked.

She shook her head, glancing at the eager
faces of her brothers, and then silence reigned
between them. He sat down with folded arms
and immovable face in the seat he had occupied
before, and she tried to employ the interval in
searching and regulating the chaos of her mind.

Presently he rose and went forward again
to the front, taking the seat she had vacated,
not, as her eager observation decided, for any
other purpose than to engage the attention of

the boys and to cover her abstraction. In the
same way he succeeded, during the drive home,
in keeping them so actively employed with
the animated discussion of the pantomime that
Sybil's unusual silence passed unchallenged.
Jack, to be sure, sat holding his sister's hand in
his, and silently wondered what made her so
quiet, but it could be nothing very wrong when
she had been so merry an hour before, and
Julian had tucked all her shawls and wraps so
affectionately about her. She was so happy
with Julian, and he was such a good fellow.

I will give the boys their supper, if you
would prefer to go to your room for a little
while,' he said, as he handed her out of the carriage.
' Do not think,' he added, with a slight
flush of colour as he met her grave examining
glance, ' that I wish to avoid the discussion you
spoke of: you can join me in the library
when they are gone to bed.'

Thank you,' she answered, in a tone without
emotion or inflection.

She went upstairs to her dressing-roora,
cheerful with shaded lamp and glancing fire-hight.
Sybil had no professed maid,  it was a
thraldom to which she coidd not submit,  so
that no intrusive eyes were in attendance. She
locked the door, threw off her cloak, and threw
herself into the luxurious easy-chair drawn
temptingly close to the fire, with a reckless
abandonment of feeling such as she never
remembered to have known before. Her state
of mind was indefinable ; it seemed like dissolution
or chaos.

Where was her inflexible belief? Some
familiar words torn from their context seemed
to haunt her mind with a weird appropriateness.

I have heard of thee with the hearing of
the ear, but now mine eye seeth thee.' What
force did Helstone's denunciations and convictions

gather now that they were backed by the
deadly argument, recognised by herself, conveyed
in the marvellous resemblance of that
child's beautiful upturned face !

God ! could he have deceived her ? She
sat with her hands over her eyes to shut out
the light, and looked down mentally into the
abyss of that possible baseness  a baseness
than which there could be no lower depth. It
was to her agonised soul the very Valley of the
Shadow of Death, but after a space she struggled
through it to the light of day.

She could hear as she sat the light laughter
of the boys, and the occasional tones of
Karslake's voice, sweeter and clearer, and with
a truer ring than any other she had ever
known.

Oh, how the human voice speaks to
the living human heart ! Slowly her hands
dropped resentfully into her lap, and she felt her

stricken faith rise and quicken into reneYecl
fe.

After all, what did she know now that she
had not known before ? Her husband's proud
denial availed as much over the evidence of her
material vision as over that of Gilbert Hel-stone's.
Only it brought home with intense
power to her mind the cruel force of that fatal
and bewildering likeness, and supplied the most
stringent motives  nay, they were irresistible
for pressing upon him the necessity of
explanation.

CHAPTER XXV.

At this moment she heard the boys rushing
upstairs to bed, and knew they would not pass
without besieging her door. She had just time
to turn the lock and open it before they reached
it, and to stand in the doorway to bid them
enter, her tall, white-draped figure irradiated
by the light within.

'0 Tom! isn't this jolly?' cried Jack,
flinging himself on the hearth rug and basking
in the fire-rays like a spaniel ; ' and Syb looks
like a fairy queen.'

Of somewhat exaggerated dimensions,' returned
she smiling, for she was gallantly benton

sending them to bed without even the
slightest cloud ujon their brightness.

Well, at least you'll own your life is like
fairyland,' said Jack. ' I never knew what
pretty things there were in the world before.
This room, too! Think of your bedroom at
Ashlands, Syb, with two wooden chairs and
a big bath that we used to fill with water for
you ! And then, what a different thing it must
be to live with Julian Karslake than father 
I'm glad I know him ! '

He saved your life,' remarked Tom, who
always considered this an incident of distinction ;
you ought to be fond of him.'

I should like him just as well if he hadn't :
at least he didn't save Syb's Hfe ! '

He got up from the rug as he spoke and
knelt at his sister's feet, with his elbows in her
lap, his chin on his hands, and his bright eyes
fixed on her face.

There's one thing, dear, I can't quite make
out  whether you always were so very, very
pretty and we didn't know it, or whether you
have grown so of late. Perhaps the lovely
gowns make a difference.'

Yes, Jack, that's the solution that I like
best ; but come, you must be off to bed ! '

I used to think,' continued Jack without
moving an inch, ' that when I was a man, and
had got on in the world, how I would pay you
back for some of the hard work you did for us
all. Now that is all over  you have everything
that heart can desire I '

Who knows ? ' said Sybil, shrinking involuntarily
under the boy's eager words, as if they
cast a foreboding before them. ' The future is
always a sealed book, and no woman on earth
can be so happy but a brother's love can make
her happier. Come, Jack, you are getting
pathetic, and I must insist on your taking yourselves

off. Did Julian give you a good
supper ? '

Oysters, mince pies, Stilton cheese, and
Burton  what would the youngsters at home
say?'

Syb looks pale again, Jack,' remarked Tom.
You're such a fellow to talk ! Let's kiss her
and go to bed.'

At length they were gone, and now, late
as it was and weary as she felt, she had her
terrible task to perform. She knew that
under any circumstances sleep would have
been impossible without disburdening her
mind of its load. Only might she have grace
to do it without adding to his !

She went down-stairs very slowly. The
habitual elasticity of her step seemed gone, and
equally strange and unnatural was the set and
strained expression of her face. She opened
the library door without knocking ; it was not

an intentional negligence, but an oversight of
intense pre-occupation. Karslake was waiting
for lier there ; he was entangling by the fire
leaning over the high mantel in an attitude
habitual to him, facing the door as if watching
for her entrance. He looked at her intently
as she came in, placed a chair for her, and said :

I have never seen you look so pale  you
are as white as your gown. Sybil, what does
it mean ? '

That I am sick with anxiety, lest you
should refuse the request I am going to make.'

Yes,' he answered, in a tone of tender
encouragement ; ' you know beforehand that
any request of yours is granted as soon as preferred
 if possible.'

She covered her eyes with her hands. An almost
unconscious prayer went up from her heart
to the Power outside and beyond herself; then
she rose up and stood by his side.

Julian, YOU know whom I have seen tonight,
and what effect it has had upon me. 1
could not help it. My faith in you at this
moment is firm as ever, or I should not be
standing here ; but I do not deny that for a time
it gave way under the sickening recognition
of that lovely child's resemblance to yourself.
You must not blame me for it  it was an
instinct of physical perception that reflection
and judgment corrected. Personally, I accept
your assurances on this point implicitly, but I
understand to-night as I never did before that
it is almost a moral impossibility that others
should believe you too. You are not angry ? '

No, I am not angry.'

'You will understand I allude to Gilbert
Helstone, and you are very good,' with a faint
smile, ' to bear the allusion so patiently. But
you may be quite sure I should not name him
without some very strong motive indeed.'
VOL. n. N

Karslake's feelings were something like
those of a victim stretched on the rack, and
awaiting the first turn of the screw.

I quite understand,' he said gently. ' It is
unnecessary to offer any assurance of the motives
which influence you in this matter, dear. Tell
me simply what you want me to do.'

I want you to disarm Mr. Helstone's animosity.
I want you to deprive him of the
power of doing you a deadly injury.'

As how ? ' he asked. ' My wife believes in
me, what other injury can he do me. I can
endure his misjudgment, and you must learn,
Sybil, to do so too.'

She turned aside from the touch of his
caressing hand : it was more than she could
bear. Her next question seemed to him a
strangely irrelevant one.

Is the day fixed for the New Year vestry ? '
she asked.

Not quite,' he answered, gig no expression
to the surprise he feU. ' I find a note here
from my churchwarden to-night, proposing
January 4th as suiting the general convenience
; therefore it will suit mine.'

In that case I must give you ]mr. Helstone's
message  one that he left with me that morning
you found him here, and which I have kept upto
this time because I have not had the courage
or rather the cruelty to speak. But now there
is no alternative.' She stopped, her voice choked
with emotion.

Spare me your tears, Sybil, if you can ;
you: distress tortures me.'

So did her hesitation, but he would not
say that. He turned towards her, and passing
his arm round her waist, he drew her close to
his side.

Tell me now,' he said, ' point-blank !
with as little attempt at softening as if j\Ii\

Helstone were here himself to dictate the
words.'

He says he will appear at the board in his
right as parishioner, and lay before it a plain
statement of the charges he has against you.
He says, moreover, he can produce witnesses to
support his testimony.'

She had obeyed and spoken; how would
he receive it ? For a moment she dared not
raise her eyes to look at him, but involuntarily
tightened her hold upon the hand which was
passed round her waist.

He returned the pressure passionately but
firmly, and this gave her courage to go on.

Julian,' she urged, in a tone of intense
pathos, ' this is to both of us a matter almost
more than of life or death. You will put it out of
Mr. Heist one's power to do this ! I know how
strongly you feel on the point, but you will not
carry that feeling to the length of sacrificing all

that we both hold dearest and most sacred !
One duty is supreme till another overrules it,
and your duty surely now is to defend your
own honour  and more, the honour of the creed
you profess. Forgive me, dear, if I seem to
teach the teacher, or if I remind you that it is
not only your happiness and reputation that are
at stake. If I was slow to love at first I love
you now with all the energy of my soul  my
life is bound up in your welfare.'

She broke off and flung her arms roimd his
neck.

My God ! ' he exclaimed, shuddering back
from the kisses she was laying on his pale lips,
this is more than I can bear ! Show me your
way of escape, Sybil ; I will take it if I can.'

Tell me the story of this mother and child,'
she answered with desperate abruptness, ' and
give me leave to clear your character in Mr.
Helstone's eyes.'

She withdrew herself from him as she spoke,
and sank down again in the chair she had
quitted, still keeping her eyes upon his face.
Its expression of restrained feeling baffled her.
She added, after a moment's pause, seeing that
he remained silent ;

There is no other alternative, Julian. This
man is simply bent upon your ruin because he
believes in your guilt. Convince him of your
innocence, and he will be eager to make atonement.
And if it is some secret in which the
honour of another is concerned, I know no more
loyal nature than his. He could not betray a
trust.'

And yet my wife urges me to do so ? If
it were in my power to lay the whole truth
before Gilbert Helstone, he would reject it. It
would appear to him only another form of the
fraud and lying with which he credits me. It
must be enough for me, Sybil, that you do not

ask for this guarantee as a condition of your
own belief.'

She interrupted him. ' I do not ask you,
Julian, to clear up this mystery personally to
Mr. Helstone. Tell me the truth, and trust
to my love and skill to convince him. of yom'

good faith. If you refuse ' she rose again

as she spoke, moved by the irresistible impulse
to approach him and overwhelm his
evident reluctance by her caresses, but he
drew back with a gesture of restraint and
pain.

I am constrained to refuse,' he said steadily,
and do refuse. You love me, Sybil  your life
is bound up in my welfare ? Then you will cease
to urge me on this point.'

I do not know, I will not promise ; you:
determination drives me to despak. Am I to
understand you will suffer mr. Helstone to fulfil
his threat? You will face your vestry, three

days hence, with such an ordeal to meet ? It is
not possible ! '

I have scarcely had time to consider all
the consequences that may ensue on my refusal,'
he answered, ' but they resolve themselves into
a question of endurance more or less. The one
thing I know to be impossible is to speak the
words that would clear this mystery. Whatever
the alternative I accept it  even to the wounding
of the happiness that is infinitely dearer tome
than my own.'

Every word, low as he spoke, fell clear and
unhesitating on her ears ; it was only the pallor
of his set face, and the strenuous grasp with
which his fingers closed over the back of a
chair near which he was standing, that indicated
the intense feeling he held in reserve.

But,' she urged again, ' it is not a mere
question of your capacity for passively suffering
wrong. What do you think would be the

practical result of Mr. Henslowe's accusation ?
Would YOU propose to meet it with nothing
more than the miserable equivalent of a blank
denial ? Julian, beloved ! it would be of no use.
He would bear down your sweet rectitude with
his denunciations and proofs, and two-thirds of
your people would believe him, simply because
they could not understand any inducement
being strong enough to prevent you from establishing
your innocence. Will you be able to
bear the consequences ? '

He looked at her tenderly, with eyes, in
spite of his resolution, wet with tears.

'Will you?'

No, she answered eagerly, ' I shall not !
If I see you robbed of the respect you have
earned and cast aside as guilty of this unparalleled
baseness, I cannot bear it I And I
will go farther, even at the risk of displeasing
you. I will never give my consent to your

carrying out this act of reckless self-sacrifice to
such a bitter end. Consider once more ; you do
not now stand alone in the world, and are
not justified in consulting only your personal
bias. I claim to have my rights considered 
my right to the happiness and honour you
promised me ; my right not to be made a
forced participant in such a public shame and
scandal ! '

That is an argument so powerful,' he said,
that to resist it must convince you, if nothing
else will, of the uselessness of this controversy ;
and it is also so cruel a reproach that I scarcely
expected to hear it from your lips, Sybil.
Does your estimate of what I am rest on what
the outside world supposes me to be ? And when
its favour is withdrawn or exchanged for condemnation,
will you refuse me the support of your
recognition and sympathy ? I own these are
contingencies I have not considered, but hard

as they are they even do not shake my resolution.'


I am cruel,' she answered, raising lier
weeping eyes to the rigid calmness of his face,
as a last resource to move you. If I forced
my selfish interests upon you it was simply because
I thought you might yield to these when
proof against all else besides. In point of fact,
your determination and aU the trouble that may
arise from it will, woman-like, only serve to
quicken my devotion. Still I feel as if I could
not give up my judgment in this matter and
accept yours. Oh, that I knew what plea to
use to win you to justice and to reason ! '

If,' he answered, for the first time turning
from her, as if to hide the workings of his face,
you will forbear to urge me any more I will
take it as a proof of the love you still profess.
Nothing that I may have to go through in the
futile can be worse than what I have borne

to-night. In mere human pity do not say another
word. If you have thought me hard
and unresponsive to all the sweetness of your
appeals, it is because I should be lost if I were
to let you see what I suffer.'

As he spoke he sat down by the table near
him and covered his face with his hands. She
went up to him and laid her hand gently on his
shoulder.

You will still think me cruel to relentlessness,'
she said, in tones of the most exquisite
tenderness, ' but one possible alternative occurs
to me. There is time, between this and the
day fixed for the meeting, to see Gilbert
Helstone and try the effect of an appeal to his
forbearance.'

He lifted up his colourless face and looked
at her with stern surprise.

Who is to make the appeal  you or I ? '

You,' she replied bravely, ' because my intercession

only serves to stimulate his bitterness.
Julian, this is not a question in which
your conscience is involved. You will at least
sacrifice your pride for my sake  for the sake
of a possible reprieve ! You will not refuse to
yield this little point ? '

Little ! it would be a humiliation worse
than death, and it would be utterly in vain. Do
not ask it, Sybil I '

She remained silent, but she still stood by
his side as if awaiting his reaching a different
conclusion.

At that moment the clock on the mantelpiece
struck twelve : it was New Year's Day.

Karslake rose up with a deep sigh.

I must send you away to rest,' he said, ' or
how will you meet the boys with a cheerful face
in the morning ? It would be a mockery to
wish you " A Happy New Year." Would to
God I stood alone in this distress ! '

Do you remember last New Year's Day at
Eome?' she asked, 'when we congratulated
each other on being the happiest couple in the
world ? '

I remember it, and accept all the reproach
you imply. But I had never married
could I have forecast the future. Try and
believe this, Sybil; let me at least preserve
your esteem ! '

'And could I have forecast the future,
Julian, I would still have married you in view
of all this bitter pain, You are inexpressibly
dearer to me now, in spite of being so stubbornly
bent on your own undoing, than in the
careless Woman days. If I ask you again on
this New Year's morning to grant me a measure
of relief by the sacrifice of personal feeling,
will you refuse ? '

He paused a few moments before he answered
: even the tender, high-spirited girl that

watched him had no adequate idea of the
sharpness of the conflict.

Well he said at length, in low reluctant
tones, 'there is no escape from an appeal such
as that. I dare not forego my duty at your
intercession, Sybil, but I am at least free to
accept my humiliation. I refuse no longer  I
wil go and see Mr. Helstone tomorrow.

CHAPTER XXVI.

It was not a seasonable winter ; although
the temperature was low the ceaseless rain fell
from day to day. The holiday-makers were
balked of their favourite pastime. There were no
hilarious, excited thousands skimming over the
Serpentine, with the ice like glass beneath their
feet, and a cold blue radiant heaven overhead.
The town was ankle deep in slush, and when
the rain subsided the fog fell.

Julian Karslake had redeemed his promise
to his wife, by calling at Gilbert Helstone's
chambers in the Temple on the day following
New Year's Day, but he was not to be
found there. Julian left a message to the

effect that he would call again at the same
time on the morrow, but on this second occasion
he was disappointed in not finding him
at home.

The clerk who admitted him into the dingfv
room, and poked up the decaying fire, said that
Mr. Helstone was not come yet, but had left
word yesterday that he should be there in the
course of the morning. Would the gentleman
wait ?

Yes, he would wait. And Karslake sat
down, buttoning his overcoat tighter to keep
out the penetrating cold, puling his hat lower
over this aching brows, and preparing to
turn the delay to what account he could by
renewed consideration of the matter before
him.

One hour passed and another had almost
run out before Helstone appeared, and then it
was evident enough to Karslake that the delay

VOL. II. o

had been employed as an intentional insult and
annoyance rather than from any professional
necessity.

I do not profess to apologise for having
kept you so long waiting,' he said, ' or to express
any regret that you called here in vain yesterday
 such conventional courtesies would be a
mockery between you and me. I wish it had
occurred to you to keep up the fire ; you are
better guaranteed against the cold than I ; ' and
he surveyed his visitor, with a sort of inclusive
sneer, from head to foot.

A great deal is said about the ungenerous
rivalries and ignoble jealousies of women, but
the sterner sex have their kindred weaknesses,
and to Gilbert Helstone the fine face and figure,
and perfect bearing of his enemy, were always
a fresh offence and provocation.

Karslake took off his hat, not so much from
an instinct of civility, as the other retained his,

but in some hope of relieving the oppression of
his brain. If he had not been bound by his
promise to Sybil, he would have left the office
at once, so obvious was Helstone's intention to
make his humiliation as bitter as possible. But
though the failure of his attempt was a foregone
conclusion, he had none the less to go
through with it.

He stood up, and leaning a little over the
high dust-covered mantel-shelf looked at Hel-stone;
who had flung himself into a chair by
his writing-table, and was leisurely balancing
a paper-knife on his thumb, with the quiet
steadfast glance habitual to him.

I am told,' he began, ' it is your intention
to be present at the vestry meeting tomorrow.
Is it true ? '

A cruel smile slightly curled Helstone's
Hps. He glanced keenly at the face of the
speaker, and his heart quickened as he read

in it the anticipated reward of his unwearied
exertions.

It is quite true : have you any objection to
raake.'

I have no power to object, but, as a point
of courtesy, I should be obliged if you would
tell me the object you have in view.'

I believe the meeting is merely a formal
one, to pass accounts in connection with the
distribution of charities at this festive season of
the year, and that one of the churchwardens is
to wind up the proceedings with a vote of thanks
to the rector, for the special zeal and devotion
he has displayed in the exercise of his functions.
I have applied for permission to second the
resolution.'

Yes ? ' replied Karslake, somewhat mechanically.


Oh ! if you want to know in what terms I
shall bear my testimony to your merits, you ask

too much. I am not disposed to rehearse my
speech in advance : you: patience can bear the
strain until tomorrow.'

You seem to forget you have already instructed
Mrs. Karslake to tell me the plan you
have laid for my public humiliation and overthrow.
I fully recognise your power to do mea
deadly injury, and am here to-day, as I was
yesterday, simply to ask you to forego your
purpose.'

He spoke with so much quiet dignity, with
such perfect abstinence from any word or tone
that could give offence, that even Helstone felt
its influence. He glanced sharply at him and
hesitated before making this reply. Then he
said :

Well, there is one condition on which I
will abstain not only from putting in an appearance
tomorrow, but from any further interference
in your affairs.'

He stopped again, and for a longer interval,
with no other motive than to protract the painful
suspense he knew he must be inflicting, but
he did not succeed in extorting any indication
of impatience. Karslake waited in undemonstrative
silence till Helstone chose to proceed.

If your wife will consent to leave you on
the ground of the evidence of your infidelity
which I have laid before her, I will abstain from
placing the same proofs before any other tribunal.
Otherwise I re-state them tomorrow.'

And that condition I reject peremptorily,
both on my own behalf and hers, let the consequences
be what they may. If that is the only
alternative you have to offer, the object with
which I came to-day is already lost, but for all
that I will state it. On the first occasion when
you accused me in this matter I refused to give
you any assurance at all as to my innocence,
and since then my denial has been guarded and

reluctant. But now I am so coerced by circumstances,
that I am prepared to assert in any way
you may demand that yom conclusions are absolutely
erroneous, and even to beseech you not
to drive me to this extremity.'

For a few moments He] stone remained silent,
with his gaze fastened on his companion, but his
cheek was flushed and his deep-set eyes shone
with excitement.

This is a moment worth living for,' he said
at length, in a low concentrated tone, ' to see
your villany finding you out, and your pride
bowed to the point of abject entreaty. Does
an innocent man plead with a face blanched
with fear, and drops of perspiration on his brow ?
I repudiate you: denial as an audacious lie, and
reject you: prayer with more contempt than I
can put into words. But I woidd have you take
notice that I have well redeemed the pledge I
made, as the redresser of Sybil Dorrimore's

wrongs, when we both stood by your pansy-beds
at Eoosden Magna ! '

As a matter of fact, and in justice to my
own integrity,' replied Karslake, with invincible
composure, ' I repeat I have never wronged her
any more than that the request I preferred just
now was abject, or that guilt or fear had anything
to do with the signs of disturbance unfortunately
beyond my control. To reduce me to
that point of humiliation, either now or tomorrow,
is beyond your power, Mr. Helstone.
I was led by the strongest considerations to
make a last appeal to your manliness of feeling,
and to warn you from doing an irremediable
wrong. It has failed, but I am conscious of no
loss of self-respect because you are impervious
to the commonest instincts of humanity.'

Good God ! ' exclaimed Helstone, springing
from his seat and approaching the dauntless
speaker with an almost menacing gesture, ' will

you brazen it out to the end, and add insult to
unparalleled injury? But that end is close at
hand. Don't delude yourself with any forlorn
hope I shall relent at the last moment, for
it is for this issue that I have schemed and
laboured, or that I shall fail to carry my point
and unmask your imposture ! I have laid my
plans with professional care  my brief is ready
and conclusive. I am trusting nothing to the
heat and uncertainty of 'iva voce controversy.
After tomorrow, I defy AIi's. Karslake to keep
her place under your roof.'

I have nothing more to say,' said Karslake,
taking up his hat ; ' you will do your worst
doubtless, but you will fail in one point of your
programme, and the rest will be endurable.'

He went home slowly, walking through
rain and fog the whole distance between the
Temple and Bayswater. He wanted time to
order his mind anew before he met his wife

and told her of the failure of her passionate
hope. He dreaded that absolutely as' much, if
not more, than the sickening experiences that
awaited him on the morrow. The one point
on which his mind revolved was the possibility
of screening her from the full knowledge of the
suffering he must of necessity endure : of the
calamity she had a sufficiently adequate idea.

So terrible was the prospect before him,
the infamous accusation which he dare not
refute, the public shame from which he could
not escape, that he began to reconsider with
feverish anxiety whether there were no loophole
of escape consistent with his honour.

But the conclusion reached was still the same
despairing verdict : he was bound in the most
absolute bonds ; he was pledged against trusting
even the fidelity of his wife, whose fidelity,
he well knew, would have been impregnable.
There was no possible alternative or reprieve.

When at length he reached his home, jaded
in mind and body, he went at once to the
Library.

Ask Mrs. Karslake to come to me here,' he
said to the servant. He knew how great her
anxiety must have been during his absence, and
was inclined to reproach himself for having
protracted it so unnecessarily ; he was now
boimd to tell her the result without any further
delay. He soon heard her light foot on the
stairs, and opened the door for her entrance,
shutting it adam before he prepared to speak to
her.

But he had no need to speak ; one glance
into his face told Sybil her last hope had failed.
A spasm of anguish contracted her heart as she
looked at him.

Forgive me,' she said, clasping his hand in
hers, and drawing him towards the comfortable
easy-chair, placed close to the cheerful fire, for

she saw how weary he looked ; ' forgive me for
sending you on such an errand.'

She sat down on a low seat at his feet, still
holding his hand in hers, and scarcely conscious
with what a convulsive clasp her slight, flexible
fingers closed over it. And then silence reigned
between them for a little while, she gazing
steadfastly into the hire and trying to keep back
the tears that glazed her eyes, and searching
heart and brain in vain for some suggestion of
comfort ; and he looking down upon her
troubled face, and losing all sense of the misery
of his own position in remorseful sympathy
with hers.

Then to break the painful silence she asked
a few questions. ' Had the interview been so
very long ? how had Helstone behaved ? ' and
he, reflecting that she had never been present
at any interview between them, and was happily
ignorant of the aggravations of the same,

answered with due reserve. But he did not
deceive her in the least.

What now remains,' he said, ' is to meet the
inevitable with the best courage we can, and in
order to do this I must have the night for consideration.
The necessary preparations for tomorrow
have been pushed by circumstances to
the last moment, and I do not much regret it.
The time that remains will suffice, and concentration
and strength are best gained in the
vigils of the nif]ht.'

Do you mean you will sit up alone ?

Yes, solitude is necessary to my purpose.
There are conditions of feeling beyond the reach
of even your tender sympathy and love.'

She looked up at him with an expression of
passionate, yearning pain.

I see,' she answered, trying to hide the
depth of her feeling under a smile ; ' you
are bracing yourself to the temper of martyrdom

! You are going to fortify your soul by
all those spiritual aids which to me are so
obscure, and to you so strongly efficacious. They
may sustain you, Julian, till the hour of trial is
over, seeing it is now so near, but when the reaction
comes, and you see the ruin you have
wrought, what then ? '

Then,' he answered, ' I shall thank God
He gave me courage to do the duty next
to hand, without wasting my strength on the
vain consideration of what would follow. But
I go too fast, boasting as if I had already won
the fight which may prove too hard for me
after all.'

This was too much for Sybil's acquiescence ;
her whole mind was in absolute revolt against
the course of conduct on which he was resolved,
and it was with difficulty she could
restrain her former importunity. She forbore,
not so much from the conviction that it would

be useless, as from her anxiety to spare him
any measure of pain or even excitement of
feeling in her power.

His present tone and manner, the sort of
pale radiance that exalted the beauty of his
face, the sense of what he had already submitted
to for her sake that morning, so moved
her tender sensibility, that she must either
leave him to fight her own battle alone, or
break down in some paroxysm of emotion.

Just then the dressing-bell rang, and she
was glad of the excuse to rise at once.

You must give me a dispensation from
dinner to-day,' he said. ' I cannot eat, and I
would rather not encounter your brothers'
keen glances.'

Fasting is a bad preparation for a long
vigil, especially after sleepless nights.'

On the contrary, it is the first step in the
process ; but I will not insist on carrying it too

far. Send me some soup in here, and I will
eat it.'

 And you will lie down on the sofa and
rest for an hour before the discipline begins ;
physical exhaustion won't add to your strength
tomorrow.'

You are right,' he said ; ' I think I will,
on condition that you do not let me sleep too
long ; ' and she left the room a little comforted.

Chapter XXVn.

An hour after Sybil returned to the library, and
found that Karslake had followed her advice,
and was lying fast asleep on the sofa. In her
nature there was a large measure of that
tender protective compassionateness which has
so much of the divine element in it ; to relieve
pain and suffering was the passionate bias of
her soul. She stood for a few moments at his
side, tracing in his face the lines of anxiety and
care, which seemed more obvious in the collapse
of slumber, with an intensity of sympathy
that slowly grew into a resolute purpose.

Was there yet no escape? The meeting
was fixed for noon the next day, but there were

VOL. II. P

still some hours of possible effort before her.
What could she do ?

Helstone had hardened his heart against
Julian's appeal, and she had small hope that
hers would be more effectual, but at least she
could try. His house was only a short distance
from theirs, and she had all the fearlessness of a
country girl in regard to walking alone. At
that hour, too, she would be most likely to find
him at home ; also she would enlist Sara's
sympathies in her behalf  of what avail was
any further reserve in view of the morrow's
eventualities ? Then it suddenly flashed upon
her mind that, in his last interview with her,
Helstone had alluded to some possible alternative
he might be induced to offer her. In
that case her husband's honour was secure, for
there was nothing that could be claimed from
her of personal sacrifice that she would not be
prepared to surrender.

She decided not to let anyone know of her
going out. She had induced her brothers to
sit down to a little steady school-work for an
hour or two, on the plea of returning to the
library, and they would think her still shut up
there ; while, on the other had, when Julian
awoke, he would believe her to be with them.
She went out of the room softly, with a parting
glance of ineffable tenderness at the sleeper,
but refraining from touch or kiss, lest she
shoidd wake him.

She let herself out into the road through
one of the side entrances of the house, not
venturing to risk attracting attention by opening
the front door. It was still raining, and the
few scattered lamps of the district omened with
a dim Ibid light through the murky air. The
foggy atmosphere seemed to enclose her ; there
was no visible heaven above or earth beneath.
Keen as her vision was, and acute as were her

perceptions of locality, it was with some difficulty
she succeeded in finding the house she
wanted in Burnham Square.

The maid that admitted her beamed a surprised
welcome, for she knew Sybil well.

'Are your master and mistress both at
home ? ' she asked, and without any attempt to
conceal the anxiety she felt as to the reply.

In a moment the little sitting-room where
Sara usually sat when alone was opened, and
she herself hurried out into the hall to greet
her guest.

Sybil, my dear, is it you ? So late, and on
such a night ! but come in, come in ; you are
more welcome than words can express.'

She insisted on taking off her wet cloak with
her own hands, and sending it to the kitchen to
be dried, with many implicit instructions to the
maid ; and then she drew her inside the cosy little
apartment with which Sybil was so pleasantly

familiar, made lier sit down by the fire, and was
even hospitably bent on taking off her wet
boots.

But this Mrs. Karslake would not allow.

They are not weet through, I assure you,
and I shall not have time to stay very long ; but
how good of you to be so pleased to see me ! '

Good ! ' repeated Sara, who had now subsided
into a seat on the other side of the hearth,
planting her own feet firmly on the fender, as
an encouragement for her visitor to do the same.
Why, child, you forget I never go out and
speak to my kind as other people do. Besides,
you are a special favourite of mine ; but I thought
you had been forbidden to come here.'

I have never been forbidden ; it is your
brother's conduct which has made it impossible
till noY. I hope he is at home ? '

Yes,' said Sara, dropping her voice a
little, ' he is still sitting over the dinner-table

; he drinks more wine than he used todo,
and I'm afraid the tempers of neither of us
improve.'

Sybil lifted up her beautiful face full of tender
sympathy.

Do your troubles increase ? ' she asked,
with as profound a pity for the harassed
woman before her as if her own heart were
not sick with care ; ' are things worse than
they were ? is he as good as ever ? '

I think he is as good as ever  to her,' she
answered with a short laugh, ' but certainly not
to me. He cannot bear contradiction, and will
not forgive me for not abusing Mr. Karslake ashe
does. But, my dear, I am not quite going
to believe that you came here to-night to ask
after our troubles  they stand pretty much as
they were. Tell me what makes you look so
pale and sad  you have not quarrelled with
your husband ? '

Sybil shook her head with a conclusive
smile, but it was such a pathetic one that ]\Iiss
Helstone felt the tears rise to her eyes.

Can you tell me what is the matter, my
dear ? '

I am come on purpose to tell you everything,
and to ask your advice ; but '  with a
sudden flush of painful crimson  'you know
what your brother's charge against my husband
is ? '

Not exactly, I have never cared to press
the point ; it is some breach of morality, of
which I am certain he is as innocent as myself.
We will take that for granted.'

No, we will take nothing for granted,' said
Sybil, in a low voice, ' it will be necessary' for
you to hear a long story.'

She looked at her watch ; it was eight
o'clock.

Can I depend on seeing Mr. Helstone later ?

He will not go out ? ' she asked the question
with intense anxiety.

He cannot go out of the house or even
leave the room opposite without our hearing
him,' said Sara, ' and I would stop him at once.
That is right ! ' as Sybil moved near to her ;
come and sit on the cushion at my feet ; contact
gives confidence, and my whole heart will
go with you, my dear.'

Thus encouraged., and in defiance of strong
natural reluctance, Sybil told her story, and Sara
listened with her keen perceptions all on the
alert and, it must be confessed, with an ever-increasing
sense of dismay and astonishment.
There was no attempt made by the wife to
reduce or soften the evidence against her husband
; she gave the facts as blankly as Helstone
himself could have done, feeling that perfect
sincerity was the only condition of success. At
length she reached the culminating point 

Helstone's determination to bring the matter
before the next day's vestry, and her strenuous
hope of being able to win him from his purpose.


So ominous a silence fell as Sybil ceased to
speak, that she turned round with pained surprise
to look into her friend's face.

Sara was sitting with brows knitted and
lips compressed into an expression of stern perplexity.
As the gull looked up she suddenly
bent over her, raised her face between her
hands, and gazed into it with piercing inquiry.

And you believe in your husband's fidelity
with that clear head of yours  not with the
blind infatuation of too fond a wife? It is
hard to understand ! '

What do you take me for ? ' asked Sybil,
with a gesture of proud self-assertion. ' Am I
a likely woman to condone offences such as
these  offences that would involve a depth of

baseness difficult to calculate ? I believe in Lis
honour as I believe in my own. I trust him as
I trust in God.'

Sara looked at her with a cynical yet kindly
smile.

And you love him, child, with that extravagance
of feeling that you may well pause,
and ask whether your judgment is free enough
for an unblessed opinion.'

My love is not extravagant,' replied Sybil,
in a voice of indignant pain, 'but is rather
the slow and reluctant fruit of conviction and
reason. I have lived in as close intimacy with
Julian Karslake as is possible for a wife to hive
with her husband, and know him to be without
reproach. Without reproach ! that is a poor
way of expressing what I have learnt and
proved of the sweetness and strength, the tenderness
and patience of his character. If I did
not love him now with all the faculty of loving

that I have, it would be because I was blind or
insensible. And do not imagine that I am
influenced by the beauty of his person, or the
charm of his manner  they would not move
me apart from this real goodness  though I
grant,' she added in a lower tone, ' they help
to make daily intercourse a privilege and a
delight.'

My dear,' said Sara, ' all that is very fine
language, but just means, in my vernacular,
being over head and ears in love ; and that
again means you must be on your guard
against being blinded by the strength of your
feelings. This is a very serious business.'

And you incline to believe there is justification
for your brother's conduct ? '

'whatever I believe,' said Sara gravely,
can stand over for future consideration. The
night grows late, and I am almost as anxious
as you are that Mr. Karslake should be spared

this public exposure. Will you go in to Gilbert
alone, or shall I ask him to come to you
here?'

I would rather see him here, in your presence
; ' but her heart sank at the prospect
before her, for Sara's lack of faith seemed a
new proof of the strength of the evidence
against her husband. If a staunch supporter
of his cause could doubt so easily, what could
be expected of the indifferent outside world ?

Sara was absent longer than might have
been expected, and Sybil could not help hearing
their voices in angry discussion. Presently
she came back with a heavy, sullen look.

He refuses to see you unless you go to
him, my dear ; he will not come here or talk
before me. Will you do so P '

Certainly ; I will go,' said Sybil, rising at
once, ' there is no other choice.' Sara went
over to her side and kissed her.

God bless you, my clear Sybil I ' she
said solemnly, and to the poor girl's excited
mind there seemed a foreboding; in the benediction.


Helstone was seated at the table with wine
and nuts before him, and he had already drunk
enough to disturb the perfect equilibrium of
brain and temper. As Its. Karslake crossed
the room so as to approach the place where he
sat, and he marked the swift grace of her
movements and the beauty of the pale sad
face, which seemed to gain some new charm of
expression every time he saw it, he felt the hotblood
rush to this brow, and said to himself
that this time he should not be able to hold his
passion in check.

You were not afraid to come and speak tome
alone ? ' he said, placing a chair for her.

I was not afraid,' she said, coldly ; ' it is
a feeling of which I have little experience. I

should have liked Sara to have been present
simply because I wanted her help. You know
why I am come ? '

Her voice fell from the pitch of womanly
dignity, with which she had begun, to the
thrilling pathos of a despairing appeal. She
lifted her eyes, wet with unshed tears, and
pushed back the heavy weight of her abundant
hair from her brows, with a gesture familiar to
him from her childhood when she was in
trouble.

I do not know,' he replied hoarsely ; ' you
must tell me.'

'To renew the request you have already
refused,' she said more firmly ; ' to ask you to
drop this persecution of my husband.'

The word stung him to the quick ; the
very pallor of her face, the vibrations of love
and suffering in her voice, and the anguish of
her glance, hardened his heart against her. If

she had loved him less her chance would have
been greater.

On the table, close to his hand, lay a thick
packet sealed and addressed. He called her
attention to it.

This is my answer,' he said ; ' I am going
to forward this packet by to-night's post to Mr.
Karslake's churchwarden, with the request that
before the vestry meets he will try and communicate
its contents to his brother official. It
contains a dry professional statement of the
evidence I have at command in proof of
his immorality before marriage, and his infidelity
afterwards. Those finer traits of infamy
and fraud, through which he has succeeded
in reducing your mind to a state of slavish
credulity, 1 have not insisted on  the public
need not be invited to discuss that matter.
I have done this, Sybil, to make the object
I have in view the sneer  the exposure of

the most shameless impostor one could meet
with in a lifetime, and a woman's deliverance
from a degrading bondage.'

She passed over all there was of offence in
his speech ; the facts alone moved her.

But you will not send it ! I do not argue
nor even plead for Julian, only for myself!
The happiness of my life hangs on this point.
Spare him for my sake  for the sake of the
old days at Ashlands, when you were my best
and kindest friend.'

She went up to him and laid her hand on
his arm ; he shook it off almost fiercely.

Sit down, Sybil, for mercy's sake ! If this
man were common cheat or libertine I could
forgive him ; but he has cajoled and betrayed a
girl who was and still is to me the dearest and
most sacred thing on the face of God's earth,
and of whose honour I think more by countless
lengths than my own. Every word you utter

in his favour only confirms my resolution.
I am going to save you in spite of yourself.'

She was silent ; he went on again.

I have told you before I have laid my
plans carefully. The shock of indignation and
surprise would have been too much for the
meeting, without some steps of preparation.
Now his churchwardens will come primed with
facts and fury, and will be eager to listen to
what further statements I shall have to make.
Possibly, also, each man will have bruited the
scandal to his nearest neighbours and friends,
for I have given no hint at secrecy. Julian
Karslake will find himself in a new atmosphere,
charged with suspicion and outraged decency,
instead of favour and respect. Don't deceive
yourself, Sybil, with the idea that they will not
believe it  that his immaculate character will
speak for him. To prevent any reaction in his
favour that his excellent acting might produce,

VOL. IL Q

I shall clinch the matter by ocular demonstration.'


Sybil's cheek blanched with terror ; it was
with difficulty she could repress a cry of pain.

'What do you mean? ' she gasped.

I mean that I shall show the child to the
meeting. It is a theatric touch that I personally
dislike, but rather than Julian Karslake
should escape the full weight of his shame I
will stoop to it. I have made friends, or affected
to do so, with the boy. His poor simple-hearted
mother knew that on one occasion I followed
your husband to her house, and imagines consequently
that I am his friend ; so there has not

been much difficulty. I spare her ' his

heavy brows contracted ominously. ' I will
spare you too,' he added, glancing at the
anguish stricken wife, ' and could almost feel
a disdainful pity for the man himself in the
crisis of his downfall.'

For a few moments Sybil sat motionless,
crushed with despair. It was all true ; the
completeness of the disgrace would exceed her
worst apprehensions  it would be absolute.
Julian brought face to face with that fatally
gifted child would, indeed, be at the mercy of
his relentless enemy.

Helstone sat watching the changes of her
face with glowing eyes ; presently he rose and
approached the bell.

Almost with the swiftness of light she sprang
from her seat, and intercepted his intention.
'What are you going to do ? ' she demanded.

Simply to despatch my letter to the post.
Do you still hope to circumvent my purpose ? '

wait ! ' she cried passionately, ' it must
not be done  he could not bear it ! You spoke
before of an alternative. Show me any way of
deliverance, and I will accept it I '

He seemed to hesitate, and taking out his
a 2

watch, looked at the dial. ' I have not much
time for parley,' he said harshly, ' nor shall I
try as I have done before to win you to a sense
of womanly dignity. Here is my alternative.
If you will pledge your word to leave your
husband, on the sufficient grounds of his
wrongs against you, I drop my persecution :
that is, I fling this letter in the fire, and suffer
him to cheat his followers to the end of the
chapter ! '

Leave him ! I do not understand. '
'As you please. I am indifferent as to
your decision. The pressure of social opinion
will constrain you to do ultimately what you
now refuse ; the only difference being that in
the one case you keep your idol on this
pedestal.'

He spoke quietly, but every pulse in his

l)ody throbbed with excitement. To rob

Julian Karslake of the woman he himself

adored, and of whom the other was utterly
unworthy, would be a keener rapture of vengeance
than even his public humiliation.
Hitherto the younger man, with his gifts of fortune
and nature, had forestalled, circumvented,
and beaten him  had appropriated, enjoyed,
but not exhausted that experience of blessedness
he had so silently but strongly desired for
himself. Xot exhausted  no ! He had never
trusted himself to see them together since their
marriage, but he knew, if only from the young
wife's manifestations, how close was the bond
of union between them, and what would bethe
intolerable hunger of the soul  the blankness
of desolation that must follow on its
rupture.

He still stood with the letter in his hand
and his eyes on his watch ; furtively he watched
Sybil. He had said more than once that he
chose for her misery rather than shame, but

the misery was more intense than he expected,
and though it did not shake his purpose one
iota it cost him almost more than he could
bear to restrain the expression of his own
feelings.

Only, he knew that one hint of his selfish
passion would rob him of his revenge.

You will think me very hard,' he said,
breaking the silence, ' but in five minutes' time
I must close this miserable controversy; that is,
I shall despatch my letter if you do not give me
the pledge I require.'

I do not quite understand,' answered the
unhappy girl, passing her hand over her eyes as
if to clear her troubled vision. ' For how long
am I to leave him ? where am I to go ? '

For how long ? ' he repeated. ' For just as
long as his reputation is of the same account in
your estimation as it is to-day ; for as surely
as you return to him, or even, however slightly,

break the pledge of utter separation, so surely
shall I take up the business of public exposure,
precisely where I lay it clown to-night. As
for where you should go, you will have plenty
of friends to advise you on that point.

She stood before him, erect, motionless, her
hands clasped with almost convulsive stringency,
her dilated eyes gazing straight before
her, as if into the blackness of the darkness
of the terrible future. Then an involuntary
shudder shook her from head to foot ; she
brought her gaze slowly back on Helstone's
face.

Have pity ! ' she said, with a gesture of
desperation ; ' my life is bound up in his ! '

Enough ! ' he answered, clenching his teeth
beneath his thick moustache with a spasm of
vindictive hate ; ' the die is cast. I will leave
you to do my own business. It is too late now
to trust the slackness of a servant.'

He took up the letter, and moved towards
the door. As he expected, she again intercepted
hiQi.

Destroy the letter,' she said, in a voice
strained and unnatural, ' and repeat your promise
that you will cease to molest him now and forever
! '

He did not respond at once ; he had to
regulate the rush of almost overwhelming
feeling. Then he answered, quietly :

So let it be. I will trust your honour, Sybil
Karslake.'

He approached the fire and threw the letter
into it.

'What am I to do next?' she asked,
almost wildly. 'Will you bind yourself by
some oath ? will you require one from me ? I
shall not give it ! My pledge can go no farther
than this, that I leave him now to save him
from a dishonour worse than death, but that I

cannot depend upon myself. I am not strong
enough to bear self-inflicted pain as be does,
and if my misery is too much for me I shall go
back.'

The bargain is conditional,' lie said coldly.
Go back if you will, and you know the result.
The feet of your having left him at all will be
so much additional evidence against him. But
stay ! where are you oroinor now ? ' he asked, as

1 Joe '

she turned from him as if with the intention of
leaving the room.

Home ! ' she replied sternly. ' Did you
imagine I should consent never to see him

adam r

That requires consideration,' he said,
beginning to pace the room in excitement.
Final embraces, passionate adieus, form no part
of my programme. Moreover,' turning sharply
round and stopping before her, ' he will not let
you go  if you tell him. He will prefer to

drag you down into the slough of his own disgrace.'


'No,' she replied, with a brave efibrt to
conquer herself and speak calmly, ' he would
not let me go, therefore he must not know that
I am going.'

She stood in deep reflection for a few
moments ; then lifted her stricken face with a
proud composure which moved him to the
depths of his being.

I will tell him nothing ; he does not know
I am here. We will meet and part as usual
until tomorrow. He will go to the meeting,
braced to met you there, and will find that his
good name is still spared to him. Before his
return I will leave the house.'

She turned from him and went out into the
hall. Sara came forward to meet her, and tried
to draw her back into her own room, but in

vain. She was frightened at the aspect of
her face and the desperate calmness of her
manner.

Will you not tell me what has passed ? '
she asked,

I cannot ; ask him. Kiss me ; you have
been very kind to me.'

You shall not go home alone, my dear.
Wait just two minutes, and I will have on my
cloak and bonnet. I could not sleep if I did
not see you safe under your own roof.'

Sybil shuddered involuntarily. ' I can
wait,' she said mechanically, and stood in the
same spot, passive and motionless, \dth arrested
sensation, till her friend joined her.

Not a word was spoken during the brief
journey : the fog had lifted, a few stars gleamed
in the sky, but had there been portents in heaven
Mrs. Karslake would not have seen them.

She parted from Sara a few paces from her own
door.

Do not go any further ! ' she urged, and the
other forbore to dispute the point, and left her
but half-satisfied, for she had not seen her safe
under her own roof after all.

Sybil walked round swiftly and silently to
the side entrance, which she had left ajar on
leaving the house. To her relief it yielded at
once to her hand, and she effected her return as
she had done her departure without observation.


The servants were supping solemnly with
closed doors ; she heard the sound of her
brothers' cheerful voices in the dining-room as
she sped upstairs ; probably they had not left
it all the time.

All the time ! How long was it ?

She had now reached the shelter of her
dressing-room, but before looking at her watch

she took off and put away carefully the hat
and cloak she had worn.

She had been absent an hour and a half.
It seemed to her, as she stood there in her blank,
unutterable misery, a cycle of torture.

At least, it had been long enough to wreck
her life.

Chapter XXVIII.

The boys went to bed that night without seeing
their sister. They thought she was working with
Julian at the accounts in the library, and contented
themselves with singing a cheery goodnight
outside the door, to which, however, he
only responded.

Sybil was lying face downwards on her
bed, prostrate with misery, passively suffering
the waters of her affliction to flow over her.
She could not think, I was going to say she
could not pray ; but surely the extreme sacrifice
she was offering, the speechless appeal of
her breaking heart to some power outside her
own weakness, partook of the nature of prayer.

She had no interruption to provide against.
Julian was going to spend the night down-stairs,
but would he not expect to see her again and bid
her good-night ? If he did it was impossible. All
her secret would escape her at the first tones of
his voice, even if her face, marred with tears
and uncontrollable emotion, did not disclose it
in advance. All she could hope was that the
hours would bring some degree of calmness and
courage, and then, as it drew towards morning,
she would bathe and change her dress and go
down to hint. But the hours of the night
passed, and the anguish of the unhappy wife
seemed to augment rather than to slacken.

Thought and memory were hard at work in
the torture chamber of her brain. She found
herself recalling every incident in connection
with her husband, from the first casual meetings
in the village street, when she remembered she
had involuntarily turned to look a second time

at the most beautiful face she ever remembered
to have seen, to the last glance she had taken
of him that evening. The incidents of their
singular courtship ; her own reluctance and coldness
; his strength and sweetness, that had so
slowly won their way, and his unlimited goodness
to her family, came back in vivid detail.
And since ? What tenderness could have been
more perfect  what courage and constancy
greater than his in all the troubled relations of
the past ?

Well, here at least she could emulate him.
He was willing to sacrifice his honour to his
honour  his integrity to his integrity  even
to take the ruin of his life rather than forego
what he held to be his bounden duty. And she,
was not she making an equal, nay, a costlier
sacrifice ?

At twenty years of age she was offering up
the spring and blossom of her life in order that

shame might not touch him. What more was
possible to saint or martyr ? Wliat, indeed, were
mere physical tortures to the long agony that
stretched before her ? And then  the crowning
pity of it !  she was at the same time inflicting
as much as she spared. And so the night wore
on in paroxysms of speechless pain.

At length she heard the clock strike six.
The darkness at that hour was, of course, still
absolute, but it told her how few hours were
left of those she was free to spend with him.
She rose from her couch of anguish, bathed in
ice-cold water as her custom was, changed her
dress, and, by the light of the candle she held,
examined her looks with melancholy solicitude
She had never seen herself look so ill and
changed. But what did it matter? he would
scarcely expect a cheerful face. Still she spent
a few minutes in putting appliances to her
aching eyes and head, and then sat for another

YOL. II. R

quarter of an hour motionless in her chair,
heedless of cold, to give them time to take
effect. She would have sat longer, but lier
strained ears caught the sound of the quiet
opening of the library door. He was probably
coming up-stairs  she must go and meet him.
She went out, and stood at the head of the
stairs to receive him.

You were going to your room to lie down
till breakfast time ? ' she asked, in a voice that
sounded to her own ears of an unnatural quietness,
and with a feeling little short of despair
at her heart, lest such should indeed be his
intention, and she deprived of just so much of
their brief companionship.

He held a lamp in his hand, which irradiated
his face while her own remained in deep
shadow ; but she saw with an involuntary pang
how much of his habitual aspect he had recovered.
.

no ! ' lie answered. ' I feel no need of
sleep. I am simply going to my dressing-room.
But why have you begun the day so early?
and,'  coming' close to her and touching; her
hand,  ' my sweetest girl, how pale and ill you
look ! Have you been sitting up, too, wearing
out your heart for me ? Eemember, Sybil, that
is about the only reproach I cannot bear ; that
cuts at the very root, of my courage. You are
cold too ; 2fo down-stairs, there is still a crowd
fire in the library  you make me ashamed of
the comfort I have enjoyed  and I will join
you in half an hour.'

He would have returned with her, but she
objected.

There ls no need, it would be losing
time  only make haste ! ' she said. She went
down alone, he standing to light her way till
she had entered the room below and closed
the door. She stood still in the centre of the

B 2

floor, and looked about her with nervous
eagerness. She wanted to see if she could
discover how he had spent the night.

The soft astral lamp was still burning, and
the fire fairly good ; the writing table had much
the same appearance as when she saw it last
the evening before ; the accounts that wanted
attention were still untouched  he had evidently
not done much work. There was a little
old-fashioned Latin copy of the ' Imitation ' of
Thomas h Kempis in the chair where he usually
sat. She took this up, straining it with both
hands against her lips, and then slipped it into her
pocket. She went up to the couch where he
had lain, and leaned her cheek on the pillow,
but she felt the convulsive sobs rising in her
throat. Such self-indulgence would be his
ruin !

Then it occurred to her that he must be
faint with mental exhaustion and hunger, having

scarcely tasted food the day before. The
servants would not be up for another hour.

She would prepare some coffee with her own
hands. Since she was married she had never
had the pleasure of serving him  that privilege
was reserved for hirelings  but now Iiere washer
opportunity ! The idea for the moment
banished her despair.

The coffee itself was generally made in a
French cafetihe, so perfect in construction as to
leave little to the skill of the cook ; but there was
the canister to seek in the housekeeper's closet,
and the kettle to fill. Her trembling fear was she
would find the receptacle locked, as it doubtless
ought to have been ; but the best of
servants are not infallible, and she blessed the
good woman for her happy negligence as she
felt the door yield to her touch. In the
same place she discovered some tea cakes
and butter, perhaps intended for private consumption,

but she carried them off with her,
with almost a glow of pleasure, as well as
the dainty copper kettle, already considerately
filled, which Mrs. Norris never suffered to
leave her own apartment.

When Karslake came down, refreshed by
his bath and change of dress, and full of
quiet strength of mind and purpose, there was
an embroidered cloth on a tiny Chippendale
table, spread with all the usual appliances for
breakfast, and Sybil, kneeling on the rug before
the fire, was picking up the cinders from the
hearth with discriminating fingers, and dropping
them with anxious attention into the cavities
of the fire.

There is no more coal,' she said, looking
back towards him as he entered, ' and the
kettle will not boil ! Do not be shocked. I
have often done this at Ashlands ; we did not
waste cinders there.'

It was an unfortunate allusion ; her voice
choked in sobs.

He went up to lier and bent over her.

You break my heart, Sybil,' he said. ' I
reproach myself that you have suffered alone
last night.'

For reply she turned and kissed him, with a
lingering passionateness alien to her general
manifestations, and very hard for him to bear
with equanimity. Her mood perplexed and
troubled him.

May I help you ? ' he asked presently, ashe
saw her preparing to lift the now boiling
kettle with her delicate hands ; ' surely that is
too heavy ! '

'You little understand what duties I fulfilled
in the old times at home,' she answered,
with a desperate effort to rally her firmness.
We should have considered this an elegant toy
then and there, and it is my wish to wait upon

you this morning to the minutest point. No !
do not rise. I will bring it to you when it is
ready. Is not the aroma reviving, and are not
you faint for want of food ? '

She spoke rapidly and constantly, fearing
to be silent lest her emotion should conquer
her again, and trying to concentrate her attention
upon inducing him to eat and drink in a
measure proportioned to her impression of his
necessities. He was soon satisfied, however, and
she only sipped and could scarcely swallow
her cup of coffee. Strong emotion, and especially
restrained emotion, is not conducive to
appetite.

Then he proposed they should go through
the accounts together.

There is some hours' work to be done,' he
said, ' and I shall not be able to get through it
alone. I thought of doing it last night, and
half expected you would have come in and
offered to help me ; but you were quite right

to stay with the boys. They need know nothing
of to-day's business, Sybil ! '

No,' she answered, in a voice scarcely
audible, ' they need know nothing.'

He looked at her again with distressed
anxiety ; but now she was drawing her chair
to the writing-table, adjusting the drooping
lamp, and beginning to look over his papers,
but with so little of her usual sweet composure.


Will the meeting have patience to attend
to all these minutiae,' she asked nervously,
when the excitement will run so high on your
personal affairs, Julian ? '

All these formalities will be settled first,
or, whether they are or not, they must at least
be in a condition to bear the strictest investigation.'


I understand,' she answered, with her tender
smile ; ' trust me, I will make no mistakes.'

They worked together for a couple of

hours without interruption ; her mind was now
absorbed in her task. It vas the last service
she would probably perform for him, and if
the strain upon taxed brain and opposed inclination
had been greater, she would have been
equal to its exercise. Long before they had
finished the house grew full of light and movement
; the servants were moving to and fro in
their allotted functions ; the boys rushed downstairs
and beckoned for admittance, and then
there was the inevitable adjournment for breakfast.


Sybil sat behind her urn and distributed
the cups, but more than this she could not do,
pleading a violent headache.

She left Karslake to cover her mental prostration
by engaging her brothers' attention in
the discussion of which of several plans was
the best for their amusement in the day before
them, but she perceived at the same time his

unrelaxed solicitude for herself. The dravn
look of suffering upon her face was greater
than any ordinary physical pain could have
produced. He little knew that the one cry of
her soul, as she followed his every word, glance,
or gesture, took the form of the hopeless wail,
The last time ! the last time ! '

When the meal was over, and Jack and
Tom had gone out on some boyish business of
their own, he asked her to come back to the
library, now duly swept and garnished, with
fire cheerfully replenished, and all traces of
irregular uses removed.

You must do no more work, Sybil, beloved
! ' he said. ' I was to blame to suffer it
before breakfast ; but if you will lie down on
the sofa while I write, I shall at least have the
sweet comfort of your presence.'

She acquiesced. It was the best thing she
could desire to lie and look at him till her

weary eyes drooped with the tension of her
gaze, while he worked on unconscious, or seemingly
unconscious, of her fixed regard.

After a time he brought his task to a conclusion,
rolled up his papers, and, rising from
his seat, looked at his watch.

It is eleven o'clock,' he said, coming up to
her ; ' in another hour I must be in S. Mark's
vestry-hall. Sybil, is it the dread of what
may happen there that distresses you so
much ? '

In another hour ? ' she repeated.

Are you afraid,' he continued, sitting down
beside her, and taking one of the feverish little
hands, that lay outside the soft crimson blanket
that covered her ; ' are you afraid that I shall
lose my self-command under Mr. Helstone's
provocations, or succumb to the adverse feeling
he may excite against me ? I trust in God I
shall do neither ! Besides I have the stimulus

of your faith, and shall have the consolation of
your sympathy.'

Sybil could scarcely repress a sob of agony.
The sickness of her heart, the terrible demand
upon her self-repression made her physically
faint, only she would not have lost the consciousness
of his sweet presence for a moment.
She raised herself from her recumbent posture,
and passing her arm round his neck, leaned her
throbbing temples upon his breast. He drew her
closer, with intense but restrained tenderness.

I know well,' he said gently, ' that you
think I am committing an error of judgment 
sacrificing our united interests to some exaggerated
notion of honour, perhaps to some
disguised form of pride. Sybil, I have sent
the hours of the night in as rigid an examination
of conflicting motives and duties as I am
capable of, and I am calmly confident I am
doing right. Only it would be an additional

help and comfort if I could win your approval
as well.'

Her only answer was a passionate pressure
of the hand she held. What could she say, poor
suffering soul ?

Will you go to your room, and try and
sleep away your pain as soon as I am gone ? '
he asked presently. ' Let me carry you upstairs
! I had thought of taking half an hour's
walk before I go into the hall.'

Oh, do not go ! ' she rather breathed than
spoke. ' My head aches too much for change of
place ; let me stay here ! '

He drew her closer in his arms and stroked
her bowed head caressingly. She was so quiet
he almost thought she slept, while every faculty
and sensation were stretched on the rack of
endurance. She was counting the ticking of
the clock with almost delirious anxiety. At
length the quarter to the hour chimed.

'I must leave you now,' he said, putting
lier gently from him ; ' it would not do to be
late.'

He rose as he spoke and she rose too,
moved she hardly knew by what impulse. He
took both her hands in his, and kissed her
quietly on the forehead ; his great desire being
to soothe the intense excitement under which
he saw she was labouring.

My darling, I shall probably not be two
hours absent.'

A spasm passed over her white, set face.
Then, with a great effort, she commanded her
voice enough to speak.

Have I ever vexed you, Julian, or disappointed
or grieved you in any way, since we
were married? If I have, say you forgive
me!'

He looked distressed. ' Never ! You have
been the sweetest and most loval of wives as

well as the most beloved. Father it is for me to
ask that question

She turned her eyes away from him with a
long shuddering sigh, but still keeping her hold
upon his hands.

You are impatient to be gone,' she said,
and I will not keep you any longer. Kiss ,me
once more, Julian, and then go, while I have
strength to give you leave to go.'

Chapter XXrS.

Life is full of pathetic suggestions, and amongst
the most significant is the apparent waste of
human power and efibrt. The trial that overwhelms
us is precisely that special misfortune
which we never expected or provided against ;
the blow that crushes us is dealt from some
quarter where our confidence was most implicit.
We spend our strength in fortifying our souls
against some supreme loss or evil, the anticipation
of which clouds half a lifetime perhaps,
and the shadow passes over and touches us not.
There are hundreds of men and women, who sap
the healthy springs of existence by corroding

VOL. II. s

anxieties respecting events which never become
part of their actual experience.

For the most part, blessing or cursing, the
rapture of fruition or the bitter pain of frustration,
comes upon us unawares, or in some guise
so different from Avhat wee expected that we
have not the faculty to recognise it. In brief,
it is always the unforeseen that happens.'

Some such reflections as these occupied the
mind of Julian Karslake as he walked down
the steps of S. Mark's vestry-hall, surrounded
by cordial friends and pleasant greetings, at
the close of the meeting for which he had
braced his powers of endurance to the uttermost.
He had been prepared, at the cost of
severe mental conflict, to meet one of the most
cruel emergencies of life, and no such emergency
had occurred.

The meeting had been large and specially
pervaded by a genial New Year influence. The

ordinary business was gone through with less
friction than usual, the quiet tact and courtesy
of the Rector unconsciously emitting rays of
irresistible influence.

Xo one could have guessed, who marked
the unruffled patience with which he expounded
the minute and tedious matters of business
under discussion, and submitted to the frequent
interruptions and contradictions with which
statement and suggestion were encountered,
that an almost intolerable anxiety was gnawing
at his heart  no one, at least, who was not a
very keen physiognomist.

But time went on : accounts were duly
examined and passed : resolutions of the
narrowest parochial interest proposed and
seconded,  amongst them the vote of thanks
to himself,  but still his enemy did not appear.
What could it mean ?

Had he after all relented at the eleventh

8 2

hour, his better nature getting the mastery?
Or was it the result of some unforeseen accident,
or a liberate snare to cheat him into
false security ?

At least it was a reprieve for which he
thanked God devoutly ; not so much for his
own deliverance as for the joy and comfort it
was now in his power to take back to the
beloved, suffering wife at home.

As soon as he could civilly shake himself
free from his friends, he walked home at a rapid
pace. The two hours' absence he had mentioned,
as the term of the meeting, had been
considerably extended, and the unusual excitement
and prostration of Sybil had filled him
with a vague and depressing apprehension.

As he came within sight of his own house
he saw Jack and Tom standing in the open
doorway. As soon as they recognised him they
rushed down the steps to meet him.

We are only just come in,' said Jack, ' and
we found the morning performance at the
Gaiety very flat after Covent Garden last
night ; we did not stop to the end. We
were on the look-out for you, not knowing
what to do with ourselves. We wondered to
find Sybil gone out, when she seemed quite ill
this mornings. Of course she will be back to
dinner ? '

Sybil out ! ' repeated Julian in a tone of
stupefaction ; but even as he spoke a sense of
some immeasurable calamity swept over his
mind. Was the explanation already awaiting
him of ]her profound emotion and Gilbert
Helstone's failure of execution? As was
habitual to him, he succeeded in maintaining
his outward composure.

You are only just come home,' he said to
the boys, ' and cannot have made sure she is
not there.'

They were quite sure ; they had gone into
every room of the house to look for her.

He went into the house without another
word, entered the library, and looked round for
some hint of explanation. There was none,
unless it were the crimson coverlet which lay
in a heap on the floor. He searched the
writing table to see if there were any letter or
written scrap of paper in her handwriting, but
found nothing. Then suddenly catching sight of
his own white face and distended eyes in a glass,
a reaction of feeling occurred. Why was he
mad enough to give way to this nameless and
intolerable dread, when perhaps the simplest
explanation was at hand ? Sybil's panacea fora
headache was the open air  she had probably
cone out for a walk or drive. He rani the bell
to question the servants, but even as he thus
tried to reassure himself the same deep-rooted
misorivinc mocked his efforts.

The man who answered the bell replied
that Mrs. Karslake had gone out about an hour
or so after the master himself, but he was not
in the house at the time, and he thought the
parlour-maid could give further particulars. It
was evident to Karslake that he spoke vdih
reluctance, and he was conscious of an expression
of intelligent sympathy in the man's face,
that brought back the sensitive colour into his
own.

The girl, who also acted occasionally as
Sybil's maid, was then called ; she was bursting
with anxiety to tell her story.

A letter, she said, had been brought to Mrs.
Karslake almost immediately after his own
departure. She had taken it into the library
herself, and her mistress was then lying on the
sofa. She told her to put it down on the table,
not knowing that an answer was expected ; but
when she understood the messenger was waiting?,

she bade the servant leave the room, and she
would ring when she was ready. It was a very
long time indeed, perhaps half an hour, before
the bell was rung ; when she went in again the
letter was lying on the table in a sealed envelope
but without any address. She did not see Mrs.
Karslake's face at all, for she was lying on the
sofa with her head turned to the wall, and
buried in the pillow. She took out the letter
and gave it to the messenger ; she did not know
who he was, or where he came from.

Presently she heard her mistress go upstairs,
and then her dressing-room bell rang.
She told her she was suddenly called away from
home, and ordered her to pack a small tin
travelling-case with necessary clothes. She
thought she understood her to say for a month's
absence, but was not quite sure and did not
like to ask any questions. Mrs. Karslake would
only let her put in a few of her plainest dresses

and no ornaments of any kind ; she was not
crying but dreadfully white and still.

When the box was ready itwas taken down
into the hall, and almost at the same moment a
cab drove up to the door ; there was no one in
the cab. Then Mrs. Karslake came down-stairs,
dressed for a journey ; she went into the library
again and stayed there a little while, perhaps
ten minutes. Then she came out, said ' goodbye'
in a very faint voice to her and the manservant
in attendance, got into the cab, and
was driven away. She knew nothing more.

What orders were driven to the cabman ? '
asked Karslake, in a voice calm indeed, but so
strained and unnatural as to be scarcely recognisable.


Mrs. Karslake had said no orders were required
; the man knew where to go.

And she left no letter  no message ? '

None ; ' she answered, and then the <?irl

burst out crying, and Karslake motioned to them
to leave the room.

But he was not to be allowed the privilege
of solitude at present. The moment the servants
had left the room the boys knocked for admission,
and there was no alternative but to bid
them come in. The sight of their pale, scared
faces was another pang : what was he to say to
them ?

Jack was generally spokesman.

We want to know where Sybil is ? ' and
there was a touch of sullenness and suspicion in
his manner. ' You must know all about it, and
where she is gone ! What is wrong all on a
sudden, and wliy was the girl crying? '

It is very natural that you should think I
must know all about it, but the fact is I am as
nmch taken by surprise as you in not finding
her at home on my return. At present I cannot
discuss the matter, and must ask you to leave

me alone for a little while, that I may be able to
think it out by myself.'

The boys looked at one another as if for
encouragement. Then Tom spoke :

We fancy it is something to do with what
she saw at Covent Garden that night  don't
you know of anything that made her unhappy
? '

He hesitated : it was hard to run this
childish gauntlet.

I cannot answer you, Tom. I am not able
to talk it over with you now.'

He went to the door and opened it for their
departure.

You must understand that I am in trouble
and want to be alone. When dinner is ready
sit down and manage by yourselves ; don't wait
for me.'

Whatever the acuteness of his mental suffering,
he did not betray it by symptoms open to

the' boys' penetration. They could not read
aright the lines of strained endurance in his face,
but they could remark that the voice in which
he spoke was clear and steady, and it raised a
spirit of resistance in Tom's mind.

If I were a man instead of a boy you
would be obliged to discuss the matter with
me ! But father will want to understand.'

To this Karslake made no reply ; he still
stood with the door in his hand as if waiting to
shut them out. They felt there was nothing else
to be done but to go, and they walked slowly
past him with sullen averted faces.

Then for a few moments he stood still in the
same spot, and involuntarily raised his hands to
his head, which throbbed now with physical
pain. If ever a man saw himself standing alone
and desolate in life, with all his household hopes
shattered around him, it was he ; and for a time
he felt he must hold thought in suspense lest he

should not have the courage to face his necessity.
Presently his eyes fell on the little table that
had been pushed on one side, so cruelly suggestive
of the incidents of the early morning, and
on the couch where she had lain, and he felt
impelled to fling himself prone on the latter
and surrender his manhood in tears, without
further conflict of repression ; but he did not
yield to the impulse. The coercion of duty and
self-control becomes in a sense mechanical over
minds pledged to constant obedience ; and Kars-
lake walked slowly back to the hire and sat
down in his accustomed chair to think over what
was next and wisest to be done. Xo slightest
doubt of his wife's honour or his wife's devotion
passed through his mind ; rather he dimly
guessed at once there must be some connection
between her absence and Heist one's discarded
vengeance. What perplexed him was how and
when they had communicated with each other

since his own visit to the Temple the day
before.

All the pathetic tenderness and intense agitation
of the morning were to be fully explained,
on the supposition that she had then
decided on her sacrificial act of desertion. But
what means had she employed to let their
enemy know that she was willing to pay the
redemption price demanded ? Another thought
occurred. What must be the relentless nature
of the man who could extort from the magnanimous
devotion of a wife such a supreme
sacrifice ? But he turned deliberately from
the latter consideration ; it was unwise to fan
into a flame the natural fires of hate and vengeance
; rather would he fortify his mind with
the thought of the divine unselfishness of Sybil's
love. There was consolation and incentive to
patience and endurance in the future in this
alone, and, for the rest, of course he would

win her back to liiiii ; that result was only a
question of time. He would prove to her conclusively
that the disgrace she averted was buta
fictitious shame, not for a moment to be
weighed in the balance against the solace of
her love ; and that even if the humiliation had
been absolute, they were bound, by the sacred
obligation of their marriage vows, to stand by
each other through good and evil fortune.

Then it occurred to him he did not know
for certain how Sybil had passed the preceding
evening after she had left him, and that he had
felt a measure of surprise at her absenting
herself through the entire length of it. At
least on this point her brothers could inform
him, and he left the room at once to find and
question them.

Dinner was cleared away, and there was
some dessert on the table : but neither Jack
nor Tom had touched it. They were sittiuo-

both together in a roomy longing-chair pulled
close to the hot fire, with their arms round
each other, in the loose embrace which was an
habitual attitude with them, and their voices
dropped in low, earnest talk. They looked up
in rather a shamefaced fashion as Karslake
entered. In answer to his inquiries as to
whether Sybil had spent the whole of the preceding
evening in their company, he received
of course an emphatic negative.

We thought she was with you in the
library,' said Jack. ' She went in there after
dinner, and we never saw her again till breakfast
time this morning.'

It was becoming abundantly clear to his
mind. She had gone to make a last appeal to
Gilbert Helstone, and had accepted his terms
of deliverance ; and he himself  absorbed in
what now seemed to him a selfish pre occupation
 had suffered her to pass the hours of her

struggle and anguish alone  at what a cost had
been sufficiently indicated by her manner and
appearance that morning. Surely he must
have been blind and insensible not to have
read those siccus aright ! The momentous
question was what had become of her? what
place of refuge or plan of concealment had
been dictated to her ? He would go and see
Helstone at once, and compel him to give up
what information was in his power.

VOL. II.

Chapter XXX.

He went out of the house without telling the
boys where he was gong, and equally without
any consideration of the pain and humiliation
to which he might be subjected. To find
some degree of rest in ceaseless movement Alas
the natural craving of his present mood ;
repose, either of body or mind, seemed impossible
under the pressure of his cruel distress.

It was much the same hour and same
weather  fog and drizzling rain  as on the
preceding night, when Sybil had turned her
steps in the same direction ; and in like manner,
on hearing the sound of his inquiries in
the hall, Sara Helstone opened the door of the

room Adhere she was sitting, and came out to
speak to him. In his case, however, there was
no friendly recognition or welcome.

She dismissed the servant with a ijestiire
before she opened her lips, and even then she
looked at him for a few moments in silence,
with an expression at once eager and dissatisfied.
A sudden breathless hope glanced across
his mind.

Is my wife  is Sybil here ? ' he gasped.

Sara gave a short laugh. ' Come in herewith
me,' she said, ' if I must speak to you,
which I would much rather not. Do not let
anyone hear the sound of your voice I '

He followed her into the room, she closing
the door carefully behind them with a pre-occupied
and restless manner. She seemed to bring
her mind with difficulty to the subject before
her, and he was obliged to repeat his inquiry
ere she seemed fully to follow his meaning.

T 2

Sybil ! ' she said vaguely, at last, ' she was
here last night, and I walked home with her. I
know nothing since.'

You did not know she had left my house
this morning ? '

There was something in his tone and manner
that at length had the effect of arresting her
attention ; she brought her gaze to bear consciously
upon him, and her face softened a
little.

I will not tell you a lie,' she answered ;
so much as that I know, but where she is now
or what led her to take such a step I do not.
But you, I presume, have not to go very far for
the solution of the mystery ? '

The solution of the mystery is a man's thirst
f for mistaken vengeance and a woman's power of
sacrificing love.'

'So be it ! ' she answered with renewed
impatience. ' I have neither time nor inclination

just now to discuss this point. I tell you
again I have no information to give you, and
just now my mind is so harassed by private
anxiety that you will pardon my telling you
plainly I should like to be alone. To-morrow,
perhaps, when my brother is in town, if it will
be any satisfaction to you to see me again, I
shall be more at liberty.'

He turned to depart at once, then stopped

I will intrude no longer on you, but if
Mr. Helstoue is at home, I cannot leave the
house without seeing him. You must understand
that my suspense is almost more than I
can bear.'

'You cannot by any possibility see Gilbert
to-night, and on my honour he could not relieve
your anxiety. He knows no more than myself
where Mrs. Karslake is.'

Her eagerness to be quit of his presence was
so overmastering that she even laid her hand on

his arm to urge his departure ; there was no
resource but to yield. He took up his hat and
went out into the hall, Sara following him in anxious
attendance ; but before he had reached the
street door, there was a sudden rush of confused
tempestuous sound from the upper stories of the
house. Sara's face blanched to deadly pallor ;
he instinctively stood still.

What is that ? ' he demanded, scarcely
able to analyse the impression produced.

Before she could answer a door from above
burst open, and a woman appeared on the head
of the stairs, leaning breathlessly over the balusters
to the hall below, and beckoning for help
with a restrained but imperative gesture.
Scarcely considering what he did Karslake
sprang up the stairs to her side.

What is wrong ? can I be of use ? ' he
asked.

The woman, who had a powerful frame and

arm of iron, glanced at him for a moment with
keen doubtful scrutiny, but her movements
though heavy were prompt and decisive.

At least you can try,' she answered, m a
harsh guttural voice, retreating rapidly as she
spoke towards the door she had just quitted,
and whence issued sounds of inarticulate fury.

We want help,' she continued ; ' go in and
do your best ; for God's sake part them if you
can, before murder is done ! A strange face and
voice may divert her attention. I am no longer
of any use ! '

Karslake followed her without question or
hesitation. The room he entered was dimly
lighted by a lamp hung close to the ceiling, and
the rays of which were further absorbed by the
gloomy padded walls and thick dark carpet on
the floor. Directly beneath the rays of this
lamp, so as to bring their features and figures
into ghastly relief, a man and woman were

locked together in what was evidently a mortal
struggle. The woman was tall and spare inform,
but one glance was enough to see that
the convulsive clutch with which she grasped
the other's throat was the irresistible strength
of madness. Her long gray tresses of hair,
still abundant, floated over her shoulders,
and the lines of her face and the tones
of her voice were inflamed with irresponsible
fury, as she succeeded in straitening her suffocating
hold in spite of the powerful resistance
of her victim.

It was a sickening spectacle ; Helstone's livid
face and distended eyes showing the extremity
of his condition.

The situation, which takes time to describe,
was instantaneously apprehended by Karslake.
He perceived at a glance that any attempt to
tear the maniac from her prey must fail fatally,
and with a swift movement he advanced in front

of her, so as to stand in the full focus of lier raised
vision, and rolling up the handkerchief he held
in his hand, threw it suddenly, and with all the
force of which the action admitted, into her
face.

As he expected, with a cry of brutal rage
she released her hold of Helstone, and precipitated
herself upon him. But he was not only
prepared for the attack, but had all the nerve
and training of a young English athlete, also
the advantage of considerably greater height.
He succeeded in evading the snatch of her
desperate fingers ; the keeper at the same time
rushing forward to secure her patient, but not
before the mad woman had, by an unexpected
movement, seized his hand, and bitten it
through to the bone.

Karslake stooped to pick up his handkerchief,
in order to wrap it round the wound ;
partly also to hide the involuntary contraction

of pain. As lie rose he met Helstone's eyes
fixed upon him With an expression difficult to
define, but in which gratitude or recognition
obviously had no part.

Let us go,' he said hoarsely, rising with
difficulty from the chair ito which he had
fallen ; ' the paroxysm is over  she will be
able to manage her now.'

The struggle had been an exhausting one.
He staggered a little as he turned, and tried to
walk with his usual independence of gait and
gesture.

Karslake came up to him and offered his
arm.

Forget that we are enemies,' he said ; ' at
least, till I have seen you safe under your sister s
care.'

Helstone's face turned deadly pale. ' This
is too much,' he said ; ' my punishment is
greater than I can bear. I would rather have

lost my life than have owed it to you. 1 iii
manage without help.'

Outside the door, which the nurse had
forcibly locked against her, stood Sara leaning
against the wall. She drew a deep gasping
sigh as she recognised her brother's safety, but
an imperative movement on his part seemed to
check the words she would have spoken.

Helstone slowly led the way down-stairs,
and then turned into the dining-room. ' I must
speak to Julian Karslake alone,' he said, and
Sara withdrew in silence to her room opposite.

The wine still stood on the table. He went
up to it, half filled a tinkler, and drained it to
the bottom.

Will you drink ? ' he asked, but Karslake
shook his head.

You will not drink nor sit in my house,'
resumed Helstone, in the same tone of bitter
cynicism as before, 'but for all that I must

detain you for a moment. You must promise
me to keep the miserable secret that circumstances
have revealed to you to-night. My
honour is pledged to keep that desperate
woman under my own roof  you will not
betray me ? '

No, I will not betray you.'

One word more. I freely own I owe
my life to your courage and self-possession,
qualities in which I never thought you deficient
; but I can profess no gratitude. It is a
pain deeper than words can tell, that you
should have seen what you have seen to-night,
and laid me under this obligation. If you
know human nature, you will easily understand
that I love you none the better for it. You do
not think to buy off my enmity thus ? '

My action was without calculation or any
recognition of your own personality  there is
no question of obligation between us. Shall

we consider that point settled ? I have something
to say in my turn.'

He leaned heavily against the table as he
spoked The suspended rush of his own anguish,
added to the strain of protracted physical and
mental exhaustion, and the renewed necessity
of self-repression in the presence of his heartless
foe, seemed almost beyond his strength.
Helstone sat and watched him with relentless
scrutiny, with which a sense of unwilling admiration
slowly mingled.

You are sick with pain,' he said, rising and
pouring out a glass of water, ' though I own
you have borne it well. I know of old she has
the fangs of a tigress  drink this ! No ? As you
please, but it is a pity to balk the first movement
of charity I ever felt in your behalf

It is a greater pity I think,' replied Kars-
lake coldly, ' to waste time by the wearisome
iteration of your sentiments towards myself

I came here to-night to ask you what has
become of my wife, and I will not go away
without an answer.'

Oh, you shall have your answer !  I do
not know. I have not the slightest clue to her
present whereabouts. You do not believe me ?
In that case both for your sake and my own,
we will end the interview.'

He rose as he spoke, as if to intimate his
intention of leaving the room, but Karslake
intercepted him.

I know she came to you last night, to
speak in my behalf, and I conclude you forced
her to this desperate alternative by working upon
her feelings in a way that your knowledge of her
character would well fit you to do. But the
practical details of her secret departure were
never arranged by herself, and I come to you
for the information that no one else can give.'

We often come for what we cannot get,'

was the sneering reply, ' and in this case, had I
the best will in the world, I could not help you.
Not that I would help you if I coidd I You:
love for your wife has much of the shamelessness
of your love for your mistress ; you would
keep her at any cost of dishonour. But such
is not her wav of looking at things  she decided
of her own free-will to leave you. Love without
respect was impossible to Sybil Dorrimore.
Have I not told you I would encourage her to
bear misery rather than shame ? Well, I have
fulfilled my threat, and broken the cursed bond
between you.'

Karslake was silent for a few moments.
Then he said :

The one object I had in view in coming
here to-night is lost, if I am to believe what
you say ; and for the rest, I am constitutionally
fortified against abusive language, and am not
tempted to unburden my mind of my personal

sentiments, as you are. Equally do I refuse to
dispute your explanation of the motives that have
influenced Mrs. Karslake. Enough that, even
in the first keenness of my loss, I can find some
comfort in the thought of the loving magnanimity
which has inflicted it : your vindictiveness,
after all, can only go a certain length.'

Have you done ? ' interrupted Helstone.
I forbear to reply or threaten, for your wife
has purchased future immunity for you so long
as she keeps, as she probably will keep, her part
of the bond. Shall I suggest that you should go
home, if such a word is any longer applicable
to S. Mark's Eectory ? If you feel no necessity
for pulling yourself together after the events of
the night, I do.'

He laid his hand on the bell. The events of
the night, Karslake's invincible self-command
under provocation, his own repeated failure to
provoke him to protest or recrimination, or to

humble him to admission or complaint, only
served as a stimulus to his malice and hatred,
and exasperated him almost beyond observing
the decency of social restraints. And now to be
added to the score were the unpayable service
he had rendered him, and a corroding anxiety
he could not bring himself to express. He
had a morbid dread of discover' and interference
with the miserable secret of his
household, but when Karslake got home, would
he not summon doctor or servant to dress his
lacerated and ignoble wound, and by so doing
provoke inquiry and speculation ? Must he
stoop to solicitation on this point ?

Julian had turned already to depart.

It is unnecessary to ring the bell,' he said,
in reply to his host's doubtful courtesy ; ' I
shall prefer to dismiss myself.'

Helstone followed him into the hall.

One more word,' he said, in the harsh,

VOL. IL u

reluctant accents of a man who speaks against
the grain. ' I ain scarcely brute enough to let
you leave the house without acknowledging
again the debt I owe yoa. It will make no
difference in our relations  understand that
clearly, but it exists. Another : tiny sister is
an excellent surgeon ; will you not let her see
your hurt and prescribe for it before you go ?
Your servant or doctor might ask questions that
would compromise your pledge.'

I can keep a pledge, even under difficulties,'
replied Karslake coldly. 'Do not be
uneasy, it is the left hand ; there will be no
need of assistance ; no one shall see it but
myself. Good-night'

CHAPTER XXXI.

Karslake was quite correct in thinking that
Sybil had not arranged the details of her
departure herself. The letter the maid-servant
witnessed to her having received was from
Helstone, suggesting the best steps to take to
secure the secrecy of her movements, and
making her acquainted with the arrangements
he had already made in her behalf. He proposed
that she should drive in the first instance
to the Midland Hotel, and that he
should meet her there at a fixed hour in the

afternoon, in order to discuss future plans for
her guidance and welfare. He added lie would
bring his sister with him.

Up to the point of allowing herself to be
driven to the hotel named, by the cabman previously
tutored by Helstone, Sybil followed the
prescribed programme implicitly ; but there
her docility ceased. The misery she had suffered
since she consented to abandon her home
had crushed for a time lier mental independence
and strength, but it was inevitable to a
c;iii of her native force of character that the
reaction should not be far off. As she sat in
one of the formal and dreary sitting-rooms of
the hotel, passively waiting for the hour to
strike when she might expect her advisers, a
certain degree of composure and rallying
power already came to her.

She shrank with absolute repugnance from
a second interview with Helstone. Why should

she subject herself to it ? Also, what claim had
Fie to know where and under what conditions
she led the life he had so cruelly maimed ? To
be subjected to his discretionary visits and ceaseless
observation would be an insufferable bondage,
from which pride and self-respect equally
revolted. It formed no part of the pledge he
had exacted from her ; therefore she was free
to consult her own quickening desire for perfect
independence of action.

Her first natural idea had been that she
would go back to her father ; but reflection
showed her that this was impracticable on many
grounds. Helstone would have forbidden it as
contrary to the bond ; for he not only required
separation from her husband, but absolute
concealment, and Ashlands could not have
afforded that. Also, she could not have endured
the complications that would assuredly
have arisen in any attempt to make Mr.

Dorrimore understand the situation. No ; she
must not only cut herself off from Julian, but
from the strong family ties that had formerly
made up the paramount interest of her life.

As she reached this point of conclusion, and
saw the dreary waste that her existence would
become, her courage almost gave way. She
rose up from her seat with a sudden determination
to risk all, and return to the blessedness
she had forsaken. What, after all, mattered
outside estimates of right and merit if
they were together ? Would not Julian prefer
his love to his honour ?

But the very phrase in which the idea
formed itself in her mind brought its own swift
confutation with it. Her lips expressed an
instant self-scorn for a vacillation so unworthy ;
granted that he would, his wife would not
prefer it for him. Keenly as she might suffer,
it was better than to have his head bowed

under the stress of popular indignation, and his
career blighted and distorted by unmerited but
overwhelming disgrace. Even now, at that
hour, the burden he had carried so long had
fallen off his shoulders, and he was a free man ;
and she had enfranchised him !

A glow of ardour came over her pale
cheek, and lighted the fires in her pathetic eyes,
as this thought animated her and helped her
to calmer practical conclusions.

Instead of waiting for the Hailstones, and
submitting her arrangements to their decision,
she would go away at once and conceal her
place of abode equally from all.

For a few moments she bent her mind in
anxious consideration on the difficulty as to
where she should go. That she had very few
personal or intimate friends was scarcely to be
regretted, for to the friendship of no one could
she have appealed in this strait. The object

chiefly to be attained  nay, the only object to
be attained  was to find shelter in some place
where she was least likely to be sought or
found. Chance would achieve that for her,
perhaps better than arrangement.

It occurred to her, as an act of desirable
precaution, not to start on her vague journey
from the neighbouring station, for Helstone
would inevitably trace her movements in that
case. She would get the people at the hotel
to order a cab for her at once, and break the
clue by driving to the South-Western terminus.

There was no difficulty in carrying this out.
Her quiet dress and modest travelling case, in
connection with her sad,. sweet face, and also,
it may be added, with the very light refreshment
she had ordered as a point of form, suggested
to the female head of the establishment
the idea of her being some young governess
going to her situation under the pressure of
home sickness.

She got into her cab, and was driven from
the hotel without having excited the smallest
amount of suspicion or even curiosity in those
with whom she had come into contact.

Arrived at Waterloo she felt a greater feeling
of security, owing to the circumstance of
her previous familiarity with the station and
route. She would travel westward, not stopping
indeed in the locality of her own beloved home,
but below that, to some of the beautiful sea-side
nooks to be found on the coast of Devon.

But by this time the afternoon was far
advanced, and darkness had set in. She was
not only physically exhausted, but shrank from
the prospect of a night journey by mail-train,
which was the only alternative before her.
Should she spend the night at the railway
hotel, and start on her reluctant exile by the
mid day train on the morrow Xo ; that she
feared to do, lest the ingenuity of Helstone or
the despairing love of Karslake should seek and

find her, and in the latter case her work would
be undone, for she knew she would never have
the power to part from him a second time and
under the dear coercion of his authority.

Better would it be to put some measure of
distance between them before she slept, and by
thus again breaking her journey she would
render discovery more difficult.

She took her ticket for Esher,  not that she
had any knowledge of or predilection for the
place, but because an elderly lady of highly-respectable
and reserved demeanour preceded
her at the office, booking herself for that station,
and Sybil desired the protection of her companionship.
When at last she found herself sitting
opposite to her, in a dingy, imperfectly-lighted
first-class carriage, and rushing out of the station
into the rain, sleet, and fog of the all-pervading
night, she felt she had never realised the
extremity of her misery until then.

It was about the dinner-hour at S. ]\Iark's
Eectory, but there would be no gathering
round the table to-night. Julian was probably
seeking her at that moment, and the boys, leaning
against each other as they always did when they
were in trouble, were exhausting their boyish
ingenuity in conjecturing what had become of
her. And what conclusions would they reach ?
what satisfactory explanation could be given
them ? They would go back to Winchester with
a weight on their young spirits, which would
hinder the progress they and she had been so
anxious to make. Again, was her husband to
be burdened for life with the charge of her
family, when all that made life sweet to him had
been-withdrawn ? After all, had she judged
wisely ? was she doing right ?

But that is the question we all ask ourselves
in our moments of weakness,' she answered herself.
' I must rely on the decision of braver

moods ; ' and she checked the sob in her throat
and wiped away the tears that had not fallen,
and by this time the train stopped, and
Esher ' was being shouted unintelligibly along
the line.

She and her travelling companion, who had
not once broken silence, got out together, and
Sybil followed in her footsteps in a blind mechanical
way. It was necessary to cross the line to
the gate of egress on the opposite side, and this
accomplished, the necessity of some direct personal
action became imperative.

The situation was dreary in the extreme.
The rain was now falling fast through a dense
mist that blotted out every object at a few
yards distance, while a biting wind swept round
the corners of the half-roofed and scantily-lighted
station.

In another moment Sybil would be alone in
the unknown waste, with the exception of the

couple of porters who were stamping up and
down the platform, to keep their stagnating
blood in circulation ; for no one but herself and
the lady had got out at Esher, and the latter
stepped out so briskly she would soon be beyond
her range of vision.

Moved by desperation, Mrs. Karslake took
courage to lay her hand timidly on her shoulder,
in order to engage her attention.

Can you tel me if there is a respectable
inn near the station ? ' she asked.

There is one,' replied a cold, guarded voice,
out of her manifold wrappings and the mist,
and I have no doubt it is respectable. But are
you alone, and without friends in this place ? '

'Yes,' said Sybil in a low voice, ' and not
in this place only.'

And you are a respectable girl ? ' continued
the other ; ' one, I mean, that a good woman
need not be ashamed to befriend ? '

VOL. III. B

Sybil's heart throbbed with complex emotion.
I am that, but  does a good woman only
befriend the respectable ? '

Humph ! you are quick at retort, at least ;
but I have taken stock of you in the carriage,
and I call myself a physiognomist. I will do
what ninety-nine women out of a hundred would
not do, that is, I will welcome a stranger, of
whom I know nothing, to bed and board tonight,
provided she is willing to come home
with me.'

'Really? You are not mocking me, I
mean ? '

The inflection of the voice was so suggestive
of a gratitude beyond the occasion, that it told
its own tale of the mental condition of the
speaker, and touched a chord in a very guarded
but sensitive heart.

I am quite in earnest. Follow me close ; I
expect to find my servant with a lantern outside.

Prepare for a short valk down a very
dirty lane, and our trunks will follow.'

Sybil obeyed, walking like one in a dream.
Just beyond the station a woman was standing,
lantern in hand. She greeted her mistress with
respect, quickened by cordiality.

I have a friend with me to-night, Martha,'
she said significantly. ' Walk on first and show
us the way carefully. What atrocious weather ! '

The walk was short, and the darkness
rendered every object invisible. On one side
of the road Sybil thought she distinguished
the outlines of houses, showing like phantoms
through the mist.

Presently the servant stopped before a
small iron gate set in a thick box hedge ; they
went up a narrow garden path, ascended some
stone steps, that gleamed wet and white beneath
the rays of the lantern, and soon stood within the
shelter of a door with a heavy porch over it.

B 2

Stand well under shelter,' said the stranger,
you shall not be kept long waiting in the dark ;
Martha has to go round to open the door ; ' and
the next minute they heard the key turned and
bolt withdrawn ; the door was flung swiftly
open, and the cheering light and warmth of the
interior smiled upon them. Sybil was led
through the cosy and prettily-furnished hall
into a parlour, that looked the perfection of
homely comfort to the weary, sore-hearted
girl. The blaze of a glorious fire, and the
soft light of a shaded lamp shed over the
spotless cloth of a table laid for tea, were
some of the accessories of the cheerful
scene.

My dear, throw off your hat and jacket
on the sofa, and we will drink a cup of tea
before we go upstairs. Sit here,' pulling a
low chair in front of the fire, 'and let me
introduce myself. My name is Harrison, and

I am sole lessee and proprietor of my little
demesne  ergo, I am an old maid.'

Sybil obeyed in silence, for her heart was
too full for speech. The sense of security, the
marvellous kindness which had come to meet
her so strangely, broke down her strained composure,
and she knew if she tried to speak she
should burst into tears. She stood in the
comparative shade of the corner where the sofa
was placed, slowly laying aside her wraps and
furs, and striving for self-command.

Miss Harrison paid no apparent attention to
her ; she was busy in making the tea from the
little copper kettle, bright as burnished bronze,
which Martha had brought in, and divino;
instructions for hot toast and ham ; also some
further orders in a lower key, which did not
reach Sybil's ears, in reference to having a
good fire in the guest chamber. But, all the
same, there was not a point of external indication

which escaped her keen vision. As Sybil,
at length, having no further excuse to linger,
came slowly forward and sat down in the chair
placed for her, Miss Harrison instinctively
marked and appraised every detail of her
appearance and costume.

The dark-blue cloth dress, simply made but
exquisite in texture, style, and completeness ;
the embroidered linen which encircled the
delicate throat and wrists; the little brooch
which fastened her collar, and the chain to
which her watch was hung, were recognised as
gems of art, the product of the Venetian goldsmith's
ancient skill.

It would be in vain to deny that her night
of watching and tears, and day of suffering and
fatigue, had dimmed the beauty of her face,
but the inalienable charm of perfect contour
remained untouched, and the pathos of the
heavy eyes and drooping mouth did more for

her with the woman who was observing her,
than the softest bloom or brightest grace of
expression could have done. Her hands lay
folded loosely and wearied in her lap, and it
never occurred to her mind that the thick hoop
of gold, which was the only ring she wore,
would at once declare to her hostess her position
as a wife.

Miss Harrison poured oui her fragrant tea
into dainty cups of Chelsea china, which most
housekeepers would have had on a shelf or ina
cabinet ; but she liked to utilise her pretty
things, and brought one over to where Sybil
sat, not suffering her to rise and fetch it for
herself.

There was something in the gracious kindness
of the action that touched Mrs. Karslake's
softened and agitated mind profoundly, as well
as recalling to it the incidents of the early
morning, so sharply stamped in her memory.

It was with an effort she steadied her shaking
hand, so as to take a firm hold of the costly
cup.

You are too good to me she said in a low
tone, that her courage and constancy constrained
to firmness. ' Your kindness is almost more
than I can bear ! '

 You will find your powers of endurance
stronger when you have taken a little food. Be
advised, my dear, and try and follow my good
example  our troubles always loom bigger
when we are faint with hunger and fatigue.
After you have eaten a little you shall go upstairs
to your room and rest and wash, and
afterwards we will have some talk together,
and you shall tell me just so much or so little
as you feel disposed. Come ! '

Sybil obeyed. To slow gratitude by obedience
was an instinct of her nature ; and
although, as she watched Miss Harrison placing

the daintiest morsels temptingly upon her plate,
she felt sure she would not be able to swallow
a mouthful, she found she was mistaken. She
had scarcely tasted food all day, and her
vigorous youth vindicated its natural claims to
appetite : she had not known how physically
exhausted she was till she felt the reviving
influence of her new friend's hospitality.

Miss Harrison watched her with the keenest
pleasure. The absence of all affectation, the
graceful simplicity of the girl pleased her abundantly
; she chatted discursive to distract her
attention while she ate, and felt herself amply
rewarded when a faint smile parted the lips of
her unknown guest. 

After tea she introduced her herself to her
pleasant bedchamber, where the same nicety
and cheerful warmth prevailed as seemed
common to the whole establishment, and left
her, with the promise that she would call

for her on her way down-stairs in half an
hour.

Her travelling box stood already unstrapped
in the room ; a little brazen pitcher of classical
shape was sending up wreaths of steam from
the washing-stand ; snowy towels ; crimson
curtains shutting out the dreary night; an
American rocking-chair before the bright fire on
the thick piled rug, gave an aspect of inviting
comfort and friendly welcome to the scene.

Sybil looked about her with eyes wet with
chastened feeling. Would that Julian could
know how circumstances had tempered the
severity of her distress ! Julian ! would he
not look beyond circumstance, and attribute the
mercy she had found to that supreme Director
whom he so silently but persistently recognised
and served ? Ah ! would he find his religious
faith adequate in this crisis to his own consolation
?

A tender smile played round her mouth ;
she sat down in the tempting chair by the fireside,
and drawing out of her pocket the little
book she had taken out of his chair that
morning, found some faint sense of relief by
holding it in her caressing hands, pressing it
against her bosom, or laying her yearning lips
upon its worn covers. It did not occur to her
to open and read ; what soothing power it had
lay in the fact that it had been carried near the
heart, and daily handled by the touch, from
which she was so cruelly divorced.

The sound of her hostess's quick movements
in the passage outside startled her from
this mood of self-indulgence.

'I shall call for you in ten minutes I ' she
cried cheerily as she passed her door, and by
that time Sybil was ready to accompany her
down-stairs.

Miss Harrison placed herself in a huge easy

chair close to the fire, and, taking up a black
silk stocking she was knitting, motioned to
Sybil to take the seat opposite her.

Sit down, my dear. I always go to bed
at ten o'clock, and it is now precisely nine :
that gives us a full hour for improving our acquaintance.
You will not object to my asking
you a few questions  it will be the easiest way
of satisfying my own mind  and you are not
bound to answer them.'

But if I refuse to answer them you will
doubt my respectability ! '

Did I not tell you I was a physiognomist ?
And I read a candour in your face that fixed
my interest far more than its claims to beauty.
Shall I tell you my hypothesis in regard to
your situation ? You are a young wife, possibly
deeply attached to your husband, and you are
leaving him because you think it your duty todo
so.'

Yes was the answer, in a low voice, ' that
is precisely the case.'

Miss Harrison lowered her knitting-needles
and fixed her keen gaze on the speaker.

I have seen a great deal of the world  of
life, as it is called  before I settled down on
this spot of earth. I have witnessed a great
deal of suffering, and had my own share of tribulation,
too, and one of the ethical conclusions
I have reached is this  that in nine cases out
of ten the sin of the transgressor is less deplorable
in its results than the condemnation of the
righteous. My dear, are you quite sure you
are ricfht ? '

A pale glow passed over Sybil's face. Her
eyes slowly kindled with a look of spiritual
enthusiasm.

My husband is not a transgressor,' she said.

In that case, I am at a loss either to speculate
or advise.'

I think,' continued Sybil gently, ' if you
will allow me, I will wait till tomorrow before
I acknowledge your kindness by my confidence.
I mean, I should like to think the
matter over ; so many interests besides my own
are concerned.'

Miss Harrison was decidedly disappointed.
Her interest, not to say her curiosity, had been
deeply stirred, but she accepted the decision
with well-bred acquiescence.

So be it,' she answered. ' I have no doubt
you are right.'

And if I should decide I cannot tell
you,' said Sybil, rising and kneeling on the
floor at her feet, ' you must hold judgment
in suspense and condemn neither of us ! I
think it is quite possible that one or both maybe
making a grave mistake, but at least,' with
a heavy sigh, ' it is not on the side of self-indulgence
that we err.'

Miss Harrison bent over her, and passed her
hand tenderly over the dark, shining' braids of
hair.

My child,' she answered, ' hear another
lesson from my experience. We never go
further astray than when we pick up and bind
a voluntary cross upon our shoulders. Believe
me, the martyrdom that wins and saves is
never sought or self-imposed.'

Sybil took her hand and kissed it.

I am quite sure you are right,' lie said
gravely ; and then, rising, she drew out of the
bosom of her dress a miniature portrait of
Karslake, that had been painted in Eome, and
which she wore attached to her neck by an
invisible string. She detached it and handed
it to her hostess.

You say you are a physiognomist : interpret
that face for me.'

Miss Harrison took it eagerly, and walked

under the lamp with it for better inspection.
The picture was a fine rendering of a countenance
in which the highest type of physical
beauty struck the observer less than its spiritual
expression.

Am I to accept this as a portrait ? ' lifting
up her quick gaze, ' or is it an imaginative
artist's attempt to work up a good subject to
perfection ? '

'It is a portrait that, in my opinion, falls
far short of the original.'

The other smiled and gazed a little longer ;
then, returning it, said :

If that man is your husband, my dear, the
only advice I shall have to give you tomorrow
is to return to him at once, at all costs.'

Chapter XXXTT.

Sybil was at once so weary and so soothed and
comforted by the circumstances of the night,
that she fell asleep soon after her head was
laid on the pillow. But after two or three
hours' slumber she awoke ; the fire m her
room was out, and profound darkness and
silence reigned.

Who does not know such hours of awakening,
when the pain that sleep has lulled  the
life-agony we have forgotten in oblivion 
seizes upon our quickening consciousness with
renewed vigour ? She started up in bed, at a
momentary loss to realise where she was, and
frightened at her strange surroundings ; and

YOL. III. C

then, as all the cruel truth recurred to her,
sank back again with an inarticulate moan of
suffering.

There was no more sleep for her that
night, and it would be tedious to follow her
mental conflict through its long watches ; but
Miss Harrison was distressed to see that her
guest looked paler and more worn at breakfast
than when she had parted from her overnight.


When the meal was over, and her domestic
arrangements made, she established herself,
stocking in hand, in her accustomed place by
the fireside ; and invited Sybil, who was looking
drearily out of the window into the
small, strictly enclosed garden, to a seat by her
side.

'My dear,' she said, ' I am an old woman,
and can keep a secret; I think you will do
well to trust me.'

Sybil came towards her.

I will trust you,' she answered passionately,
' because I begin to distrust myself and
my own courage.'

And then she sat down and told her story,
not disguising names or localities. The only
point she reserved  and Sara Helstone's prompt
misgivings had taught her the wisdom of doing
this  were the details of the accusation against
her husband.

Miss Harrison knitted as she listened; it
gave the speaker confidence to see that she was
able to take her disclosures quietly, and she
occasionally interrupted her with a sagacious
and penetrating question in the most matter-of-fact
tone of voice.

When she had finished she asked :

And what are you: plans for the future,
my dear Mrs. Karslake ? '

I mean to take the mid-day train to Ply

2

mouth, and end my journey at one of the beautiful,
lonely sea-coast places in Devon.'

And take lodgings or a house ? Are you
well provided with money ? '

I should take lodgings, of course. I have
money enough for immediate emergencies, and
means of earning money when that is gone.'

Her colour rose as she spoke ; she was
always unwilling to refer ever so distantly to
her literary work.

You have no private means, then ? You
will, I am sure, wish me to be frank with you.
If Mr. Karslake is rich, did he do nothing in
the way of marriage settlements ? '

A flame of colour swept over Sybil's cheek.

Yes,' shee answered, ' he settled three hundred
pounds a-year upon me, concerning the
expenditure of which he never asks a question,
or will suffer me to give any account. But I
will not touch that now.'

Wliy not ? Will it make him happier
to know it is accumulating at his banker's,
and that his wife has not only thought
proper to leave him, but to work or starve as
well ?

I have no intention of starving, but work
will keep mind and time employed, and I could
not bring myself to draw upon his funds when
the poor compensation of my love and help is
withdrawn.'

And do not you think he will find you
out in your Devon solitude ? or that failing,
how long do you suppose your own resolution
will last ? Is this heroic separation to be for
all time ? '

God forbid ! ' cried Sybil. ' But meantime
I shall hold to my purpose with all the tenacity
I can ; for if I were to fail, and go back to him
and bring destruction upon him, even his love
would not reconcile me to my own contempt.

But, at bottom, I fear I am hoping he will discover
and coerce me, or that my strength of mind
will give way, and I shall delude myself into
thinking I have mistaken my duty ; ' and the unhappy
girl bowed her face upon her hands and
burst into tears.

'My poor child,' said Miss Harrison in a
tone of tender ridicule, ' it is all on both sides
a Quixotic magnanimity ! The good opinion
of the world was never yet worth the sacrifice
of a love like yours, and I am almost
equally sure Mr. Karslake is straining a point
of honour beyond reason and necessity. Don't
you think he will give way to get you back
again ? '

No ; I think it is possible circumstances
may arise which will set him free to give the
explanation he now withholds, but otherwise
my belief is he would rather die than break his
bond.'

Die ! ' repeated the other with a smile.
My dear, that is not by any means the hardest
thing to do ; does not Bacon remind us that
there is no passion so weak but it has overcome
the fear of death ? It will be much harder for
your husband to hive, with all his duty work todo,
and everything that made life pleasant taken
away.'

Then silence fell between the two women,
broken after a while by the clock on the mantelpiece
striking eleven.

I must go,' said Sybil rising, ' go and shut
my trunk and prepare for my journey. I have
no words to thank you, but I shall never forget
you so long as I live ! '

Her face was pale, but she had wiped away
all traces of tears ; it was easy to see she was
holding her endurance at high strain.

And why should you go ? ' exclaimed Miss
Harrison suddenly, dashing away the moisture

from her own eyes. ' I doubt if any hole or
corner in Devon can be safer than this little
Surrey village. 1 am a lone woman, with no
friends on the spot and a bigger house than I
want ; your sweet face took me captive before
your sad story won my heart. You shall stay
here ! '

Sybil hesitated ; her heart grew warm in
welcome of the idea, but dare she embrace it
consistently with her duty and her bond ?

Miss Harrison watched her changing face
with intense interest.

Let us consider the matter seriously,' she
said. ' No one has seen you but Martha, and I
have already introduced you as a friend of my
own. Such you can remain. She knows I have
often talked of engaging some intelligent girl as
companion to myself, and, if it will not hurt your
pride ; that is the role that you shall fill. You
will have to drop your name and even your

Status as a wife, but you will find a home and a
friend instead of the dreary isolation you had
in view. Will you consent P '

Only too thankfully, if you really think I
can accept your offer with any reasonable prospect
of concealment ; also, if you will allow me
the poor equivalent of paying my own expenses.
In our respective circumstances I could not
be dependent even on such sweet charity as
yours.'

Miss Harrison reflected. ' Well, my dear,
that shall be as you please. As you are something
of a grande dame, perhaps it is only fair,
and in that case you will have to draw upon your
marriage settlement, which appears to me the
most sensible thing you can do, only we shall
have to be very guarded and diplomatic in doing
it. May I ask, in my new character of motherly
friend, if that tin case is all you have brought
away from home ? '

Yes,' said Sybil sadly, ' and it is all I need.
I shall never have occasion to go out. When I
want more clothes I can buy them, but I could
not take away anything beyond absolute
necessaries ; as it was it seemed a sort of
robbery

That is your hyper-refined way of viewing
things. It strikes me that the wardrobe you
have left behind you will be a very small
compensation to Mr. Kftrslake, and a considerable
loss to yourself. I will venture to say you
have not a summer garment with you ! '

Sybil smiled. ' That I certainly have not,
but I have never been accustomed to much
change of dress ; that is, before I was married.
It will matter very little now what I put on  of
course, I shall never wish to meet your friends.'

I don't know about that ; too marked a
retirement would excite curiosity and lead to
inquiry and speculation. You will have to show

sometimes, my dear ; but comfort yourself I I
have hardly a friend in the place beyond the
doctor and the parson, and a sensible old lady
who keeps a school. Incidental visitors, afternoon's
callers, are uDknoYn. But what am I
to call you ? ' pursued Miss Harrison, with a
vivacious interest in the situation that jarred
painfully on the nerves of her companion.
Shall it be Miss Keith ? the initial letter will
be the same as your own, and  pardon my
reminding you  you will have to take off that
ring.'

In the energy of her zeal, and the keenness
of her common sense, she had failed for a
moment in the considerate sympathy she had
hitherto shown, and was recalled to a sense of
the fact by the involuntary contraction of pain
that passed over Sybil's face.

Forgive my bluntness, my dear ! It is a
fault that has beset me all my life, and even

spoilt a friendship before to-day. But it shall
not spoil ours, I hope ? '

Sybil stooped and kissed her gratefully,
but her heart was too full for speech. She
went away for a little time, under the plea
of making certain necessary arrangements,
but really to strengthen and calm her mind
in solitude ; and when she came back Miss
Harrison silently observed that she had
followed her suggestion.

From that day a sort of mechanical routine
life began for Mrs. Karslake. She had suffered
herself to be introduced as Miss Keith to her
friend's few friends, and then withdrawn herself
as soon as politeness and discretion would permit.
In order to account for her obvious sadness and
depression, Miss Harrison invented the legend
that she had fallen from a higher rank, and lost
fortune and lover at the same time  hence the
warm sympathy she felt for her ; and this

romance was currently reported at Esher,
though it did not reach Sybil's ears.

She had had the Wisdom to stipulate for
perfect freedom in regard to her hours of
privacy, and for the privilege of a constant fire
in her pleasant and commodious bedroom.
The first purchase she made on her own account,
was a writing-desk of plain but adequate
construction, as her intention was to carry on
her literary work, with a sustained industry and
purpose greater than she had been able or even
desirous of putting forth before.

It was to this source she looked for the
supply of money to meet her current expenses,
for, in spite of Miss Harrison's common sense,
she still felt an invincible reluctance to draw
upon her husband's bankers, a reluctance which
she felt quite sure would only yield to the most
stringent necessity.

Also, she was able to console herself with

the reflection that such a necessity was not
likely to arise. She had always communicated
with her publishers under a nom de plume, so
that no obstacle barred the way to her carrying
on her negotiations as before ; and the chances
were that the ripening effects of time, suffering,
and experience would enhance her intellectual
capacity, and the pecuniary value of her work.
Moreover, there was already a small fund of
her previous earnings invested elsewhere, which
she would be free to draw upon to meet her
heavier liabilities ; and although, as we have
said before, she had originally destined that for
her brothers' use, she now felt that the cruel
force of circumstance would prevent her from
carrying out her intention.

The evenings of the days were always spent
in Miss Harrison's society, or it was clearly
understood that each might put in a claim on
the other's company at any particular time, if so

disposed ; for there was a complete absence of
selfish exaction on both sides.

Sybil never talked about her literary work
to lier friend, nor read any portion of it aloud,
lier opinion being that power and concentration
were wasted in so doing? ; and she was not at all
displeased to find that Miss Harrison's abiding
impression was that her labour was an admirable
resource, but of small intrinsic merit.

The only relaxation she enjoyed was a daily
constitutional walk across the fields, or through
the lanes of the neighbourhood, which her
health and former habits of life rendered imperative.
She had declined to go to church at
all, having a morbid dread of being recognised
by some chance stranger, and also, it must be
owned, an imperfect sense of the benefits to be
derived from the teachings of the prosy, gossiping,
middle-aged gentleman she had heard
discourse in her friend's parlour.

This point Miss Harrison had warmly disputed
with her, but without effect ; she had
asked Sybil what she should say in the way of
decent explanation to her friends.

It would never do, my dear, to let them
think you are a Pagan cr a Freethinker  the
aegis of my respectability would scarcely
reach so far as that. Mr. Ellis would insist on
my turning you out of doors, before my own
faith became perverted. I would rather spread
the report you are stone-deaf or a Papist.'

Sybil smiled. ' If it is necessary to fib in
my behalf, which will be another item in the
reckoning of my debt to you, please tell people
the former ; otherwise Mr. Ellis will be bent on
my conversion.'

Miss Harrison shook her head, laughing.

'I have never particularly inquired into
Mr. Karslake's religious views, but surely
they must be the broadest of the broad, or he

would never have chosen such a heretic as
yourself.'

It was consistent with Sybil's delicate reserve
of nature that she only answered this
sally with a smile. To justify the opinions of
either her husband or herself, would have
seemed to her a breach of sacred confidence.

Equally did she shut up within herself the
slow anguish of her daily Hfe : the desire that
was almost insupportable, the passionate yearning
that slipped the springs of youth within
her. Many a night witnessed her conflict and
her tears, but morning always saw her in time
for Miss Harrison's early breakfast, pale and
grave of necessity, but gentle and self-contained.


It was now the ambition of her heart to
emulate her husband's graces.

But when the long day was over, and her
chamber door secured against intrusion for the

VOL. III. D

night, she would unfasten the ring which she
wore attached to the same elastic string as his
portrait, kiss it with a lingering tenderness that
had a touch of solemnity in it, slip it on her
finger, and wear it till the morning came, and
the dreary round of pretence and unreality had
to be resumed.

CHAPTEK Xxxi.

The whole matter is incredible  an insult to
common sense ! Your letter was unintelligible,
and your explanation of it worse. What I
want to know is simply this  what has become
of my daughter ? '

The speaker is Herbert Dorrimore and the
scene the old library at Ashlands, looking almost
precisely the same as on the dreary November
afternoon we first introduced the reader to it.

Whatever amenities had been otherwise
introduced into the household, had not been
allowed to penetrate here. The room was as
forlorn of aspect, the fire as meagre and comfortless
as then, and the scholar himself, paler

D 2

and thinner than of old, was as much at odds
with the world as ever. The burden of his
family cares, however lightened, still pressed
upon him with a weight that he resented
as a personal injury, and the public was growing
more and more indifferent to his efforts to
enlighten and instruct. Moreover, the one
thing he loved, as well as his narrow and tepid
nature could love anything, was his daughter
Sybil, and he had long ago convinced himself
that in giving her to Julian Karslake he had
done a very noble action, on the lines of unselfish
sacrifice. As for the substantial benefits
he and his received from his son-in-law,
he had brought himself to regard these as a
very inadequate recognition of the same, and
thus he avoided the uncomfortable necessity of
gratitude.

It was part and parcel of the same cold-blooded
egotism that led him now, in the crisis

of the existing domestic complications, to
seize with avidity upon those points which
could be turned into accusation and reproach
against Karslake himself, and thus still further
reduce the claims he had upon his consideration.


It was he to whom he was speaking now, in
the sharp accentuated tones of intense irritability.


Julian had come down to Ashlands, in
obedience to a peremptory summons from Mr.
Dorrimore, who, not unreasonably, insisted on a
personal explanation of the astounding intelligence
that had been conveyed to him, partly by
letter, partly by the oral testimony of the two
boys, who had been sent home to Ashlands to
finish their holidays.

Six weeks had passed since Sybil's flight,
and it had been a period of almost intolerable
trial to the rector of S. Mark's. All means to

trace her, direct and indirect, short of those of
an absolutely professional character, had been
employed, but had failed utterly.

It was not only the utter loss and barrenness
of his own private life, or the mental and physical
exhaustion consequent on the incessant effort
and sustained tension of expectation, but the
matter could not fail to become a subject of
public discussion and private gossip and speculation.


He well knew that in every household in
his parish, and far beyond its limit, the question
' What could have induced Mrs. Karslake to
run away from her husband ? ' was untiringly
debated. If not a fatal blow to the salutary
influence he had acquired, it was a check so
decisive that he almost doubted whether
Helstone's disclosures could have worked him
much more evil.

A man who had so grievously failed in his

own domestic relations was scarcely qualified to
regulate and direct the life and conscience of
his parishioners ; the world, indeed, had given
him credit for somewhat exceptional merit and
virtue, but the world, as was so often the way
in these cases, must necessarily have been
deceived. There was a secret flaw  a skeleton
in the cupboard  to account for such a
catastrophe.

It was some consolation at this time to his
mind, that popular feeling bore more hardly
upon him than upon his wife. The fact was,
there had always been a certain sweet dignity
and obvious loyalty towards her husband in
young Mrs. Karslake, that was almost impossible
to associate with any sip from conjugal
rectitude on her side. True, there were some
exceptions to this rule  women who shook
the heads, and muttered some common places
about ' always suspecting those who seemed so

much better and cleverer than their neighbours,'
but such remarks were not likely to reach
the husband's ears.

What was most hard to bear, was when
some respected member of his church called
privately upon him, and, pointing out the mischief
this scandal was working in the neighbourhood,
asked him, with serious kindness, if
it were not possible for him to give some personal
explanation ?

What answer was possible ? He could not
say his wife had left him to divert from him a
disgraceful public disclosure, that would have
ruined his character  not from any solicitude
about his own personal fate, but because the
slightest admission of the kind involved the
interests he was pledged to maintain.

As some reply was imperative, he did say
on one or two of these occasions that his wife,
for whom his love and esteem were unshaken.

had left him under a sense of mistaken duty,
but it was quite out of his power to expkin the
circumstances of the case.

Then, my dear Mr. Karslake,' had been
the rejoinder, ' I fear it will be out of your
power to keep your present hold upon your
congregation and parish. Your influence for
good and general usefulness will be greatly
lessened.'

In that case,' he answered, ' my course
will be clear. I am as mlhng and able now
as before to do my duty  or, at least, I believe
that I shall be, when I have had a little more
time to rally from the effects of this blow.
But if my parishioners continue to distrust or
reject me, I shall not force myself upon them.
I will place my resignation in the hands of the
bishop.'

And then, no longer able to resist Mr.
Dorrimore's importunities, he had gone down



 ILUNOfS

to Assailants to bear the brunt of the father's
indignant displeasure.

'What I want to know,' repeated Mr.
Dorrimore, ' is neither more nor less than this
what has become of my daughter ? '

He had a habit of reiterating what he considered
the telling points of his speech, in a way
fatal to the patience of an ordinary listener 
of varying the form but not the substance of a
question, and asserting, with angry insistence,
that a straightforward answer was denied him.

The provocations he had already inflicted
upon his son-in-law during the interview,
would have driven some men to outrage and
insult, but apart from a faculty of forbearance
which was based in the solid earth of principle,
Karslake had necessarily a profound sense of
the involuntary injury he had done him, and a
noble tolerance for the constitutional infirmities
of the man, aggravated by his present distress.

" Believe  have no difficulty  induce her
to return to you"' ' sneered ]mr. Dorrimore,
the situation is monstrous ! Married little more
than a year, and the wife cuts herself adrift
from her husband, he professing his helplessness
to discover her ! In that case, why haven't you
set the detectives to work . should the slime
of a private inquiry-office be greater than this
public scandal  that is, if you are in earnest
to find her ? But it is impossible to understand
you! On what ground do you justify the keeping
back the truth from me  her father ? '

So far as I know the truth I have laid it
before you, fully recognising your rights in the
matter. I have told you I was threatened b} Mr.

Helstone with the public disclosure of certain
personal circumstances, through which he chose
to consider my reputation damaged, and that he
consented to withdraw his persecution on the
condition that my wife severed the connection
between us. She has taken this step simply to
save my good name.'

Heaven and earth ! ' exclaimed Mr. Dorrit
wheeling round his chair so as to face the
speaker ; ' and you are coward and miscreant
enough to suffer her to do this thing  to accept
the rehabilitation of your worthless, clerical
prestige at the cost of her reputation and happiness
! For cold-blooded calculating selfishness,
commend me to the parson and the saint ! '

'Your indignation would be perfectly
warrantable if I or any man could be guilty
of such baseness,' returned Karslake, with
practised self-control ; ' but I had no knowledge
of her intention until it was fulfilled

at the cost, you must surely understand, of
my happiness as well as her own. I feel bound
to add that I had always proposed to face the
consequences of ]mr. Helstone's action : she,
dreading them for my sake, yielded to the cruel
pressure he put upon her.'

And in so doing, to my mind, she gave in
her adhesion to Gilbert Helstone's conclusions.
The man is no fool, and has plenty of professional
experience. Am I to believe, on your
assurance alone, that he has trumped up a case
with no evidence to support it ? or that Sybil,
with her clear head, would have run away from
you on a charge she utterly rejected ? No, no,
Julian Karslake ; you draw too largely on my
credulity. I shall sift this so-called calumny to
the bottom.'

You will, of course, take what steps you
think proper under the pain and pressure of
the circumstances,' replied Karslake, 'and I

have no means beyond my unsupported assurance
to convince you of the truth of my
statements or denials.'

He got up and went to the window, to
relieve the strain and weariness of the intolerable
controversy.

The lawn before him was an unbroken
plain of stainless snow, and the overgrown firs
and pines had taken to themselves a magical
beauty, under the weight of the same burden.
The downfall still continued, and was drifting
rapidly into fantastic wreaths and banks, according
to the direction of the cutting east wind.
If matters continued thus, he would soon be
snowed in.

The peevish voice of Mr. Dorrimore soon
broke the silence.

Oblige me by sitting down  I cannot talk
to a man at the other end of the room ! How
comes it you have put yourself into the power

of a man like Gilbert Helstone ? Father, how
comes it you held back from me the knowledge

 of those damaojinor circumstances, able to wreck
your reputation? Was it the conduct of a
man of honour, let alone one pledged by his
calling to special uprightness ? I always mars

veiled why you bid so high for Sybil  is this
the explanation ? '

His thin Hps curled into a sneer as he spoke,
and a flush of genuine passion touched his
sallow cheek and brow.

I am an old man,' he added, in the low
tone of repressed excitement ; ' but, before God,
if you have tampered with my girl I will find
the way to avenge her ! Tell me, if you dare,
what was the precise charge against you that
your wife could not brook ? '

Karslake still kept his place at the window,
apparently watching the drifting snowfall,
but in reality conscious of nothing but the

increasing desperation of his own position.
How was he to escape the legitimate demands
of his wife's father ? Was he to lose all ? He
had been bereft of love for the sake of his
honour, but no vestige of external honour
would be left him. The pitiless insults to which
he was subjected stung and cut to the quick
his vital sense of dignity and rectitude, but
how could he resent or repudiate them  he
who laboured under the imputation of a
treachery so absolute that the vilest natures
would have recoiled from it

If he could have answered  ' I have a
brother: ask me no more questions  the
mystery and disgrace are his ; ' he might have
silenced every tongue, and won back his fleeting
credit and happiness. But a boyish oath to a
dying mother, accepted and confirmed under
circumstances of extremest urgency, bound him
in infrangible bonds.

At all costs ' he had pledged himself to
conceal the fact of Harry Karslake's existence.
It was an unlimited obligation, from which there
was no escape.

But it was no part of his character to shirk
or flinch from any measure of the difficulties
which beset him.

He left the window, and came back to the
chair opposite Mr. Dorrimore.

I acknowledge,' he said, ' that you have
a right to ask me these questions, and to form
conclusions most injurious to myself when I tell
you I cannot answer them  dare not, if you
choose to put it in that way. The explanation
I refuse to give you, I have equally refused to
give my wife. I mention this that you ny
judge how useless it will be to urge me
further.'

The old man looked at him steadily. Ko
doubt he misread the sternness and pallor of

VOL. III. E

the face before him ; the hard composure of
tone which was the result of strained self-command
seemed to him like the effrontery of
guilt.

He pushed back his chair, as if to increase
the distance between them. ' Do I need to
hear more ? ' he asked. ' I have forced my
girl  my girl, like whom there was not
another  on a villain, and she has found it out
for herself. Curse you !  he added, with the
impotence of senile passion, ' why did you
bribe so high that I coerced her inclination ?
Had I left her alone she would have had
nothing to say to you.'

Ear slake listened in silence. What was to
be gained by contesting this point of accusation
or that ? On the whole, it was better to receive
the full burden of ignominy than to excite
suspicion and inquiry by disputing it in detail.
Now as before  now as ever, to the end of life,

whenever that might come  he had the
courage of his own conscientious approval
to support him, and to give such an expression
of simple dignity to his aspect as fixed the
attention of Mr. Dorrimore.

You are a subtle deceiver,' he said. ' Even
now, when I look at you, I am tempted to
doubt if you are as bad as you seem. Still,
the idea is untenable that any man would
submit to public reprobation, and practically
divorce the wife he professes to love, by withholding
a personal explanation. I shall see
Gilbert Helstone, and learn from him what
you refuse to tell.'

And when you have done that, your conviction
of my guilt will be still more absolute
and severe.'

If the weather were not so atrocious,' continued
Mr. Dorrimore, ' I would telegraph to
him tomorrow, and give you the opportunity of

E 2

confronting and confounding your enemy  if it
would be any satisfaction to you.'

It would be none,' replied Karslake, knowing
that as lie spoke he was tearing away the last
shred of belief held by the other in his favour.
I might reiterate my denial of Mr. Helstone's
conclusions, but I should be utterly unable to
disprove them.'

Again Mr. Dorrimore turned his piercing
gaze upon him.

Have you a brother or bosom friend ? ' he
asked sharply. ' I can believe you capable of
the despicable folly of sacrificing your own
interests for some one else, though even the
most Quixotic fool would regard the duty he
owed his wife. If I remember right, you told
me when you were courting my daughter that
you had no blood relation whatever ? '

Your recollection is correct. I did so tell
you.'

There was an inflection in the tone not lost
on the keen ear of ]Mr. Dorrimore. He pulled
his chair nearer to the other, and seemed to rake
his countenance with the relentless keenness of
his eaze.

Karslake felt sick at heart : this was becoming
one of the critical moments of existence,
but he dared not wince beneath the scrutiny.
He had spoken in perfect good faith at the time
referred to, believing then his brother had lost
his life at sea ; but if the question were now to
be repeated ?  if it were ?

Almost the last words spoken by the broken,
desperate man had been, ' You will never own
your brother is a having man  renew your promise
! ' and he had consented to the pledge.
Was this last extremity to be forced upon him
his honour to be rooted in the dishonor' of
a lie ? his fidelity maintained at so stupendous
a sacrifice ?

Almost consummate as was his habitual
self-command, he found it now impossible to
control the working of his face, but the growing
darkness of the wintry afternoon was a point in
his favour. It baffled the completeness of Mr.
Dorrit ore's examination.

In that case,' he said, with a cynical little
laugh, 'you must be in the same position
now ; and my romantic theory that you were
playing the part of sacrificial victim is
quashed. I understand you to say you have
no brother ? '

Hesitation would have been ruin and discovery.
Karslake raised his eyes to his inquisitor,
and replied quietly :

I have no brother.'

As he spoke he felt as though the very shadow
of death had passed upon his soul, but he would
not have recalled the words had it been possible,
nor refused to make the same declaration again

under the same circumstances. It is no figure
of speech to say that he would rather have surrendered
his life than have been constrained to
utter this false denial ; but then it was not his
life but his cherished integrity that was demanded
of him, and as he judged there was no alternative
but submission.

Let casuists dispute the question, but assuredly
there are crises in human experience
Adhere the sin in ordinary is transmuted into a
sacrificial offering.

It would be useless to protract the conversation
any longer,' returned Mr. Dorrimore,
with impatient weariness. ' Until I have seen
Gilbert Helstone I can form no positive conclusion,
nor come to any decision. You decline
to stay and meet him ? '

'I do ; if possible, I must retmn to town
tomorrow.' *

'I have no wish to detain you. I shall

adopt my own means for the recovery of my
daughter.'

Karslake rose. 'Perhaps,' he said, 'it will
be unnecessary for us to meet again ? I shall
leave by the early train tomorrow, and I will
spend the evening with the children.'

It will not be possible to return by the
early train,' returned his host querulously. ' We
have not horses or carriages at command, and
no woman-servant could go through this snow
to order a trap in the village. But, anyhow,
we need not meet, whether your departure is
fixed for seven or eleven ! I will wish you
good-bye to-night.'

Good-bye,' said Julian in response. He
hesitated whether he should venture to add any
word of the sympathy and regret with which
his mind was full, but refrained, feeling sure it
would be rejected.

In the hall he paused, as was natural, to

look through the wide portal, through which
the show and now the rising moon gleamed
white and lustrous. At the same moment the
door opposite the library  the room where he
had held his first interview with Sybil, and
which was now the children's schoolroom 
opened, and the slight childish figure and sweet
face of Lucy appeared.

We heard you come out from papa,'
she said, ' and Miss Taylor has sent me to
ask if you will not come in and have a cup
of tea?'

I cannot come in,' he replied, going to the
house door and opening it with a sort of blind
instinct, so that the icy air might blow on his
throbbing temples. ' Go back to the warm
room,' he added, seeing that the chill shrank
back from the chilhno draught  ' I am o-oing
out for a walk.'

Out for a walk ! you will lose your way m

the snow. Bertie says it is up to his knees.
You must not go out to-night ! Besides, you
have not got your overcoat on  you would
catch your death of cold! Do come in and
have some tea ! '

She looked up at him pleadingly, with eyes so
like her sister's that he turned to her suddenly,
caught her in his arms, and kissed her passionately.
His self-control was unhinged ; a wave
of desperate feeling was passing over his mind.
The element of the insufferable seemed to have
been introduced, by the late cruel incident, into
his life, or if it were not absolutely so, his resolution
had for the time escaped him, and it
would need a sterner conflict than any he had
yet known before he should be able to regain
possession of it. He felt that solitude and the
night air and sky were, under any conditions,
absolutely necessary to him.

Still he would not betray himself before the

tender-hearted child. He shut the door and
drew back into the halL

I was looking out, Lucy, to see if it were
practicable to get to the village to-night, where
I have some business to do, and I see that it is.
I know the road well, every tree, gate-post, and
field between this and Eoosden Magna. If you
will, you shall help me on with my coat, and
then bring me a cup of tea out here.'

Lucy obeyed, springing upon a chair to perform
the function better. Then she went back
for the tea, watching him drink it as he stood withall
a child's unspoken depth of sympathy. She
was thinking how changed he looked since she
saw him last, when he came to Ashlands at
Midsummer to fetch Sybil home ; and with this
thought the tears slowly welled into her eyes
and began to roll down her cheek.

Are you going to look for Sybil ? ' she
asked. ' She is not in these parts or we should

have found her ourselves. I wish you would
not oho out to-nisht, but come into the schoolroom
and talk to us. You look so tired, and
Miss Taylor particularly wants to see you.'

I will come in, if you are not all gone to
bed, when I get back;' and he opened the door
and stepped out on the frozen snow.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

L\y is born to trouble, as the sparks fly
upward wrote the Syrian sage in the dim
ages of an uncertain antiquity ; and it is an
oppressive and almost exhausting consideration
that each cycle of the race, and even each unit
of the mass, fulfils the dictum in their own
experience. And not only are the sorrows of
mankind inevitable, but they are as incalculable
and diverse as the sands on the sea-shore, or as
the myriad individuality which rise, suffer, and
pass away from the stage of mortal life.

No one whose experience has been deepest
will deny that the irrevocableness of death  the
pain and loss of bereavement  are not the

heaviest blows of destiny. There is a blessed
tendency in human nature to accept the stroke
dealt by an unseen Power, and from which reason
urges there is no escape ; and with such
acquiescence peace and resignation are at least
possible.

But when the troubles of life assume the
guise of capricious injustice, and an arbitrary
cruelty of circumstance impossible to evade or
neutralise, by action either personal or of others,
then do perseverance of purpose and resolution
of endurance rise to almost heroic proportions.

To have seen his adored young wife sicken
and die would have been doubtless a supreme
and terrible experience to Julian Karslake, but
it would surely have been more tolerable than
the corroding anxiety, the exhausting yearning
and despair of his present state.

He had not even the poor satisfaction of
knowing that she was safe and well, but was

harassed by fears and misgivings he had no
means of allaying, as to the condition to which
her magnanimous indiscretion might have
reduced the noble, sensitive, and cherished girl.
He knew she had taken very little money with
her, nor drawn upon her banking account since
she had left her home. Where and by what
means was she supporting life ?

The memory of her tender passion on that
last morning before her departure was almost
more than his manhood could sustain. It
seemed to dissolve his very soul to consider
that it was the intensity of her love for him
that had given her the strength necessary to
sacrifice it to his interests.

His interests  alas, how had she mistaken
them ! What public discredit could he not have
endured unflinchingly, under the sustaining
sense of his own conscientiousness and his wife's
loyal trust ? And even if the field of duty had

been closed to him in the open thoroughfares of
life, how many wastes and by-paths remained
where he might have laboured in willing
obscurity.

And all this cruel suffering had been imposed
by the vice and selfish exigence of one
man, and the vindictive hate of another. He
suffered his mind for a time to rest on this consideration,
and exhaust its bitterness  it was
better to recognise, accept, and vanquish it than
blindly shut his eyes to the aggravations of his
lot.

How hard that lot was for him  alas ! how
hard for her  it would have been difficult to
estimate ; but there was no help for it. His
freedom had been compromised from boyhood;
the moral obliquity of Harry Karslake had been
the curse and burden of his life, exhibiting
itself in every action and turn of thought with
a hideous consistency.

He had lied and pilfered as a schoolboy
; then, in his premature manhood, had
squandered his equal fortune on the racecourse
and betting-ring, and in other worse
outlets for riotous living ; had ravished poor
Xell of her love and her honour ; and had
finally cut himself adrift from society by the
commission of a felony against the man who
had stood in the position of guardian to both
brothers.

Had the fond mother, who had held him
to the last in her dying arms, foreseen the evil
tendency of the child, and sought to guarantee
him, against his own bias, by forcing so reckless
a pledge from the elder brother ?

'You will never forsake Harry,' she had
faltered, as the pale, stricken lad knelt by her
side to receive her last commands; ' he is so
much younger and tenderer than you. Promise
me you will always stand by him as long as you

VOL. III. F

live, and will help him, even at any cost to
yourself.'

And Julian had promised, not blindly, but
even then with some dim perception that the
pledge would involve pain and sacrifice. But
what pain and sacrifice would he not have
accepted to have been able to soothe the last
moments of a mother he adored ? The very
last words she spoke to him were a repetition
of her prayer.

You remember ? you will never forget !
You are so much stronger-minded than Harry.
You will secure his welfare in preference to
your own ? '

And he had again answered that he would,
and ratified the pledge by an appeal to God at
the poor mother's feverish entreaty.

JN'o w kiss me, Julian ! ' she had said, as if 
passively content to sink out of life, now that
she had secured a measure of safety for her

favourite sou : aucl lie had laid his warm hips
upon her chill forehead, as setting a sacred seal
u])ou his bondage, and also as an expression of
the unrecognised love-which was so silently
but profoundly wounded ley her wayward indifference
to himself.

And from that hour to this his life had been
harassed and impoverished by his steady devotion
to his promise, not kept only according
to the letter, but in the most generous rendering
of the spirit of the same.

His character, fine and seat in its natural
elements, and welded into stronger cohesion by
the principles of his creed, acquired from this
protracted discipline a power of resolution and
endurance which stood him in good stead in the
present cruel crisis of his life.

It was his pledge to Harry Karslake, and his
abiding fear that the latter would sooner or later
bring some public shame upon his family, that
Y 2

had withheld him from disclosing his love to
Sybil Dorrimore, according to ordinary modes
and at an earlier period ; and it was not till the
report of Harry's death by shipwreck had been
abundantly confirmed that Julian felt himself
at liberty to ask her in marriage.

Also, at the time that he took this course he
was ignorant of the crime that had led to his
brother's flight, Mr. Anstruther being absent in
America, and his bankers having paid the forged
cheque without suspicion : so that it was not till
his return, some months after, that the truth was
discovered. But the news of the death of the
unworthy young man had reached them before
this, and naturally mitigated the wrath of the
man he had injured.

Only,' he had said grimly to Julian, as he
folded up the felonious scrap of paper, and
placed it in the recesses of his pocket-book, ' I
will preserve this as evidence of a fact. Sometimes

dead men come back again, and were
Harry Karslake now living, he should suffer
at my hands to the last extremity of the
law.'

Julian had urged, with eager insistence,
to be allowed to repay the money of which
Mr. Anstruther had been defrauded, but to this
the stern old Scotchman would not consent.

I hold to my own,' he answered, ' and
will let no man willingly escape who has
wronged me ; but I will not rob you to indemnify
myself for your brother's defalcations.
You may thank God he is at the bottom of the
sea ! '

And when the natural horror and magnanimous
regret connected with Harry's untimely
end had become softened by time, it was impossible
for Julian Karslake not to recognise that, for
the first time in his life, he was a free man, and
to turn gratefully to receive into his large and

tender nature the promise and fruition of Sybil
Dorrimore's growing love.

But such blessed sense of freedom was very
short-lived. The occasion on which Gilbert
Helstone had seen him at the Crystal Palace,
with Nell and her child, had been a death blow
to his security.

The girl, to whom he had been friend and
adviser in all her troubles, had written to him
asking him to meet her in some place of secrecy,
as she had some very important information to
give him. She had fixed the hour and the
place, falling back on the precautions her unworthy
lover had taught her ; and the news she
had to communicate was conveyed in a letter in
Harry's well-known handwriting, telling her he
had escaped with life from the wreck, but with
the loss of everything besides, and bidding her
inform Julian that he might send help to his
relief, and advise him how best to act.

You will remember,' lie wrote, ' that this
old pledge iii my favour must now take the
form of keeping the secret of my existence
from all the world.'

Xo wonder Gilbert Helstone had read pain
and consternation in the face he confronted.

CHAPTEK XXXV.

Karslake went back to town the day after
his interview with Mr. Dorrimorej id with a
distinct programme laid d(a by himself in
regard to the course he should pursue.

He had not come back from his night walk
to Eoosden Magna in time to fulfil his conditional
promise to Lucy, but when he did
return he had conquered in the fight against
rebellion, surrender, and despair, and had
regained possession of his patience and his
courage.

One of the first steps he took on his return
was to address a circular letter to the most
respected and influential members of his church,

requesting them to meet him in the parish
schoolroom on the following Tuesday evening,
in order that he might make a personal statement.
He added that the invitation, though
necessarily given directly to a few, was intended
to include any parishioner who thought proper
to attend.

Before "deciding upon a proceeding which
he knew to be momentous, Karslake had taken
into profound consideration the possibility of
revealing the truth of present facts to Mr.
Anstruther, and endeavouring to obtain a pardon
for his brother, so as to set himself at
liberty to wipe out the scandal that threatened
to blight his life.

He was no narrow fanatic bent on self-sacrifice,
or one who deemed the repression of
natural instincts and of earthly joy the highest
form of religious duty. On the contrary, his
love for his wife, and his appreciation of their

mutual happiness, was as intense and keen a
feeling as was possible for youthful manhood to
conceive.

The anguish of separation and uncertainty,
the proud and painful recoil from public shame
and private injustice, were not accepted and
endured by him as sacrificial offerings acceptable
to God, but simply in the spirit of a soldier
who is constrained to meet and suffer the
wound from which it would be cowardice to
flee. To recover his wife and preserve his good
name were aspirations of invincible strength,
second only to the one resolve, that neither
should be attained by the sacrifice of his brother's
safety.

And the disheartening conclusion he
reached in regard to the contemplated appeal
to Mr. Anstruther was, that it could not be
attempted with safety, nor consequently with
honour. Apart from vow or oath to dead or

living, he could not piircliase his own immunity
at the risk of his brother's prosecution and ruin,
and it would be this latter which the stern old
merchant would be bent on accomplishing.
There was nothing for it but to meet the
present emergency with what prudence and
courage he could.

On the evening appointed by the Ev.
Julian Karslake to meet his parishioners, the
room was crowded to excess, and a feeling of
strong excitement, or perhaps it would be juster
to say of intense curiosity, prevailed. In the
anxiety to obtain good places, the people had
assembled some time before the hour named
for the commencement of the proceedings, and
the interval was spent in an eager discussion of
the situation, in which the ignoble tendency to
believe evil far exceeded the divine charity
which hesitates to accept it.

When, however, the rector appeared,

punctual to his own arrangement, his personal
presence made as usual a diversion in his
favour. Every eye followed him as he walked
quietly and somewhat slowly up to the little
reading-desk, from which he knew he should be
expected to speak. He stood for a few moments
silently surveying the crowd before Mm,
with the practised sensibility of a public
speaker, able to perceive the moral atmosphere
by which he is surrounded.

There was not a trace of nervous hurry or
excitement about him, and when he spoke the
words fell in perfect phrases, and with the
faultless purity of accent for which he was
distinguished.

Gentlemen,' he said, ' (for I will not venture
to call you my friends, lest there should
be any amongst you who would repudiate the
name), the object for which I have asked you
to come here to-night is to help me to form a

decision. It is a decision not so miicli personal
to myself, or I should have needed no advice
upon it, as one in which the interests of the
parish at large are mainly involved. To be
brief, I desire to collect your suffrages as to the
expediency or inexpediency of my remaining
at my post as rector of S. Mark's.'

He paused a moment, for a confused murmur
arose in the hall, that conveyed the idea
of feeling excited, but left the nature of that
feeling uncertain and inarticulate. Presently,
however, a voice from one of the back benches
said, nth that coarseness which oddly enough
proverbially characterises such interruptions :

Come to the point ! We shall know better
how to answer when we've heard what you've
got to say ! '

There was a partial manifestation of displeasure
at this abrupt expression of opinion,
but as the speaker in point of fact conveyed

the leading sentiment of the majority, the
offence was naturally condoned.

If,' resumed Karslake with the same
quietness as before, ' the expectation prevails
that I am about to clear up the mystery of my
domestic relations, and offer a satisfactory explanation
of the fact that I stand alone in your
midst, it will be effectually disappointed. On
this subject, except the barren assurance that it
is the result of circumstances beyond my control,
and totally unconnected with any point of
moral transgression, I must maintain an absolute
silence. Perhaps '  catching the confused
buzz of disapprobation  ' it is scarcely necessary
for me to go on.'

Some of his more personal friends cheered
lustily, but the speaker was quite conscious
that the feeling of the meeting was against him.
A general impression of disappointment and
balked curiosity prevailed ; also, if he had

betrayed more emotion he would have excited
more sympathy.

For the rest,' he continued, ' I came to
say that I am personally conscious of no disability,
moral or otherwise, that should unfit me
for the work of my profession. I am not only
as anxious now as before to do my duty, ]3ut I
am equally qualified to do it ; that is, I fully
recognise all the imperfection and inadequacy
of the past, but it does not take the form of
making me incapable of the effort of redeeming
it in the future.'

It needed no common strength of inward
conviction and self-respect to maintain this
quiet but dauntless demeanour in the front of
an obviously antagonistic assembly, but already
it began to tell in his favour, as genuine and
simple manifestations of feeling rarely fail todo.


He went on after a moment's hesitation.

Oil the other hand, if your confidence in
my integrity and sincerity is shaken, I have
decided to resign my having at once. I will
only hive amongst those who believe at least
in my honest endeavour to do right. Where
distrust and suspicion existed, labour and
devotion, however unstinted, would be lost.
It simply rests with you to retain or reject my
services.'

He was going to sit down when a thought
struck him.

I should add that, in deciding this question
against me, you will not fatally ruin my worldly
prospects, as might be the result in many cases.
I believe I should have no great difficulty in
finding work elsewhere, and I have private
means which, under any circumstances, render
me independent of my profession. I mention
this that your decision may be unblessed by any
generous consideration for my personal interests.'

Had he spoken from deliberate policy
instead of from an impulse of conscientious
feeling, he could not more effectually have
turned the vibrating scale in his favour

ringing cheer echoed through the room ;
the manliness and fairness of his last words, the
firmness and dignity of this manner throughout,
appealed irresistibly to the Englishman's instinctive
love of pluck and fair-play. The
show of hands seemed to indicate an almost
unanimous vote of confidence ; a crowd of his
personal friends gathered round him to shake
hands, and offer their unqualified adhesion and
good-faith ; and so infectious became the enthusiasm
of the majority, that each man seemed
anxious to constitute himself the representative
speaker of the assembly, and to assure the
rector, with more or less of exaggeration, that
his high regard and confidence had never been
shaken.

VOL. III. G

In the strong excitement of unaccustomed
public speaking a great many foolish and extravagant
words were uttered, which only served
to wound and humiliate the sensitive conscientiousness
they were intended to encourage
and exalt.

In rising to thank them for the kindness he
had received, Karslake disclaimed the excessive
tribute they had offered to his worth with the
steady conviction of a man whose self estimate
is not affected by the popular voice, and with
the sadness of an underlying conviction that it
was a matter of chance rather than of right
that their present verdict had not been reversed.


As he went slowly down the stairs of the
building, having waited till the room was empty
before taking his departure, Gilbert Helstone
touched him on the arm.

Did you know I was one of your audience?'

he asked, searching the face of the other with
his keen vision.

I did not, and the fact is a matter of
indifference. There is only one point I can
bring myself to discuss with you  have you any
news of my wife ? '

As he raised his eyes and looked steadily at
Helstone, his face showed evident traces of the
physical waste and exhausting mental disquiet
of the last three months. All the bitter pain and
passion of bereavement which he had desired
and planned to inflict, had been endured, was
being endured, with a resolution that extorted
his reluctant recognition.

Look here, Karslake ! ' he said, in a low
significant voice, ' I will remember my debt to
you, and pay it back by giving you another
chance. Your house is nearest ; shall we go
there ? '

The question I have asked you can answer

G 2

on the spot. I have no intention to open
up any other subject.'

The haughty coldness of his manner brought
an angry flush to Helstone's cheek, and
deadened the involuntary relenting he had
felt.

You venture too far,' he answered, with a
recurrence to his usual tone of sneering insolence
; ' the role of injured innocence you have
played with so much success upstairs will
hardly go down with me. In proposing to
intrude upon your privacy just now, I was
moved by a touch of sympathy. I have a letter
of Sybil Karslake's in my pocket ! '

The announcement was so unlooked for that
Julian staggered under it for a moment, as if he
had received a blow. Then a sort of illumination
passed over his face, leaving it paler than
before.

For the love of God,' he ejaculated,

grasping Helstone's arm, ' tell me if she is safe
and well ! '

Helstone shook himself free roughly : the
moment was the climax of his triumph. All
that intolerable hunger of the soul which he
knew so well from bitter experience, looked out
of the intense eager gaze that Karslake fastened
upon him : his stern self-repression had yielded
as he expected.

You seem to forget that you declined my
overtures just now,' was his reply, ' and I have
no mind to renew them. Mrs. Karslake's
letter is a strictly private one, that not the most
fastidious honour would think it necessary to
show to you. For all that, I will satisfy your
mind on these points, on one condition.'

Name it ! I must buy at any price the news
you have to give  I cannot live without it ! '

Keep to the point, if you please ! Once more
I offer you the opportunity of explaining the

scandal of the Crystal Palace, and the small
house at Stratford-le-Bow. Your persistent
obstinacy has almost shaken my belief in the
evidence of my own senses. Declare to me
fully the paternity of that child, granting you
are not responsible for it, and I will consider
if we can return upon the old paths.'

You mean, that you make the giving me
tidings of my wife conditional upon my satisfying
your mind on this subject? It is scarcely
credible you can carry malignity so far ! '

Karslake looked at him with such an
instinctive expression of moral recoil as brought
a sense of shame and discomfiture to Helstone's
mind ; he passed it off with a harsh laugh.

'That is my meaning precisely, and in
making you such an offer I go beyond my
original intention. I am fool enough to be
touched, not by your misery, which I can well
bear, but by hers, which is greater than I

expected. I will put Sybil's letter in your
hands, I will even smooth the way to your reunion,
but only on the one reasonable condition
that you prove to my satisfaction you are not
unworthy.'

"rit is a condition impossible to comply with,
and which you know to be impossible. In other
words, I accept the torture you probably meant
from the first to inflict. I spoke rashly when
I said I would buy my peace of mind at any
price. I thank God I know so much, that
Sybil lives ! For the rest, I have long since
chosen my part in this matter.'

They where not idle nor even tentative
words. He turned as he spoke, and walked
swiftly out of the building, without giving
Helstone the opportunity of reply.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

When the young rector reached his own house
he found a messenger waiting for him. Some
child in the neighbourhood had been badly
burnt, and the family were in despairing ignorance
as to what was best to be done. The
parish doctor was absent ; the local remedies
applied had only aggravated the agonies of the
poor little victim, and, as the next alternative,
the mother had sent her son to the rectory,
to ask if Karslake would come and help them.
All the poor of his parish had an unlimited
belief in his faculty of assistance and their right
to draw upon it, and no compunction in pressing
their claims in a quarter where experience
taught them they were seldom rejected.

But on this occasion, after the protracted
strain and agitation of the evening, he felt as
if he were not sufficiently master of himself to
accept this demand upon his firmness ; also he
shrank from the sight of the child's sufferings.

My boy,' he said gently, ' in these cases a
great deal of skill and care is wanted  your
mother must send her to the hospital.'

He took out his purse with the idea of
giving him money, but the boy shook his head.

'Mother told me to say she didn't want
money, but she won't send Mattie in there,
nothing shall make her ! She made sure you'd
come yourself, as you did Ashen Bill broke his
leg, and show her what to do. Her screams
are dreadful  it 'most drives mother wild ! '

Karslake gathered himself together with
an effort.

I will come almost at once,' he said ; ' run
home and tell your mother. I will bring

a doctor with me, for I am not surgeon enough
for a case like this  we will do all we can.'

He sat up all night with the little suffering
creature, for the doctor would not allow her
mother to be in the room, as her tears and vain
lamentations aggravated the distress of the
patient. The child was severely, but not
mortally injured, and much depended on keeping
her still, handling her gently and diverting her
mind if possible from the pain she had to bear.

Julian Karslake possessed that intuitive aptitude
for nursing which seems a heaven-born
gift, and is sometimes to be found with men, in
whose character strength and tenderness are
finely balanced, in a degree of perfection
scarcely to be paralleled in the other sex.

He sat out the slow hours of the night, for
the most part holding at her own desire the
child's hand in his, and soothing her with
simple, clear, incisive talk on those points where

he thought it possible to excite lier interest ;
and in default telling lier fairy tales with unwearied
patience, or responding to her moans
and sobs by the incessant application of the
prescribed palliatives.

The strain upon his own endurance was
great, and was protracted till daylight dawned ;
but at last the child slept. The mother, calmed
by her night's rest, took his place at her side,
and he was at liberty to go home.

When he entered the library he saw that
his good housekeeper had been considerate of
his comfort. A bright fire burned ; a small
table covered with a tempting breakfast stood
prepared, and Sybil's little cafetiere was sending
up its fragrant breath above the spirit lamp.

What acute and un confessed pangs of
anguish pierced his soul as he glanced round
the familiar scene and handled the objects
consecrated by the touch of his lost wife !

He stood by the table and drank a cup of
coffee before going up to his dressing-room ; he
relied upon his bath and change of dress for
righting him after the fatigues of the night,
being able as yet to draw largely upon his fine
constitution. But any loving eye might have
detected the traces that suffering, never more
deadly than under strong repression, and
habitual loss of sleep, were leaving on his face
and figure.

On this occasion, however, he felt so
thoroughly exhausted that he. threw himself
on the couch in his dressing-room and slept
for an hour or two, so that the morning was
fairly advanced before he came down-stairs
again ; and just as he was on the point of
sitting down to breakfast, a servant opened
the door and ushered Miss Helstone into the
room.

Lay the breach of conventional etiquette

upon me, Lir. Karslake,' she said, in her quick
decisive manner ; ' the man obeyed my orders
by showing me in here at ones. I was so
afraid of missing you  I had no idea you kept
such fashionable hours ! '

I am not always so late. May I have the
pleasure of giving you a cup of coffee ? '

He drew a chair for her towards the fire
as he spoke, and offered to relieve her of the
ponderous muff and bag she was carrying.
Sara looked at him curiously ; she had come
full of womanly sympathy and indignation in
his behalf, having heard from her brother what
had passed between them over-night, and was
prepared to find him altogether out of gear 
pale, dejected, even dishevelled.

The comparative freshness of his appearance
and faultlessness of his dress, added to
the late luxurious breakfast, did more to cool
her ardour and re-awaken the distrust she had

almost dismissed, than the most scathing of
Helstone's denunciations.

She declined the cup of coffee stiffly, insisted
upon retaining her encumbrances, and sitting
down at a considerable distance from the
cheerful blaze, begged he would not allow her
presence to interrupt him. ' It was surely
time he had his breakfast ! '

But I have no appetite to eat now,' he
said, rising and going up to her with subdued
agitation. ' Have you come to tell me something
about Sybil ?  he may have shown you
the letter. Surely I shall not appeal to your
charity in vain ! '

Sara was the most impressionable of
women. Beneath the pathos of his voice and
the expression of pain in his face, her prejudices
were melting fast; still there was a certain
consistency to be preserved. In her case she
thought it ought to take the form of preliminary

austerity, and she set lier lips with such
rigid firmness, and looked at him with such a
stony stare, that the hope he cherished sank
within him.

He turned from her, more shaken by the
reaction of feeling than he liked to betray,
and bowed his head upon his arms, crossed
upon the mantel-piece.

She rose up quickly and touched his arm.

Come, come,' she said, ' cheer up ! If I
had been minus the blessed grace of charity,
I should not have been here this morning:. I
have seen her letter  nay, do not expect too
much ; I have not got it with me. Comfort
yourself, ]vir. Karslake,' she went on with
considerate rapidity, ' that she is in safe and
kind keeping. She says she has met with
the most generous of friends, and bids us tell
you there is nothing lacking to her outward
welfare. She sends her love to you, weighted

with such passionate tenderness that I can't
carry the burden. She implores me to write
and tell her how you look, how you sleep, how
you live. But the burden of her letter i just
one prayer to Gilbert, to suffer her to come
back to you.'

And he will refuse to grant lier
prayer ? '

The face he turned towards Sara was
haggard enough now to meet her sternest
requirements.

That is not the way in which he puts it ;
he says the decision rests with yourself. I do
not want personally to open this controversy
with you, Mr. Karslake. I am well assured
from what I have heard that it would be of no
use. When you were courting Miss Dorrimore
I had a great liking for you, as you perhaps
know, and a very high opinion of your merit ;
but not even an old maid's partiality can withstand

the force of circumstances. If I don't
take for granted all that Gilbert asserts about
you, I can't shut my eyes to the fact that
there must be more or less of duplicity mixed
up in this miserable business.'

She stopped ; he had not interrupted her,
though his impatience almost amounted to
agony.

Will you tell me where Sybil is ? ' he then
asked.

We need not debate that point, for it is
neither in my power nor Gilbert's. The letter
we received had been posted at the General
Office, and our answer was to be addressed to
the poste restanie at the same place.'

His eyes kindled. ' Then it will be
possible to write to her.'

Sara smiled grimly. ' It would be possible,
of course, if you knew the initials under which
we are to address her. You see, when a wife

VOL. III. H

runs away from lier liiisband she uses every
precaution to preserve her concealment.'

I cannot jest,' he said almost sternly.
I do not suppose you can have any motive for
keeping this vital point back from me ? '

I have at least the motive,' she answered
sharply, ' of not disobeying the commands of a
brother, who can make himself very unpleasant
indeed when he is offended, and the further
motive that Mrs. Karslake herself is dreadfully
afraid of being discovered. Bat,' she added,
looking at him steadily, ' I have not forgotten
what you did for us on that dreadful night, and
I am going to pay back the debt we owe you.
Write to her under the initials of the last three
letters of the alphabet, and I suppose your letter
will stand the same chance of reaching her as
Gilbert's. Now, deserving or undeserving, own
that I am as good as a fairy godmother.'

He went to her and kissed her hand ; there

was a brightness and gladness in his expression
almost more, she thought, than the occasion
justified.

You are my good angel,' he said. ' I ask
nothing more.'

And does the mere opportunity of pouring
your heart out to your wife bring back so
much of the old look to your face ? You are an
enigma to me ! But if what you write should
reach the hands of my poor daring, I am
content  she prays for news of you as
starvation prays for bread. As regards my
brother, I shall lie vacantly : your morality
seems eccentric  no doubt you hold that there
are circumstances in life when a lie becomes
justifiable ? '

She spoke at hazard, with no knowledge
that her question would bear to him a painful
personal significance. He answered it, however,
without any change of countenance, l:)ut With a

grave solemnity that made her again look at
him curiously.

Yes,' he said, ' I do hold that opinion,
under great reserve. The occasion does not
come perhaps more than once in a century,
nor to one man in a thousand. I should hold
you inexcusable for deceiving your brother
on this point.'

Sara raised her eyebrows. ' I like the
sternness of your morality  for others ! But I
will not dispute ethics with you ; I will do what
you will like much better  I will go away and
leave you to write your letter to Mrs. Karslake
in peace. I think it should not be delayed.'

And will not you relent sufficiently towards
me to drink a cup of coffee ? It is beginning
to snow ; you cannot go away just yet.'

He poured it out and brought it to her with
so winning a grace that she could not resist it ;
at least, this was what she said to herself. Butin

truth, it was a grateful relief to her to linger in
that pleasant room instead of returning to her
own cheerless domicile, and, at the same time,
to satisfy her womanly instincts by the close
observation of the man who at once attracted
and baffled her. That he was inwardly counting
the slow progression of time with almost
intolerable anxiety, could never have been
guessed by the gracious friendliness of his
hospitality. He was pleased to be able to induce
her to eat, knowing well she had the
delicate and capricious appetite of an invalid;
and while affection for her encouragement to do
the same, was sensible that the excitement under
which he laboured, and the idea of action he
had conceived, had effectually destroyed any
inclination for food.

At length she took her departure, and he
was free to fellow his own will. He sat down
and wrote his letter at once, more swiftly and

briefly than might have been expected, and then
went out immediately to deposit the same in the
post office.

At that period, the interior of the General
Post Office had not been enclosed ; the central
hall was still open at both ends to the streets,
and the bureaux of the different departments
were ranged on either side, to the right hand
and left of the visitor. It requires no long
stretch of memory to recall the exact locality of
the office in which Karslake was interested.

He deposited his letter, and then took a
deliberative walk round the area of the building.
His plan was to maintain a strict oversight of
every person who approached the poste restante,
and, at the same time to escape, as much as
possible, attracting attention to himself He
had taken the precaution to make the cover of
his own letter specially characteristic, so as to
be able more readily to detect it when given

into the hands of the applicant, and it was the
somewhat desperate hope of witnessing this
consummation that was animating his mind with
a thousand delicious hopes of advance towards
the recovery of his happiness. He had defined
his course of action ; he would accost the messengers
without hesitation, and extract fi'om
them by some means or other the secret of his
wife's concealment.

But the office was open from ten a.m. to six
P.M. ; it was then about one o'clock. Also, it was
just possible he might be too late ; that Sybil
had signified to Helstone at what hour his letter
should be posted, and that hour might already
have passed. The doubt was an overwhelming
one, but impossible of solution ; nothing was
left but the necessity of keeping watch till the
hoi: of closing.

This, too, was a matter of great difficulty.
To patrol the interior of the post office for a

number of consecutive hours  jP even for
one  would soon make him an object of attention
to the police, and ultimately of inquiry and
interference. His movements would be less
conspicuous were he to pace up and down St.
Martin's-le-Grand, in front of the building, and
keep a vigilant eye on every one who ascended
or descended the broad flight of steps on their
way in and out ; but to have done this effectually,
in the height of the day's pressure of
business, would have needed not one pair of
eyes but a hundred. Besides, had it been
possible to make the espionage absolute and inclusive,
there still remained the signal difficulty
that those who went in at the principal entrance
might possibly go out at the other end of the
building, leading into Foster Lane, and thus
defeat the very object of his anxiety.

The wisest course seemed a compromise.
He would keep the interior of the building as

long as feasible, going outside and making the
circuit of it as circumstances seemed to suggest
But as the slow hours dragged, and his anxiety
and disappointment deepened in intensity, he
finally decided to risk the consequences of
his pertinacity, and keep his guard near the
department itself.

During the time that had passed there had
been only six applications at the panel of the
same. Three of them had been young men,
evidently foreigners, with something in their
appearance that suggested the idea of mercantile
clerks, and only two of whom were
successful in finding; an answer. A fourth was
a fashionably-dressed, languid-looking man,
who received a pink billet at the window and
slipped it into his pocket with a yawn, and the
other two were women.

These latter, not being quite sure of the
result, Karslake ventured to address, his manner

at once enlisting their sympathy so far as to
lead them to a frank exhibition of their
respective missives.

Also at this point, perceiving that he had
become a mark of attention to the policeman
on duty, he thought it best to appeal at once,
both to his sagacity as an official and his benevolence
as a man, by taking him frankly into
his confidence. The result was more successful
than he expected. His clerical dress and
air of distinction went some way, no doubt; but
there was that in his manner and look that
made it very difficult to question his veracity.
The man shook his head slowly : if he had been
a Frenchman he would have expressed the
same feeling by a shrug. He committed himself,
however, to no more definite expression of
opinion than by saying :

May be, sir ; but this kind of thing could
never be allowed  we should have the place

fill of 'em ! Leastways, you won't object to my
keeping an eye on you.'

But the long day ended in failure, and as
the clock struck six Karslake left St. Martin' s-
le-Grand with a sense of profound disappointment
and of almost intolerable fatigue, but
resolute to renew the watch on the morrow,
from the earliest moment of opening.

Chapter XXXVII.

At a quarter before ten on the following
morning Karslake was again in St. Martin's-le-
Grand.

As lie went up the steps of the post office
an elderly lady, tall, substantially-dressed, and
closely veiled, who preceded him, dropped the
umbrella she was carrying.

As he restored it to her, the casual
glance one bestows in such circumstances on
a stranger, was extended in her case to a
lingering gaze of startled inquiry, but her face
was too closely muffled for him to be aware of
the fact.

Her eyes followed him with keen attention

as he entered the building, and prepared to
recommence his weary promenade of observation.
As the boom of the great clock sounded
the last quarter before the hour, she took
out her watch to compare the time, with
a little gesture of impatience and shiver of
cold that in his turn attracted his attention
towards her.

She too began to walk briskly up and down
the area.

Suddenly the conviction flashed upon his
mind that the clue he sought was found ; that
the stranger, like himself, was waiting for the
opening of the poste resicmte, and that here, in
this dignified and reputable personality, was the
friend who had granted her generous protection
to his wife.

He would, of course, wait to test his
impression, though it seemed to possess him
with the strength of a conviction, lest any

precipitancy on his part should deprive him of
his advantage.

The hour struck, the lady turned quickly
and approached the department he was
watching, knocked gently at the closed panel,
and, after the interchange of a few words with
the clerk, received two letters from his hand,
one of which Karslake recognised as his
own.

She walked briskly away, and was making
her way out towards the remoter end of
egress from the building, when he intercepted
her,

Pardon me,' he said, and there was that
in his aspect and voice which was calculated to
arrest attention, ' I am Julian Karslake ! '

Miss Harrison was not startled. His face had
struck her at first with a sense of familiarity
she had vainly tried to trace to its source ; now
the facts were clear.

Yes,' lie replied, ' you are Julian Kars-
lake. I recognise that as a truth, but I do
not understand why you make this gratuitous
announcement to a stranger.'

'You hold my letter in your hand  you
are going back to my wife. What I ask is that
you will give me leave to accompany you.'

He was pale with intense excitement. The
concentrated anxiety of the o-aze fixed with
baffled inquiry upon her veiled face was painful
to encounter, but the inward agitation was
rigidly kept in check. His external manner
was so quiet as to attract no attention from the
passer-by, and there was neither hurry nor
incoherence in his speech. These circumstances
commended him to her favour.

Walk by my side,' she said, ' and we will
talk as we go along.'

She turned her steps in the direction of
Cheapside, and began to speak to him in the

midst of the din ; but a Londoner lias a
practised ear, and as he bent towards her he
lost not a single word.

Your wife has been well cared for since
the day she left your house. Her first night was
passed under my roof, and, though I claim no
gratitude from her, I consider you can never
be thankful enough.'

You are right,' he answered quietly ; and
though Miss Harrison stopped, as if from the
deliberate intention of keeping his anxiety in
suspense, he waited patiently without further
comment till she thought proper to resume.

When she spoke again it was to ask :

What do you mean to say to your wife,
granting that I consent to bring you together ?
to humble yourself before her ?  to ask her
forgiveness ? '

His heart so leaped within him at the
admission of her words, that he scarcely

perceived what was implied in the secondary
inquiries. Miss Harrison repeated them,
however, with some variation of phrase.

 Mind,' she added, looking at him sharply,
1 am not judging you by the character given
you by Mrs. Karslake, but according to my
own knowledge of the world. The knight
(or parson), sans peur et sans reproche, is a
character that has never yet crossed my line of
vision, and my experience tells me always to
distrust a generous woman's vindication of her
husband. No one will persuade me there is
not wrong somewhere, when a girl like Sybil
Karslake thinks it her duty to run away from
her home ! '

And has not your experience of life taught
you that the wrong and the suffering do not
always go together ? '

She smiled. ' So far as my own sex is
concerned, yea, verily it hath, but not as regards

VOL. III. I

yours. However, I will not push you too hard,
and where we can scarcely hear each other
speak. You will try and persuade Mrs.
Karslake to come back to you ? '

Yes ! ' he answered, and his face flushed
and kindled at the thought of the ineffable
compensation.

Eemember ! I will not have her coerced,'
said Mrs. Harrison, authoritatively.

I shall try the full coercion of love and
reason ; no other.'

Sans peur, at all events,' she said, as if to
herself. Then aloud, ' Nothing is to be
gained by keeping you longer in suspense ; will
you call a cab for Waterloo station? I live at
Esher, so that you will be face to face with
your wife in little more than an hour. You
can be the bearer of your own letter,' handing
it to him as she spoke. ' This, from her other
friend, I will deliver myself, and for the rest

it is too cold and too noisy for further conversations


She folded her innumerable wraps close
about her, and settled herself as if for sleep,
first in a corner of the cab, afterwards of the
railway carriage ; but her keen eyes never
drooped beneath her veil, but kept up their
vigilant scrutiny of her travelling companion
without rest or fatigue.

Arrived at Esher, she bade Karslake follow
her at a little distance.

Sudden grief is dangerous in its consequences,
but sudden joy is possibly worse, in
proportion to its intensity ; and this foolish
young wife of yours adores you. I will I'c-
pare her for seeing you.'

She left him standing outside the fence,
within a few paces of her garden-gate, while
she went swiftly forward and entered the
house.

I 2

She was not absent more than ten minutes,
but it seemed to his sorely-tried patience more
than an hour.

Come m ! ' she said, on joining him, in a
voice that shook a Httle with agitation. ' You
have kept your parole strictly, and deserve to be
rewarded. All is well,' she added, looking up
kindly into his pale face ; ' she does not know
you are on the spot, but I have prepared her
to see you soon, and she has rushed upstairs,
whether to compose her mind or adorn her
person, I am not quite sure ; but the coast is
clear for a time, and I can smuggle you into
my parlour.'

Karslake grasped her hand in speechless
gratitude, and Miss Harrison twinkled the tears
from her eyelashes.

I have been a man-hater all my life,' she
remarked, ' but I am inclined to think there
may be exceptions to my estimate.'

By this time they had reached the pleasant,
cheerful room into which Sybil had been first
welcomed, and now, as then, the large, lavishly
heaped fire was dispensing warmth and brightness
around. A little work-table stood near, from
which it appeared someone had precipitately
risen, for the embroidery silks were scattered
on the floor, as well as a little volume which
Karslake immediately recognised as belonging
to his wife. He stooped instinctively, and
gathered all up with tender reverence, scarcely
able to forbear pressing his lips to the covers
of the familiar book.

Meanwhile, Miss Harrison was hospitably
intent on producing wine and biscuits from an
old-fashioned cigarette.

Drink this I ' she said, ' it will not hurt you,
even at this time of the morning. It is priceless
Madeira, though I say it who shouldn't, and has
made more than its one voyage to the Cape ; '

and she handed him a generous bumper of the
pale golden fluid.

Karslake, as a rule, never touched wine, but
he would scarcely have refused a glass of poison
from the hands of their benefactress, or have
returned an ungracious denial to her kindly
hospitality.

He took the glass with thanks, sipped it
critically, and praised it with discrimination,
while every sense was on the strain to catch
some sound in the house that might indicate
his wife's presence or approach.

Will you not let her know I am here
now ? ' he asked at last, ' or is it possible forme
to go to her ? You need not fear I shall
lose my self-command.'

I hear her step at this moment,' said Miss
Harrison ; ' she is coming down-stairs. T will
trust to your discretion, and leave you to
receive her alone.'

She rose with secret reluctance as she spoke,
for, in fact, she had a strong desire to be a
witness of their meeting, a desire which was
unexpectedly to be gratified.

As Karslake opened the door for her
departure, Sybil had laid her hand upon it
from without, and the two thus stood immediately
face to face.

There was a moment's breathless pause,
during which the eyes of each searched the face
of the other With a brief glance of passionate
inquiry as to the effects of absence. Then,
with a swift, gliding motion, graceful as a
swallow's flight, Sybil flung herself upon his
breast, clasping her slender arms about his
neck, and lifting her pale, tender face to meet
the kisses he pressed upon it.

She looked so white and seemed so speechless
that Karslake, fearing she would faint, took
her in his arms and placed her in Miss

Harrison's huge cushioned chair, close to the
fire, kneeling at her feet and chafing her cold
hands in his. He forbore to overwhelm her
with his caresses, or to urge her to give him
the dear delight of hearing the sound of her
voice ; but the very intensity of her emotion,
by showing him how much she had suffered,
quickened his own feelings almost to agony,
and made him resolve, with renewed energy
of purpose, that no earthly power should part
them again.

He was going to rise to fetch a little wine
from the table, and induce her to taste a few
drops, but she retained him by a movement of
her trembling hands.

Do not move ! Do not leave me ! ' she
murmured ; and then a sudden and unusual
passion of tears burst from her eyes and shook
her with convulsive sobs, but brought her at the
same time a qualified relief.

Karslake held her in his arms, soothing and
caressing her with quiet tenderness, till the
paroxysm had subsided, and she was able to
lift up her bowed head and look at him.

Julian,' she said, pausing on the name as if
to exhaust its sweetness, ' I have lived a lifetime
since we parted last ! How could I leave
you ?  say, you have suffered too ? '

I could not say ; I have never dared to
ask my own heart how much I have suffered.'

She gazed at him with some return to the
sweet gravity of her ordinary expression.

And yet now that I see how pale and
worn you look, I wish I could have borne my
suffering alone. But one question  you understood
why I left you ? You never doubted 
were never angrj- with the step I took ? '

Never, never ! I always accepted it as the
proof of the highest devotion, Sybil, on your
part, of which, on mine, I was little worthy.

But for all that, beloved wife, it is a sacrifice
that has run its course.'

Is it so ? * she asked. The fine carmine
tint peculiar to her moments of deepest
excitement tinged her cheek, and a gleam
almost amounting to rapture shone in her
eyes. ' Is Gilbert Helstone's malice exhausted?
But you would not have come tome
otherwise  it would have been too cruel a
mockery.'

To come to you with any other idea than to
hold you for ever in the future, would indeed
have been too cruel a mockery for either of us,'
he answered with a tender smile, ' but I own I
have not taken into account the state of Mr.
Helstone's feelings. Believe that there is but
one thing in the world  the secret pledge by
which I am bound  to which my love and
duty to you would yield. So far, dearest, this
has not been required of me. For the rest,

there is no disgrace so absolute, no social ruin
too shameful, that I would not endure rather
than your loss. Life will never be too hard
for me so long as I have the approval of my
own conscience, and the blessed encouragement
of your hand in mine.'

His face kindled as he spoke ; she drew a
heavy sigh.

I don't feel quite as you do. I cannot be
so brave and self-sufficient for you as you are
for yourself Shame and ruin are words I
cannot bear in connection with your name ; but
we will leave that an open question for the
present. Sit down now, and tell me all that
has happened to you since I went away.'

He obeyed, relating to her what incidents
had occurred with perfect accuracy, but saying
little or nothing of the feelings which had been
involved. Two points also he suppressed  the
scene with Helstone's maniac-mother, and the

denial given to Mr. Dorrimore's question.
Here, lie judged, that even to her silence and
secrecy were best.

'How much you have had to bear,' she
answered, when he had finished his story, ' while
I have been sheltered from every annoyance
from without ! One wishes sometimes it were
possible to gauge sensation. I have a foolish
desire to know that you have felt my loss with
the same ceaseless, corroding pain as I yours ;
your mind has been diverted by so many
serious anxieties. There are new lines, or at
least deeper lines, on your face than dien I
kissed you farewell on that sad morning  a
look of sternness I never remember before  '

Because I have lacked the tender spell of
yoiQ' influence and sweet example. Without
you I should grow cold and hard, still doing
my routine duty, but in a mechanical and
worthless way. Never leave me any more,

Sybil, for there have been moments  hours,
rather  diirhig your absence when I have been
almost tempted to curse God and die. I have
a task to fulfil to which flesh and blood seem
at times unequal. Put away for ever from your
mind the notion that you can help me otherwise
than by standing with me hand to hand
in the struggle.'

He suddenly took her in his arms, and
strained her against his breast with a passionate
abandonment almost unknown to her before.

Promise me,' he urged, ' that nothing but
death shall part us henceforth ? '

At this moment Miss Harrison's loud, cheery
voice was heard approaching the room, and the
next she knocked at the door, and entered
without much pause for permission.

I am come to tell you,' she said, approaching
the fire and breaking the huge blocks of
coal with a vigorous hand, so as to give the

young couple the opportunity of recovering
their composure, had they lost it, ' that dinner
is ready. Not lunch, Mr. Karslake, but dinner
in all sincerity, at two o'clock in the day. Also,
the only summons recognised in this household
is when the hands of the clock point precisely
to that hour, as they do now. Sybil, my dear,
I hope your husband has brought back the
appetite you have lost so long ! '

I think we are both desperately hungry,'
said Sybil, casting a look of covert entreaty
towards Julian, for she knew her good hostess's
weak point. As they went from one room to
another, she managed to whisper :

For the sake of all I owe her, try to eat
her dinner and praise her wine ! '

In actual experience the interlude of
dinner was a salutary relief to all. Miss
Harrison's cuisine was simple, but excellent,
and she was one of the most lively and influential]

of possesses ; it was almost impossible to
resist the vigour of her hospitality, and the
infection of her example. Karslake found,
greatly to his satisfaction, that he was able to
respond to her cordiality with much less difficulty
than he had expected, and fairly to justify
his wife's assertion. The truth was, he was
not himself aware how long a time had elapsed
since he had eaten a substantial meal, nor how
far this unrecognised physical exhaustion served
to exalt and intensify his mental condition.

At present, at all events, we are all closely
beset and sorely harassed by our corporeal
substance, and oiu: heated brains cool and
disordered pulses throb more equably under
the healthy stimulus of recruited powers,
than under the urgency of the most strenuous
moral endeavour.

Miss Harrison, with her keen perceptive
instinct, reached pretty accurately the facts of

the case, reduced them in her own mind to
the opinion that both husband and Avise were
sacrificing their health and happiness equally to
some ethical chimera, and purposed to have
it out with them both in the quiet, restful,
comfortable hours between dinner and tea.

Surely, considering the part she had played
in the little drama, she was entitled to their
confidence.

With this purpose in view, as soon as dinner
was over, she led the way back to her favourite
sitting-room, establishing Karslake in a chair
almost as ample and luxurious as her own, and
suggesting that Sybil should take the ottoman
at his feet.

In my opinion it is a reversal of the natural
order of things,' she said, smiling, ' but for the
present, at least, men are our only masters and
legislators ; and I am afraid the best women
amongst us still love to have it so.'

If I am in any way a docile and obedient

wife,' answered Sybil, caressing the hand she
held, ' it is against the bias of my nature. I
have been subdued by the abstinence from
all authority and the sweet suggestiveness of
example.'

'My dear child, as a sister woman I must
protest against such palpable flattery, all the
more as I see, from the coolness with which
it is accepted, that Mr. Karslake is used to
the incense and thinks it his due. But we
will have done with banter, for I am anxious
to come to business and satisfy my curiosity
on some important points.'

And I,' replied Karslake quickly, ' am
still more anxious to hear under what circumstances
you first met my wife, and how my
debt of gratitude to you began. I have not
as yet even attempted to thank you. It is
useless to make the attempt  words are not
adequate to express what we owe you.'

VOL. III. K

So be it ; I am quite willing to allow you
owe me a great deal, but this goodness of mine
lias been its own reward. I have found a friend
and companion in Mrs. Karslake, pleasant and
dearer than a long life had given me before ; and
now, I suppose, in recognition of my services,
you will propose to rob me of her society, without
compunction ? '

Not without compunction, but none the
less I must take her away. You will find your
happiness in restoring ours, only it will be
something deeper and fuller than mere restoration.'


He bent over his wife as he spoke, as if
these last words were only meant for her private
ear ; and there was something in the juxtaposition
and expression of the two beautiful faces,
with the mutual interchange of candid and
steadfast glance, that touched Miss Harrison's
sensibility very acutely.

Who that looked at the man couch believe
him hypocrite or impostor ?

I wish,' she said, ' if we are to be, as I
devoutly hope, friends for the future, you would
trust me with the story of your separation.
Mrs. Karslake has always been reserved on the
causes that led to such a result, and they exist
in my mind in a very vague and phantasmal
form. I should like to hear a coherent statement
of them from yourself. I conclude they
exist no longer, as there now seems no question
in her mind about the duty and practicability of
returning to her home.'

Sybil looked distressed ; all the serene
sweetness of her face, so marked a few moments
before, yielded at once to an expression of
trouble and unrest. Karslake, on his part,
answered with unmoved composure.

You are mistaken. Nothing has happened
to change the absolute position of our affairs,

only I hope my wife has given up the protection
of my good name at the cost of our happiness :
rather I shall take effectual means to prevent
the repetition of the sacrifice. As for the story
itself, it is perplexed and wearisome, and one
it is hardly possible to tell myself, unless my
doing so is to be the proof of my gratitude and
the condition of your friendship.'

Precisely,' responded Miss Harrison, whose
curiosity refused to be longer balked. ' It is
scarcely fair to take my good-will captive, as
you have done, without letting me judge for
myself how far you are entitled to it. Trust
me with all the details of this formidable
accusation ; let there be no gaps or omissions
in the narrative, and then perhaps the judgment
and advice of a clear-headed woman may
not be without value to you.'

She drew in her chair as lie spoke, with
too obvious a manifestation of zest and attention,

which only served to deepen in Karslake's
mind the almost insuperable reluctance he
felt to enter upon the disclosure of his most
secret private affairs with a stranger, however
importunate or worthy.

At that moment, and with a grateful sense
of relief, he heard the door-bell ring. His
hostess heard it too, but with a feeling of strong
disappointment and annoyance.

Few as are my friends,' she said sharply,
and scarce their visits, I always remark that
they pitch invariably upon the hour and the
day when I least wish to see them ! But
whom have we here, Martha ? ' she added,
taking a card from the tray which the servant,
who had at that moment entered the room,
handed to her with the awkwardness of an
unusual formality.

There were a few words in pencil written
on the card below the name. Miss Harrison

read them deliberately, and then glanced
involuntarily towards her guests.

There is nothing to be done but to show
the gentleman in here,' she said to the woman,
and then in a lower tone to Sybil, ' My dear,
we have played our part but badly in this
pretty comedy. Your poor little letter, withall
our clever precautions, has brought both
your correspondents upon us.'

She threw the card into her lap as she
spoke, and at the same moment Martha reopened
the door, and admitted Gilbert
Helstone.

Chapter XXXYin.

To explain the appearance of Gilbert Helstone
on the scene, it will be necessary to go back a
little, sirs. Karslake had endured the long
anguish of her suffering till the pain had
become insupportable.

She had once told Gilbert Helstone, in the
days of her early gratitude and friendship, that
she had not much capacity for heroic endurance,
and possibly she "was right in her estimate
of self. At least she had not the energy
of her husband's resolution ; but it also must be
admitted that she had not the same paramount
inducements.

The thought of the pain and grief she must
have inflicted augmented her own a thousandfold.

How would they tell upon the sensitive
and finely-balanced organisation she had learnt
to watch and analyse with so delicate and acute
a perception H How long was this unreasonable
martyrdom to be exacted from each ?

And not this alone. Was she to submit to
an indefinite separation from all the members
of her family, in whom her strong and tenacious
love was so strongly bound up ? Was she to
inflict the pang of vain regret and tender
yearning upon each beloved little one, whose
face brightened at the very mention of her
name ; and upon the lonely, cheered father to
whom she owed so much P What must have
been the cruel dilemma in which she had
placed Julian when Mr. Dorrimore questioned
him on her behalf what the childish despair
of the nursery in the old house at Ashlands,
when they were told she was lost to them, no
one knew how ?

Was it conceivable that the man avIio had
been her ife-long friend before marriage  her
mother's kinsman  could determine in cold
blood to protract this misery ?

Sm-ely, whatever his thirst for vengeance it
must be allayed by this time, in view of the
sufferings he had inflicted : possibly he only
waited for her to make an appeal. And under
the influence of this condition of mind she wrote
the letter of which we have heard, in which
she simply stated the fact that to keep the
pledge Gilbert Helstone had required of her
had become too hard a task any longer to sustain,
and implored him to suffer her to return
to lier husband and her family without any
prejudice to Julian's interests.

There was at once so searching a pathos
and so passionate an appeal in Avhat she wrote,
that it moved Helstone to the core of his being.
But how was he moved . See him crush the

letter in his strong hands and press it  scarcely
conscious of the instinctive action  against the
lips that worked convulsively. His Avhole
frame vibrated with the thrill of his silent,
intense, and jealous passion. What would he
give for the tithe of the love she had lavished
on this other man ? This other man, if possibly
not so worthless as he thought him, at
least fathoms below the estimate in which his
wife held him !

She, the cold, proud and reticent girl, who
had been so reluctant to yield her heart,
had finally surrendered it, as he always knew
she would, with an abandonment that was
nothing short of absolute. She could not live
without him !

His beauty of person, his grace of manner,
his subtlety of character, had subjugated and
fooled the woman, who would have been forever
blind to his own single-hearted devotion.

But she should not 120 back to him  at
least, not without the step being followed by
the postponed exposure of the guilt and
contumacy of the husband she adored.

It was under the excitement and pressure
of these feelings that Helstone had gone to
the meeting which Karslake had summoned
in the schoolroom, moved by the scarcely
acknowledged intention of subjecting him
anew to his deliberate judgment, or rather
to his embittered scrutiny and criticism ; but
neither love nor hate could entirely destroy
his faculty of reason and perception, and there
was that in the complete self-command and
impregnable dignity of the sorely-tried man
that told unwillingly but irresistibly upon his
mind.

It led to the half advance we have related
already ; the determined rejection of which on
Karslake's part had served to fan into a fiercer

flame than before the embers that were beginning
to smoulder.

He had been a fool to doubt the evidence
of his own senses for a moment. Karslake's last
refusal under so supreme an inducement to
clear his character, was alone sufficient evidence
of guilt, if all that had gone before had failed
in conclusiveness.

Never, had he power to prevent it, should
Sybil return to her husband ; better any pressure
of present suffering to the shame and dishonour
of such a reunion.

He would save her in spite of herself !

The next morning, unable to fix his mind to
work, Helstone had conceived the idea of going
to Stratford, and questioning, without any restraints
of honour and decency, the woman
whom Karslake's infamy exalted into a rival of his
fond and infatuated wife. Her own simplicity
of nature and her mistaken impression that he

was a friend of her seducer would, he thought,
make such a proceedings practicable and remunerative.
He had seen her more than once
since his first intrusion upon her privacy, owing
to his desire to preserve relations with her that
might be turned to account in the future, buta
sense of honourable feeling had hitherto
withheld him from forcing any explanation
from her.

To-day he did not mean to be so squeamish.
Under his guarded professional cross-examination,
she should make such admissions as should
silence at once and for ever the effrontery of
Karslake's perjury, and the irksome intercession
of his wife.

He went, taking some trifling present for
the boy, but was disappointed in finding only
him and the childish little maid-servant in the
house. The mistress was gone out, the latter
explained, but she did not know where, or how

long she was likely to be absent, and he failed
to extract any further information from her.

He sat down in the meagre little parlour,
with some idea of waiting for Nell's return, and
passively suffered the child to chatter to him.
By nature he was a generous lover of children,
but this special child excited an instinctive aversion
he made no effort to overcome or conceal ;
the beauty of his person and the artless grace
of his speech and gestures, being so many points
of vicarious condemnation and recoil.

He could not bring himself to entrap the
unconscious boy into disclosures or communications,
but he listened with a sort of
saturnine disgust to his innocent prattle, in which
occiuTcd constant references, not to Karslake's
name indeed, but to circumstances and actions
which he felt morally convinced could be connected
With no one else ; and the profound
antagonism was strengthened every time Harry

raised his beautiful, large-lidded l3lue eyes to his
face, or excited his contemptuous comparison
by some sudden movement of body or turn of
phrase.

Then a curious little incident occurred, that
seemed to Helstone almost a fore ordained
interposition of Providence.

Harry was very eager to show him a new
picture book he had lately received, and which,
from prudential considerations, had been put
out of his reach on the top of a nondescript
piece of furniture that the boy called a ' whatnot.'
In clambering up to reach his treasure,
he knocked down a heap of books that had
been piled insecurely on the top of his own.

Helstone, with an involuntary movement of
good-nature, rose and went to the spot to help
him to repair his blunder. In so doing he could
not help perceiving that one of the scattered
volumes was a Bible, which had fallen in such a

way as to expose the fly leaves to view, and
that on one of these was an entry in Nell
Trevelyan's handwriting, which he recognised at
once as identical with that which he had seen
on the covers of Harry's small library.

He took it up and read it with breathless
eagerness, for his keen casual glance had shown
him of what stupendous importance to his
purpose it was likely to prove.

It was such a memorandum of domestic
incident, as the worthy heads of families were
wont to make within the covers of their Scriptures
; but in this case, alas ! it was a mother who
was no wife who had penned the humiliating
entry.

It ran thus : 

'Aug. 10, 18  . My beloved little son was
born.'

Aug. 30, 18  . He was baptised, unknown
to him, Julian Harry Karslake, at S. Pancreas

Cliiirch. In this way I have given him the
name that ought to be mine, but is not.'

It was signed 'Nell Trevelyan,' and the
memorandum was blotted, perhaps with tears.

Helstone grasped the book, and looked round
to see how his little companion was engaged.
The boy was intent upon his new picture book,
with his back towards him.

Swiftly and deftly, making no sound, but
with a face ghastly with agitation, he cut out
the leaf from the volume and conveyed it into
his pocket.

Wliat more did he want ? Had not Heaven
itself placed conviction in his power  conviction
that would close the question of reunion for ever ?

He strode out of the house, with his brain
on fire.

Sybil divorced and possible of attainment
that was the deadly lure that led him on.

But he was premature in saying this was proof

VOL. in. L

enough. He would add yet one more point of
damning evidence ; he would go to S. Pancreas'
Church and search the register, and then ?

He devoured the distance between him and
this new goal by calling a hansom and paying
the man munificently for extra speed. Again
Heaven or fortune seemed to favour him. The
church was open for a wedding concluded,
and he had no difficulty in inducing the
clergyman, who was then taking off his surplice
in the vestry, to allow him to search the
baptismal register under the plea of professional
investigation, presenting his card at the same
time as pledge of his good faith.

The Vicar himself assisted his search, and
being certain of his date, now more than five
years ago, the page was easily found, and the
confirmation he desired stood before his eyes.

Aug. 30, 18  . Julian Harry Karslake ;
Nell Trevelyan. Stratford-le-Bow.'

Helstone involuntarily covered his eyes
with his hand, lest he should betray too much
to the casual observation of his companion.
It was a relief to his overwrought feelings that
the Vicar went on talking.

My parish,' he said, ' is almost beyond
all bounds of absolute knowledge, and at my
monthly baptismal services you would be
astonished at the crowd of children brought in.
Although I know quite well that many of
them are not parishioners of mine. I ask no
questions ; it is a principle with me to thurn no
child from the font. Would you like a copy of
the register ? '

Helstone could scarcely command his voice
to reply with sufficient composure. He was
overwhelmed, not only with the completeness
of his own success, but with a deeper feeling of
indignation and loathing against the matchless
baseness of Karslake's treachery. Would

L 2

Sybil be able to bear up against the overthrow
of her passionate and magnanimous trust ?

He roused himself, and taking out of his
purse a five pound note, presented it to the Vicar
in exchange for the copy he had completed.

For your poor,' he said. ' You have done
a service to-day to the cause of religion and
justice that I cannot sufficiently acknowledge.'

He went back to the Temple, and sat down
to collect his thoughts and arrange his plan of
action. At that same hour his sister was with
Karslake, and he was rejoicing in the measure
of relief she had brought him. Truly there was
no magnetic rapport between them. Helstone
took slowly out of his pocket the profits of his
morning's work, and read both documents over
and over again. Then he made careful copies
of each, and consigned them, with the originals,
to different receptacles in his pocket-book.
Next he took out Sybil's letter and spread it

before him. He read a few lines, and then
folding his arras over the paper bowed his head
upon them.

There were tears of love and rage and pity
in his eyes ; a paroxysm of abortive fury shook
him from head to foot.

He himself so helpless to comfort or soothe
the despair and grief of the woman he adored :
this detected and remorseless villain endowed
with limitless power to crush her life and
honour and happiness under his feet !

Would any amount of shame or ruin
satisfy his vengeance  anything short of the
murderous instincts he felt springing into
energy within him ?

But it is enough to indicate, not to exhaust,
the conflict of his spirit. When he came to a
decision it was this  to reply to Mrs. Karslake's
letter by begging her to appoint an interview
with him, in order to receive an important

communication he lead to make, and which
could only be conveyed to her verbally. ' On
this hung,' he wrote, ' the question of reunion
with her husband.'

He despatched this letter to the poste
restante by his clerk, and, in point of fact,
Karslake saw the same deposited, though of
course without any faculty of recognition.

Helstone further resolved to abstain from
any decisive action until he had heard from or
possibly seen Sybil. On reading over her
letter again he noticed a point that had
hitherto escaped him that she stated she
should not send for a reply till the second
day after its receipt. Then the obvious idea
occurred to his mind, as it had done to that
of Karslake, to watch the post for himself, and
try to discover and waylay the messenger.

He carried it out on the following morning,

with less promptitude than Julian ; but he was
sufficiently in time to see Miss Harrison tiu:n
away from the office with letters in her hand,
to observe Karslake approach and speak to her,
and to follow on their track.

There was no difficulty in doing this. They
were neither bent on haste nor concealment, and
had no suspicion of being watched. To call a
cab and fee the man to follow theirs was easily
accomplished. He took his place in the same
train, without having come into contact with
them, but thought it unwise to get out at Esher
as they did. He went on to the next station,
and waited for the up train to take him back
again, employing the interval in a consideration
and reconsideration of this plan of action. A
revenge, fuller and richer than he had ever dared
to contemplate, was within reach, and he would
utilise it to the utmost.

The precautions we have mentioned, and
the slight difficulty Helstone had in tracing
Miss Harrison's house at Esher, brought him
to the point of time at which he made his
unexpected entrance into her sitting-room.

Chapter XXXIX.

As Gilbert Helstone advanced courteously
into the room Sybil rose instinctively from
her seat, but not before he had marked the
attitude of tender familiarity with a pang of
jealous and indignant rage.

Madam,' he said, addressing Miss Harrison,
I can only excuse the liberty of my intrusion
by explaining at once that, as Mrs. Karslake's
relative and best friend, I am come to thank you
for you: friendship and protection, and to beg
of you not to withdraw them at present ; nor to
hand her over to her husband's care until you
have allowed me to make you acquainted with
the facts of the case.'

Miss Harrison bowed a little stiffly, but there
was an undeniable air of good faith in his manner
that produced its effect, and she also did not
fail to perceive the expression of pain and dread
in Sybil's eyes, and the sudden sternness of
aspect that had banished the softness and sweetness
from Karslake's face.

The little drama was more thrilling and
intricate than she expected, and was to be
played out without reserve. All the points of
the case which had baffled her curiosity and distressed
her genuine benevolence, were to be
cleared up, and she would be invited to assume
the tempting characters of umpire and judge.

Sit down, Mr. Helstone,' she replied ; ' the
circumstances of our connection here are so
unusual, that we must all waive conventional
formalities. But, before we go further, you must
allow me to ask Mrs. Karslake if she recognises
you in the character of protector and friend ? '

Helstone looked intently at Sybil.

It is scarcely possible,' he said, ' that she
can repudiate a regard that has been hers and
her family's since her infancy, and that never
was more surely tried than now, when I have
to choose for her between her welfare and her
dishonour.'

It is true,' replied Sybil, ' that I have known
]mr. Helstone all my life, and that he has been
very good to me in the past, before my marriage.
But it is unnecessary to go so slowly over the
ground ; you know my story, dear friend : this
is the man through whom I was compelled to
leave my husband, and who has already found
us out to try and force us asunder again. All
friendship between us is over. I do not know
whether I hate or fear him most.'

Her face kindled as she spoke, letting her
proud indignant glance fall on Helstone's face.
Then she threw back a few steps, so as to place

herself beside her husband, and drew his arm
around her, holding his hand firmly clasped in
her own ; he rather submitting than responding
to the action. Helstone could hardly repress
a groan of indignant pain.

My dear,' said Miss Harrison, ' that you
have the most implicit faith in your husband I
do know perfectly well, and love enough to
suffer on his behalf as few women are able to
suffer. But you forget you have never told me
the details of the accusation against him, and the
grounds on which Mr. Helstone sustains them.
Mr. Karslake was on the point of supplying
this information when we were interrupted.
Shall we hear first the plaintiff, and then the
defendant in his own vindication, of the
sufficiency of which I feel no doubt ? '

Mr. Helstone has his brief ready, let him
read it,' answered Karslake, in a hard cold
tone.

Soli are right ; I have my brief ready,
for I distrust my own power of self-command,
and wish to guard myself against running into
protest and abuse. Here,' drawing out a
written document from his pocket, and preparing
to loosen the tape that bound it, ' is a
careful statement of the guilt of which I accuse
the Eev. Julian Karslake, and the evidence by
which I support it  such as, with a little important
addenda, I should be prepared to read
in the Divorce Court tomorrow. Shall I hand
you the document ? '

Miss Harrison coloured and hesitated.

A lawyer's brief is professionally illegible,
and I should prefer the assistance of my ears
rather than my eyes, only it is scarcely reasonable
to subject Mr. and Mrs. Karslake to the
painful reiteration of what they know already.
Will you like to go back into the diningroom
while Mr. Helstone puts me in possession

of the details?' she asked, turning towards
them.

Will you ? ' said Julian, addressing Sybil
in a tone to which all the depth and sweetness
had returned.

'I will do as you think best,' was the
answer.

Then we will remain. I have heard from
Mr. Hel stone's hips much of the protest and
abuse against which he finds it so hard to guard
himself. A calm and deliberate statement is
entitled to respectful attention.'

He spoke coldly, but with both pride and
bitterness carefully restrained, and Helstone
clenched his teeth as if to keep in the savage
curse that rose to his lips. To see his enemy stand
there, still maintaining his integrity and believed
in by his wife  encircling her with his arm as
if she were some inalienable possession, and
defying him to do his worst  cost him a struggle

to maintain his composure which resulted in
the greatest triumph of self-control he had ever
known.

But this time Karslake's overthrow could
not be avoided.

Then I have the permission of all the
company to proceed ? ' he remarked.

Miss Harrison nodded, and by force of habit
took up her knitting, but she soon let it drop
into her lap, absorbed in the interest of the
recital.

It was a simple and telling narrative of
facts, without comment or deduction.

Helstone began with the first introduction
of Karslake to the Dorrimore family, recording
Sybil's original, and, as it seemed, instinctive,
repugnance to his proposals, and the means by
which this difficulty had been overcome. He
remarked upon his own distrust of the excellencies
with which the young clergyman was

credited, and mentioned the unsuccessful attempt
he had made to induce Sybil to reconsider
the engagement.

He then proceeded to a judicial statement
of the incident at the Crystal Palace, which, if
he put more strongly than facts warranted, it
was equally true he reproduced according to
his own impressions.

At this point Miss Harrison looked intently
at Julian, with the hope of catching his eye,
trusting to the keenness of her faculty of
penetration ; but he was listening with a
fixed, set expression, and his gaze on the
ground. She felt she learnt nothing by her
scrutiny ; at the pain and suffering, mixed
with an indignant pride, in Sybil's face she
dared not look.

Helstone read on. He had woven all the
details connected with the case into a consecutive
narrative. His different interviews of

expostulation with Karslake ; the latter's refusal
of all explanation, and his uncertain and evasive
denials of guilt ; his own vain attempt to break
the match ; his successful discovery of Xell
Trevelyan, and the night scene at the child's
sick-bed. The way in which he rendered all
that had passed on this occasion  the observation
made by the visiting surgeon to Karslake,
as to his relation to the child, and the reply
he had given ; his inability to meet Helstone's
reproaches, and his subsequent personal appeal
in the Temple, when he found that his accuser
was bent on exposing him, seemed to clinch
the argument without appeal.

Here freestone paused and looked about him,
which he had not done before. He had brought
his written statement to a close, but he still
held in his hands, unsuspected, a power of conviction
and ruin to which all this, stringent as
it was, was only introductory.

VOL. III. M

These are the grounds,' he continued,
quietly addressing Miss Harrison, ' on which I
ventured to separate Mrs. Karslake from her
husband. I believed him then, as I believe
him now, guilty of the basest immorality and
treachery, and that it was a stain on any
woman's honour to continue to live with him.
I own I should personally have preferred his
public disgrace, but I yielded this point to his
wife's magnanimous entreaty. Have you anything
to say, any question to ask, or shall I goon
to the end ? '

Is not this the end ? Does not this bring
matters to the point where I first made Mrs.
Karslake's acquaintance ? '

Three months have passed since then,' said
Helstone, ' and brought with them such additional
proofs of the allegations I have laid
before you that no jury in England will resist,
an-d which so augment the baseness of his sruilt

as to set me at liberty to cancel the promise I
made his wife, under an imperfect knowledge
of the truth.'

Sybil uttered a low cry as of intolerable
pain. Karslake drew her closer towards him.
Miss Harrison turned to watch them, and met
the full expression of his eyes.

I cannot believe it,' she exclaimed impulsively.
' It would be Satan disguised as an
angel of light ! But more than that, I trust my
instincts. It is not true  Mr. Karslake, say
that it is not true ! '

Xo,' he answered firmly, ' it is not true.
But I blame none for believing it, not even Mr.
Heist one.'

Helstone's face grew almost livid with suppressed
feeling ; this assumption of generosity
was scarcely to be endured.

I am not surprised,' he said, in a low harsh
voice, that trembled with the weight of this

restrained indignation, ' that a generous womanlike
you, naturally susceptible to external
impressions, should believe in Mr. Karslake.
There have been moments when the perfection
of his hypocrisy has even made me hesitate,
but no such moments can return ! There was
a brief period when I considered the possibility
of condonation, or rather when I doubted all
that I have as yet disclosed, and contemplated
the idea of permitting their reunion ; but
chance has prevented such a monstrous mistake.
An enemy is biassed by his prejudice : the
burning facts you already know might conceivably
be explained away ; but neither friend
nor wife, nor his own stupendous faculty of
lying, can resist the demonstration held in these
scraps of paper.'

He rose as he spoke, took out his pocketbook
with a hand that shook with eagerness,
and handed to Miss Harrison the copies of

Nell's pathetic memorandum and the baptismal
register.

Moved by uncontrollable anxiety, Sybil
pressed forward to her side and looked over her
shoulder. As she read, Helstone's gaze dwelt
upon her face with an almost devouring sense
of mingled passion and pity, watching the slow
recession of every trace of colour from cheek
and lip, and the convulsive working of the
muscles round the delicate mouth, as she stood
motionless, with her eyes fastened on the paper,
slowly, in a mute agony, gathering the full
meaning of its contents.

He made a movement to approach her
nearer, fearing she would faint, but this seemed
to bring back her failing strength and restore
her faculty of speech.

Is this a forgery ? ' she demanded.
'Julian, what answer have you to give to
this ? '

There was such a ring of misery in her
voice, such despair in the eyes she turned
towards him as cut the sympathetic heart of
her friend to the quick, and excited a feeling of
impatient anger in her mind towards Karslake,
who had not advanced a single step in order to
possess himself of the intelligence on which his
fate seemed to hang, or swerved for a moment
from the stern composure he had preserved
throughout.

'Look at these,' she said with asperity,
holding them towards him as she spoke, ' and
then comfort her if you can ! '

He took them almost mechanically. He
had no conception of their nature or contents,
and he seemed to withdraw his eyes with difficulty
from his wife's pale and changed face.
He knew that of the three that watched him,
there was not now even one whose faith in his
honour was unshaken.

There was a profound hush of intense suspense,
as he at length seemed to gather himself
together and cast his eyes upon these new
evidences against him.

I do not understand,' he said, looking
across at Helstone, and meeting the scornful
repugnance of his glance with the same unflinching
steadfastness. ' These memoranda are
in your handwriting  what do they mean ? '

The originals are here,' he answered ; and
as he spoke he held them open under Sybil's
eyes. ' This, in Nell Trevelyan's own handwriting,
I tore out of her Bible yesterday ; the
other is a copy of the baptismal register of S.
Pancreas' Church, given me by the Vicar himself.
There will not be the slightest difficulty in
testing their validity. Aire they sufficient ? '
his voice broke with the weight of his
triumph. ' You have audaciously denied the
evidence of the child's likeness to his father ;

you can scarcely repudiate that of the name
with which the nameless mother has endowed
him!'

Karslake crossed the room and caught Sybil
in his arms.

Are you a man,' he said in a voice that
shook with indignation, 'and can torture a
woman's heart like this? Sybil, speak! tell
me you believe in me still. And yet, I see I
ask for the impossible.'

She made an effort to answer, but failed,
and there was a movement as if she would have
withdrawn herself from his arms. He placed
her in the great cushioned chair near which
they were standing, and turned again towards
Helstone.

Will you let me see the originals of those
papers ? ' he asked. ' You are afraid to trust
them in my hands ? I shall be quite satisfied
to look at them in yours.'

Helstone flung them contemptuously on
the table. Karslake took them up and examined
them carefully, then laid them down
again with a firm hand.

It is enough,' he said, looking towards
Helstone. 'I exonerate you from any deliberate
malignity in this matter  you could
reach no other conclusion. Sybil, what would
you wish me to do ? '

He leaned over the back of her chair as he
spoke, and was moved to lay his hand on the
head bowed in her trembling hands, but he
forbore. Miss Harrison watched him with
acute attention.

I would have you keep my heart from
breaking, not from wounded love only, but
from intolerable shame,' answered Sybil, with a
sudden rally of her firmness, and turning round
so as to face him, with her wet and paled cheeks
and distended eyes. * If there is still possibility

of belief left to me, I command you to explain
and give me back my honour. To whom on the
face of God's earth do you owe the duty you
owe to me ? '

I cannot answer,' he said ; ' spare me,
Sybil!'

Have you spared me ? ' she asked, in a
tone of passionate reproach. ' You forced my
love from me against my will. I married you
in defiance of a doubt no other woman's faith
would have sustained, and against which I have
struggled up to this hour, but even my fond
credulity can go no further. Inasmuch as I
have loved you utterly, and believed in you even
against the evidence of my own senses, so do
I now wholly repudiate you. If it is possible
to break the tie that has tempted you to this
extremity of treachery I will do so.' She rose
and faced him as she spoke, her weakness
dominated by her indignant scorn

It will be quite possible,' was Lis answer.
Mr. Helstone will be at hand to instruct you
how to act. To sever your life from mine is
now as much my duty and desire as it can be
yours. Such as I am should stand alone.'

He went up to Miss Harrison.

You are a good woman," he continued, in
the same tone of quiet but unshaken resolution,
and wil not, I think, refuse to help a man,
even as disgraced and unhappy as myself. If
I should need some friendly help in the settlement
of my affairs in the future, may I dare to
apply to you ? '

Miss Harrison made a creature of assent; her
voice just then was not under command.

For the rest,' he continued, and for a
moment he paused and covered his face with
his hands, but it was rather from the instinctive
desire to shut out the ruthless eyes that watched
him, than from any lapse of firmness ; ' for

the rest,' he resumed, ' I wish my wife to
understand that I still maintain my integrity
in this matter, and hold myself as worthy of her
love now as in any past time. I simply give up
a struggle that has become too hard for me ;
but right rests sometimes with those who lose
all else.'

Helstone, who was watching Sybil intently,
saw her shrink and tremble from the proud
erectness she had assumed ; saw the lips quiver
that had so lately regained their firmness, and
the scintillation of her glance soften beneath
the glaze of sudden tears.

Who is torturing a woman's heart now ? '
he muttered. ' Your acting is excellent, as
always; but spare us, spare her, at least,
any more last words. If your integrity is
still so absolute, you will have the chance of
proving it in court.'

*I shall never make the attempt. You

may depend upon success, for judgment will ctq
by default ; but you are right otherwise.'

He hesitated, looking at Sybil with a grave,
yearning intensity, infinitely more pathetic than
the wildest outburst of passion. Then he went
up to her and took both her hands in his.

I may at least say farewell, and wish you
the happiness of swift forgetfulness, my wife,
my love.'

He strained his lips upon the hands that
lay passively in his, made a gesture of adieu
to Miss Harrison, and turned from the room.

There was a dead pause for the moment
after his departure. They heard, in the
breathless stillness, the house door open and
shut upon him, and then Sybil, who had still
retained her attitude of resolute dignity, relapsed,
and uttering his name with a cry of
passionate appeal, sank fainting into Miss
Harrison's arms.

It is better thus,' said the kind woman,
yielding now to the tears restrained with so
much difficulty. 'Carry her to the sofa, and
don't let us be in a hurry to bring her back to
her misery.'

Chapter XL.

It has been well said that in all strong and
masculine natures there is a reactionary tendency,
in the extreme crises of human sorrow; at the
point where weakness and selfishness would not
only touch the condition of despair, but rest in
it, these receive a recoil towards energy and
resistance.

As Julian Karslake sat in his desolated home,
and forecast his future, he acknowledged the
prospect to be as barren and hopeless personally
as could well be conceived.

He had not only lost the wife he adored,
and with her a measure of blessedness such as
few men taste in their conjugal relations, but he

was the object of indignant reprobation to the
woman who had proved herself capable of the
highest magnanimity. His allegiance to one
claim of fidelity had thrown discredit on every
other action of his life.

The commonest instincts of loyalty and
honour  nay, of truth and decency  he was
held to have outraged, to a degree that went
beyond the ordinary manifestations of moral
obliquity.

Nor was his position one of mere mental
distress and difficulty. It touched his public life
and credit at every point. Whether his wife
carried her wrongs into the Divorce Court or
not, the circumstances which led to their separation
would soon be noised abroad, or rather
systematically spread by Gilbert Helstone.

The little world in which he moved would
be invited to share the knowledge of his infamy,
and to swell the chorus of condemnation

and disgust. There was not a hand that had
clasped his, not an eye that had regarded him
with favour, that would not now be withdrawn
or averted.

He would be regarded with that special contempt
which is reserved for those who have
shamelessly betrayed a cause to which their
fidelity has been voluntarily pledged. At his
hands the creed he had maintained and the
principles he had advocated, would suffer
incalculable wrong, while the power of retrieval
would be lost to him.

He must not only resign his living, but
every other professional avenue of usefulness
would be closed to him.

He had thought at one period of this life of
offering himself for missionary service in India,
and the idea had occurred to him again during
his late anxieties, but that was now out of the
question.

VOL. III. N

His character and career would not sustain
the necessary investigation. Missionary
societies do not send out men whose wives have
abandoned them on the gravest accusations.

If in the future he was to do any work for
either God or man, it must be beyond the close
fold within which he had hitherto been not
only member but shepherd.

Nothing tests the spiritual vigour of a manlike
the hard necessity of standing up against
the deliberate and conscientious condemnation
of his fellows, of being forced to rest wholly
upon the strength derived from the testimony
of Ins own moral sense. Julian Karslake by
constitutional bias was by no means a stoic ; he
possessed the large receptive capacities of a
nature which, although strong, is also sensitive
and tender. He had, in a word, that fine susceptibility
to suffering, without which patience and
endurance become a mere mechanical exercise.

As the slow hours and clays fulfilled their
course, it must be acknowledged that he felt
at times as if the burden laid upon him was
greater than he could bear, and also the
question Avoid often arise as to whether he
should continue to bear it ; and this not out of
consideration to his own ruined condition, but
because the interests and happiness of another
were bound up in his life.

But the hesitation was brief and the
conclusion absolute. That Sybil should suffer so
cruelly through her connection with himself,
was indeed the sharpest pang in all this complex
misery, but it was the outcome of events the
occurrence of which it had been impossible to
foresee, and for which it would therefore ])e
unreasonable to hold himself responsible.

The piteous entanglement of circumstances
apparently blind, contrary, and inexplicable, is
part of the daily burden of poor humanity ; but

X '2

at the same time it has no power to relax the
stringent claims of duty. The one subject that
occupied Karslake's attention in these gloomy
days, was the consideration of what it behoved
him to do under all conditions of his situation,
and the best way of doing it.

In thinking of his wife he tried to believe
that she was young enough and buoyant
enough, to rally from the blow she had
received, helped by the potent aid of her
wounded love and pride and honour. She had
loved and married with a certain reluctance,
and when the acuteness of her disappointment
had subsided might possibly accept with
tranquillity a return to her former mode of life.
He thanked Heaven that her strong family
ties remained to console and interest her ; he
tried to thank Heaven that a nature so
chivalrous and high-minded as hers, would
scornfully repudiate the idea of spending life

in one long wail over a lost love basely
betrayed ; but here he was scarcely successful.
Xor, when he allowed his mind to rest upon the
intense and tender passion she had manifested
in so many crises of their mutual relations, was he
much more successful in consoling himself with
the belief of the evanescent nature of her love.
But he would not suffer his mind to rest
upon these points : had he done so, his
resolution must have collapsed, and that
resolution had now taken definite form.

Within the last two days he had received
a letter from his brother, under elaborate precautions
of concealment. It announced his safe
arrival at Auckland, and contained a demand
for money to such a considerable amount as
exceeded even Karslake's practised estimate of
his rapacity. He stated that this time he had
accomplished the voyage in safety, and that,
moreover, the crowd luck that had so long

deserted him seemed to be turning tide in his
favour. He had found an unprecedented
opening for making a fortune, if only Julian
would do the right thing by him. He had
negotiated the purchase of a store at Auckland,
and enclosed a list of goods he desired to have
sent out to him from England, besides the
further amount of hard cash which would be
necessary to clinch the bargain. His brother's
ignorance of business need be no obstacle ; any
broker would manage the matter for him.
He further instructed him to consider his
request in the light of his future respectability,
not to mention the oath that bound him, and
warned him against suffering any paltry
reluctance to part with the necessary funds, to
stand between him and such a result.

He went on to inform him he had adopted
a disguise well-nigh perfect; had stained his
fair hair and skin, thereby only anticipating the

action of a tropical sun, and grown a superb
beard, which he privately considered was an
additional point of beauty. ' You know,' he
wrote, ' that without contradiction we are both
consumedly handsome men,' and wound up his
letter by devoutly believing that if fortune and
Julian did their duty by him he should do well
yet, and settle down as a respectable colonial
citizen and the father of a family.

And this was the man for whose sake the
sacrifice of all that made life desirable, had been
exacted from him !

But the letter suggested a line of action,
and supplied the definite scheme and motive of
which he was in quest. He would leave
England and follow his brother to New Zealand.
He would accept implicitly and to the bitter
end the charge of those interests to which he
was pledged beyond redemption, and at the
given cost of every personal satisfaction.

And having formed this determination he
lost no time in taking the necessary steps to
carry it out.

He placed his resignation in the hands of
the bishop at Once, simply stating that personal
circumstances rendered it impossible for him to
remain any longer in the responsible position
of a clergyman of the Church of England, and
that his decision was final.

He also stated that he had already appointed
a curate in charge, till his lordship
should make a fresh nomination.

This letter produced as he expected a kindly
remonstrance, written under the impression
that he offered his resignation from conscientious
scruples arising out of theological
doubts or difficulties, and recommending him to
Vveigh the matter well before deciding on so
important a step, and to give the bishop himself
the satisfaction of a personal interview

We cannot afford to lose such men as you
he wrote, ' without an affectionate struggle to
retain them.'

It did not consort with Karslake's views to
allow this idea to remain uncorrected. He
accepted the invitation to Fulham, and there
explained to the kindly but sagacious old man
that he was not influenced by any such intellectual
difficulties as he imagined ; that his
religious beliefs were the same as of old, but that
a stigma rested on his private character, out of
his power to remove, but which rendered his
continuance in office a moral impossibility.

More than this,' he added, ' I do not
desire to say, and since my resignation is
already in your lordship's hands, more than
this I feel sure you will not demand.'

The bishop encountered the steadfast, level
glance of the speaker, and paused in his reply.
Presently he said :

Our official connection may be broken,
but I may still speak to you as friend to friend,
or rather, considering the difference of age
between us, as father to son. If this stigma is
undeserved, and of that I feel pretty sure,
there must be some way found of righting the
wrong.'

There is no such way,' was the answer,
or I should have found it for myself. But
your goodness encourages me to ask one thing
if the details of the accusations against me
should ever reach your ears, recall to your
recollection what has passed between us this
day, and let it induce your lordship to withhold,
or at least to mitigate, the judgment you would
otherwise pronounce.'

This matter concluded, nothing more
was left to do but certain monetary arrangements.


There was the painful necessity of seeing

]sell Trevelyan again, and making final arrangements
for her comfort and decent maintenance.

That by so doing he was only confirming
the case against himself was no point of haughty
or defiant indifference, but he regarded it as
part and parcel of the work set before him.

His plan was to invest a certain sum in
buying her a small annuity, which seemed to
him the only adequate way of securing one so
thriftless and inconsiderate against want and
fraud ; though, again, there was a serious
drawback in the consideration that such an
arrangement could not be effected without
forcing their mutual relations into further
publicity.

Having instructed his lawyer on the business,
and put matters in train, so far as was possible,
he went to Stratford to fulfil his last duties to
the woman and chill, who indirectly were the
cause of all his misfortunes.

It was no part of his intention to discuss
with Nell Trevelyan the memorandum of which
Helstone had possessed himself, or to question
her respecting the baptism of her child ; the
idea lead at one time been present to his mind
of asking her what had induced her to bestow
this name upon her offspring, and to expostulate
with her on the point, but he abandoned it.
What good would it do ? She was moved, no
doubt, by a feeling of gratitude that it would
be heartless to reprove, and there was no
opportunity of retrieval in her power.

The interview between them was protracted
and painful, for the announcement that he was
going to leave the country, and was come to bid
her farewell, produced such a paroxysm of
hysterical and unrestrained grief on her part as
sorely tried both his sympathy and his patience.
He could hardly induce her to listen to the
arrangements that he had made for her welfare,

for she was one of those women who lack
entirely all practical capacity for the aflldrs of
life, and who seem to think that the reiterated
announcement ' that they have no head for
business,' exonerates them from every obligation
to personal exertion.

Another part of his duty was to impress
upon her mind the necessity of keeping the
secret of her lover's existence, and to this injunction
he added another, that she should be
faithful to the vows they had exchanged.

'Marriage, at present,' he said, ' is impossible,
but it is an object, Xell, I shall always keep in
view. Try and redeem the past by the future,
so far as is in your poorer, and preserve at least
your motherhood sacred and unstained. Don't
fancy that your responsibility to your chill is
less because you are not wife as well as mother
to my mind, that makes his claims upon you
doubly strong. I don't want to preach to you,'

he added, smiling kindly down upon the weeping
girl, ' but if I am able to send for you to
jew Zealand, promise me you will not be
ashamed to come.'

Could you not take me with you now ? '
she asked, with that mixture of simplicity and
ignorance which had been in part her undoing.
Harry could not resist me when he saw me,
especially when I brought our darling to him,
stronger and prettier than 'ever. Then you
could marry us yourself, you see ! '

That is not practicable,' he answered quietly.
You inst be content to wait till I know
Harry's mind on the subject, though I grant it
is very hard advice to give. I have thought,
too, it would be better for you to leave this
neighbourhood, but would not decide without
consulting you on the subject.'

You are too kind, as always ! ' sobbed
Nell, and she would have snatched his hand

and covered it with her kisses and her tears,
had he not prevented her with a feeling almost
akin to hardness.

'Harry's health is delicate,' he continued,
and sea-air would no doubt do him good.
Would you like to live at Hastings ? I have
friends there who would be willing to receive
you as a friend, and where you would enjoy
the advantage of pleasant society and kindly
advice, should yod need it. They would explain,
or even manage for you those little pecuniary
matters you find so difficult. Also, you will
t have better opportunities there for sending
Harry to school, which is becoming necessary'

Hitherto she had been all softness and
docility, but her feeling for her child was
intense, like that of an animal for its young, and
in these last words of Karslake she fancied
there was a threat of deprivation, of which
she stood in secret fear. Her tears ceased

suddenly ; she looked up with a flash of
indignation.

Why is it necessary ?  he is the best of
boys! Perhaps you would like to take him
from me ? '

Such an idea had indeed occurred to Kars-
lake's mind, for he had already perceived in the
child manifestations of self-will and perversity,
which painfully recalled the father's characteristics,
as well as the lack of firmness and
discretion in the mother ; but he had rejected
it as bearing too hard upon her.

Not at present, Nell,' he said gently, ' and t
at no time should I ever have the right or the
power to do so ; only, as he grows older, you
will very likely see the necessity yourself of
putting Harry into firmer hands than yours.
I shall always be willing to help you in anyway
I can. I will let you know where to
write to me, as soon as I know myself.'

He sighed involuntarily, and got up to go ;
it was all very dreary work.

Your beautiful wife goes with you, I suppose
? ' said Nell. ' I wonder you care to leave
England, still it is natural that you should wish
to follow Harry. Eemember, I shall count the
time till I hear from you. You will plead forme
with Hairy ? '

I will do my best,' he answered, and then,
after a few more necessary arrangements, he
went away.

That, too, was done.

It must not be supposed that in the
distribution of his funds and his care for
others, the interests of his wife and her family
where forgotten.

A fresh deed of settlement was prepared,
raising her jointure from three hundred
to five hundred pounds per annuni,
which was precisely one-third of his private

VOL. III. o

income, and what he estimated was an
equitable division of the same, weighed against
his other complex claims. Also, he left at her
absolute disposal, either to sell or to hold, the
costly furniture and art-treasures of the rectory
house. No communication was to be made to
her on the subject until he had left England.
He had already discharged all the servants at
his home except the housekeeper, who had
begged to remain with him to the last, and a
favourite man-servant, who was willing to accompany
him to New Zealand. His own outfit
was prepared, he had selected the books and
personal effects he meant to take with him,
and then finally, with a reluctance that was
nothing short of martyrdom, he secured his
passage in one of the Orient Line steamers,
which was to leave the London Docks within
the next fortnight.

Before doing this he had obtained from

his lawyer an introduction to a respectable
ship-broker, not indeed with the intention of
following out his brother's instructions on the
spot, but with the view of establishing a
correspondence in the future, should it seem
to him, on personal investigation, that it was
desirable or expedient to do so.

Then came the time when there was
nothings left for him to do but to wait with
what patience he had at command for the hour
of exile ; and dreary and arduous as his labours
of preparation had been, this period of enforced
leisure was infinitely worse. In the day he
could still busy himself in certain unostentatious
work amongst the poorest of his parishioners,
whose troubles he consoled and whose wants
he satisfied or anticipated, without betraying
to them what he thought the unnecessary
information of his imminent departure. But
when night came, and he sat alone in the


deserted silent house, in the apartment so full
of tender memories, physically weary perhaps,
but with heart and brain oppressed with
eager vitality, that was the time to test his
courage and his constancy.

At such seasons it seemed as if there were
scarcely a tender word Sybil had spoken, or a
gracious act that she had done (and were not
all her actions gracious, with a charm of delicate
and gifted womanhood possessed by no other ?)
that his aching and almost reluctant memory
did not pass in accurate review.

The yearning ' for the touch of a vanished
hand ' that has loosed its hold of humanity,
the hopeless anguish of ' remembered kisses
after death,' are more tolerable than that
restless hunger of the soul for what it has lost
indeed, but not through the dark passage
into the region of the unattainable. The
recollection, too, of the rapture of delight

and tenderness that had marked their brief
reunion, only served to exalt and deepen the
bitterness of the contrast which that same day
had presented.

The eyes that had met his, dissolved in
passionate effusion, were the same that had
glowed and kindled with such energy of scorn ;
the hands which had clasped his own and held
him to her bosom in the very ecstasy of
welcome, were those which, an hour later, had
lain passive and unresponsive within this despairing
hold, even in the supreme moment of
a last farewell.

More, all the sweet respect and loving
recognition of their short wedded life, were
cancelled by the scathing words in which she
had proclaimed her loss of faith.

Could he have retained her esteem, though
love and possession had been denied him, his
fate would have been tolerable in comparison ;

but the draught offered to his hips was of such
unqualified bitterness !

At moments so crucial as these there was
nothing to be done but to break the thread
of despairing reminiscence by forcing: himself
into such occupation as required mental
concentration, or on the other hand to relax
the strain of endurance, and passively suffer the
full tide of suffering to flow over his soul.

Chapter XLI

Helstone's triumph was complete. He had
beaten his enemy at every pont, and driven
him finally, not only from his wife and his profession
 from the tender dalliance of love and
social ease, and the honour and good-will of
men  but even from his native land.

As a parishioner of S. Mark's he could not
but know what was going on. The resignation
of Julian's living, the changes in his household,
and his imminent departure, were of course part
and parcel of public report. Also, Mr. Karslake's
housekeeper was intimate with Miss Helstone's
parlour-maid, and naturally communicated all
she knew of her master's proceedings so far as

they came under lier notice. It would have
hurt very considerably the legitimate pride of
Julian could he have known how closely he
was watched by his servants, how much they
guessed of what he thought he never betrayed,
and how such irritating minutiae drifted back to
the ear of his cynical and ruthless foe.

But happily for us these things we do not
know.

Once or twice they had met in the streets,
although so complete was the way in which
Karslake ignored him, or so great was his preoccupation,
that Helstone was not quite sure of
being recognised. As usual, there was something
in Julian's aspect that inhaled his irritation
against him. He looked pale and worn, it
is true, but there was nothing of the abasement
of mien Helstone had expected and desired to
produce. His gait was as erect, his glance as
clear and steadfast, the lines of lip and brow as

firm and resolute as ever. If there was less of
sweetness there was more of dignity in his
face.

Again the idea flashed across his mind,
Can it be possible I am making a mistake
after all ? ' but he dismissed it instantly. The
evidence was too conclusive, and his own discomfiture
would have been too absolute. Only,
he would have given much not to have owed
his own life to the courage and coolness of the
man.

He had not failed to notice the scar on
Karslake's hand, even in the full tide of his
triumph under Miss Harrison's roof, and for a
moment it had arrested the words on his hips,
and almost made him halt in his purpose.

True, he had conquered the feeling as a
womanish sensibility, but all the same the remembrance
of that deadly struggle, which must
have been mortal but for Julian's interference,

brought a confused sensation of pain and slime
to his conscience. At least it would inevitably
keep the incident green in Karslake's rriind,
and must mix an element of contempt with
his hatred of his persecutor not pleasant to
consider.

Another point that vexed him was the
absence of all cordiality towards himself on
the part of Miss Harrison.

He had gone again to her house a few days
after the bitter scene of exposure and separation
he had effected, to inquire after Mrs. Karslake's
health, and also to sound her friend, as the
more practical woman of the two, as to the
propriety of taking the necessary steps to bring
the case into the Divorce Court, with as little
delay as possible.

Sybil he did not see at all. ' She was not ill,
but averse to company,' was the answer Miss
Harrison save him ; and on introducing the

other object of his visit, lie was both astonished
and indignant to discover that both women
had cooled considerably towards the idea.

If my poor young friend should seriously
incline to take this step, of course she will consult
you at once; but at present her mind is not
at all made up on the subject. I think you may
rest satisfied, Mr. Helstone, with what you
have already done.'

Would you have had me do less ? ' he
asked harshly.

I am not quite sure,' she answered. 'You
see, she believed in him implicitly and was
happy, and so it seems he was with her. I am
talking now as a woman of the world, not as a
moralist. What good did it do to rake up this
miserable story, the chief events of which
occurred, if I have mastered your statement,
not only before his marriage, but even before
he ever saw this present wife ? As for telling

me you act in the interests of truth and virtue,
I am scarcely simple enough to believe that :
you are gratifying a personal enmity.'

I should almost have thought,' he said
sarcastically, ' that you had passed the impressible
age that would find Karslake's good looks
and good manners powerful above truth and
right.'

And who says I am influenced by them ?
Though let me tell you a woman is never too
old to appreciate the absence of the same, nor
to resent a reminder that she begins to take
rank with the patriarchs. Moreover, I am
not so positive as you that we are on the right
tack after all. Your facts seem conclusive
enough, but many a man has been hanged
unjustly on circumstantial evidence without a
Haw.

In that view of the case,' he answered,
you will probably lend your influence to induce

Mrs. Karslake to return to her husband and
share his exile ! '

He spoke with such concentrated bitterness
that Miss Harrison looked at him with renewed
suspicion.

Exile ! ' she repeated quietly ; '* what do
you mean ? '

I mean that Julian Karslake himself
accepts his conviction. He has resigned his
living, and ships for New Zealand next week.'

Miss Harrison remained silent, but her
warm heart went out in a tender effusion of
sympathy towards the unhappy wife.

As soon as Helstone was gone, she sent up
a message to her, begging her to come downstairs.
She did not follow her strong inclination
and go to her herself, for she knew Sybil
objected to any intrusion, however friendly,
on the privacy of her own room.

'I will come immediately,' said Sybil, in

reply to the servant, but she still sat for sometime
longer in the same chair, as if lacking
energy to move.

Her friend had said she was not ill, nor,
as yet, had mental suffering undermined the
strength of her superb physical organisation ;
but the pallor of her cheek, the dark circles
round the sleepless eyes, the drawn lines of the
mouth and brow, indicated a condition to which
pain and sickness could have given little additional
weight.

At first, the struggle in her mind had been
on the ground of her own self-contempt ; she
could not forgive herself for clinging with such
passionate tenacity to the love bestowed upon
one so unworthy. At any cost to her human
weakness, she must cease to love him.

Vain and abortive decision. Her pusillanimous
heart refused to yield to the mandate
of her outraged honour. After she had summed

up all the mass of evidence against him, retraced
with despairing accuracy every detail of
Helstone's succinct and formidable statement,
and her reason pronounced for absolute and
implacable condemnation, she still found herself
dwelling with tender ingenuity on contrary
and extenuating' circumstances, and clinging
against hope to the hope that he might yet be
innocent.

It was such measureless and incomprehensible
baseness ! This was one point by which
she held.

But yet, again, what conceivable complication
of circumstances, other than a common
guilt, could induce a man to stand in such close
and intimate relations as had undeniably subsisted
between her husband and Nell Trevelyan ?
or a woman with deliberate intention to endow
her child with his name, unless she had a
melancholy right to do so  a right, indeed, she

had specifically claimed? And, insufferable as
was the recollection, had not her own shrinking
eyes borne witness to the fact ?

Then, on the other hand, she would recaL
the unfaltering constancy and consistency with
which he had asserted his blamelessness, and
the silent argument of his fair and self-forgetful
life : and thus the weary round of
mental conflict went on.

She had taken off his miniature, and thrown
it in the recesses of her box ; but what did
that avail when every night, after her door was
locked against intrusion, she would kneel beside
it, draw forth the locket from its concealment,
and fix her weary, drooping eyes in stern contemplation
upon it. To put it back again with
the same proud forbearance, without one pressure
against lips or bosom, cost her a struggle,
but hitherto the struggle had been successful.

When she went down-stairs at last, in

obedience to her friend's summons, she found
her in her accustomed chair with her perpetual
knitting in her hand. There was something
very restful to the unhappy gh'l in this quiet,
homely position of things. She sat down
opposite to her.

Mr. Helstone has been here,' she said ;
please tell me all he said.'

It is for that purpose I have sent for you,
my dear ; you would wish me to be quite
frank?'

Sybil's heart sank with her  what further
disclosures awaited her? It was with difficulty
she made a gesture of assent.

Miss Harrison had dropped a stitch, and
was busy in recovering it ; the truth was. she
dreaded to launch the news she had to tell at
her pale, stricken companion.

You will not, I think, be much surprised to
hear,' she began at length, ' that Mr. Karslake
VOL. III. p

intends to give up his living ? ' and as there was
no reply, nor any sign of special agitation, she
added rapidly, with an abruptness that was
characteristic :

Mr. Helstone says he has made arrangements
to leave the country and go to New
Zealand ; but that, of course, requires confirmation.'


And he and you consider this as a tacit
confession of his guilt ? '

The voice was so strained and unnatural,
that Miss Harrison threw aside her knitting,
and looked at Sybil with her keen but sympathising
glance.

I do not think it conclusive either one
way or the other, but I have a strong inclination
to see Mr. Karslake again, and take
upon myself to dissuade him from atop ting-such
extreme measures. It would do no
good, I dare say  I do not expect that  but

it would be a satisfaction to my mind to
have the chance of making observations and
drawing conclusions once more. Have I your
permission ? '

Sybil could not speak, but she stretched out
her hand and clasped that of her friend.

Then we will consider that matter settled.
Ideas and suggestions have occurred to my
mind that were naturally smothered under the
weight of Mr. Helstone's clinching arguments,
and the sad excitement of it all. Face to face
vith your husband, I think I could probe his
sincerity to the quick, or at least my manipulation
would be different to the manipulation of
your other friend. Mind, I do not say I doubt
his guilt, for the assertion seems unwarranted
in the face of the evidence we have ; but I
incline to believe in the existence of some very
extenuating circumstances.'

Sybil raised her head with an imperious
p2

gesture ; a flash of fire lighted up her heavy
eyes.

None such could exist for me. If he is
not absolutely innocent, he is absolutely guilty.
There is no measure or degree of extenuation
possible.'

Well, well,' said Miss Harrison smiling ;
forgive my having accredited you With any
relenting softness. I will take care of your
dignity. I will go to town after dinner.'

When she was dressed for departure, she
came to kiss Sybil and bid her good-bye. It
grieved her kind heart to see the attitude of passive
dejection in which she was sitting, and the
absence of any attempt at employment. It had
not been thus even in the first days of their
friendship, when the pang of separation was
at its freshest and keenest. But then the
corrosive anguish of injurious wrong had been
lacking.

Sybil looked up and read her thoughts in
her face.

Yes,' she answered, ' you must have a
little longer patience with me. I shall rally in
the end, so far as to resume work and take up
my old home interests. But at present I cannot
work, or read, or scarcely think  I can only
suffer. I would have laid down my life to
preserve his honour : now that I have been
taught he is without honour, my life seems only
a burden to me. But that will pass ! '

My poor darling ! ' replied Miss Harrison
tenderly, but Sybil interrupted her :

Don't give me credit for too much tenderness.
It is not only that my love lies bleeding '
with an attempt at a smile  ' but my pride is
cruelly hurt at having been duped, and deceived,
and led blindfold by that irresistible appearance
of goodness. Conceive what the humiliation
must be, to have poured all my being at his

feet without shame or reserve, because lie was
so pure and so high-minded, and to discover
that no woman was ever more basely cheated
and betrayed ! '

I grant it all, my dearest girl ; the wrong
would be so matchless that one doubts the
possibility. In this case there is a very stiff ij\
in my opinion, which I am bent on putting to
the test to-day. Keep up the fire and wait tea
for me. You have no message, of course ? '

None ! ' but she threw her arms round her
friend's neck, and strained her against her bosom
with passionate emotion.

God bless you,' she whispered, ' and
reward you for all the mercy you have shown
to me ! '

Chapter XLII.

Miss Harrison made her way dkect to S.
Mark's Eectory, having taken her restrictions
from sirs. Karslake, and there met with a considerable
disappointment. The master of the
house was not at home.

I will wait,' she said. ' When do you
expect him ? '

He dines at half-past seven ; he will not
be home probably before then.'

She hesitated, inwardly anathematising his
late hours. But could she return to the girl
she had left in her agony at home, and not
have seen him ?

She was introduced into the library, that

being the only room where there was a fire
burning, and for some time she was fully
occupied in making observations upon all that
surrounded her.

And this was the home that each was
abandoning ! this the position of cultured ease
he was giving up  for what ?

While she was revolving this question impatiently
in her mind, she heard the welcome
sound of a latch key being applied to the street
door. None but the master of the house would
be likely to avail himself of this privilege ; after
all, she should not keep Sybil waiting for her
return so long as she feared.

A moment after the door of the room
where she sat opened, and Julian came in.

Miss Harrison had risen and advanced to
meet him, kindly solicitous to lessen the
surprise or even the shock her unexpected
presence might produce ; but she observed he

only started slightly at the recognition, and
seemed in full possession of his self-recollections.


At last ! ' she said. ' I have been waiting
to see you a long time ; will you not shake
hands ? '

That is as you please,' he answered gravely,
taking the outstretched hand. ' Is Sybil well ? '

Are you ? ' she asked. ' She is about as
well as you are, to judge from your appearance ;
but I had better tell you at once, I have not
brought any message from her. I am come
simply on my own account : oblige me by
sitting down  I grant to talk to you.'

'Pardon me,' he said, coming close up to
the fire, so as to be nearer to the chair from
which she had risen, and was about to resume,
but I would rather stand. That means, I
would rather decline the discussion of my
private affairs, if that is the object you have in

view. It could answer no good end  the final
words have been spoken on the subject.'

Oh, if you are obstinate, there is of course
an end of the matter. I was afraid I was come
on a fool's errand, but I was willing to risk my
personal discomfiture for the chance of carrying-home
a morsel of consolation to your unhappy
wife. My idea was, that the time that has
elapsed since we parted might have brought
you to a better mind, and inclined you to discuss
with an old woman of the world like myself,
the possibilities of confession and forgiveness.'

I am deeply sensible of your goodness, but
I must remind you that there can be no confession
nor need of forgiveness where there has
been no guilt. These, of course, are mere words
on my part, of no weight nor value whatever
in the face of Mr. Helstone's statements,
and I only repeat them as a satisfaction to my
own self-respect, not in any forlorn hope that

you will believe them. As for my wife, the
only consolation it is in my power to offer for
the shame and suffering I have unwittingly
brought upon her, is a life-long expatriation.
Tell her I will in this way do my part towards
meeting her wishes. All mv arrangements are
made ; I leave England for New Zealand next
Wednesday.'

I hope,' she answered sarcastically, ' that
the sea voyage will do you good, for you look
very ill, and that Mrs. Karslake will appreciate
your efforts in her behalf. By the way, you do
not seem to take into account that by thus
running away from your disgrace you set the
seal upon it, and rob her of the last shred of
doubt.'

I did not know a shred remained. You
heard what she said  lier condemnation was
absolute. But that is not the point in question.
I freely acknowledge that I am a beaten man.

stripped alike of honour and happiness. I
accept my position, for which I claim no credit,
for I merely surrender what I have no longer
the power to retain  wife, profession, home
and country.'

And, all the while, your sense of injustice is
so strong that you will not trust yourself with
the most distant expression of it. But do consider
how impossible it is for any one to believe
that you would accept this position if you were
blameless of the charge against you, and could
prove your blamelessness ! Come, Mr. Kars-
lake, trust all the truth to an old woman like
me, who is bent on doing the best for her
friend ! So far as I understand Mr. Helstone's
story, all this wretched entanglement dates back
to a tune, not only before your marriage, but
before you even made your present wife's
acquaintance. I am talking now as a woman of
the world, when I say it is hard to be punished

SO severely for the sins of one's youth. Why
don't you withdraw your vain denials and throw
yourself on your wife's clemency ? If you can
fairly assure her of your fidelity since marriage,
and explain away these curious and compromising
interviews, all might yet be well.
You don't know the length and breadth of a
woman's toleration ! '

He smiled slightly.

You are giving me a powerful illustration
of it when you are able to show so much
generous kindness to a man of whom you
entertain such an opinion as you do of me.
Pardon me, however, if I say that a woman
who could condone such offences would never
have been friend or wife of mine. I have no
fault to find with Sybil's complete repudiation,
believing me the shameless liar and impostor
that she does ; so far from that, I would not
wish her to act otherwise.' He paused ; the

strongest desire of his mind at the moment was
to escape or curtail this controversy : it was
so cruelly useless. Miss Harrison broke the
silence promptly.

But you reproach her, nevertheless, for her
loss of faith, though to believe otherwise than
she does, in the face of the facts laid before her,
would not be a question of confidence but of
credulous unreason.'

She looked at him sharply as she spoke,
expecting some indignant disclaimer, but he
showed no inch nation to contest her words.
He seemed to wait patiently for her to continue,
but she was bent on having an answer.

Tell me,' she said, ' if I am not right in
saying you blame your wife for her present
attitude towards you, in spite of the ample
justification of circumstances ? '

I do not blame her,' he replied in a low
tone ; ' her character and conduct are now, as

ever, perfect in my eyes. I do not ask her to
forgive me, for it would be impossible for me
to plead guilty to her convictions ; and I
acknowledge that the pain she must feel, in
thinking of me as she does, must even be
greater than mine under her condemnation.
Promise me you will not withdraw your
friendship from her ! Your thorough knowledge
of all the circumstances of the case will make
yom sympathy of double value and effect ; and
I am going to ask something for myself. Will
you write and give me news of her sometimes ?
a mere bulletin will suffice  just stating if she
is well and, as time passes, happier.'

She looked at him with keen, impatient
sympathy. How thoroughly he succeeded in
holding under control the emotion that would
have mastered a weaker nature !

I will not pledge myself to such a
correspondence, but if you write on your

arrival in the colony, perhaps I may answer
your inquiries. Why have you pitched on
New Zealand ? '

Wh} one spot of the Antipodes rather
than another ? ' he asked quietly. ' It is
necessary to make a selection, and I need not
enumerate to you the proverbial advantages of
the climate and resources of New Zealand. I
have not very sanguine expectations of my
experiences there, but you will easily perceive
that all channels of usefulness are cut off from
me in this country, and I am at least resolved
to try and prevent my life from running
wasted through my fingers, because of personal
failure and loss.'

You go alone ? ' she asked abruptly  ' I
mean there will be no extraneous outside
influence to help you to new energy and
consolation P Do you pretend not to understand
me, or to feel outraged by so natural
a solicitude ? '

'Whatever I might feel,' was his answer,
any expression of resentment or indignation
would be out of place, considering the opinions
you hold and the belief you have accepted.
Still, I hope you will accept my assurance that
Nell Trevelyan is not to be my companion.'

Miss Harrison sighed impatiently. ' What
am I to believe or how act in this dilemma ?
Your voice and look and speech pour
contradiction upon your guilt  no villain or
hypocrite yet ever played their part to such
perfection. A solution occurs to me :  some
friend whom you think bound to screen has
sheltered himself under your name, in his
relations with this woman, and thus drawn you
into inevitable but unwilling intercourse. Ah !
have I hit the mark ? you change colour 
admit my sagacity.'

I do,' he answered, with the same unmoved
composure ; ' I admit it freely, but you are none
VOL. in. Q

the less mistaken. But will you now consent
to release me from this cross-examination ? It
is my fixed purpose to withhold the explanation
that would establish my innocence. I do not
think it is yours needlessly to distress me. Also,
I want to thank you as I have never yet been
able to do, for your sweet charity to my wife,
when she left me broken-hearted. Continue it
to her in the future ; do not let her leave you

till she is a little comforted. You will find it

easier, I dare say, to console her now than then,
and God knows I would wish her consoled at
any personal cost.'

Miss Harrison was deeply affected ; the
absence of all demonstration on his part
touched her far more than complaint or protest
could have done. She dashed away the
tears from her eyes.

And am I to understand that you mean to
put the ends of the earth between you, without

making any effort to see her before you start ?
Are you quite sure that to abandon the woman
who still loves you, is the best reparation for
past unworthiness ? Have you no last appeal
or prayer for sight of her again, to send back
through me ? '

Xo,' he replied firmly ; ' the bitterness that
is worse than death has been endured already,
and I do not even desire to see her attain. I
would subject neither of us to such useless torture
; I could not trust my own courage and
firmness under the renewed ordeal of her
reprobation and her tears. 'What good would
it do to send her some reiterated assurance of
the fidelity she distrusts, or mock her scorn
and alienation with protestations of my own unchanged
and unchanging love ? She will forget
me the sooner if she continue to think me unworthy.
You will refrain from saying any

Q 2

thing to her that would Needlessly excite her
sensibilities ? '

Miss Harrison rose to depart. ' All that
goes without asking,' she replied, tightening the
knot that fastened her heavy fur cloak, and
drawing down her veil Tor my part, so
bootless has been our interview, that I think
I shall be wise to tell her that I have not
been able to see you. I will wish you ban
voyage'

But you will allow me to see you to the
station ? and.' his duties as host suddenly
occurring to his mind, ' you will surely
take something to eat before you leave the
house ? '

She laughed a little sarcastically. ' Your
hospitality comes rather late. I will eat
nothing under your roof, thank you, nor at my
age do I want any protection from one end of
the world to the other. Order your servant to

get me a cab ; that is the Hit of the service I
require.'

She allowed him, however, to put her into
it when it arrived, and give her orders to the
cabman ; then, holding out her hand to bid him
good-bye, and retaining it while she spoke, she
added :

'I will, after reflection, grant your request,
so soon as you let me know where to address
you. That is, I will not fail to give you news
of your wife when  she is consoled ! '

CHAPTER XLIII.

Time is finite, and many of his daily thank
Heaven that it is so.

The days and longer nights ran their
slow course, until the Monday preceding the
Wednesday of his departure arrived.

Had the strain upon his endurance been
much longer protracted, he acknowledged to
himself he could not have borne it. Even now,
with his ordeal reduced within the term of
thirty-six hours, he began to feel the strength
of his forbearance slackening, and the desire to
see his wife once more before he left her, possibly
for ever, assume all but uncontrollable
intensity.

He did his best to wear out his physical
strength on the Monday evening, before he
returned home to sit down to the scarcely-tasted
dinner, in the hope that exhaustion
might produce sleep, the only chance of forgetfulness.
He left the dining-room, where he
had not allowed a fire to be lighted, and went
back to the library.

The familiar room had never looked so
forlorn. Owing to some inadvertence or misunderstanding,
the fire had gone out and the
candles had not been lighted ; his favourite
lamp, which always stood on the writing-table,
burned, as if in sympathy with its surroundings,
with a dim, inadequate light. The floor was
encumbered with packing cases, placed therefor
temporary convenience, and over which he
stumbled as he went in.

He paused and looked round him with a
shudder ; the room seemed haunted by ghosts

the ruthless ghosts of memories of the days
that are no more.

Following an instinct of fatigue he flung
himself on the couch, and yielding to another
impulse, equally imperious, he took up the soft
crimson blanket, which had lain there ever
since the day of Sybil's flight, and buried his
face in its folds.

How long he lay there, outwardly motionless,
but with the inward consciousness of
relentless mental activity  tracing back the
sweet brief past in tender recollection, and
projecting upon his reluctant imagination
the arid and distasteful future that lay before
him  he did not know, but his attention was
aroused at length by a gentle knock at the
door.

He started up from the couch before he
gave the necessary permission to enter, and
stood erect, with some sense of displeasure, to

face and dismiss as soon as might be, the
unwelcome intruder.

The door opens slowly, as if with reluctance
or hesitation, and  is it his imagination that
plays him false .  it is Sybil that enters ; Sybil
that approaches him with the swift, undulating,
familiar motion, as he stands rooted to the
ground. She is not in walking dress, as might
be expected, but except that she is deadly pale,
and her eyes heavy with tears and vigils, has
the sweet accustomed domestic aspect.

So absolute is his bewilderment that all his
practised self-command gives way. He lacks
the power to advance a step or even to pronounce
her name, while she, having reached his
side and looked into his face, suddenly sank at
his feet and threw her arms round his knees.

Julian, forgive me I ' she pleaded. ' I am
come back, back to the old love, the old belief.
You will not reject me ? '

He bent over her and tried to raise her in
his arms, but his agitation overpowered him,
and she resisted the movement.

Let me kneel a moment longer, and confess
my fault. I doubted the honour I had
tested, the goodness I had proved. I believed
for a few miserable days that I was the most
basely betrayed of women ! But it is not so,
my love, my darling! I do not need your
assurances, only it is not so ? '

She raised her beautiful pale face, alight
with the enthusiasm of her recovered
trust.

By this time Karslake had regained
his firmness, and a full perception of the
situation. He saw that she had gained no
new lights, that her return was simply the
result of the reaction towards her former conviction
of his integrity. It was therefore
possible for him to accept his blessedness fully.

implicitly, without detriment to honour or
conscience.

It is not so.' he said, repeating her words
as she desired, and with the same clear, tender
inflection as of old. He was calmer than she,
now that the first shock of emotion was over.
You are the only woman I have ever loved,
loved now as never before.'

He raised her from the o-round, and for a
moment their lips clung together in a passionate
embrace.

Renew,' he said, ' the old promise made at
the altar, the promise I asked for in vain on the
day of our last meeting and parting  nothing
but death shall separate us any more. Sybil,
you have given me back more than life ; say
again you believe in me ! '

With an inflexible belief,' she answered,
with a tearful smile ; ' a pledge once broken,
but that shall never be broken again. Julian,

I Ive nothing to ask of the past or the future ;
I do not stipulate nor even wish to remain in
England. I am willing to go with you to New
Zealand.'

For a moment his brow clouded, then
cleared.

That sacrifice I shall scarcely ask of you,
but to-night I am not able to consider the
future, the present is all I can grasp. It is
really you, Sybil, my sweetest wife, my fondest
friend ! I mean you are not a wraith, a vision
of the brain, such as has tempted me almost to
madness at times ? It is real flesh and blood I
hold ?

So real,' she answered, with a swift recurrence
to the unselfish tenderness and sweet
solicitude of their former relations, ' that I am
beginning to be conscious of cold and hunger.
I left Esher some hours ago.'

She saw the extent of both his physical
exhaustion and mental excitation, and wv.s
anxious to relax the strain. There was something
infinitely pathetic to her mind in his
present rare and passionate abandonment, in
contrast with the consummate self-restraint lie
had manifested in all the cruelly trying circumstances
of the past.

A sense of deep compunction for her
involuntary disloyalty strengthened within her,
but she would not express it. It was her
object now to soothe, not stimulate his sensibility.


'May I ring the bell?' she said, rising
from his side, ' and try angel introduce a little
comfort into our arrangements ? I should very
much have liked to have made you some coffee
and toasted you some bread, so as to join the
links of the chain of our broken intercourse,

but you have put that out of my power. We
must submit uow to have it sent up from
Mrs. JSTorris.'

She moved about the room as she talked,
reducing things to order with the old inimitable
grace, while he, leaning back on the couch,
watched her with silent, rapturous delight.

There are some joys worth purchasing, even
at the cost of the inexpressible pain they had
each endured.

CHAPTER XLIV.

Sybil Kaeslaee's return to her husband's
roof, under the influence of her restored faith
and quickened love, withdrew at once from his
Hfe that element of bitter personal wrong and
disappointment which, though courageously
borne, had been so hard to bear : but it was
not able to do more than this. He had indeed
recovered what he most esteemed in life, but he
had not recovered any new power of disarming
Hel stone's malice or circumventing his efforts
for his overthrow. He fully understood that
the fact of their reunion would be held to
forfeit the concession won at so cruel a cost
from Helstone's persistent enmity, and that the
persecution which had been for a time

suspended would be at once renewed, probably
in a spirit of still more determined hostility.

His outward life, with all its fine possibilities,
was none the less irretrievably wrecked
because his wife had consented to share his
downfall.

He was just as little able now as before, if
he would preserve inviolate the obligations of
his bond, to take any steps towards the defence
of his own honour. Simply, he must accept
his defeat and retire from a contest in which it
was denied him to put forth his strength.

Moreover, he had already made arrangements
for the future which it was
difficult or impossible to undo, and which
would involve a total change of place and
position.

It was part of the hard necessity laid upon
him that he must tell his wife that she must consent,
not to go to New Zealand indeed, but to

follow him far away from his late sphere of work
and high consideration, and to take part in the
certain suspicion and uncertain disgrace which
would undoubtedly rest on his name.

This he did on the day following their
reunion., with that characteristic blending of
solicitous tenderness and personal resolution
which Sybil had always found so difficult to
resist. Xo thought of resistance or even of
discussion was now present to her mind ; she
accepted the sacrifice demanded of her with
an absolute satisfaction, her chivalrous nature
going out to meet and Aveleome the demand
made upon it.

'Simply,' she said, 'where you lead I
follow. I submit implicitly to your decisions ;
and nothing will wound my conscience more
than that you should think it necessary to
justify to me any course of action you may
think it right to pursue. I will win back your
VOL. III. R

faith in me by a perfect obedience, that not only
asks no questions but wants no information

He seemed to weigh her answer before he
spoke, and then he said :

Some women would say this, Sybil, under
the idea of having their words met with tender
protest and repudiation, but I know you speak
in good faith. The proof that I shall give of
my belief in you is to take you at your word,
and accept all the devotion you offer.'

'And that is all T ask,' she answered
brightly.

This conversation had taken place over the
breakfast table, so anxious had Julian been to
open the subject of his present position and
plans without a day's unnecessary delay, and
learn in what way her judgment and feelings
would incline.

At the same moment his servant brought ina
card and handed it to him, saying 

I have shown the gentleman into the
library. He said you would be certain to see
him.'

Karslake nodded assent, but Sybil's quick
eye detected an indefinable change of expression
in his face. Alien the man had left
the room he turned to her and showed her
the card. It bore the name of ' h\ Robert
Anstruther.'

What will you say to me,' he asked, ' when
I tell you it will be necessary for me to see this
man alone ? '

That I am destitute of the curiosity of my
sex,' she answered, smiling. ' Do not keep him
waiting ; I heard his voice in the hall, and am
sure he is not a man to be trifled with.'

He took her hand and kissed it with that
sort of intense recognition of her generosity
which always moved her deeply. Her eyes
followed him out of the room with a yearning,

R 2

wistful look : after all, a mystery between
husband and wife is hard to bear, in spite of
mutual magnanimity.

Karslake entered the next room, and
found his visitor pacing impatiently up and
down the floor. On the opening of the door
he turned sharply round and looked at him
curiously.

You keep late hours, JuHan Karslake,' he
said, in a loud, harsh, but not unkindly tone,
and forget that I am a man of business. An
hour late on 'Change may make the difference
of some thousands to my pocket. What is the
meaning of this ? ' kicking the packing-cases
with his foot as he spoke. ' I have been absent
from England just eighteen months, and find
things all at sixes and sevens on my return.
With whom were you speaking in the other
room just now? voices were low but my-ears
are keen : it was a woman's voice ! '

Karslake looked surprised. ' It was to my
wife. You have not forgotten that I am
married ? '

Your wife ! ' repeated the other, with
an air of angry impatience ; ' does it run
in the blood, and you are playing me false
in your turn ? I was told last night
your wife had left you ; what am I to
believe ? '

Karslake hesitated. ' Before I answer, will
you be good enough to explain what you have
heard, and from whom ? Had I known of your
return '

He stopped ; he had been on the point
of saying that in that case he should have
made him the confidant of his affairs, but a
second thought recalled to him the difficulty
and danger that would have attended his
doing so. He changed colour under Mr.
Anstruther's angry scowl of baffled comprehension,

and recognised with a sort of desperate
patience that the toils of his miserable
position were about to be twisted into fresh
complications.

Mr. Anstruther watched his face with close
attention. Then he said :

I am come this morning to find out the
right and wrong of what I heard last night.
You know my detestation of all shuffling and
double dealing ; the inquiry I am here to conduct
shall be sifted to the bottom. Will you
bring your wife in and make us acquainted?
Since you say she is on the spot, it is well that
she should hear all that passes between us.
In God's name, man, can it be that you
hesitate ! '

He did hesitate, but he knew his reluctance
must yield to necessity. He went back to the
dining-room, and told Sybil she was wanted.
His manner was as usual, but she could detect

beneath it the indications of some great
anxiety.

It is Mr. Anstruther,' he explained. ' my
former guardian. He is just returned from
America. I must have mentioned him to you,
I think.'

Her belief was he had never done so, but
she would not express it, and they went back
together.

Karslake presented his wife with an air of
tender pride no mental perturbation was
sufficient to repress, and the old Scotch merchant
was secretly impressed with the beauty
and manner of the pale, distinguished-looking
girl.

After having made her some old-fashioned
compliments, to which Sybil replied with a
Winning grace that completed the conquest of
his good-will, he again turned sharply towards
Julian.

I am no gossip-monger, as you know, and
moreover had an impression that you at least
might be trusted to manage your own affairs
with decency and credit. I only returned from
New York yesterday morning, and last night
went to the house of an old friend, to ask and
answer questions. Here I chanced to meet a
man you know, Gilbert Helstone, who was able
to give me all the information concerning you I
was anxious to get. It was not of such a
nature, I grant, as I expected : he told us an
astounding story of your married life. One
item I already perceive was incorrect, and yet
he had every appearance of speaking in good
faith. It is an extraordinary muddle. One
question  is it true you have given up your
living ? '

It is quite true.'

'And the reasons?  but I will wait till
tl:e man comes. I engaged him to meet me

here in your presence at eleven o'clock, to
investigate the matter properly. He fails in
punctuality.'

Sybil drew a deep breath of intense excitement
; she scarcely ventured to look at her
husband, as he answered :

You heard Gilbert Helstone guilty of the
baseness of making my private affairs a matter
of public discussion, and you have asked him to
meet me in my own house ! '

I have. It appeared to me the quickest
way of discovering the truth, to bring accuser
and accused face to face ; it is not worth while
for you to resent the intrusion. If to report
facts that have become matters of public
notoriety be a baseness, there are few amongst
us not guilty of the same. But I hear the
door-bell ; let us have him in without delay.'

It will not be necessary for my wife to
remain ? '

Pardon me, again,' returned Mr. Antrum
' but it will be eminently necessary.'

As lie spoke Helstone entered the room,
with a certain assumption of contemptuous ease
he was inwardly far from feeling ; but any sense
of embarrassment yielded at once to the shock
of surprise with which he recognised the totally
unexpected presence of Sybil.

Mr. Anstruther perceived it, and gave a
short laugh. ' One of your facts of last night,
my dear sir, is already disproved. I find the
injured wife, who was about to proclaim her
wrongs in the Divorce Court, on the best possible
terms with her husband. How do you
explain the discrepancy '

For a moment Helstone gnawed his lip
in savage silence  how, indeed, could he
explain ?

By what subtlety of fraud had she been won
back ao'ain ? for that she was won back was

certain from the glance he had intercepted as
passing from her sweet eves to Karslake  a
glance eloquent of tender encouragement. His
feelings towards him were those of impotent
fury.

I cannot explain. I am simply confounded.
It seems like some infernal witchcraft.
Ask him '  with a brutal oath  ' if she
had left him, and why ? In her presence he
can scarcely forswear himself

It is quite true,' said Karslake firmly,
that my wife had left me, under the impression
I had deeply wronged her  an impression produced
by Mr. Helstone himself. Since then
she has recovered her belief in my innocence of
the charcfcs he brings against me, and which I
have never failed to assert. She only returned
to me last nio-ht.'

There was a moment's pause ; then he
added, in a lower tone, approaching Mr.

Anstruther and involuntarily laying his hand
on his arm in the extremity of his suppressed
anxiety, ' Let this explanation suffice ! '

Sybil looked at him in painful surprise ; she
had never seen him more deeply moved.
Although he succeeded as usual in commanding
his voice to steadiness, the workings of his face
were beyond the power of his self-control.
She perceived, too, that both Mr. Anstruther
and even Helstone were perplexed by an appeal
that could only produce the effect of deepening
suspicion. The latter burst into a mocking
laugh.

Spare him,' he said, ' as he entreats. His
nerves are unstrung, and it is a pity that his
wife's ears should be vexed with a thrice told
tale. God! how I loathe the exhaustless
perfidy and hypocrisy of the man, and deplore
the inconceivable blindness of the girl! Contact
with him has spoiled her sense of honour.'

Silence ! ' shouted Mr. Anstruther in an
authoritative voice, as lie marked the involuntary
shrinking of Julian, and saw the look
of proud defiance with which Sybil changed
her position in order to place herself at his
side.

A light breaks in upon my mind,' he continued.
' You have no need to repeat the
scandal, Mr. Helstone. You gave it to us full
length last night, with all the aid of realistic
detail, and I own I was puzzled, and my faith
in the man shaken. But one pont in honour
you suppressed, the name of the mistress. It
now occurs to me that I can supply that omission,
and perhaps let in daylight upon the
mystery. The solution did not offer itself tome
before.'

He looked with angry impatience towards
Karslake as he spoke, anxious to meet his eyes,
but without effect.

Helstone repeated the word ' solution ! ' with
so venomous a sneer as to add fuel to the other's
indignation. He turned upon him sharply.

It seems to be a matter of personal satisfaction
to you to prove Julian Karslake a liar
and a villain. You will possibly think it
strange, Mr. Helstone, but I have an older
knowledge of the matter even than yourself;
my acquaintance with Nell Trevelyan dates
nearly five years back.'

Helstone started. ' And you can still keep
terms with her seducer, who has doubled his
guilt since then, and betrayed a nobler woman
to a deeper disgrace ! '

Anstruther shook Karslake impatiently by
the arm.

What is the meaning of this farce ? ' he
demanded. ' You suffer a girl like your wife to
listen to such taunts, know yourself accredited
with the parentage of Nell Trevelyan's child.

flouted with its monstrous likeness to yourself,
and do not speak the one word that would
clear you I By God, you deserve to be left
struggling in the mire ! '

Leave me there,' said Karslake, in a low
suppressed voice, ' it is all I ask. My wife
believes in me, I have ceased to care for any
other judgment ; I beseech you to forbear any
further attempt at explanation ! ' He spoke ina
tone of almost desperate entreaty.

Mr. Anstruther continued to gaze at him
with increasing displeasure and suspicion.

There is more here,' he said, ' than shows
on the surface. Xo lunatic would give up his
Having and hand over his character to the tender
mercies of his enemy, besides, worst of all,
torturing the heart of the woman he has
married, on the inducement I suppose you to
have. I refuse to hold my tongue unless you
assure me you have made a clean breast of it

to Mrs. Karslake, and put her in absolute
possession of the facts. I am more indifferent
about your relations with Mr. Helstone. Has
he done this, my dear young lady ? ' bending
with kind solicitude to catch Sybil's low
answer.

My confidence in him is complete,' she
said. ' It is unnecessary to say on what it is
grounded.'

I think otherwise,' he answered gravely ;
you are upheld now by mere temporary
excitement ; in cold blood the force of what
Mr. Helstone has told you will sink into your
mind and disturb its peace. You returned to
your husband, I am told, last night, under one
impression ; you may leave him again a week
hence, under another. I will put a stop to
such fluctuations : it is the old life story, which
has moved my disgust more than my admiration
a hundred times before  JuHan, the

honest and good, making himself the scapegoat
of his worthless brother ! '

There was a moment's profound hush.
Helstone held his breath under a rush of feeling
he was unable to analyse. Sybil looked
up with a rapturous smile into Karalake's
face.

For your sake I rejoice ; for my own, I
could not have been better satisfied.'

He stooped down and kissed her solemnly,
but he did not speak. Why was he still so
pale, and apparently so little relieved by the
removal of this infamous stigma ? Both
Helstone and Anstruther gazed at his stern,
set face with baffled comprehension.

Your husband's behaviour is incomprehensible
to me, my dear young lady,' said the
latter. ' I am told he accepted even before
marriage to bear the onus of his brother's fault,
and has continued to do so till now, at the

VOL. III. s

Karslake raised his eyes boldly, in defiance
of inward sinking of heart, and looked steadily
first at the speaker, then at Helstone, who
was sitting at the table, his chin propped
on his hands, and his gaze riveted on his
face.

My motives were sufficient for myself, and,
as the matter now stands, it would be a work
of supererogation to discuss them. One only I

have wronged by so doing, and she has forgiven
me ; to no one else are any explanations
due.'

Then, addressing Helstone, not from any
prompting of personal feeling, but from the
stringent necessity of diverting Mr. Anstruther's
aroused suspicion, he asked :

Are you satisfied ? '

I am satisfied that I must shift my conviction
of your dishonesty from one point
to another ; my belief in your fundamental
insincerity is as great as ever. Only on
the condition of some rational explanation of
this practical imposture shall I change my
opinion.'

Karslake preserved a haughty silence.
Helstone maintained his scrutiny of his face.
Suddenly he turned towards Mr. Anstruther.

An idea strikes me,' he said. ' There is
something worse to conceal than this vulgar

crime of profligacy and desertion. If Julian
Karslake has submitted to this imputation, it is
to shield himself from the detection of some
more serious transgression. He and his brother
were doubtless associates in fraud. Are you
sure that the latter is dead ? '

Karslake neither started nor changed colour,
but he must have been more than human not to
have betrayed by some indefinable subtlety of
expression that a blow had been struck upon
his sensations, and the perceptions of the man
who watched him were exceptionally keen. A
cold cynical smile parted his lips.

He has deceived you,' he said quietly ;
his brother is alive.'

At his first suggestion the strongly-marked
face of Mr. Anstruther had undergone a
change. Hitherto he had preserved a sort of
impatient toleration of Karslake, but at these
words a look of hard vindictiveness came into

his face. His rugged cheek blanched with the
strength of his emotion, and his eves glittered
with a cruel light.

Is it so ? ' he muttered, going close up to
Julian, and laying his hands heavily on his shoulders,
so as to bring his gaze to bear upon his face
' is this the explanation ? your traitorous lie
has robbed me of my just revenge I You have
pawned your honour to hide your brother's
infamy, but you have pawned it in vain !
Mine is a righteous vengeance, and shall reach
him at the world's end. I warned 3'ou in old
times that I would never spare the one for the
Like of the other, and now I hold your cheat on
my credulity as only second to his felony. "Would
you attempt denial ? Your word where Harry
Karslake was concerned, would not have a
feather's weight ! '

He was hoarse with rage and excitement ;
his detestation of the younger Karslake had the

intensity of a passion, and no disappointment
of his life had been keener than when death
robbed him, as he had thought, of his power of
legal punishment.

If denial could avail,' said Karslake, freeing
himself from his grasp and meeting his infuriated
gaze with dauntless courage, ' I should
possibly attempt it, and settle the wrong with
my own conscience ; but I perceive it would
be in vain. Hear me speak,' he continued,
addressing Helstone and his wife ; ' there shall
be no lack of explanation now.'

He went up to Sybil's side and took her
hand.

No pledges you have given me in the past
shall bind you for the future ; you shall be free
to make a new departure on the grounds of what
I am going to say  free from shadow of blame
or thought of reproach. Simply, the case stands
thus. I have kept my brother's secret, not, alas !

to my own hurt alone, because the paramount
obligation of my life was fixed as devotion to
his interests. I swore before God to mv doings
mother to sacrifice my own welfare absolutely
to his, should it come into collision with it, and
it was the force of this boyish oath that helped
me to endurance and resistance, under those
circumstances of our early life so bitterly complained
of by Mr. Anstruther. Do not think,'
he added, ' that I claim any merit for this : as
circumstances stood it was the most rudimentary
form of duty.'

He paused, whether to give the opportunity
of reply or to rally his own taxed endurance
seemed uncertain, but no one spoke. Mr.
Anstruther stood ac the window with his back
towards the speaker, gnawing this lip and even
his nails, in the extremity of his repressed excitement.
Helstone, for the first time, sat with
lowered o-aze and with his hand shadlni!- his

eyes. Sybil alone looked up with a gaze full of
tenderness and pity.

I should never have dared to woo you,
Sybil,' he continued, ' while this responsibility
rested upon me. Nothing would be gained by
dwelling on the penalties my pledge exacted,
but I would not have asked any woman to
share them with me. When at last I came to
you with the story of my love, I believed that
I was free, accepting as proved the report of
Harry's shipwreck at sea. At that time also I
was perfectly ignorant of what the last act of
his Hfe had been. I am not quite sure that I
should have considered a crime washed out by
death, and consequently buried in oblivion, a
sufficient obstacle against trying to win the
woman I adored, but I did not know it.
When I did, our engagement was so far advanced,
and circumstances had become so
complicated, that a rupture would have been

difficult. I had even begun to hope that your
happiness was involved in mine, and, unable to
forecast events, I thought you need never
know aught beyond the fact that I had once a
brother. Here was an error of judgment,
perhaps of conscience too ; had I not made it,
the shame and anguish of this hour would have
been mine alone.' His voice fell and a flush
came over his face.

I thank God,' said Sybil in a low tone,
that we are so bound together that it is not
only my privilege, but my duty to share it.'

Ah ! but there is a point beyond which
even your generous co-operation must not
go. But hear me out, Sybil  I want to justify
your trust at every point. The day that 'Mr.
Helstone first saw me and Xell Trevelyan
together, was the day when she brought me the
news that Harry had effected his escape from
the wreck, and was still a living man. It was

his presence in her house, and the necessity of
providing for his safety, that took me to the
bedside of their sick chill, where I again renewed
the vows of my earlier years, pledging myself
to keep the secret of my brother's existence
inviolate. That is all that I have to say in the
way of self-vindication : what remains '

Mr. Anstrnther turned round and looked at
him at this point.

What remains,' he said, interrupting him,
is an acknowledgment on my part that I have
done you an injustice, and wish to recall what
I spoke in my anger just now. It will not
make a jot of difference to my action towards
your brother, who shall stand in the dock
sooner or later, and take the wages of his
felony ; but I am glad to be able to revert to
my former good opinion of yourself. Also,
Mrs. Karslake seems to me true metal enough
not to visit on your head the awkward fact

that in marrying you, she may probably have a
convict for a brother-iu-lav.'

Helstone dropped his hand to observe how
Karslake bore the brutal plainness of this
speech. It did not seem to affect him much,
except in regard to its impression upon his
wife. He was looking at her with an expression
of grave solicitude, in which there was as
little of shame or humiliation as of irritation oranger,
and as he met the wistful, yearning
tenderness of her eyes, he yielded to an impulse
he had checked before, and going up to her
took both her hands in his.

It is quite true,' he said, ' I have brought
this possible ignominy upon you, but I know
you acquit me of doing it wittingly, and I shall
never ask or rather suffer you to share it.
Even to you, my wife, beloved as you alone
know how I have loved you, my first duty is
not due. I am bound to my brother's fate by

an obligation without limit or reserve, and the
more so as I have failed to keep his secret, and
finally betrayed the trust that I have laboured
so hard to redeem. Sybil,' he added more
passionately, and straining her hands for a
moment against his breast, ' gauge the bitterness
of my self-reproach when I tell you I would
sacrifice our love, could I alone pay the
penalty, to have secured Harry's safety !
Having lost it, at least I cast in my lot with
his : I see no room in my life for any personal
indulgences.'

How ain I to understand you, Julian ? '
There was a vibration of anguish in her
voice that cut him to the quick, but was not
effectual to move him from his purpose. He
did not even shrink from meeting the reproachful
pathos of her glance.

I simply mean that I will not ask you to
endure the life that is before me. I shall join

my brother, with the intention of urging him to
surrender himself to justice ; and if I succeed,
shall of course identify myself, so far as possible,
with every step in the process of his condemnation.
But that failing  and it will fail  I shall
share his expatriation and help his concealment,
the only consolation left being the effort to save
him from sinking lower to a deeper shame.
Would you be equal to this hard co-operation,
this detestable companionship ? And if your
magnanimity carried you so far, I would not
accept the ruin of your fair life. Xo, dear ;
you shall return to the pure family affection and
literary ardours from which I had so hard a
matter to win you  would to God I had failed ! '

He bent over her and kissed her forehead,
not with passion, but with the calm tenderness
of an absolute renunciation. Then he turned
to Mr. Anstruther.

Oblige me,' lie said, ' by telling Mr.

Helstone and my wife the extent of Harry's
offence. Felony is a wide term ; they may
think him guilty of a worse crime than he
has committed.'

'That is scarcely possible,' replied the old
merchant drily, ' but I will meet your wishes
so far as I reasonably can.'

As he spoke he drew out his pocket-book,
slowly opened it, and extracted carefully the
forged cheque.

I have carried this about with me ever
since it was placed in my hands, but with small
hope of turning it to account as I am able todo
now. Shall I explain ? '

He approached the table where Helstone
was sitting, and, spreading it before him, indicated
the point ; the addition of a nought
had multiplied the original sum ten-fold ; what
other manipulation had been required had
been executed with consummate dexterity.

Helstoue nodded comprehension, and then
glanced towards Karslake. A sudden purpose
was forming in his mind.

'One moment,' he said. *I am professionally
interested in so delicate a misdemeanour ;
suffer me to test the forger' by the light.'

He rose, as if with the intention of approaching
the window, but as he passed the
fire he suddenly crushed together the morsel of
paper he held, and dropped it into the fervent
flame.

'I have wronged you,' he said, turning;
his pale face to Karslake, ' as grossly as one
man can wrong another. Accept my reparation
! '

There was a moment's pause of suspense,
and then Mr. Anstruther, with an inarticulate
cry of rage, made as if he would have
flung himself upon him in absolute personal
encounter. Helstone coolly evaded the attack.

I own,' he said, ' I am liable to any
reprisals at your hands, only spare me the
humiliating defeat such thews and sinews as
yours would inflict ! I have been guilty of an
unpardonable outrage, and deserve and expect
no quarter. My only regret is I possibly
anticipated your own action.'

Sybil came forward, and knelt at his feet.

Oh ! forgive him,' she pleaded, ' not only
Mr. Helstone, but Harry Karslake. Think what
he has suffered already, what shame and agony
this bold deed has spared us all ! '

Her words distilled like dew ; her pathetic
beauty moved him more than he would
acknowledge.

Your righteous vengeance,' she went on,
 would have ruined three Ives, instead of one.
Is it not better as it is ? The punishment
Harry deserved would have been endured in
its fulness by Julian alone. Think of the long

penance he has suffered, and accept it as his
brother's atonement ! '

He pushed her from him, but not roughly,
and gathering himself together, rose and glared
at Helstone.

Your deed is actionable,' he said, ' and I
will strain the law to punish it nth its utmost
rigour. I will subpoena Julian Karslake and his
wife as witnesses  he acknowledges the obligation
of an oath, and we will put it to the
test. You will find he has gained nothing
by your fraud. I will not be balked of my
revenge.'

He spoke harshly, but there was a visible
decrease of excitement in his manner.

'Nothing could condone my offence,'
answered Helstone, ' but the irresistible impulse
of the moment. It seemed the one way, however
unjustifiable, out of an inextricable difficulty.
I saw an appeal to your generosity

VOL. HI. T

would have failed, but we all learn to accept
the inevitable. I believe time and reflection
will reconcile you to your loss  otherwise, I
must bear my punishment.'

Anstruther turned and looked at Karslake.

Am I not to be insulted by your congratulations,
too ? or is your triumph too deep for
words ? '

Mine is a very mixed feeling. I am like a
man from whose shoulders a burden has fallen,
that he had nerved himself to carry all his life,
but who doubts his right of deliverance. There
will be little satisfaction to my mind in this
accidental reprieve, unless you endorse it by
your fullest forgiveness.'

Towards yourself ? That I have already
done. Towards your brother ? I have lost
the power to hurt him.'

He spoke with concentrated bitterness.
Karslake looked at him with a comprehension

and sympathy that did more to assuage his just
displeasure than expostulation or entreaty.

I cannot help acknowledging that Mr.
Helstone has gone beyond right and justice
in the step he has taken, and has robbed you
of a satisfaction you were justified in exacting.
Let me, at least, press upon you that
pecuniary reparation you once refused, but
which is now more than ever binding on my
conscience ; and for the rest, all real nobleness
and sacrifice in this matter still remain with
you.'

He paused, eyeing the stern, rugged
countenance with something of the wistful,
deprecating solicitude of his boyhood.

'You say you have lost the power of
proving Harry's guilt. Go a step higher than
the forced acceptance of IMr. Helstone's action,
and abandon the desire to do so ! Suffer me
to write to him, and tell him you are willing

X 2

to forgive him under certain conditions. His
welfare is as much now as ever my concern.'

Anstruther tried to harden his heart, but in
vain ; the fairness and directness of Karslake's
appeal commended itself to his mind, and ashe
looked into the pale harassed face of the
speaker, and weighed the effects of the protracted
trial he had endured, the real tenderness
he entertained for him won the final
victory.

The conditions, at least, shall be of my own
dictation,' he said grimly, ' and without appeal
from your fanatical sense of duty. I am overmatched
by villainy and sophistry, but I will
take my stand on one or two points. First,
you must take back your resignation from
the bishop, and return to reason and commonsense
; secondly, if Harry Karslake is to receive
condonation for his crime, it must be on the
understanding that he returns to this country to

marry Nell Trevelyan, and takes her and her
brat back to the Colony with him. England
can never hold us both ! You must strictly
keep your own counsel, as to this nefarious loss
of evidence, till the knot is tied between him
and his girl, and he pledges himself to expatriation,
or he will cheat us yet. Do you
consent ? '

I have no option but to consent,' replied
Karslake, grasping his hand gratefully, ' and
could not desire better terms. I will secure
his interests in New Zealand.'

Mr. Anstruther interrupted him with a
satirical laugh. ' Doubtless ! and will find it
necessary to visit him at the Antipodes, to see
for yourself they are duly secured  that Nell
Trevelyan says her prayers, and the boy is
being reared in the way he should go ! Those
points I will leave you to settle with your wife
and your conscience. I must go now  a

beaten man ! But for all that, Mrs. Karslake, I
shall come and see you sometimes.'

He moved to the door to depart, and Sybil
accompanied him out of the room.

When they were alone the two men looked
at each other. Heist one spoke.

I knew he would only bluster and give
in, but it was a bold step only success could
justify. After a time, Karslake, I may ask for
your friendship. With such a temper as yours, I
make sure of your forgiveness. I will prove
my good-will by wishing you all the happiness
you deserve.'

He waited for no reply, grasped strenuously
the hand the other extended to him, and went
out.

In the hall he met Sybil.
' I will leave it to your husband to persuade
you to forgive me. What more shall I say ?
that I give you free permission to repair my

blunders by your devotion ? Child 1 I am
almost willing to own he is worthy of you.
For the rest, I am going to Esher, to win Miss
Harrison's heart by the tale I have to tell.
Good-bye ! '

THE EM).

L05DOS : PRTSTKD BY

SPOTTISWOODB ASD CO., SEW-street Squab

And PABLIAKE2iT STBBET

 Illinois-URBANA

3 0112 052946537

>fi

\l'%,?

ili

;si
