CHAPTER 11.

Are you perfectly disengaged, Mrs Prescott '? "
The lady addressed started uneasily, though
the speaker was her husband. He had opened
the door of the pretty morning-room in which
she was sitting, so quietly that she had not
heard his approach ; and a visit from him at
this early hour of the day, or indeed at any
hour of the day as specially meant for herself,
was an unusual occurrence.

Besides, there was an inflection in the tone
of his voice that conveyed to her sensitive
feeling something disagreeable and aggressive.
'' Of course I am disengaged, George, if you
have anything to say to me," she answered,
nervously rising from her chair and pushing
another in his direction, as if in token of welcome

reception. " I  I hope there is nothing
the matter."

'' The matter ! "

Mr Prescott's pale keen face took a paler
shade ; an expression almost of repugnance
replaced the habitual sneer it wore in his intercourse
with his wife.

I often wish," he resumed, '' that your
expressions were a little less proverbial ; you
scarcely talk like a woman who has been an
instructor of youth, even in the limited capacity
of a nursery-governess. What do you mean
when you ask me if anything is ' the matter ' ? "

"I mean, has anything happened to upset
you  in the way of business that is, or  in any
other way ? "

The words were weak and provocative enough
to a temper on edge with worry and irritation ;
and the obvious timidity of the speaker, who
scarcely dared to let her frightened eyes rest on
the face she was yet so anxious to read, increased
his impatience almost to frenzy.

He stifled an oath between his clenched teeth.

*' It would be encouraging to bring one's
troubles to a nervous fool like yourself, supposing
there were something wrong. But you
are Lucia's mother, and I find it necessary to
talk to you about her. When did you hear
from her last ? "

I have not heard since she wrote to tell me
of her safe arrival at her sister's. She was expecting
Lieutenant Marriott, and would very
likely wait till she had seen him before writing
again. Have you read the papers this morning?
both he and Captain Frobisher are most honourably
acquitted."

She presented every word she spoke with an
air of deprecation, and felt relieved that her
reply was listened to, without sneer or outburst.

Mr Prescott was revolving two alternatives
in his mind ; he had a point to gain, and hesitated
between despotism and constitutional
authority.

I have read the papers," he said quietly,
and no daughter of mine shall marry a man
who has placed himself in an equivocal position.

VOL. I. B

I have decided to break off that engagement ;
it never had my approval, as you know : it was
your doing, and therefore a mistake."

He got up and began to walk the room, kicking
the dainty furniture to right and left, so as
to clear a path for himself, and furtively glancing
at his wife.

She looked up with more boldness than he
had expected.

I do not think an engagement like theirs
can be broken off ; it has gone too far. They
are very much in love with each other  Lucia
would break her heart."

"Do not you remember that we were once
very much in love with one another, and what
is the residuum now ? Itays in the long-run
to start with a little cool dislike or reasonable
indifference. It does not suit my plans that
Lucia should marry a beggarly lieutenant ; and
I am used to carry out my plans."

He stopped walking the floor, and stood
before the chair where she sat.

One word  will you help me ? "

There was a concentration of purpose in his
pale face and glittering eyes, as well as a reserve
of anger and insult, which produced its
effect ; for this woman feared her husband more
than any other power, human or divine.

You will not ask me, George, to do what is
wrong ? " she said feebly.

*' No ; I am going to ask you to fulfil a wife's
duty : there is ' something the matter,' as you
phrase it, and only one way of deliverance, and
for once you can be useful to me. Do you like
the life you lead ? I mean," he added, as he
saw her perplexity, "you have grown accustomed
to ease and luxury, and have adapted
yourself to it as readily " (he could not forego a
sneer) *' as if it had leen your birthright. You
have brought your girls up in purple and fine
linen, and used them to fare sumptuously everyday.
Happily we have settled one of them
fairly well, and her husband can scarcely turn
round upon her under any family casualty ; but
Lucia is still on our hands. It would scarcely
suit that young lady to return on her mother's

lines, and teach brats in a nursery for a living 
yet such a necessity might arise."

I don't think it could. Lieutenant Marriott
loves Lucia for her own sake  it would make
no difference to him."

He controlled himself with a powerful effort.

And is Lucia the only anxiety you have ?
We have lived together for over twenty years,
and it is to be supposed you know something of
my character and work. I have not fought my
way to the front for nothing, but at the cost of
hard thinking and striving. How did we begin
life, and what is our status now? My name
to-day is a power in the city  a guarantee
equal to floating half-a-dozen bubble companies
but tomorrow the tide might turn. Perhaps
I have made a false step, and ventured too
much in the desire to secure more  a larger
fortune for our handsome girl ! Enough ; I
want help, and must have it."

A false step ! " she repeated, as he paused
a moment ; " that does not mean more than
an error of judgment your sagacity will soon

retrieve. So long as it is not a question of

honour " she stopped, uncertain how to goon

under the cynical gaze that met her hesitating
attempts at self-expression.

*' So long as it is not a question of honour
we will pauperise ourselves willingly, and will,
moreover, give our daughter to a pauper ?
Pardon me, we will do nothing of the kind ;
nor should I find any compensation in your
inane moralities. We will retrieve our position
 that is certain ; but it will be by selling
our daughter. I am pledged to barter Lucia in
exchange for an accommodation without which
absolute ruin  possible shame  would overtake
us."

Mrs Prescott sat silent. If she had dared,
she would have repeated the words " possible
shame," and pressed some inquiries home to
him. As it was, she received the announcement
with a sinking heart, and evident change
of colour.

Do you know the name of the firm with
whom we bank in the city ? "

She shook her head.

You can scarcely surprise me ! It is one
that ranks something lower than the Rothschild
of finance  Vivyan, Deane, & Vivyan 
but a great name notwithstanding, and one that
will answer my purpose to the full. If I go onto
tell you that, under severe pressure, I have
put both my credit and honour in their power,
what will you say '? Surely that you wall help
me if you can ? " .

'* Yes, I would say that ; ' if we can ' includes
a great deal."

In this case it includes very little. Mr
Deane, senior, is willing to meet all my demands
on condition that I give our daughter
Lucia to his son and heir."

To Everard Deane ! "

"Is it possible that you are shamming ?
Why do you repeat the man's name as if you
knew him, almost in the same breath as you
declare you never heard it ? "

I have heard a great deal about Everard
Deane, though I did not know who your

bankers were. You must have heard about
him too." She looked distressed.

'rit would be strange if what I may have
heard, or you either, would make any difference
in my intentions," he said, harshly. "Things
so stand with me that, were he the world, flesh,
and devil incarnate, he should have Lucia for
wife, since that is the price of my deliverance."

But Lucia will refuse to consent."

It is part of the duty that I require from
you to overcome Lucia's possible reluctance.
I shall have certain irresistible arguments to
apply, but they must be backed by her mother.
Do you understand ? or shall I be reduced to
threaten ? "

He sat down, and drew a chair close to her
own.

Shall I recall to you the painful periods of
seclusion you were obliged to observe after the
birth of each of your children '? We have both
intimate friends acquainted with the circumstance
; and I have some who have heard me
deplore that your recovery has not been so

perfect as I could wish. It is of course possible
I may have mistaken the excess of mental
weakness for lunacy ; but, by God ! if you
thwart me in this thing  that is, if you don't
coerce your daughter by any means that maybe
in your power  you will bring my doubts
to a conclusion. I think I need not make my
meaning clearer."

For a moment a powerful sentiment of uttermost
scorn gave her courage to look him defiantly
in the face, but she had been the timid
slave of his stronger will from the hour when
she had yielded her own to his brief passion,
and as her eyes encountered the cruelty and
resolution of his, her mind fell back again into
the collapse of submission.

"That is right' he said, answering her unspoken
words, " I assure you resistance would
not pay on your part or Lucia's ; she shall be
Mrs Everard Deane before six months are over !
I would give her a jparure of diamonds to mend
her broken heart, only it will be unnecessary.
I am told there are diamonds in the Deane

coffers fit for a queen's ransom or despair.
For the rest, there will be a good many details
to arrange, and that without loss of time, but
the next thing to be done is to get the girl
home. You will not make any mistake ; today
is Tuesday, she must be home at latest
by Thursday. One word more : has Lucia heard
any gossip about Deane ? "

"I do not know ; I have never heard her
mention him."

'' Ah ! you are inclined to be sulky, but I will
condone temper on the ground of obedience ;
only you will take care she hears nothing to
his discredit so far as you are concerned."

He took out his watch and looked at it.

"It is 4.30. You will have plenty of time
to write by to-day's post. I have an engagement,
or I would look over your letter when
written ; as it is, I trust you."

And he went out of the room, shutting the
door softly after him.

CHAPTER III.

When the ricci banker, Marcus Deane, had
married late in life the Lady Elizabeth Gre villa,
who had herself passed her first youth, it was
confidently asserted that she had been proof
against his. solicitations until he had shown hera
certain casket of diamonds of which very
peculiar circumstances had made his grandfather
the possessor. These jewels had come
to the old man, who had been the founder of
the family, as an equivalent for large pecuniary
advances he had made in early life to a
certain Hungarian Jew, who had succeeded in
winning both his sympathy and his confidence.
Long years after, when the circumstance had
faded from his memory, and his head was white
with age, he had received this costly bequest.

duly authenticated, as the outcome of the stranger's
gratitude.

I owe you," he wrote, " the prosperity of a
life in which I have proved everything false but
your friendship and my own sense of it. You
wrong no one by accepting these jewels, which
are absolutely worth less than what you gave
me. They belonged to a faithless wife who has
gone to her account before me, and I have no
child."

The diamonds were beautiful enough to excuse
any woman for coveting their possession,
and if they served to turn the scale in the
banker's favour, he had no reason to reo-ret
their adequacy.

Lady Elizabeth made him an excellent wife,
but their married life was none the less a disappointment.
It was a matter of deep regret
to her that she was the mother of only one
child, and that a son, so that she left no daughter
behind her to inherit the family treasure.
It would be hard to endow a son's wife with
so priceless a gift.

But alas ! even that alternative proved to be
doubtful ; the chances being that her son would
never live to take unto himself a wife. The
blessing of sound health and full development,
which seem for the most part to be granted to
every peasant's or pauper's teeming offspring,
was denied to this solitary inheritor of birth
and fortune.

Her ambition had been to have a son who
would fitly represent the accumulated advantages
of his inheritance ; and nature presented
her with a feeble infant, whose life was with
difficulty sustained by skilled ministry and incessant
vigilance, and whose organic weakness
made the preservation of it a questionable
good.

For the first six years of Everard Deane's
painful existence scarcely a hope was entertained
by his physicians that he would reach,
not maturity, but boyhood even ; and he never
would have done so had he not had at command
all the resources of medical science,
backed by the most assiduous devotion.

But this care touched only his bodily needs :
moral training he had none ; unlimited indulgence
was the law of his nursery. The notion
of discipline was absurd in relation to a child
whose days were already numbered ; there was
no motive to educate him for the battle of
life, when in all likelihood he would never be
called to engage in it.

Nurses and tutors  for the boy would have
tutors  soon learnt their lessons ; he was the
supreme consideration in the household, to
which every other interest, pleasure, or duty
must yield. He was to know no coercion, even
the mildest ; his will was never to be disputed
or crossed.

When he was in his fourteenth year his
mother died ; up to that time he had spent the
greater part of his life on a reclining board,
but his sufferings had been softened by constant
journeyings to home and Continental baths,
and by daily carriage exercise under conditions
of luxurious palliation. The apartments of the
invalid boy were so sumptuously and fantastically

furnished as to be more like the realisation
of an Arabian night's tale than the living
rooms of an English merchant's son ; but in
his behalf  to relieve the cruel hardness of his
lot  no outlay was too costly and eccentric.
He was taught from his cradle that he was a
victim ; " the pity of it " was a sentiment he
drank in with his foster-mother's milk. If
family love or care, if money, art, or nature
herself could offer him a brief satisfaction, one
of the ends had been attained for which each
and all existed.

And in spite of all this the boy did not
grow up a monster of selfishness. If he came
into the world with a feeble body, the inevitable
balance was redressed by an acute mind,
an imagination of fire, and a sweetness of disposition
which refused to assimilate the poison
of his inordinate indulgence.

We have said he would have tutors, though
no outside pressure to learn was put upon him.
His passion for books saved him from excessive
lamentation over the deprivations of his lot.

Nailed to his couch, by which sat a succession
of more or less competent teachers, he could
still learn, and he seemed to learn by intuition.
His aptitude for languages was rather an instinct
than a faculty  he divined his author as
much as translated him. He did not aim at
profound scholarship, nor was it-part of his
tutors business to insist upon it. All he
asked for was to be helped to such a knowledge
of Latin or Greek, French or German,
as should give him the key to the literature of
each, and he was content. His literary tastes
were omnivorous, and indulged without supervision
or restraint. Smollett and Shakespeare,
Fielding and Milton  the latter in his prose
works as well as his poetry ; and the prototypes
of these, so far as they have such in foreign
tongues, were accepted with the same zeal and
thoroughness, until fiction and poetry palled on
the overfed fancy, and he turned with a suddenly
diverted interest to philosophy and politics.
As little heed on this point as on others was
taken; he imbibed atheism and radicalism

without any knowledge that the world had
such hard names for his crude notions, and was
confirmed in them by the man who was at
that time his tutor, and who had been accepted
on the grounds of the brilliant capacity and
gracious manners which were acceptable to his
pupil, without much investigation into his
moral fitness.

Everard Deane lived to disprove the ominous
prognostications of his birth. Singularly enough,
his health seemed to strengthen from the time
of the mother's death who would most have
rejoiced in its amendment. He was never likely
entirely to outgrow his constitutional infirmities,
but he was able to leave his couch and walk
without support, the spinal weakness resolving
itself into a slight stoop and a tendency for the
head to sink between the shoulders ; and even
these peculiarities become less marked as years
passed on and greater vigour was developed.

At eighteen he went to Oxford, his beloved
but unprincipled tutor following him chiefly
in the capacity of companion and nurse. It

was afterwards said by Deane's friends and
apologists that it was the example and teaching
of this man that had such a fatal influence over
his pupil. Be that as it may, the young man,
suddenly emancipated from the restraints of
home and the thraldom of sickness, with a creed
of the most absolute epicurism, acknowledging
no moral or religious obligations, and with unlimited
resources at command, ran a quite exceptional
career of personal indulgence and excess.
The honours almost within his reach he made
no effort to secure ; he was sick of study and of
books now that reviving health and confirmed
manhood were prompt to suggest another field
of passionate gratification. His natural fastidiousness,
and a constitutional sweetness of disposition
which made it painful to him to hurt
the feelings of another, prevented him from
outraging propriety to such a point as to incur
public disgrace or dismissal ; and it is very
probable that only his closest intimates were
aware of the licence he had allowed himself.
After he had kept two or three terms at

VOL. I. c

Oxford, his morbid restlessness suggested another
change, and he proposed to his father he
should travel. There was no objection made to
the arrangement. Marcus Deane, who had a
considerable knowledge of his son's then mode
of life, hoped that it might break the links of
vicious habit ; but such an end was effectually
frustrated by the circumstance that his tutor
was still his travelling companion. Five years
Everard Deane remained abroad, during which
time he exhausted in a measure all the capitals
of Europe.

Sensuality in its turn palled, and that speedily,
upon this passionate experimentalist of the
resources of life ; and, moreover, his eyes had
become open to the worthlessness of the man
who would have lured him lower still down the
decline of dishonour. He dissolved the connection
with the sharp indignant pain of one
who has been wounded where such wounds
are vital and incurable, but with characteristic
generosity towards his seducer ; and then he
turned himself in another direction.

He became an enthusiast in music and art,
and devoted himself to the study and mastery
of his new pursuits witt the same abounding
energy of purpose which he had given to his
books in boyhood.

He took up politics with equal ardour ; and
it was only the want of physical vigour which
prevented him from enrolling himself as a
volunteer in the Italian army of independence.
As it was, he followed Garibaldi through one
of his brief, heroic campaigns, enduring exertion
and privation with perfect courage and good-temper.


There were constantly recurring periods of
his life when he suffered agonies of physical
pain, and found himself absolutely incapacitated
for either work or pleasure. His fortitude
and patience under these attacks were
admirable, and could not but endear him to
those who knew him best. Indeed he was at
all times popular in society  his natural courtesy
and eagerness to relieve material want or
pain under all aspects, binding many hearts to

him in the ties of gratitude, and leading even
those who could not but condemn his principles
and mode of life to try and find excuses for
him.

At the end of the period mentioned, and at
the earnest solicitation of his father, he returned
home, and made himself known in London
circles. But he found fashionable society-flat,
stale, and unprofitable; said his constitutional
ailments were aggravated by the damp
airs of Britain ; and pertinaciously refusing to
consider his father's entreaty that he would
marry, absented himself again from his native
land.

During the years that followed, his course of
life was very imperfectly known, and probably
greatly exaggerated. He travelled far and wide
in all the continents of the Old World : it was
said he had embraced Mohammedanism and
established a zenana of his own, in a sort of
Aladdin's palace of delights, in some remote
Turkish province not specified. But then it
was also said that he had turned Jesuit, and

worked under the brotherhood for six months,
in a lazar-house on the Syrian moiiD pains. It
was an admitted fact that he had been Livingstone's
companion for a time, during which he
had acted as brother or son to the distinguished
traveller, nursing him through a dangerous illness,
and lending him substantial assistance and
supplies from his own abundance.

How, with the constitution he possessed, and
with constant liability to neuralgic attacks of
the most severe type, Everard Deane lived
such a life of hardship and exposure, broken
by periods of Sybaritic indulgence, puzzled
all those who cared to consider the subject :
he himself said he knew his own requirements
best, and was never better than when
rouohinpr it. But he had at this time again
yielded to his father's exigence, and not only
consented to return home, but had promised
to try and reconcile himself to civilised life,
and even to take into serious consideration
the idea that he ought to marry and settle
down.

You are over thirty years of age, Everard,
and I am seventy," Mr Deane had said to him,
a few days after his establishment in the great
paternal mansion in Eaton Square ; "it would
be the greatest satisfaction of my life if I could
see you the husband of a good woman, or pat
the head of a grandchild before I die."

But is it certain a good woman would have
me for a husband ? "

The older man hesitated, and his browns contracted
a little ; for the question presented the
horns of a dilemma.

'' Few of us," he answered sententiously, "are
worthy of a good woman's love."

But there are degrees of unworthiness ; indeed,
so far as my experience goes, it is not the
other sex which has taught me lessons in generosity
and virtue."

Your experience has been unfortunate.
And," added Mr Deane, gravely, "I suppose
it is understood between us that you have sown
your wild oats, and are now prepared to act the
part of a sober English gentleman? I am as

little disposed as yourself to compromise any
good woman's happiness."

But there is another point. Granting I am
prepared to fulfil my part of the contract, am I
justified in transmitting to another generation
such a constitution as mine ? I should hesitate,
for mere humanity's sake, to summon any creature
into existence to bear what sometimes I am
called upon to bear."

"My dear Everard," and the tall, stalwart
father rose hastily, and laid his hand affectionately
on his son's shoulder, " that does not
follow ! You failed  forgive me  to inherit my
proportions and vigour ; we would hope your
children would enjoy a happier immunity."

So be it ! I am prepared, then, to enter the
lists ; but I am convinced, in spite of my docility,
that you will find it harder work than
you imagine to persuade any woman to marry
me."

A few days after this, and just before Lucia
Prescott's visit to her sister, which was to be so
arbitrarily interrupted, Everard Deane was at

the opera, and saw her in an opposite box.
She was with a party of friends, and full of
gaiety and animation ; he sat and watched her
throughout the performance, and at its close
made minute inquiries as to who she was. The
next day he said to his father 

' Do you happen to have any business relations
with a man called George Prescott, and
who, I am told, is well known in the city 1 "

I believe he banks with us : what then ? "

'' I happen to have seen his daughter, and
should like to be introduced to her. You are
bent on my marrying. I am averse to it ; but
if I must marry, I should like that girl for my
wife."

Mr Deane stood in perplexed consideration.

You should look higher, Everard ; she is
not your equal." He observed the cynical look
on his son's face, and hastened to add 

But I will make inquiries. A predilection
on your part is not to be neglected. You
know I Avould sacrifice a good deal to see you
married."

CHAPTER IV.

A MAN with his life at stake, in the supreme
crisis of self-defence, is not likely to be very
scrupulous about the means he employs, and
there are circumstances in Yhich physical existence
itself is less precious to its possessor than
the preservation of name and position.

George Prescott was standing on the extreme
edge, not only of commercial ruin, but of disgrace.
As a stockbroker with a continually increasing
reputation for sagacity, acuteness, and professional
reserve, he had risen from the grade of
substantial comfort to the middle circle of
admitted opulence. He was by no means the
influential city potentate he had given his wife
to understand ; but that is simply to say that,
like many other men, his self-estimate and that

of the outside world did not precisely correspond.


The pace at which he had been steadily rising
had become of late years too slow for his ambition;
he desired to take rank amongst the
bi-millionaires of his day, and thought he saw
the way to do so by embarking largely in a
foreign speculation of magnificent potentialities,
the absolute security of which he considered
certain. In making this estimate he relied upon
his own practised faculties of perception and
calculation, which had hitherto justified his self-confidence
; but on the present occasion they
played him false. Some undetected factor in
the account brought confusion on the scheme,
and Prescott found himself suddenly involved
in liabilities, which he was not only unable
to meet, even under the most tremendous sacrifice,
but the repudiation of which, if only whispered
on 'Change, would be tantamount to his
professional downfall.

He banked with Messrs Yivyan, Deane, &
Yivyan, and had at the time considerable sums

of money to the credit side of his account, or
what had looked so yesterday. To-day, figuratively,
these would be but as a drop in the
bucket of his emergency. There was only one
thing to be done ; he must maintain the belief
in his solvency, while looking out for ways and
means of re-establishing it ; and for this end he
must venture boldly. He decided to meet his
most pressing claims by drawing bills on his
bankers at dates corresponding with the involved
emergencies of his situation ; and he did
this with the free and disenoraored air of a man
who can utilise blank paper to any required
extent, either on the grounds of unlimited
credit or of an inexhaustible deposit.

He had not, of course, lost sight of his inability
to meet his bills at maturity, and he
knew equally well that the first one that was
repudiated by Messrs Vivyan, Deane, & Vivyan
would be the knell of his financial existence; also,
that each draft duly honoured would reduce
the anxiety of those who held the rest of his
paper and the chances of their negotiating it.

He had cherished, as men do in this game of
life, the hope that some brilliant stroke of fortune,
some successful sleight of hand in the
manipulation of shifting markets, might cover
his necessities, but he was disappointed.

He trod so carefully that he did not indeed
sink deeper in the mire, but no chance of retrieval
presented itself, and the day and hour
came when he knew his credit was exhausted,
and he must meet his bankers with a prayer
for their indulgence more or less humiliating.

As a matter of necessity he accepted his position,
and took his way at once to Lombard
Street. He asked to see the senior partner, Mr
Deane, because that gentleman had a widespread
reputation for liberality and kindness of
heart ; and he found himself received with the
bland old-fashioned courtesy which never knew
any distinction of client.

Mr Prescott looked pale and agitated. He
said he had just received a severe shock :
knowing that a certain bill which he had given
was within a few days of maturity, and that

the drain upon his account had been exceptionally
heavy of late, he* had felt it necessary to
ascertain precisely how matters stood, and found
to his surprise and consternation that they could
scarcely be worse. Under these circumstances,
and with the explanation and security he was
prepared to give, he must appeal to Mr Deane
for a temporary accommodation.

Mr Deane naturally inquired for what amount
the draft had been drawn, and the nature of the
security Mr Prescott was prepared to offer.

The latter named the sum, which was a heavy
one, with the coolness of a man accustomed to
five figures.

The banker slowly crossed one leg over the
other, and stroked the faultless broadcloth with
a meditative air ; then raising his grey overhanging
brows, and looking steadily at his
client, said 

It strikes me, as a point requiring full explanation,
that a man of business like yourself
should risk such an alternative as this, or betaken
unawares as to the state of his credit.

It is a question not of hundreds but of
thousands."

"You are quite justified, Mr Deane, in what
you say and imply," replied Prescott, in a voice
of suppressed feeling ; '' and my negligence is
almost as incomprehensible to myself as to you.
One plea is that the pressure of affairs during
the last few months, which has been growing in
weight and importance, and the issue of which
will almost immediately relieve me from my
present new and disagreeable position, has
driven this transaction out of my tried memory.

Another  but I am loath to urge that " he

hesitated, and then added, with the abruptness
of a man forced to speak against the grain 

I have been in the habit of giving my wife
blank cheques."

I am sure," he continued, uncertain of the
effect he had produced, for the banker's face was
under due control, " you will not expect me to
say more on this point. Our eldest daughter
has been married lately, and a good match involves
great expenses ; also it is difficult, in

these domestic emergencies, to draw the rein
which has been accustomed to hang slack. But
with this temporary .accommodation I shall be
able to provide for the future."

He was scarcely aware, so little are we accustomed
to gauge our own manifestations, that
every word he spoke increased Mr Deane's distrust
and dislike. The interview ended in a
postponement of the business, ostensibly on the
plea of further consideration on one side, and
the production of satisfactory security on the
other, though Mr Deane had already, in his own
mind, closed the negotiation, regarding George
Prescott as a man not to be trusted.

But before the second interview took place, it
so happened that Everard Deane had seen the
stockbroker's daughter, and notified his admiration
of her to his father. The result was that
Mr Prescott met with a very different reception
from what had been intended  the weighty
accommodation asked for was granted, and was
followed up by a request that he would call in
Eaton Square on the following day on private

business. In that interview lie learnt, to his
eager satisfaction, that the plank of salvation
about to be thrown across the gulf of his difficulties
was to be strengthened by very substantial
props; Mr Deane making a reserved but
clear statement of his son's wish to be introduced
to Lucia with a view to paying her his
addresses, on the distinct understanding that
her affections were disengaged, and that she
was free to be sought in marriage.

It might be supposed that Mr Prescott felt
himself perplexed on this ground, but it was
not so; he lied with invincible courage and
frankness, trusting to his own resources to
manipulate matters to a satisfactory conclusion,
and scarcely conscious of hesitation as to whether
the frivolous partiality of a girl for an
undesirable lover was to be weighed in the
balance against his momentous social interests.

On the evening of the same day, which was
also that which had seen the happy reunion of
Hugh Marriott and Lucia, Mr Deane announced
the success of his negotiation to his son.

Dinner had just ben concluded, and dessert
was on the table, but Everard himself had sat,
as was very often the case, chiefly as a spectator
of the feast, and was now lying back on a couch
with a cigar between his lips and a book in his
hand.

I engaged to marry but not to woo," he
answered ; " the preliminaries of the alliance
are in your hands. When everything is arranged,
it will be soon enough to make the consenting
parties known to each other."

His obvious indifference stimulated Mr Deane's
anxiety. The match had been very disagreeable
to him ; but if this chance was lost there was
small hope of raising another. Better the
daughter of George Prescott than no wife at
all.

"Do you seriously suppose," he asked, 'that
a handsome girl of twenty will be courted by
proxy i

It might be dangerous, certainly. At
seventy years old you have youth and vigour
enough left to throw my inferior advantages

VOL. L D

into ridiculous contrast. Think again, sir I I
have not the slightest objection to a stepmother,
however young or handsome, and the chances
would be greatly in your favour if you would
accept the idea of a son instead of a grandchild.
It is a poor expedient to perpetuate the race
through me."

' You insult me, Everard ! "

'' Not with intention. If I speak bitterly, I
speak the truth. I am not sure I have the
effrontery to face this blooming girl, innocent
as Eve before the tempter, in the character of a
suitor. If her heart is free, my chances, you
will own, are poor of winning it."

Mr Deane looked annoyed. It is difficult to
make yourself the advocate of expediency without
compromising your dignity as a moralist.
There are other considerations in a calculating
age like ours which turn the matrimonial scale,"
he said. " A woman is not of necessity to be
condemned because she rates at its worth a
position such as you would be able to give her.
Then you are morbid about your disadvantages :

you must know york inherit your mother's
beauty of feature, and if you have not the
inches and physique of a heavy dragoon, you
have what ores farther with women  a

o

winning manner and an eloquent tongue. If
this young lady cares for no one else  and her
father assures me this is the case  I see no
reason why you should not win her."

Everard shook his head. "I will try for
your sake ; but the mere fact of my succeeding
would lower her in my eyes. Lucia Prescott
should mate with a man in his first youth, full
of worth and honour. I*can read her pure and
ardent soul in her sweet looks"'

Mr Deane looked at him curiously.

And is there some inborn hindrance to
your proving yourself a man of worth and
honour ? Granting that the past has been unsatisfactory,
it is with the present and the future
that a wife has to do. Happily, an act of confession
is not one of the preliminaries of courtship."


Everard's reply was by a sudden lighting up

 >-4

of expression, which conveyed the idea of some
strong feeling having been stirred ; but it faded
down instantly into languor and pallor, without
being put into words. He went back to his
book and his sofa, saying tamely 

'' We won't discuss the ethics of courtship ;
just give me my instructions when and where
I am to meet Miss Prescott, and I will follow
them implicitly."

CHAPTEE V.

Lucia obeyed her mother summons at once.
Mrs Prescott had told her it was her fathers
wish that she should come home, and although
the girl was not afraid of her father  for he had
been uniformly indulgent to her  she knew perfectly
well that any disobedience would be
visited on the tender-hearted woman to whom
she was both loyally and passionately attached.

Also, if she left the country her lover would
return with her to town ; and the capabilities
of garden-parties, concert-rooms, and picture-galleries
were scarcely less for perpetual intercourse
than the seclusion of Mrs Lorimer's
charming home on the sea-beach at Lufton.
Captain Frobisher not being yet appointed to
another ship, though he had the best hopes of

being so. Lieutenant Marriott was unattached
at present, and had therefore no other business
in life but to obey the commands of the gracious
girl he adored, under any variation of whim or
(Circumstance.

He travelled up with her to town, and would
have driven straight with her to her father's
house without doubt of welcome, but as they
stepped on the platform at Haddington, Mr
Prescott himself came forward to meet them.

It was a conjunction the latter had not
anticipated, but he plumed himself on being
a diplomatist, and having (as a diplomatist
should) his feelings under admirable control.

I have positively shaken myself free from
business at this hour of the day, Lucia, for
the sake of meeting .you ! Glad to see you
look so well. The mother has been fretting
after you as usual ; we will get home as fast
as we can  the carriage is outside."

But, papa, you are overlooking Hugh in
your satisfaction. Pray shake hands  he will
come home and dine with us, of course ? "

Hugh ? Lieutenant Marriott  oh, ten thousand
pardons ! I had not the least idea he had been
your travelling companion. But I am afraid I
must not endorse your invitation to-day  the
poor mother is dreadfully out of sorts, and begged
me to bring no one home to her but yourself."

Lucia looked disappointed, but Mrs Prescott's
health was often uncertain, and she had no suspicion
of duplicity. She was equally aware
that her father had never approved of the engagement
he had consented to sanction, and
rarely treated her lover with cordiality 
cordiality, she allowed, was not a strong point
in his character. Civil tolerance was all which
she had been able to win for the man of her
choice, but of his admitted disappointment;
therefore it would be unwise to express on this
occasion the regret and vexation she felt : they
would meet tomorrow.

So she turned her bright face and outstretched
hand to Marriott, with a glance and a smile that
were in themselves a caress 

Poor mamma ! you know how dreadfully nervous

she is ; but you will come and see us tomorrow
? Early "  she whispered, as their hands
met and lingered with one consent in each
other's fervent clasp.

"The horses won't stand, Lucia; Lieutenant
Marriott must excuse us' and with a cool nod
he hurried his daughter away; but as soon as he
had placed her in the carriage, he uttered an exclamation
of annoyance. He had lost the eyeglass
he always wore dangling from a narrow
string  he might have dropped it on the platform
 he must go back at once and look for it,
for he was not himself without it. He turned
so rapidly as to admit of no remark or suggestion,
and, as he had expected, he found the man
he wished to see, still lingering on the platform.
Hugh could command a view of the carriage
from his point of observation, and he was
gazing lover-like towards it.

He turned instinctively on recognising Mr
Prescott.

Can I be of use ? is anything forgotten ? "
he asked.

** No ; I am come back to say a word I had
forgotten. I have a little matter of business
I want to discuss with you  where will you
meet me tomorrow ? "

'* Wherever you please to appoint ; at the
office or your own house ? "

"Neither; I wish to be private. AYill you
lunch with me at the Langham, say two o'clock,
sharp ? "

"Willingly, except that I have made an
appointment with Lucia earlier in the morning."

I will explain and put that matter square 
she shall excuse you ; you must take out the
difference at the other end of the day. By the
way, I have forgotten to congratulate you ; but
I do heartily. Good-bye for the present  I shall
depend on your punctuality."

When he returned to the carriage he held his
eye-glass in his hand. " Strange ! " he said  " it
had not been trodden on ; one of the porters had
picked it up. Home  straight ! Why, Lucia,
you are handsomer than ever ! "

The lunch at the Langham, which had been
a recherche one, was over, and Mr Prescott sat
back in his chair leisurely picking his teeth.
He knew perfectly that his companion was on
the tenter-hooks of expectation and impatience,
eager to get away to keep his postponed engagement
with Lucia. Marriott had tried in vain
to draw from his host the object of their meeting
; he had blandly but firmly declined to discuss
business till the meal was over, and that he
had protracted as long as he decently could.
To Hugh, who was no epicure, and never drank
wine before dinner, the limits of forbearance had
long been past, but he always felt the necessity
of restraining himself with Lucia's father.

He stood chafing at the window, waiting for
the other to speak.

Will you sit down ? I like to see the man
to whom I am talking, especially when the
matter is important."

The tones were acrid and chilling, and exacerbated
the dislike which the young man
secretly entertained for the speaker.

He flung himself into a clair opposite.

Mr Prescott looked at him critically ; from
the crown of the well - shaped head, with its
crisp clustering curls, to the heels of the boots
which, after the little weakness of his profession,
were as precise in fit and fashion as those
of a lady,  he allowed to himself that, in regard
to appearances, there was much that would
commend itself to any woman's fancy in Hugh
Marriott ; but in reaching such a conclusion
he judged him strictly on the same grounds
as he would have appraised a horse or a dog,
with no more faculty of appreciating the finer
indications of his personality than one born
blind.

I have not been in a hurry to begin,
Marriott, because what I have got to say will
not be very pleasant hearing. Perhaps I had
better not beat about the bush. I have quite
made up my mind that your 'intimacy with
Miss Prescott must come to an end."

Hugh turned a little pale and smiled slightly.
Mr Prescott considered it an unfavourable sign

that he did not break out into violent expostulation,
and went on more trenchantly 

Your engagement, if you choose to call it
so, has never had my approval  you know that
perfectly well. If I have not absolutely forbidden
it, it was simply because I have always
spoilt Lucia, and was willing to let her have
her own way for a while. I have now good
reasons for changing my course of action."

Reasons connected with any fresh disqualifications
on my part ? "

"No ; the disqualifications are rather on my
own,  I cannot afford the luxury of giving my
daughter to unsupported merit. I am a much
poorer man than I thought myself, and it would
not be right to suffer her to indulge her fancy
for one of her Majesty's lieutenants, whose pay
is his fortune. Now"  extending his hand
deprecatingly  " spare me your protestations
and appeals ! I know that neither you nor
Lucia will endure the cruelty of a forced separation,
 that no father has a right to dispose
of his daughter's hand except as her heart dictates,

 that love takes the stick out of poverty,
not to say beggary,  and that the imperative
requirements of life  or what become such to
a girl brought up like Lucia  have nothing
whatever to do with happiness. Have I anticipated
you 1 "

On one point, assuredly  that after consent
once given, neither Lucia nor myself will agree
to a separation."

He spoke in the low tone of resolute self-restraint,
but there was the light almost of
hatred burning in the eyes fixed upon the cold
sneering face before him.

Mr Prescott in his turn felt his own animosity
quickening. He had of course expected
opposition, but that it would take the form of
froth and fury ; this quiet determination looked
troublesome.

"And what action will your pertinacity
take ? I am at least master in my own house,
and I forbid you to enter it. I equally forbid
your stating to my daughter. I conclude you
will defy my authority, but in that case the

women of my house shall suffer if they give
you any encouragement. I am a man of my
word."

Marriott pushed back his chair and rose up ;
he was white and trembling with indignant
fury, and yet felt impotent to oppose successfully
the selfish, cold - blooded determination
of the speaker,  as impotent as it often fares
in this world for courage to feel before cowardice,
and white-souled virtue before brutal force.
Besides, there was the stringent necessity of
commanding himself in such a way as to give
Mr Prescott no justifiable plea against him.

He devoured his wrath and disdain, and
asked, in the same measured tones as before 

Does Lucia know of this ? "

Not a word. I have paid you the compliment,
which I hope will not prove an idle
one, of laying the situation before you and
appealing to your honour. It may, on reflection,
appear to you that it will be as well to
submit quietly : you have your career before
you, and your fortune to make. You will go

out again with better chances in a finer ship.
The Admiralty just now are in the mood to
think nothing too good for you or Captain
Frobisher. When you come home there will
be other women as handsome and as kind as
Lucia, and you will have a better income to
meet parental demands. I assure you we never
marry our first loves, or, if we do, we live to
repent it."

*' If," said Marriott, with sudden eagerness,
and passing by as beneath his notice the paltry
provocations of his speech, " my chances were
even now better than your calculations ; I mean
if I had a chance of getting a ship of my own
the thing is not impossible  in that case
your objections to me would be less ? you
would withdraw your opposition ? "

My objections would certainly be less by
just so many paltry hundreds a-year as the rise
in the service would give you, and inasmuch
as Captain Marriott would sound better than
Lieutenant ; but, to be quite frank, if you were
to be gazetted Admiral of the Channel fleet

tomorrow, my opposition would be the same.
Understand, I am not influenced by any personal
dislike or superficial sentiment which
might be overcome or reasoned on one side,
but by an unforeseen combination of circumstances,
which leaves me without the option
of a choice."

"At least I demand a full explanation of
what these circumstances are."

*' I am not sure whether it will be wise to
give it. Lucia is under age, and cannot marry
without my authority. I have good reasons
for forbidding her to marry you. Take my
advice, and let the matter end where it is.
It will be better all round."

Marriott took up his hat to go. His face
was stern and set, and his blue eyes sparkled
with repressed passion.

Yes," he said, " let the matter end here
so far as discussion between us two goes. But
as a point of honour, I give you to understand
that I shall maintain my rights over Lucia till
she bids mee withdraw them. I deny your

power, under any circumstances, to take back
a consent once given."

He had turned towards the door, but Mr
Prescott, by a prompt movement, intercepted
him.

Wait a moment ! You mean me to understand
that you will work on Lucia's childish
fondness for you to incite her to contumacy and
rebellion? By God, if you have a spark of
manly instinct in you, you will think twice
before you expose her to the consequences ! I
will make her life too bitter for her to bear ! "

"Do it 1" cried the young man savagely,
scarcely able to resist seizing Prescott by the
collar, and hurling him from the place where he
stood,  " do it ! you would only drive her into
my arms."

Not so," replied the other in a low tone,
and with a watchful glance ; " she would hesitate
before she left her mother alone to bear the
brunt of my disappointment."

Hugh turned away from him with a shudder
of disgust. The brutality of the man stripped

VOL. I. E

him of means of defence. He moved towards
the table, and sitting down, leaned his head
between his hands, asking himself desperately
what course was open to him to follow.

Prescott surveyed him with perfect composure
; he had no adequate notion of the pain
he was inflicting. Nature had denied him the
faculty of gauging any emotions outside the
pale of his own experience  and that was a
restricted area; but he had fully made up
his mind not to have any repetition of the
present unpleasantness  this scene must include
the full catastrophe. Therefore, perhaps,
it would be desirable to be a little more
explicit.

Come,  Marriott," he began, with the air of
a man making important concessions, "as it is
scarcely likely you and I will meet again on the
same terms as before, I am disposed to do what
is very much against the grain  trust another
man with a damaging secret. I shall be safe, I
suppose ? "

Hugh raised his head, and said coldly 

You must draw your own conclusions on
that point. I have no pledges to give."

Prescott's eye quickened with instinctive
aversion ; he changed his mind as to the candour
of his disclosures.

I will not subject your honour to any severe
test," he resumed ; " it will be quite enough to
say that I unexpectedly find myself in a position
needing substantial pecuniary help, and
that such help is offered me under conditions
which have decided me to the step I have
taken to-day."

Hugh drew a deep breath, his face worked
with painful feeling.

You mean  you cannot mean " he hesitated
and stopped short as if expecting the
other to come to his assistance, but he had
no such intention.

"Do you wish me to understand," he resumed
abruptly, " that Lucia's freedom of action
is in any way involved in these conditions 1
In that case "

In that case you will probably do your best

to upset them' said Prescott, coolly. "I presume
I am to understand that you do not accept your
dismissal, and that it is war to the knife between
us; only bear in mind the victim will
be vicariously represented." He paused, then
added, as he watched the changes of his companion's
face 

Do you propose to rush to your love on the
instant ? I have taken due precaution against
such precipitancy. Lucia left town again with
her mother this morning, immediate change of
air being ordered for Mrs Prescott. I think
nothing more remains to be said."

'' You refuse to give me any further information
'? "

"I do ; and it would be quite superfluous,
seeing you are so confident of circumventing
me. I will leave you master of the situation.
Good morning."

CHAPTER Yl.

George Prescott was not so bad as lie painted
himself. He had been at his wits' end for
money, and when that crisis is reached, the
records of human frailty show that few possibilities
of crime go beyond it.

He was fully resolved that Lucia should
marry Everard Deane, and probably he would
have been equally so had he shared his vriie's
opinion of the man's unworthiness. But in
fact he did not share it ; and again, had he
done so, he might have been partially excused
on the plea that he had quite another estimate
of the value of moral excellence, and of the
concomitants of conjugal felicity. In giving
his daughter to the wealthiest man in their
society, and one of whose marital indulgence he

felt pretty sure, he enjoyed the full sanction of
the faculty which stood to him in the stead of
conscience. As for the preliminary pinch of
separation from her lover, she would get over
that as a child cries itself to sleep and wakes
consoled. The brutal threat he had launched
towards his wife, and those he had made use of
to Marriott, he had no intention of putting into
serious execution, unless his necessity should
become desperate ; but he relied upon them as
salutary aids to his purpose.

His statement that Lucia had left town with
her mother was a pure fabrication, invented on
the spur of the moment to baffle Marriott's possible
design ; and he cleared the ground still
further on his return home, by telling her that
he had met Marriott accidentally, and that he
had given him a message to herself  namely,
that he was summoned by telegraph to Portsmouth
to meet Captain Frobisher on professional
business, and would write to her instantly
on arrival.

He would have stopped to write now, and

lost his train, but I overruled him. You can
wait till tomorrow ? "

I can wait, certainly, but I am dreadfully
disappointed."

He smiled sympathetically, and produced
from his pocket some stall-tickets for a popular
theatre, where places were at a premium, and
asked her if she would go.

I knew how you would take Marriott's defalcation
to heart, and bought these as a salve
to the wound. I will take you myself, though
I shall fall asleep to a dead certainty. I never
could sit out a play of Shakespeare's ! "

They went, and he fulfilled his prophecy to
the letter, but not before he had had the satisfaction
of introducing her to Everard Deane,
who occupied the chair next her own, and of
perceiving how easily he succeeded in making
himself agreeable.

It had all been a concerted scheme, of which
Lucia, of course, knew nothing; neither, as it
happened, had she heard any of the stories
about Deane to which her mother had referred.

Her mind was a blank page in his regard,
waiting its first impression.

And that impression was strongly in his
favour. Sitting at ease, whatever personal defects
of figure and proportion existed were not
obvious ; while the delicate beauty of a face,
prompt to convey the finest shades and changes
of thought and feeling, with a singular vividness
of expression, charmed and interested her.

Still more, she had heard no man talk as he
did. Between the acts he discussed with her
not only the performance but the play, bringing
to bear upon it what seemed to her a marvellous
erudition as well as a most winning personal
faculty.

As he opened before her quickening intelligence
the complex and suggestive speculations
of modern thinkers, qualifying and expatiating
as he went, the feeling produced in her mind
was that she had been hitherto as a child groping
in the dark. The new ideas which fell from
his lips in such easy but perfect phrases, acted
like a spark firing a secret train of perception,

and showing the existence of faculties dormant
until now.

His manners pleased her also : there was
something different from the men with whom
she was acquainted in the very way he folded
and arranged her cloak about her  a mixed
suggestion of tenderness, deference, and admiration,
which was the most subtle of flattery.

As they stood together for a few moments,
waiting for the carriage, Lucia said, with the
prompt frankness which was one of her greatest
charms 

I wish you would come and see mamma
sometimes. I shall think over what you have
been telling me to-day, and a thousand questions
will come into my mind that no one will
be able to answer like yourself. I don't know
whether I am obliged to you, but you have
taught me what a very ignorant girl I am''

"An ignorance," he answered, "for which I,
or any other man like me, would barter all our
knowledge. But it is the very proof of the
fineness of your intelligence that you are so

quick to perceive that ignorance. It takes a
clear vision to gauge the heights and depths
which baffle us."

"I am glad," she answered brightly, 'that
you did not tell me I was not ignorant. I
should have sad no more faith in you if you
had!"

Everard Deane walked home that night in a
mood of personal derision. Was he, fire-proof
as he considered himself against the heat of any
new passion, already stirred and touched by
this crude, handsome girl 1 Her careless words
"I should have had no more faith in you if
you had," moved the finer instincts of his being.
They implied not only the possibility of exciting
trust, but that a bias in that direction already
existed. Was the idea to be entertained that
he might make himself acceptable to such a
woman as Lucia, in spite of personal shortcomings
and a past on which but the one judgment
of condemnation could be pronounced?

But of that past it was evident she knew
nothing  his very name had been unknown to

her; and, as his father had reminded him, it
was with the present and the future a wife had
to do. She was offered to him on both sides,
but that would count for nothing unless she
approached him of her own accord.

Now that he had seen her, the idea seemed
less incredible than when speculating beforehand
on his chances ; and the contemplation of
it moved him in much the same way as the
prelude to some exquisite melody stirred his
senses.

He called upon her the next day, and happened
not only to find her at home, but sitting
in her mother's favourite morning-room with the
"book of the play" in her hand, from which
she confessed she had been reading aloud.

It was a very charming room, with furniture
and draperies in pale green artistically manipulated
and adapted, though the day of advanced
eestheticism was not yet. The walls were well
covered with pretty water-colour pictures, and
brackets laden with still costlier china ; but weare
bound to admit that some portion of their

surfaces were exposed to view. The balcony-was
full of sweet-scented flowers and magnificent
hardy ferns brought from Lufton, and
on the cultivation of which Lucia prided herself.
Beyond the wide open windows stretched
the glades and slopes of Eichmond Park.

Mrs Prescott received her unwelcome visitor
with even more of painful nervousness than
usually marked her intercourse with strangers ;
and her daughter, who watched her affectionately,
regretted that she should do so little
justice to herself, as well as that she should
show such an absence of cordiality to the
stranger about whom she had talked to her
so eagerly the night before.

She herself did not fail in friendliness. Her
mind was still running in the same channel
into which it had been directed by the play ;
and moreover, there was an unusual cast of
pensiveness in her humour, owing to the fact
that she had received no letter from Hugh
Marriott, and was at a painful loss to understand
the cause.

"Do you know," she said to Everard after
the first greetings were over, " I was trying to
give mamma some idea of the way in which
the famous soliloquy was spoken last night !
It was very presumptuous ; only I am rather
a good mimic, and my memory is good  I
meaD, my reading had not much to do with
what you would call intellectual perception."

May I judge '? " he asked.

Lucia hesitated. She knew she was an excellent
mimic, and believed she had reproduced
the admired actor's manner and tones very
creditably ; also, she was delightfully free from
self-consciousness."

If you promise to criticise and correct, I
will try. My mother was telling me how differently
Macready  was it Macready, mamma 1
spoke it."

She took up the book and read through the
passage : "A matter of memory and mimicry
with which intellectual perception had nothing
to do?" thought her listener;  how ignorant
the girl was of her own latent capacity ! He

sat watching her at first, and admiring the
bloom and freshness of her beauty ; but presently
he dropped his eyes, the better to concentrate
his attention on the inflections of her
voice.

As she ceased, the expression of his eyes as
they met hers answered the question of her
success. She blushed with pleasure.

But you have often read ' Hamlet ' before 1 "
he inquired.

I have read it, of course, but not often. I
have not been in the way of people who read
or think much, I am sorry to say; and what
you said to me last night was quite a new
revelation. I wish I had some of the books
you mentioned, and understood German well
enough to read what Goths has written of
Shakespeare ! How many languages do you
speak, Mr Deane ? I hear you have been a
great traveller."

I cannot even speak my own properly," he
said carelessly, anxious to divert her attention
from anything touching on his personal history,

and then he turned to Mrs Prescott, and tried
to draw her into the conversation. He talked
to her about the stage as she knew it in her
girlhood, and of the stars of that period, awaiting
her timid replies with that air of unaffected
interest which is the final touch of social courtesy.
He succeeded in eliciting both her intelligence
and her confidence, till she found herself
talking and listening with a zeal and pleasure
altogether strange to her. It led to a volume
of Shakespeare being fetched in order to decide
some controverted point, and in his reading
aloud, first one passage and then another at the
entreaty of the two simple women, who were
almost equally fascinated by their companion.

He read admirably, but without any touch
of stage declamation : he read like a critic
and a poet, the acute brain keeping the fervid
imagination in check ; also like a fine musician,
which he was, touching the stops of the great
dramatist's organ with faultless precision and
delicacy.

Before he took his departure it was tacitly

understood that he would call again as his inclination
led him ; and he had even obtained a
half-promise from Mrs Prescott that she would
allow him to introduce her and Lucia to a certain
drawing-room recital of chamber-music, to
which he had the entree, and respecting which
he had excited their interest.

A silence fell between mother and child as
the door closed upon him. Mrs Prescott was
taking herself severely to task for the pleasure
she had enjoyed in the society of the man of
whom she had heard so much evil, and was
also speculating on the strange anomalies of
human character. She felt like a traitor to
virtue to have been won to complacency by
outside pleasantness ; but then, alas ! fidelity
to virtue would be disobedience and treachery
towards her husband.

She glanced uneasily toward Lucia : to this
hour her mind was not made up as to the part
she would play in disposing of her daughter's
future. The girl was leaning back in her chair
with an air of unusual languor ; her hands loosely

folded in her lap, and her eyes gazing out of
the window, with the vague introspective expression
that shows the mind is far away from
the visible scene. A slight smile touched the
rosy lips.

Mother," she said presently, " surely we have
led a very narrow life and get very little enjoyment
out of things 1 I mean, we have gone like
other people to places of amusement  theatres,
concerts, picture-galleries,  only we have not
understood what we went to see."

I think we have understood as well as the
other people."

Yes ; that is the next step in my conclusions
 they have all been as ignorant and
narrow as ourselves. Is a banker so very much
higher in the social scale than we are ? or what
advantages of education and culture has this
Mr Deane enjoyed beyond the men we have
been accustomed to see ? He seems to know
about everything, and to look upon doing so asa
matter of course."

"Mr Deane's father is a very great banker,

VOL. L F

and he himself has spent more than half his life
abroad. He has been a great traveller," said
Mrs Prescott, uneasily.

Lucia was silent a few minutes, then she
said 

I have an idea I am a great deal more
stupid and yet a great deal cleverer than I
supposed."

I always thought you clever, dear," said the
mother; "but you mean that Mr Deane has
been paying you compliments."

Lucia smiled a little compassionately at the
want of perception betrayed.

"He has not paid me one, mother dear:
on the contrary, it is he who has brought me
to the knowledge of my ignorance. But I can
improve ! "

To please Mr Deane ! "

Her words seemed prompted by some power
outside . herself, so contrary were they to the
task imposed upon her. And then she added 

But you need not trouble about that, Lucia;
Hugh thinks you perfect."

The name dissipated the girl's unusual mood
of speculation ; a soft blush came into her
cheeks, and a sudden mist gathered into her
eyes.

*' Dear Hugh ! " she whispered. " But why
has he not written, mamma ? It is the first
heart-ache he has given me ! "

Mrs Prescott felt as if this was the preliminary
prick of the sword that was to pierce her
own soul also.

"I know nothing," she replied, nervously;
ask your father, Lucia."

Lucia stood thinking a few minutes, and then
said suddenly 

May I have the carriage, mamma ; and
would you mind driving into the city today
1 We might catch papa at the office, and
I would ask him to tell me over again what
Hugh's message was. H I had the address,
I would write to him, of course. I would
write him twenty letters to none to ease my
anxiety, for I could never feel a doubt of
Hugh."

I don't think that would do, dear. Your
father never likes to be disturbed in business
hours, and it is very uncertain that we should
find him at all. You must wait till he comes
home."

CHAPTEE Il

Lucia consented to wait ; her anxiety was not
very extreme. A man engaged in pressing
business might miss one day's post simply from
want of time to write  tomorrow would bring
full satisfaction.

She had never looked brighter or more win-minor
than when she came into the drawings
that evening, and went up at once to
accost her father, wbo was standing: on the
hearth-rug, with his back to the chill decorated
grate, impatiently waiting for the dinner-bell to
ring. Mr Prescott appraised his daughter more
highly than ever since such a seal had been seton
her charms as the approval of so difficult a
connoisseur in female beauty as Everard Deane.
He was in high good-humour also at the apparent

smoothness with which his schemes were
running. He had had occasion to see his
bankers again that morning ; and although his
business had been of a nature to strain their
indulgence, Mr Deane had not only met his
requirements, but had asked if he thought Mrs
Prescott and her daughter would accept with
him an invitation to dine in Eaton Square.

"Well, Lucia," he said, drawing her to his
side and kissing her, " what is it to-day ? I
see you are brimful of some important matter,
and I am in the mood for granting requests.
has the pocket-money run short '? Mamma is
a bit of a screw, eh ? "

Lucia shook her head.

"Wrong both ways ! J' I don't know what it
is to be short of money  that experience is reserved
for the future" with a smile. 'rand
mamma is always too good to me. I am anxious
about Hugh ; I have had no letter to-day. Please
tell me over again the message he gave you forme,
and be quite sure you report it right."

Mr Prescott's sunny humour darkened ; he

walked to the window to hide his irritation : he
had positively forgotten (what no diplomatist
should) the story he had invented.

Ton my soul, Lucia, you provoke me ! I
don't think it is a nice things for girls to make
such a parade of their fondness as you do for
this young man. I tell you now, as I have told
you over and over before, he is not worth it ;
you will have to think twice about this same
business."

"Think twice!" she repeated gravely. "I
have already thought a great deal more about it
than that, and no amount of thinking will make
any difference. I have long made up my mind
that to be loved by Hugh Marriott is an honour
any girl might be proud of, and that no fortune
which I may bring him will make the balance
even. Please don t say a word against him. I
cannot bear it."

He turned round and looked at her. There
was a quiet resolution, a certain sweet dignity
in her words and manner which struck him as
something new, and as revealing a stronger

capacity for resistance than he had calculated
upon. He must be on his guard ; Everard
Deane would not accept a reluctant bride.

Well' he said, " to humour a spoilt child
and a silly woman Til hold my tongue, at least
for the present ; but the time will come, Lucia,
when it will be my duty as a father to speak
out. You won't be the first woman deceived
by the appearance of goodness. I can give you
no explanation of Lieutenant Marriott's silence.
I told you what he told me."

Lucia's lip had curved ; involuntarily she had
drawn up her supple figure with a defiant
gesture.

'even you," she answered in a low tone,
must not speak like that. I will not hear
a doubt of his goodness  it is too absurd !
You told me he was summoned to Portsmouth
to meet Captain Frobisher, and that he would
write and give me particulars. He has not
written. Did he say anything else ? Had he
no idea why he was wanted ? "

'there is no use at all, Lucia, in cross-questioning

me in this way. I told you what
passed to the best of my recollection at the
time, and have nothing to add. The young
man looked to me flushed and excited, and was
not so coherent as might have been desired.
Had it been any other than your Prince Paragon,"
he added with a sneer, " I should have
said he had been drinking, or was in trouble.
But no doubt the explanation will be satisfactory
 when it comes ! "

I do not doubt it," said Lucia steadily, but
with a olow of subdued india-nation in her face.
Perhaps a letter would reach him addressed to
Captain Frobisher's care ? "

Most likely ; if you knew where to address
it."

"I do know; I remember Hugh mentioned
the name of the hotel where he stayed on one
occasion when he was writing to him at Portsmouth.
I have a good memory," she added
with her gracious smile, which grew brighter as
she remembered she had made the same observation
before that day.

Mr Prescott would have been disposed to
curse the excellence of her faculty had he not
considered that as neither Frobisher nor Marriott
was at Portsmouth, the letter might be
safely permitted to be written.

'' Write by all means, Lucia, if your pride
has nothing to say against it." At this moment
the dinner-bell rang, and he drew her arm
within his to lead her to the dining-room with
an affectionate ceremoniousness which surprised
her as unusual. On the way he whispered as if
struck by a sudden idea 

By the by, I don't suppose it is very likely
you will see much of Mr Everard Deane ; but if
you should, be careful on one point  don't mention
Hugh Marriott's name to him on any
account."

And why '? " asked Lucia almost imperiously.


'' Oh, why ! you have forbidden me to explain.
I have good reasons. All men don't
share your views of your sweetheart."

For almost the first time in her life an element
of unhappiness was introduced into Lucia's
experience. The days passed and she did not
hear from her lover, not even in reply to the
frank ardent letter she had addressed to him at
Portsmouth. In the course of a week or so,
the same letter came back to her through the
dead-letter office, with the official announcement
on its cover. Surprise and anxiety rather than
distrust were the feelings excited in her mind ;
she took the returned letter to her mother,
secure of her fellow-feeling in the matter.

He must have returned to town and missed
it," she said. " I shall write to him at once to
the old address. There is some strange mistake.
Mother, what would you advise me
to do ? "

Hardly to go on writing, dear, when he does
not answer your letters," said Mrs Prescott, ina
low voice, and with an inward appeal to
heaven to shed a ray of light upon her crooked
path.

Lucia turned away ; she had great forbearance

for her mother's weakness ; but this almost
exceeded her patience.

Why do you answer like that ? " she asked,
in tones which vibrated with passionate feeling.
"If all the world condemned Hugh, and circumstances
looked worse against him than they
do, I should go on trusting him all the same.
I am not sure if he told me with his own lips
that he was false to me that I should believe
him ; but he never will !  he never will ! "

No, dear, he never will. If it will comfort
you, I will say I believe in him too."

Comfort me I " repeated Lucia; " I want no
comfort! There is some mistake, some inconceivable
carelessness somewhere, but do not
think I am anxious or afraid. I am going to
write to him 1 "

And when she had poured out her sweet eager
soul over three or four tiny sheets of grey-tinted
paper, she took the letter to her mother.

It shall not go into the post-bag," she said.
You are going out, and will post it for me.
He  he will get it the sooner. I shall stay at

home to-day." She turned and almost ran out
of the room.

Mrs Prescott had taken the letter passively ;
her daughter had not noticed how very pale
she had become, nor the abortive effort she had
made as if to decline receiving it. On finding
herself alone, she sank on her knees by the
couch, and buried her face in her hands. She
was a woman of fervid but narrow piety, and
her instinct now was to invoke God's aid in her
emergency, though with a miserable secret consciousness
that her decision was already a foregone
conclusion, and that while she prayed for
light upon her path, she had deliberately tamed
her back upon it and chosen to walk in darkness.
She did not dare, sick at heart as she was, to
stay at home and forego the drive, which had
become a hateful deception ; she even carried
poor Lucia's letter obviously in her hand lest
the girl should be watching her from her window.


It was a day of delicious weather; the temperature
had been cooled by recent showers,

and some of the moisture still hung on the
freshened leaves and sparkled on each blade
of grass. The light summer storm-clouds were
beings driven towards the horizon, and were
banking themselves in such varied and fantastic
masses as to make of the sky-picture a
study as lovely and full of interest as the landscape
below. The river at full tide was brimming
almost on a level with its verdant banks ;
all the complex stir and life of the great
suburb were around her, and the laughter of
happy children in the park thrilled to her
responsive heart, and made its ache the keener.
As she slipped the letter into her pocket, she
could almost have wrung her hands and cried
aloud in her misery.

She crept very quietly upstairs on her
return, for she dreaded meeting her daughter
and being questioned by her. The spoken lie
which must then have been uttered seemed
almost worse than the tacit betrayal of her
confidence. "When they met, however, Lucia,
to her infinite relief, asked her no direct question

; she had not a momentary misgiving
of her messenger. As her mother entered the
drawings-room, dressed for dinner, she Event
up to her and kissed her.

"Thank you, darling," she said tenderly;
"it will be all right now."

She longed to hear her assurance confirmed,
but Mrs Prescott was mute and still, and Lucia
thought she was suffering; rather more than
usual. She sighed lightly, and sat down on
a cushion at her feet.

"Poor mamma," she said, stroking the pale
hand she had taken; "you ought not to have
gone out either. But I am glad I stayed at
home  Mr Deane has been here."

Mr Deane  Mr Everard Deane, you mean."

I mean Everard Deane certainly, seeing we
know no other. But we are to know .the other.
He brought you an invitation to dinner ; he
said he was so afraid that you might decline,
that he came to try and make you promise to
accept."

Mrs Prescott made no answer at first, then

fearing her silence might excite Lucia's suspicion,
said hurriedly 

I do not wish to go at all ; I should be
quite out of my element. Still, if your father
wishes it, 1 suppose that won't make any differences''


"But you like Everard Deane, you know,
mamma dear; he was so kind to me today."


She sighed again, then dashed away with
angry impatience the tears that suddenly brimmed
her eyes.

I think he saw I was  not in trouble  I
won't say that,  but not in my usual good
spirits, and somehow his talk seemed to fall in
precisely with my humour. To-day he made
me talk to him, and I found myself telling him
about my childhood and school days and sister
Helen, as if I had known him all my life. It
did me a great deal of good. I did not think
at the time how confidential I had become to
one who was almost a stranger  only he does
not seem like that."

Anything more, dear ? Did he exhibit any
new accomplishment 1 "

"Now, I protest, the little mother is growing
sarcastic," laughed Lucia  '' and I am half
vexed to be obliged to own that he did. As he
was going away, I saw he glanced at the piece
of music that was open on the piano. It was
that valse of Chopin's, No. 34, which, practise
as I will, I can never play to my mind. I said
so to him, and he asked me if he should give
me a lesson ; so I sat down and played it over
as he bade me, and he corrected and explained
in such a way as I had never been taught before.
But I am quite sure that his object was
simply to divert my mind. He would not
touch the piano himself, he said he was out of
practice ; when I urged him, he promised he
would play to me in his own house if we would
come, but I believe he did not wish to discourage
me."

Here Mr Prescott came in, and Lucia relapsed
into silence. She had given the card of
invitation to her mother, signifying to her that

VOL. I. a

she did not wish to discuss the matter with
her father, and, on plea of headache, retired
early to her room.

No misgiving or doubt of her lover, she had
said ; but that was the dauntless public confession
of her faith : as she flung herself face
downwards on her bed, the reluctant tears
which, forced themselves from her eyes were
like the first tremulous doubts which shake the
strongholds of belief.

It was so hard to understand !

Meanwhile Mrs Prescott had drawn the letter
she still carried from her pocket, and placed it
trembling on the table before her husband.

I have done this," she said, '' and shall
never be able to hold up my head before Lucia
again. At least you will not read it 1 "

' Not I ! " he answered with a short laugh.
' I could not trust my temper to read the jargon
of a love-sick girl ; but the fiercer the fever
burns, so much nearer are we to the turning-point.
How did you manage this *? ''

Do not ask me I you have the letter. I

have obeyed you, but I cannot go into particulars
 they are too shameful ! "

*' As you please, I only care for results, you
can arrange the process as you choose. Tien
matters are going Tell it is not hard to be for-bearings,
AVe stay in town till after the dinner-party
in Eaton Square, and then I shall take
you and Lucia down into the country somewhere.
T think we will run across to Jersey."

CHAPTER VIII.



Never since Lady Elizabeth Deane's death had
there been such extensive preparations for an
entertainment as now at the great house in
Eaton Square. The invitation to the Prescott
had been to dinner, but as soon as they had
agreed to accept it, Everard had given Lucia to
understand that second thoughts had been taken
on the matter, and the evening was to conclude
with a dance.

Under ordinary circumstances, such an arrangement
would have been delightful to Lucia,
who was as passionately fond of dancing as
youth and health, joined to a fine rhythmical
instinct, could make her ; but, as it was, she
was translating her Hamlet into her own narrow
but sharp experience, and was discovering she

had lost all her mirth and foregone all custom
of exercises." 

Day succeeded day, and brought her no news
of Hugh Marriott, till the bewildered suspense
was becoming almost intolerable. She said to herself
she should never have spirit enough to endure
this grand entertainment at the banker's house,
unless she heard from her lover. And then the
thought had occurred to her to ask Mr Deane
what he knew about him, and convey to him,
somehow or other, the knowledge of her present
distress and anxiety. She knew that she had
no friend on this point in her own household 
her dear mother not daring to oppose her father's
wishes. And Everard Deane's kindness to her
had been so special and encouraging. The one
drawback to this scheme was, that she did not
dare to disobey the orders she had received from
her father. And again, as time brought her no
consolation, her heart sank too low for such bold
enterprise. As for refusing to keep her engagement
on pleaof personal anxiety and low spirits,
she knew perfectly well that such reluctance

would be angrily overruled by her father, who
was in the habit of asserting his authority in a
way that admitted of no dispute.

His interest in the approaching entertainment
seemed curiously alive. He would constantly
bring home news of the progress of the preparations
in Eaton Square ; how a large tent had
been run out from the house as a temporary
ball-room, and the stone portico lengthened in
the same fashion, so as to form a larger space
for flowers. He would dilate on the waggon-loads
of exotic plants which had been brought
from the home conservatories in Hertfordshire,
and how a certain well-known florist had received
orders for a thousand pots of roses in bloom.
He seemed to know precisely how many servants
made up the Deane establishment, and
what salary the banker gave his French chef;
and he related it all with a spirit and a zest
that perplexed and irritated Lucia.

What did it matter to her ? What did anything
matter to her while her love was under
a cloud '?

Once again she had written to Hugh Marriott,
without reproach or indignation, simply asking
him to come and see her if possible, or otherwise
to write and explain what she still believed
was capable of full explanation.

I am not anxious' she wrote, *' except to
know that you are safe and well, and the one
result of your silence is to show me that I love
you better than I thought. Some girls, under
my circumstances, might say better than you
love me, but I know differently. I am assure
of your love now, Hugh, as when we were
telling the old story to each other twelve hours
out of the twenty-four at happy Lufton'

To this letter there was again no reply,
simply because her mother had withdrawn it
from the letter-bag on learning from Lucia
that it was placed there. And after that she
wrote no more for a time, for h Prescott
undertook to call at Lieutenant Marriott's lodgings
in Bruton Street, and brought home the
information that he had left town two or three
weeks ago and had not returned, nor had he

given his landlady any instructions about his
letters.

It was the day before the Eaton Square fete
and Mr Prescott's sense of his own skill as a
diplomatist was immeasurably increased.

Why, he had almost already effected the
separation between the lovers, and without
having breathed to his daughter a hint of his
secret purpose ! Also, in his opinion, she was
unconsciously inclining in the way she should
go, and no woman could continue to condone
such neglect as she was enduring.

I suppose," he said to her gravely, as she
bade him good-night, " I am not even now at
liberty to speak to you of Hugh Marriott ? You
have not yet had time enough to open your
eyes to his unworthiness. I should like to
repeat to you what I have heard on undoubted
authority, but you would insult me by telling
me you did not believe it."

I quite understand," she replied sadly,
that you would believe anything that was
told you to Hugh's discredit ; but if the girl he

loves were to believe it, she would deserve to

be deceived. I am quite sure it will all come

right. I am not unhappy about it, only puzzled,

and very anxious lest anything should have

a.
happened."

And in her gallant endeavour to maintain her
faith, she checked all expressions of weariness
and reluctance for the next day's festivity.
Her father had insisted upon ordering for her
from Paris a dress of special cost and elegance,
alleging as his motive that he was anxious she
should be able to run the gauntlet of any possible
criticism. He was perfectly satisfied with
his daughter's appearance when she came in to
show herself for his inspection on the completion
of her toilet ; and if he detected a slight
languor in her movements and a touch of gravity
in her sweet face alien to her usual vivacity,
he could not but own these gave an additional
charm.

At the same hour Mr Deane and his son were
making a final inspection of the rooms in company
; and as the requirements of the former

were calculated on a scale restricted by no considerations
of expense, and fairly enlarged by
natural good taste and extensive social culture,
lie pronounced himself tolerably satisfied. Everard,
however, surveyed the scene with an air
of obvious discontent.

It represents so much outlay of superfluous
cash ; but the whole arrangements are motiveless
and commonplace," he said.

"That means, that what would be good
enough for the cream of London society falls
below the deserts of the stockbroker's daughter.
The goddess is above the shrine. Ton my soul,
Everard, I believe you are seriously smitten at
last, and you know quite well you have my full
consent in the matter."

I was smitten, as you please to call it," said
his son coolly, " from the first moment I saw
Lucia. She is singularly handsome. I have
seen handsomer women, but no other with the
same winning aspect of perfect candour and
transparent integrity. It is the honest look in
her eyes, and not their form and colour, that

moves me,  not the music of her voice, but its
inflection, which tells you this girl has a heart to
feel. But you are a little premature in your satisfaction
 it is nine chances to one that she will
put her hand in mine when I ask her to do so."

Which you will do to-night ? "

''Oh no; I should lose everything by such
precipitancy. I am a phlegmatic lover, and can
bide my time."

Mr Deane smiled and glanced at him ; there
was a scintillation in his eyes and a slight contraction
of the lines of brow and lip which indicated
some disturbance of feeling either physical
or mental.

You are all right to-night, Everard  able
to play your part of host without effort ! This
is a housewarming in honour of your homecoming,
you understand ? "

"I never felt better, dad," said the young man,
returning the anxious survey with a swift glance
so aglow with grateful acknowledgment, that a
sudden moisture dimmed the eyes of the other.

"And you will understand, too, that I build

my happiness on your pledge not to forsake that
home again during my short span of life 1 Had
I known you better, my boy, I should have tried
hard to get you back long before this : other
men love their sons from habit and duty  I you
as a matter of choice and necessity. May it bethe
same with the girl you desire ! "

Amen ! but you cover me with shame.
Still, if Lucia will be my wife, I will redeem the
past, if such redemption be possible, and wash
my hands henceforth in innocency. Nay," he
added, in a lower tone, " it shall not depend on
the chances of my success  the very knowledge
of her shall purge my life ! "

Mr Prescott was quite right in the frequent
assurances he had given his wife and daughter
that they had never assisted before at so magnificent
a reunion as that at the great banker's house
in Eaton Square, or been under the same roof with
so many distinguished people. To these simple
women, who had led hitherto a somewhat restricted
life, the elaborate magnificence around

them, the lavish exhibition of all that could
delight the senses, seemed suggestive of dreamland
and unreality.

The dinner was limited to a small party of
friends, and Lucia could not but observe, with
considerable surprise, that she and her parents
were treated with marked respect by their
hosts, and received a good deal of observation
from their guests.

Everard Deane took her in to dinner, and she
scarcely appreciated at first the distinction this
conveyed.

It was like your kindness to take pity upon
me," she said, " for I was feeling a little overawed.
I am not at all accustomed to hear
names, which I have only read in the newspapers
or the ' Peerage,' tossed familiarly across a
room. I am thankful you are only ' Mr Deane. ' "

With all my heart, if my being the humblest
of commoners pleases you ; but I have the distinction
of being my father's son, and it is
strictly etiquette to pay the greatest attention
to the greatest stranger, and you know this

is the first time you have crossed our threshold."


She smiled, humour and sweetness touching
lips and eyes.

You assume too much on my ignorance,
Mr Deane ; at least I know better than to
accept your new code of etiquette ; but I
would rather owe your selection to your good
heart than your good manners. But though
I am a guest, may I ask why you eat so
little ? "

Because I am a miserable dyspeptic, and tome
there is poison in almost every dish. But
what is your excuse for fasting ? Mine is valid
enough."

I am so interested in looking about me, and
trying to discover what makes the difference
between this splendid scene and the other
dinner-tables I have been accustomed to see.
I think, too, I have been trying to listen to
my neighbours, which shows conclusively what
an underbred novice I am. And then I am a
little distrustful, in another way from yours.

of strange dislike. Assist me to choose right
and I will eat."

Her simplicity was so absolute that for a
moment he doubted if any girl could be so
unsuspicious as she seemed ; but to meet her
candid eyes was to believe in her sincerity.
Involuntarily he sighed ; a touch of self-consciousness
would have been a more hopeful
sign.

The dinner was a protracted one, and before
it was over the excitement of novelty had faded,
and Lucia had grown taciturn. Everard's quick
eye perceived that the depression of spirits he
had noticed when they last met was not only
still weighing down her sweet natural vivacity,
but was more confirmed. Also, was she not a
shade paler  with a deepened and lovelier aspect
of brow and lip ?

He was half startled to find with what acute
anxiety he asked the question. His present
duty, however, was to entertain his guest, and
he had not much difficulty in winning her
sympathetic attention ; for he had the gift of

drawing his listener's mind into rapport with
his own, and, in spite of her secret trouble,
Lucia kept a wide open portal to the entrance
of new ideas.

I hope you will enjoy the dance," he said,
after a break had again occurred in their discourse.
" I have specially commended you to
the care of one of the best friends I have  the
lady to whom I ventured to introduce you
before dinner. Lady Portisham knows everyone,
and will be able to help your mother in
the duties of chaperon. I shall get into the
ball-room as soon as possible. Alas ! the ladies
are rising."

Lucia had felt a little afraid of the brilliant-looking
woman to whom Everard had presented
her, and whose cordiality struck her as a little
forced. Lady Portisham was strikingly handsome,
and appeared to the young girl to be
dressed with almost regal splendour; also, she
was much struck by the witty familiarity of her
speech during the few minutes she had stood
chatting to her host, and by the graceful

courtesy of his light replies. If the one
seemed to transgress her unsophisticated notions
of good-breeding, the other satisfied it
to the finest point. She watched and listened
to him with a sort of careful admiration. On
the ladies' return to the drawing-room, Lady
Portisham took possession of Lucia, with more
kindness than she had seemed disposed to manifest
before dinner.

"You have been put under my wing, my
dear," she said, nodding her head brightly,
and I am going to justify my friend Everard's
confidence. You shall enjoy yourself
to-night I "

Thank you, but I am anxious about poor
mamma. She is an invalid, and does not often
go out, and now she is suffering from a dreadful
headache, and would like to go home.
What ought we to do 1 I do not want to
make a fuss."

Lady Portisham thought rather an undue
advantage was being taken of her good-nature,
and was inclined to think the pale nervous

VOL. I. H

lady, to whom Lucia led her at request, an
unmitigated bore. Where did the girl herself
get her beauty and quiet bearing 1

However, she was really kind-hearted, and,
after some discussion, Mrs Prescott was conducted
by her to a quiet little dressing-room,
out of sound of the band and other distractions,
where it was hoped she might recover
sufficiently to come into the ball-room later
in the evening.

I shall soon come back and look after
you, darling," said Lucia, as she stooped and
kissed her before following Lady Portisham
down-stairs.

When they entered the ball-room dancing
had already commenced, and it was full of
delicious music, waving tissues and floating
forms. Lucia stood and looked before her
with a grave wistful glance. It was all very
pretty, a sort of climax to the splendour and
beauty which had already deeply impressed
her.

The long walls of the temporary chamber,

exquisitely draped in white and gold, were
divided at intervals by panels of glass set in
frames of flowers ; it was closed by a vista
of tropical foliage and deep-dyed blossoming
plants, which seemed to extend further than
her eye could reach ; fountains threw up their
perfumed jets at judicious intervals, and marble
statues gleamed from points of vantage. The
odorous air was softly flooded by the light dear
to women, and was palpitating with the strains
of Strauss and Chopin. To stand, observe, and
listen, was enough for Lucia at first, but she
was not long[ allowed to indulge her humour.
Lady Portisham was soon besieged for introductions,
and Lucia was led away to take her
place in the charmed circle  with whom she
scarcely knew or cared, so long as he kept even
step and time ; for the fascination of the motion
and the music was strong upon her. She was
intensely susceptible to sensuous impressions,
and she had never danced before under such
enchanting conditions  they touched her sensibilities
to almost painful acuteness, and quickened

her latent sadness into a passion of
yearning and regret.

Hugh ! How for the moment she had forgotten
him, and had dared to have been enjoying
herself as though she had a right to be
happy ! Ah, if indeed it could have been his
arm about her waist and his dear voice in her
ear, such a scene as this would have come near
to heaven upon earth I As it was, it suddenly
palled upon her as purposeless and pleasureless,
and she was amazed at her own brief insensibility.
She felt sick and faint.

Stop ! " she said faintly*' I am tired."

Her partner looked at her anxiously, seeing
how pale she had become.

"I am very sorry  it was so delightful. I
forgot you might overtax yourself. There is
Lady Portisham, let me take you back to her 
only promise me another dance I "

I shall not dance any more to-night," said
Lucia, with a conclusive gravity. She was
anxious to sit down and escape all solicitation ;
as she came nearer she saw that Lady Portisham

was talking eagerly to Everard Deane, but she
broke off at once on perceiving her, and made
room for her on the same couch.

Not going to dance any more ! " she exclaimed
; " have you so soon learnt the secret
of power  withdrawing the light of your countenance
at the height of your popularity 1 But
if you are determined, I will give up my seat to
Mr Deane, and go and do my duty elsewhere."

Everard took the vacated seat, but one glance
at Lucia's face showed him her mood was too
subdued and thoughtful to make any form of
conventional talk acceptable. Of what was her
mind so full 1 Was it memory, or hope, or
desire, that lent such perilous sweetness to the
raised eyes and slightly drooping lips '?

That is a lovely valse'' she said presently,
breaking the silence gently with her low musical
accents, " but it makes one sad  I hardly
know why."

"Because it suororests a rounded measure of
joy which we know life is impotent to fill''

She turned her eyes fully upon him, and he

saw they were wet with tears. Had he been a
younger man, less disciplined in self-restraint,
he must have given some sign of the feeling excited
; as it was, he said quietly 

My father has been making great alterations
in his greenhouses lately. I know you are interested
in ferns. If you really will not dance
any more, may I show them to you ? "

But you, do you never dance *? "

Never ! It is one of the many good things
nature denied me from my birth,  I don't mean
that as a complaint, only as a statement of
fact. This way ! I will lift this curtain, and
we shall be free of the ball-room at once."

They stepped out into the hall of the house,
which was substantially furnished with every
possible suggestion for ease and comfort, and
where a cheerful fire, blazing up the wide
chimney, gave the final touch of social enjoyment
to the scene. A couch placed close to
the genial warmth seemed to invite a pause.

Will you sit down a few minutes before
we go farther?" asked Everard. "The atmosphere

here is refreshing after the crowded shed
we have left, and the air is so chilly to-night
that a fire is welcome. It is welcome to me
all the year round."

He pushed the little sofa to a more tempting
angle, placed her in the cosiest corner, and
brought a cushion for her feet. Then he
directed her to draw her cloak closer about
her shoulders, as the change of temperature
was great ; but all this was done less with
the artificial courtesy of a gentleman on social
duty than with the solicitude of a friend of
long standing.

In Lucia's frame of feeling, this tender and
gracious assiduity almost upset her equanimity.
She had not the slightest perception of the
attitude of Deane's mind towards her ; she
looked upon him as so far removed from her
in age, position, and intellect, that she accepted
his kindness as a free gift from a superior to
an inferior, from a master to a pupil. With
a thoroughly imperfect knowledge of him, she
had conceived the notion that he was a man

of quite exceptional merit and benevolence  his
goodness to her being conclusive as to the fact.
Again the idea occurred to her of pouring out
her complaint into his sympathetic ear and claiming
his assistance. She could never solve the
distracting intricacies of her present position
without outside help, and to whom better
could she apply 1 True, her father's command
lay like a nightmare on her sensitive conscience
; but then that had been given in
perfect misconception of Hugh's true character,
and, under any circumstances, Everard Deane
would never betray her. Eager, yet still full
of maidenly reluctance and reserve, she glanced
towards him as he leaned over the fire, and
marked, for the first time, the frail and slightly
misshapen figure, and the suggestion of debility
and suffering it undoubtedly conveyed.

At the same moment he looked up and met
her eyes. Their expression was at once so
intense and so pathetic as to produce almost
the effect of a shock. A woman that looked
like that had stepped beyond the charmed circle

of irresponsible girlhood ; was he, after all, too
late '? Had the clear pool of her passions been
stirred, and another stepped in before him 1

Are you wishing to tell me"' he said a little
uneasily, "that you are so comfortable where
you are that you don't care to look at the
ferns, and are kindly afraid of hurting my
feelings ? "

If indeed it were anything else she was about
to say  any revelation of the thing he dreaded
to hear, strange as it would be for her to choose
him for her confidant, he did not want to hear
it ; and Lucia, keenly alive to mental impressions,
perceived the want of sympathy between
them, and shrank back chilled into herself.

I was not going to say that"' she answered
simply; '' but if you don't mind I would rather
not go to the conservatory. I ought to have
looked after mamma before this, and must goto
her at once. She will think I have forgotten
her."

She rose and looked about her ; the geography
of the house puzzled her.

She had a bad headache' she explained,
and Lady Portisham was kind enough to take
her into a quiet little room to lie down and rest,
but I scarcely know where to find it. The curtains
and the furniture were red, and there was
a lamp hanging from the ceiling by a chain."

*' I will take you," he said, smiling at her
exactness ; " but pray put the hood of your
cloak over your head  the passages will strike
cold."

She obeyed ; some acknowledgment of his
forethought had sprung to her lips, but she
checked it, feeling conscious of being less at
ease with him than usual. Presently he remarked,
as they walked on together through
the intervening rooms and passages 

I ought to apologise for my officiousness.
Miss Prescott ; but my excuse is that I have
been so deplorable an invalid the chief part of
my life, that I am apt to believe the rest of
the world stands in need of the same safeguards
as myself. This is the room : I will
stand outside while you go in, and if Mrs

Prescott should prefer to go home, I will get
your carriage brought round at once."

No one could have judged from his manner
that he was suffering an acute disappointment
at the frustration of the evening's pleasure he
had anticipated.

Mrs Prescott did prefer to go home, only she
was afraid of incurring her husband's displeasure,
and of abridging Lucia's enjoyment.

Mr Prescott is playing cards and will not
miss you," said Everard ; " and I will take care
to explain the matter to him myself. You need
feel no anxiety."

He took them back into the hall until their
carriage was ready, when he himself put them
solicitously into it, renewing his assurances to
Mrs Prescott that he would have no difficulty
in justifying her early departure to her husband,
and making remedial suggestions for her headache.


God forgive me," said the poor lady, sinking
back into her favourite corner, " but I cannot
help liking him ! "

Lucia looked at her in astonishment, then
said with a smile 

'' It seems to me it would be more reasonable
to ask God to forgive you if you did not like
him ; but sometimes I do not understand you,
mamma."

CHAPTER IX.

A MONTH had passed since Mr Prescott's interview
with Hugh Marriott, and during that time
the young man's mood and plans had undergone
as many variations as the earth's revolution
on her axis.

The uppermost feeling at first had been a
passionate resistance to an arbitrary and cruel
exercise of authority, which resistance was justified,
not only by love and instinct, but also by
reason and duty. No law, human or divine,
could be quoted in defence of such conduct as
Mr Prescott's.

Lucia and Hugh had known each other
from childhood ; there was no specific date
to their love, for the time seemed never to
have existed when they did not love each

other. Their intimacy had always received
the hearty encouragement of their friends ; and
their engagement had been sanctioned without
hint of objection, except from Lucia's father,
and he had consented to waive it at her intercession.
And now, when the life-happiness of
each depended on the other  when young affection
had ripened into tenderness and devotion,
and the prospect of marriage had taken definite
form in their minds, and had been brought
down out of the golden orient of hope into
the blessed region of certainty and detail  was
it likely he should drop his prize at the word
of command ? He almost laughed aloud at the
absurdity of the idea.

But after he had thus satisfactorily proved to
his own mind its unreason and injustice, the
point of difficulty still remained  what was the
best thing to do next ?

He believed what Mr Prescott had told
bim, that he had despatched his wife and
daughter into the country, because such a
step seemed a likely one to be taken under

the circumstances. But where in the length and
breadth of Norland was he to look for them ?

The stockbroker's villa at Richmond was a
charming property undoubtedly, but he held
no other. There was no family mansion in
the provinces to fall back upon as a certain
retreat; and moreover, Hugh knew from experience
that Mrs Prescott was in the habit
of dividing her favours with baffling impartiality
amongst the different sea-coast resorts ;
what means had he of knowing whether Scarborough,
Hastings, or Brighton had been selected
on this occasion ? But Lucia would
write, and he would at once open his mind
to her. It was his first duty to justify his
own fidelity, and to save her from all needless
pangs of doubt and anxiety. His letters would,
as a matter of course, be forwarded ; and in
these blessed days of two hours' delivery, it
would surely be impossible for them to be
intercepted.

He had not lost sight of the father s brutal
threats, but he found a difficulty in believing it

possible for him to put them into practice, and
at least he inclined to think they touched a
point a little further removed from the present.
Under any circumstance he and Lucia must
meet and face this trouble together.

But in drawing these conclusions, Hugh
Marriott was naturally unable to take into full
account the excellent forethought and method
of Mr Prescott's household arrangements. It
happened that the charge of the letter-box was
placed by him in the hands of the butler of the
establishment (a man who had been long in his
service), and that under very stringent regulations.
It was one of the rules of the house
that all letters addressed to any member of his
family, should be first brought to himself whenever
he happened to be in it, in order to be
subjected to a certain amount of examination
before passing them on for distribution. This
habit had arisen in the first place innocently
enough, from fear of any blunder or oversight
in his own business correspondence, a good deal
of which it suited his purpose to have addressed

to his private residence ; but he had maintained
it as his daughters grew out of childhood,
partly from distrust of his wife's discretion, and
partly from the constitutional bias of his mind
towards the exercise of petty authority.

On the evening of the day on which Prescott
had dismissed Marriott, when the man entered
his room as usual with a batch of letters, received
by the last delivery, his master made a
sign to him to remain.

You are acquainted with Lieutenant Marriott's
handwriting, I think ? "

He spoke in that freezing tone of measureless
distance which distinguishes the manner of men,
other than gentlemen, in their intercourse with
their inferiors.

Willis, who knew all about Lucia's relations
with the young sailor from the time when she
was six years old, grinned significantly as he
answered in the affirmative.

For the future any letter in his hand is to
be taken into my study, not delivered to Miss
Prescott as before ; or, since the ladies some-vol.

I. I

times go in there during my absence, it might
be as well for you to keep it in your own possession
till you have the opportunity of delivering
it to me. You understand '? "

He glanced furtively at him as he spoke, and
detected an expression of reluctance, held in
check by self-interest and the force of habit.

You have been a long time in my service,
Willis," he added, with affected spontaneity,
"and have consequently known my daughter
almost from a child. As a proof of my good
opinion, I will mention, in confidence, that she
has sufficient grounds for breaking off her engagement
with Lieutenant Marriott, and desires
to close the correspondence."

The man withdrew, but with a preternaturally
perplexed expression of countenance, which
cost his master some anxiety.

That anxiety, however, was relieved a day
or two afterwards, by receiving from his hands
Hugh's intercepted letter of statement and appeal.
Mr Prescott read it through, and even
pondered over it as he read. There was a force

in the younor man's reasonings an unhaltinor
faith in the faith of Lucia  a tender eloquence
of reminder and anticipation  that he rejoiced
to think would fail to meet the eyes and warm
the heart for which they were intended. He
felt no more compunction in crushing this boy
and girl love than in putting his foot on some
bright-hued insect that might cross his path.

Such adolescent softness was never meant for
the wear and tear of maturity,  or when by
chance it reached fruition, the result was disappointment
and disgust.

'' Lucia is not the girl to mil at Malta or
Gibraltar, or at any other fusty station of our
sea-girt empire ! I will give her to one who
can afford to keep her at home, and throw into
her lap all the treasures women value most. In
years to come she will thank me for saving her
from her first love."

On getting no answer to his letter, Hugh
ventured to call at Richmond, and inquire after
the ladies of the house ; but it was Willis who
admitted him, and he had been duly instructed

as to the part he was to play in view of this incident
arising. He told him they had left town
a few days before ; and when further pressed
for their address, said they were gone to the
English lakes, and were travelling about ; then,
appearing to recollect himself, added that his
master directed his letters to the post - office,
Kendal.

All this was profoundly unsatisfactory, and
Hugh felt baffled and distressed. Surely Lucia
would find some way of communicating with
him 1 But time passed, and he received no
letter. He would have haunted her house, but
he believed her not to be there,  and even to a
lover (at least if he be of the present century)
the empty shrine is rather inadequate consolation.
This condition of uncertainty, joined with
a sense of injurious wrong, began to tell upon
him : he lost, at the same time, his appetite
and his temper, and under such conditions was
conscious of the first stirrings of jealousy and
doubt.

That Lucia must have the physical power to

write was an undeniable fact ; lie was not of
that pliant nature which accepts a tyrannical
and shameful command with absolute obedience
not a girl to give up the man she loved and
to whom she was solemnly pledged, because her
father had changed his mind. Was it possible
that she had been silenced by any calumnies
against him ? Or could she by any force of
circumstance be a consenting party to the mercenary
bargain to which Mr Prescott had alluded'?
The idea stung him almost to madness  Lucia
the willing equivalent of some infamous commercial
treaty !

He remembered no longer her sweet kisses
and honest assurances of affection, almost as
ardent and spontaneous as his own, but certain
lamentations over his niggardly pay and the
hardships and disappointments it entailed.
He chose to forget that such regrets always
hinged on her father's objection to their union,
and on the chances of compulsory absence, but
chewed these recollections now in the cud of his
bitter fancy as morsels of self-sufficing torment.

Another wide field for gratuitous misery was
in speculation upon the name, position, and
character of the man whom he supposed was
intended by Mr Prescott to supplant him ; he
exhausted ingenuity in vague and unsatisfactory
guess-work on this point, trying not
only to recall to his mind every man of
whom he had heard Lucia or her father
speak, but even throwing himself designedly
into contact with mutual friends, and trying
to elicit any information that might bear upon
the subject.

Again came the inevitable reaction ; the return
of faith and remorse of love. How was
he wronging the purest, sweetest heart that
ever beat in a maiden's bosom, and doing equal
injustice to his own power of maintaining
fidelity and patience under trial ! It was hard
to explain why Lucia was silent to his repeated
appeals  for he had written again and again
after his first letter  but it was also hard to
gauge the effect of her father's unmanly tyranny.
He would renew his hope, which, when lost.

made life intolerable, and sait holding judgment
in suspense a little longer. They could
not stay out of town for ever, and no difficulty
should prevent his seeing Lucia so soon
as he knew where to find her.

In this state of tension he had strolled listlessly
into his club one sultry afternoon with
some hope of meeting Captain Frobisher, and
hearing how his interests were prospering at
the Admiralty ; his own were closely bound with
them also, but that seemed a matter of very
secondary importance.

Captain Frobisher was not there, and he was
on the point of going out again when a man of
his acquaintance came up with a society paper
in his hands.

My dear fellow, your name had just left my
tongue. Speak of the angels ! &c. Have you
seen to-dayes ' Universe ' ? Here is a paragraph
about some people I fancy you know ; at least
so I read the riddle. Will you have it ? "

He turned the sheets with the dexterity of
an expert, cleared his voice, and read aloud 

A marriage is said to be arranged between
a young lady of great worth and beauty, little
known as yet in the fashionable world, and a
gentleman indirectly connected with Lombard
Street, whose reputation for what used to
be called ' gallantry ' by the old novelists, extends
over more continents than one. It seems
a case of the balance of equivalents : innocence
bartering itself for a mixed experience of life on
the strength of a maidenly calculation of the
chances of mending a rake's virtue, under the
irresistible inducement of a colossal fortune."

Marriott turned white even to the lips ; a
frenzy of repudiation made him scarcely master
of himself. He crushed the paper in his
hand almost without being conscious that he
held it.

''/ know ! God forbid that I should, or it
would go ill with the scoundrels who defamed
any woman of my acquaintance in this fashion !
Lombard Street and men of universal gallantry
are not much in my line. It is a disgrace to
a club of gentlemen to admit such rot !"

Granted ! To write, print, or peruse is
equally objectionable. "We all protest and condemn,
but without shortening the demand for
copy. Anyhow I am under a mistake"  he
spoke with an exasperating twinkle in his eye.
I fancied I had heard you mention the lady's
name, or, say, I have heard yours in connection
with hers."

*' Take care, Grattan ! I am not in the humour
to be insulted."

"So I see, if any one entertained such a
notion. But since you repudiate the intimacy,
you needn't mind glancing over this  you
understand, my curiosity is at work and my
discernment at stake. I thought I had put
two and two together with the most praiseworthy
acuteness ! "

Marriott loathed the speaker and the subject,
but he had no wish to make a fool of himself ;
besides, he was inwardly keeping down a
mighty misgiving by dint of obstinate and
mechanical incredulity.

Grattan repossessed himself of the paper.

smoothing solicitously the crumpled leaves ;
then he found with prompt facility a large-type
paragraph describing, in approximate
periphrasis, the ball in Eaton Square, and indicated
it to his companion.

Here the allusion to Lucia Prescott was of
obvious significance, but Marriott rejected it
with decision.

'* Simply," he said curtly, " the lady you
suppose is out of town''

'' Is she ? you don't read your * Morning
Post"  at least her name, with that of her
father and mother, is given in the list of
guests."

Hugh smiled a ghastly smile ; it was his
alternative to an oath or an outrage, and it
was not his nature to turn his back on any foe.

I still think you have been misled ; such
mistakes are not uncommon, I believe. Excuse
me, I see a man I want to speak to."

He raised his hand with the quarter-deck
salute, turned on his heel, and hurried out of
sight.

Grattan looked after him with a half-kindly
smile.

"Poor fellow, he is badly hit! As if Lis
epaulets could stand against Deane's bullion ! "

As Marriott made his headlong way down
the steps of the building, he ran full tilt against
a man who was coming up, and stopped to
apologise.

Is it you, Marriott ? Where have you been
in hiding 1 Have not seen you for an age.
Anything wrong? Pardon me, I don't mean
to be intrusive."

Hugh looked up, and in spite of his mental
vertigo, recognised the speaker as a man who
had the reputation of knowing town well. A
sudden idea presented itself as a possible relief
to his anxiety.

He steadied voice and expression 

Have you five minutes at command, Templar
; and can we talk without being overheard
? No, I won't go up-stairs again ; if you
have no objection, I would rather walk."

'* So be it ; I have no object but to kill the

time till dinner. These long summer days in
the thick of the season are interminable, if
one chances to be at a loose end. Can I be
of use ? "

"Yes. You know what a land-lubber I am;
I want a little society coaching. Do you happen
to know a man called Everard Deane 1 "

"Son of the great Lombard Street banker?
Yes."

Describe him to me."

"In two words  a dyspeptic voluptuary."

Marriott unconsciously gripped his friend's
arm.

Is that what the world says of him, or what
you know him to be ? Speak to the point, for
God's sake ! "

Fm afraid I've spoken too much to the
point already. I had no notion you were so
much in earnest. I must qualify  he is the
kindest-hearted fellow alive."

That is always the salve for a damaged
reputation ; is he a man from whom an honest
girl ought to shrink 1 "

Templar looked at him curiously : the clue to
the young man's agitation was very easy to
find.

If I were to be quite honest, as honest as
you are, Marriott, I should say that though I
hive good grounds for believing that Everard
Deane has lived as fast a life as any man about
town or out of it, if I had a sister and he
wanted to marry her, I should give her to
him tomorrow."

'' I cannot understand you ! ''

No % Well so much to the credit of your
simplicity. You see he has sown his wild oats
with a reckless waste of surface and of substance
that scarcely leaves anything untried or
untasted. He has exhausted pleasure or choice,
whichever way you take it, and means to try
virtue and domestic life. His father wants him
to raise an heir to the firm, and he has consented
to do his duty. I have no doubt he will
fulfil the old proverb, and make one of the best
of husbands."

Hugh commanded himself to ask in a tone

which he flattered himself was natural and
unconcerned, whether any woman's name had
been mentioned in this connection '?

Frank Templar had been at the great ball in
Eaton Square, and heard all the gossip of the
hour. He considered Lucia's fate a foregone
conclusion, and a not unenviable one, so far as
the world goes ; but he knew what the pale set
face of the handsome young sailor at his side
meant, and he had more sympathy for his state
of mind than many who thought they knew
him best would have given him credit for."

Yes, a dozen at least' he answered lightly.
' Every woman to whom Deane speaks thinks
he is her special adorer  it is a way he has.
Though, heaven knows, he must have had experience
enough to the contrary,  he treats them
all as if they were divinities. But for my own
part, I doubt still if he will put his neck into
the noose."

Marriott's lip quivered with passionate indignation,
but he had not learnt all yet it behoved
him to know*'

Are his looks," he asked curtly, " as much
iu his favour as his morals and his person ? "

Well, there you have me ! He is not an
Apollo like you and me, Marriott, but he hasa
little way of his own, and indeed a beauty of
his own, which certainly fascinate the fair sex.
And for that matter  for even the devil should
have his due  it is not women alone he pleases,
he is a favourite with all the men who know
him. I have a special weakness for Everard
Deane myself."

'then we will not discuss him any more.
Shall we turn back again ? I am taking you
out of your way : my time is of no consequence."


They turned back and walked in silence fora
few moments. Templar casting covert looks
from time to time at his companion. There
was something; in Huo-h's look and manner
which recalled an incident in his own youth,
and touched a chord that had not vibrated for
many a long year  which, indeed, he had believed
to have been snapped.

Look here, Marriott," he said, with a hesitation
most unusual to him, *' if you would trust
me a little further, perhaps I could give you
some help. It may be that Deane is flirting
with some girl that you are sweet on  in that
case, I think I could tell you a winning card to
play."

Hugh made an emphatic gesture, which meant
a sweeping rejection of all plans for diplomatic
action.

As you please, of course. But the matter
can't have gone very far as yet. Go to Deane
and tell him how the case stands between you
and her  however that may be  and make an
appeal to his honour. You would not go in
vain."

' Good heavens ! what do you take me for ?
I should consider any girl not worth the saving
who could be cajoled by such a man as you
describe. If he can win her, he is welcome to
her I"

"All right, old fellow  men view these
things differently. Time was when I would

have sacrificed not only my life but my pride
to get the woman I wanted, but you are made
of sterner stuff. For my part I have always
gone in for happiness versus dignity. We will
part here, then."

He nodded dismissal to poor Hugh, who
would fain have detained him and twisted the
talk in hope of fresh disclosures, and disappeared
within the walls of his club.

VOL. I.

Chapter X.

A FEW days after the ball in Eaton Square, Mr
Prescott came to the conclusion that his plans
were ripe for disclosure to his daughter.

He knew that there was an engagement with
Everard Deane to Kew Gardens for that afternoon,
between her and her mother, and he
thought it expedient that the purpose to which
all this busy and frequent intercourse was tending,
should be left no longer in obscurity.

It was satisfactory to him to observe how
much obvious liking towards Deane there was on
Lucia's part, though it puzzled him to understand
how any girl could miss the meaning
of the attentions she received from him. He
would still have let matters run a little longer
in their natural course, if he had not been

afraid that Deane might at any time make
some sort of avowal, and that Lucia would
receive it with a frank explanation of her
enoraorement to Lieutenant Marriott. This must
be prevented, even at the cost of a painful
scene.

"Tell Lucia I want to speak to her this
morning before I go to town," he said to his
wife, ' and let her wait for me in your room.
Also, do not go away,  I wish you to be
present."

He looked at her sharply, observing she had
turned pale and trembled.

You will not play the fool 1 " he demanded
harshly.

I hope," she answered, " I shall not have
need to play any part at all ; it will now rest
between you and Lucia."

She made haste to escape from him under
pretext of giving his message to Lucia, and
then went back to the appointed room and satin
nervous distress until she joined her.

The girl looked out of spirits, and her face

had lost much of its brilliant colouring and
radiant expression.

What does papa want, I wonder ? " she
asked, but did not seem to expect an answer
from her mother ; and then she walked towards
the window and stood looking listlessly
across the park till her father entered the
room.

So I you are going out again with Mr
Deane this afternoon, Lucia," be began jocularly.
" Don't you think it is about time for a
father, deeply anxious about his girl's happiness,
to ask him or her what is the meaning of all
this ? "

Lucia turned very pale ; it seemed to her fora
few moments that her heart ceased to beat,
but she did not lose her self-possession.

*' The meaning is very simple," she said. " Mr
Deane is an idle, good-natured, eccentric man,
and it suits him sometimes to spend a few hours
with mother and me, because he knows we both
take great pleasure in his society. To-day I am
going to Kew to have a lesson in floriculture

he is always teaching me something or
other."

And how honos is he o:oino; to undertake
your education ? When he is tired of this his
latest eccentricity, will you be content to be
dropped into neglect again '? "

'' I do not think he will wish to behave like
that. I hoDC we shall always be friends."

'* You like him then, Lucia, as a friend 1 "

'' I like him more than any man I have ever
known," she answered calmly  '' except one."

"That is well, Lucia." And Mr Prescott
came up to her side and laid his hand on her
shoulder. " That other is unworthy, and Mr
Deane likes you better than any woman he has
ever known, and wants to have you for his wife.
Like a man of honour, he has spoken to your
natural guardians first, and we have given our
consent."

The girl uttered a low cry, and put her
hands before her eyes. The reaction of feeling
the quick sense that chicanery and collusion
had been employed against her  almost overwhelmed

her. She felt like some trapped creature
which hesitates from instinct to struggle,
lest it should make its position worse.

Presently she lifted up her beautiful, honest
eyes, and looked tenderly at her mother.

"Mamma, at least, did not know of Mr
Deane's wishes and your plans. She would not
have deceived me ! "

There was a ring of pain in her voice that
deepened to anguish as she met the piteous,
beseeching glance with which Mrs Prescott was
regarding her ; then Lucia dropped her eyes
like one ashamed, and the colour rushed into
her face.

Poor mother," she said softly  *' she was
afraid ! "

Yes," returned her father, seizing the slight
advantage of a difficult moment, "you are right 
she was afraid to refuse to help me in a time of
bitter need, and you must be afraid too. You
little know, child, when all looks smooth outside,
what tortures of anxiety and risk gnaw at the
heart of a man in such a position as mine. While

you have been fooling and enjoying yourself, I
have been on the brink of ruin. I have been
barely saved by the timely help of Everard
Deane's father, and in recognition of his goodness
I have promised "  he hesitated, and looked
for guidance of his way into the pale intent
face of his daughter  '* that my girl shall, if
possible, pay her father's debt."

'' But it is not possible. You know I am not
free  you went beyond your rights."

The words were spoken in a low tone, but
with an air of quiet decision that strained Prescott's
forbearance to the extreme. And yet he
felt he must be patient and persuade.

I deny that you are not free," was his
answer ; " whatever tie may have existed between
you and Lieutenant Marriott, he himself
has broken. What has become of him ? Why
has he not written since you last saw him ?
Was any girl before so basely treated ? One,
too, who has not even the pride of her sex,
but has condoned offences that have never been
acknowledged, and written beoorinor- letters to



the lover who has cast her off without attempt
at explanation ! Lucia, my darling, you will
not sacrifice the happiness of your own life
and the credit of mine by persisting in your
infatuation ? "

I will persist," she answered, " in my faith
in Hugh in spite of all the appearances against
him ; but it is not infatuation, and I will not
believe that any sacrifice can be required  at
least none could be worse than the sacrifice of
truth and honour on all sides."

You try me more than I can bear," returned
her father with ill-subdued violence ; " truth and
honour are already violated I What matters
it what a girl like you believes or disbelieves ?
I tell you as a stubborn fact, my honour is in
Everard Deane's hands to make or to mar."

*' Then I am quite sure," she said warmly,
'' that it is in very safe keeping. To suppose
that Mr Deane would make his business transactions
dependent on the inclination of a girl like
me, is to suppose that he has not the instincts
of a gentleman. No," she added with a flash of

indignation, "you can no more persuade me
that be could be so base, than that Hugh has
forgotten me ! "

Prescott turned on his heel with a cynical
smile on his lips and began to walk the floor.
He knew that Lucia was right in both conclusions,
and he was afraid of driving her to extremity.
Perhaps enough had been done for
the present ; the thin end of the wedge had
been introduced, and with far less protest
and resistance than he had expected. He did
not understand that Lucia's comparative composure
arose from the ardent trustfulness and
hopefulness of her nature. She believed in her
lover, and she equally believed in the fairness
and goodwill of Everard Deane  here was her
security against any romantic necessity for self-sacrifice.


I do not believe," she added, after an eager
pause, " that Mr Deane has any serious wish to
make me his wife ; he has shown me no such
feeling, and he must know that I am quite unequal
to such a position."

Then she suddenly approached her father, and
put her hand entreatingly upon his arm.

Only bring me face to face with Hugh, and
all will be well. Could you not call once more
in Bruton Street '? This suspense is breaking
my heart ! You would not urge me  would
you  if you believed in him ?"

He turned round and met the soft beseeching
look, and to his shame he stooped and kissed
her, saying with affected earnestness 

'' For your sake I will call once more to make
assurance more assured, on condition that if I
prove your confidence mistaken, you will consent
to discuss the question of duty and sacrifice
in another spirit. Meantime, remember you
meet Mr Deane to-day as usual, and try and
read better the signs of the time."

If I meet Mr Deane to-day," said Lucia
firmly, though she was very pale, ' I must tell
him about Hugh."

Once more Mr Prescott controlled a paroxysm
of fury.

I desire that you will not do that to-day 

after to-day you shall use your own discretion,
but I reserve to myself the right of talking over
this subject again after I have renewed my
inquiries about Marriott."

He kissed her and went out.

When he was gone, Lucia turned and looked
earnestly at her mother.

*' Please tell me how much you knew ! Has 
has Mr Deane ever said a word to you about me ?
Have you been taught not to believe in Huo-h \ ''

She came towards her, and knelt down before
her, resting her arms in her lap, and fixing her eyes
on her face. Mrs Prescott was greatly troubled.

'' My dear, you must not press me so hard,
for I am bound to obey your father ; but 
Mr Deane has never expressed any wishes tome,
and I do believe in Hugh Marriott. For all
that, I cannot help you''

I want no help' said the girl, sadly. '' I
shall have strength and patience enough to wait
till time makes things clear. As for Mr Deane
I quite understand the matter. His father
wishes him to marry, and he has perhaps

thought of me as one it might be possible for
him to like if he were to try. But he will not try ;
every one says he is not disposed to marry."

But, Lucia, how can you reconcile this
with what your father has just now told you,
and me a long time ago '? Mr Deane admires
you very much, and there has been a kind of
bargain between them on your account. You
must take these things into consideration."

Lucia's face kindled. '' Mother dear, that is
not true. I do not want to hurt your feelings,
or to speak disrespectfully of papa  but he is
ambitious for me, and has always wanted me to
marry a rich man. Mr Deane has made no
such bargain. I am as sure of it as I am of
Hugh's fidelity. I only wish I might tell him
all the truth to-day."

* But you will not, dear ; you will remember
your father's commands ? "

I will remember them this once," said Lucia,
rising; 'but it is the last time that we shall
meet without a full explanation, and I shall feel
guilty and condemned in his sight to-day."

CHAPTER XL

EvERARD Deane had been engaged in building
during the last few weeks as pretty and unsubstantial
an air-castle as if he had been a boy
or a poet. The frank graciousness with which
Lucia Prescott had met his advances had encouraged
him to believe it might be possible for
him to win her innocent love, and the idea
had warmed his whole being and purged as it
warmed. If it were realised, the woman did
not exist who should be so happy as he would
make Lucia ; he would devote his life to the
enlargement and blessedness of hers.

Certain purposes and plans of doing good
which had gilded his boyish dreams, when
dreams alone were possible, and had since been
trampled under foot in the fierce and passionate

conflicts of his manhood, roused and quickened
with a sudden capacity of resuscitation. Her
purity would elicit and maintain a devotion all
the deeper from his hectic experience of the
frivolous and sordid of her sex, and the consecration
of his life to the complex and delicate
requirements of hers, should be so complete at
all points as to leave her no loophole for disappointment
or desire.

Another side-light of the picture which he
liked to dwell on, was the satisfaction his father
would derive from such a happy marriage ; and
here he allowed his imagination to rest on details
at once so homely and so idyllic, as to make
the dreamer's cheek flush and pulses throb.
How the bright and candid nature of Lucia
would meet and respond to the kindred qualities
in the fine old man ! And how, in his
turn, he would delight in her sweet loveliness,
and pour out the stored afi'ectionateness
of his heart upon the possible children, who
would look up to him with eyes as honest
and beautiful as her own !

Everard had never thought her more engaging
than during the time he was acting as guide
and teacher amongst the conservatories and hothouses
of Kew  some exotic growths having led
him to speak (which was a thing he rarely did)
of his own African experiences. Mrs Prescott
had met with a friend with whom she preferred
to sit and converse on one of the well-shaded
benches  her deeper motive being a
cowardly but natural desire to separate herself
as much as possible from the progress of affairs
between Mr Deane and her daughter.

Remember ! " she had said to her in a low
tone of anxious impressiveness, as the two were
leaving her to pursue their investigations by
themselves, and Lucia's face had burned with
a painful feeling of degradation. But it had
not been possible for her long to resist the
enjoyment of the scene under the influence of
delightful weather, and a companionship that
always seemed to fill her mind to the exclusion
of personal feeling. The momentary unpleasantness
was forgotten, as well as the deeper

anxieties which lay behind it ; or rather the
vigour of her hope and trust in the future
made the present easy to bear with patience.
Besides, it must be remembered that she had
perfect confidence in her own view of the
merely friendly relations between herself and
Deane.

Her delight in flowers amounted to a pure
rapture, so genuine and intense as to give hera
new charm in Everard's eyes ; then there was
much to him of attractive grace in her innocent
admiration of the lovely women and lovelier
toilets which fixed her attention. But still
more penetrating was the irresistible flattery
of her absorbed attention, as she followed the
story he told her of a perilous adventure in
his life. He had no motive of self-glorification
in it, though it bore witness to his resource,
endurance, and pluck. It had been first recalled
to his mind by the strange and magnificent
vegetation which surrounded them, and
her eager interest in a passing allusion which
he had made. But as he observed the impression

he produced, and met the intent gaze of
the beautiful brown eyes which seemed almost
to anticipate the words he was speaking, he
was fully aware of two facts  that he loved
Lucia Prescott better even than he had supposed,
and that he felt a stronger hope of
winning her.

They were seated in a remote part of the
garden where few people passed, under the
spreading fans of a gigantic chestnut-tree. The
fierce heat of the day had grown less, for the
sun, which had been blazing in a cloudless sky
of intense azure, was already declining towards
the west and gathering its evening pomp inglorious
level streams of colour. Everard's
story was done ; but Lucia, whose interest had
been strongly stirred, was asking questions
with an animation almost amounting to eagerness,
to which he replied with calculated reserve,
in order to protract the pleasure of
watching the changes of her sweet, animated
face.

It was at this precise moment when any
VOL. I. L

observer might have been justified in supposing
their relations to have been of the closest
possible kind, that their privacy was suddenly
interrupted by a gentleman who, advancing
from behind, crossed deliberately in front of
the bench where they sat.

As he passed, Everard instinctively paused
and raised his eyes, to meet in those of the
stranger an expression of the most unmitigated
rage and contempt. Every feature in the pale
handsome face was working with passion which
could scarcely be said to be controlled, and as he
came near Lucia, who was leaning back in the
elbowed corner of the bench, he stooped over
her and whispered, with concentrated bitterness,
some short word or phrase in her ear which
Everard could not catch.

Lucia winced under it as if she had received
a blow, and uttered a low ejaculation of suppressed
pain. For a moment Everard lost his
presence of mind : he started up with an oath
on his lips, and a quick impulse to pursue the
unmanly aggressor, but Lucia caught his arm.

Stop ! " she implored faintly, and after a
glance at lier face, lie sat down again, putting
personal feeling on one side for the present.
His own face had grown white, and the lines
hardened round the lips, as the conviction was
borne in upon his mind that here, in this swift
mystery, lay the ruin of his hopes. As he sat
for a few moments silent by her side, he looked
keenly after the retreating figure so as to impress
Hugh Marriott's personality upon his
memory, and then making the effort which
seemed imperatively demanded, said quietly 

Don't think it necessary to explain. Just
rest a few minutes, and then we will find Mrs
Prescott'

But Lucia was cut to the core of her loyal
and affectionate nature ; grief, anger, and shame
seemed to tear down all power of self-control :
after the cruel suspense  the painful patience
of her fidelity  was such a meeting as this the
reward ?

She buried her face in her hands and sobbed
aloud.

To see any creature suffer was hard to Everard
Deane, and had never failed to move him to
some effort towards relief; but to see a woman
weep, and weep as a consequence of brutal outrage
unavenged, shook him to the depths of his
frail and fiery being.

Moreover he loved this woman.

During the short interval which he thought
it judicious to allow to the first indulgence of
her pain, he was conscious that throughout his
eager life no stronger passion had been excited
than the love that he felt for her and the hate
he bore to the fair-haired, blue-eyed young sailor
who had just crossed their path.

He took a few turns on the greensward,
partly to relieve her of his observation, partly
to control what he felt was fast becoming uncontrollable
in his own feelings ; then, when he
could trust himself, he went back to her.

Lucia had dried her tears, and now looked
up at him with an anxious piteous expression.

I do not want to go back to mamma for a few
minutes  I  I want to make you understand."

Yes," he said kindly, for he would not check
her; "it is very good of you to be thinking
about me."

Lucia met the careful sweetness of his glance,
and her lips quivered again a little.

/' T do not know what you must think of
me'' she faltered, in accents so broken he had
to bend nearer her to catch them, " but please
suspend your judgment a little till I have explained.
I should like to keep your good
opinion ! Also "  and this was lower still 
*'do not condemn him till you know all."

Everard's look darkened  it was hard to
listen to this tender extenuation ; also, he could
not but perceive that he had been shamefully
deceived, and would have to pay a heavier
penalty for the deception than he could well
estimate in his present confusion of mind ;
but in spite of this indignant consciousness, he
had sufficient calmness left to discern that it
was quite possible the girl herself had been no
party to the fraud. In that case what was left
for him to do was  to console her.

I think I understand pretty well," he
answered ; "at least quite enough to release
you from the necessity of explaining matters
to-day. I can even understand that a sudden
paroxysm of rage and jealousy may change a
man's nature for the moment ; but we will leave
that too for another time. Come, there must be
no more tears ! I know a little fernery near herewith
a fountain in it  shall we try and find it ?
You might then be able to bathe your eyes before
we return to your mother, and the cold
water would help to bring back the colour to
your cheeks." He smiled as he spoke, and
offered his hand to raise her from her seat ; he
had not meant to carry the courtesy further,
for the contact was almost more than he could
bear without self betrayal ; but seeing that
she still trembled with agitation, he accepted
his necessity, and, drawing her arm through
his, led her carefully to the place he had
mentioned.

It was a small house, full for the most part of
hardy ferns, and a tiny fountain in the midst

dashed its spray to the roof, and fell besprinkling
the vivid green of the foliage. There Averse
no seats and no other visitors.

Everard looked round till he found a large
empty pot, which, inverted, made an excellent
seat, over which he spread his handkerchief before
he would allow her to sit down. Then he
dipped up some of the water from the basin
in a flower-saucer, which he washed carefully
before presenting it for use, and held it while
Lucia steeped in it the flimsy cambric, already
saturated with her tears, and pressed it against
her aching eyes and forehead.

There was nothing embarrassing in the way
in which these little offices were rendered ; he
knew perfectly well that the girl's mental balance
was in such delicate equipoise, that the
slightest suggestion of any personal feeling on
his part would have overthrown it, and he
allowed nothing to appear but the simplest
kindliness.

She looked up at last with a steady smile,
and said 

As long as I live, Mr Deane, I shall remember
your goodness to me to-day."

Well," he answered, " it will be a great
satisfaction if you think I have established a
lifelong claim on your remembrance ; but it
is very handsome payment for poor services.
Do you feel well enough to walk now ? I do
not wish to hurry you, but it is getting late,
and your mother will be uneasy."

He saw she hesitated, and added quickly 

"As we go, you can tell me, if you please, if
I can be of any use to you in  this trouble of
yours."

She got up and moved along by his side with
downcast eyes and burning cheeks for some
few minutes in silence, then said with a quick,
deprecating glance 

And you guess nothing ? "

I do not choose to guess. I simply ask if
it is in my power to help you."

I think you can," she said timidly ; " I
only wish I had dared to ask your help before.
But I am quite bewildered by what has just

happened. There is some cruel wrong and deception
somewhere, and I cannot make things
clear to my mind. Only yesterday  an hour
ago  I would have pledged my life on his trust
in me. I have been sorely tried as well as he,
but I never doubted him. How could he speak
to me like that ? "

"I do not know," said Everard, " what
offence he considered you had committed ; but
you will easily forgive him ! A woman's faculty
of condonation is generally in proportion to the
outrage she has received."

He met her distressed glance, and blamed
himself for having so far indulged the bitterness
of his feelings. He dropped his cynical tone,
and hastened to make amends.

There is another view," he said. " Othello
dealt very hard measure to the immaculate lady
he married, and  we forgive him."

Lucia smiled. '' Thanks ; those are the most
comforting words you could have spoken. Our
forgiveness is measured by the measure of our
love ; and in that case  it is certain  I shall

forgive Hugh. Then there is another excuse :
men are not patient like women, and he must
have suffered deeply to have so far forgotten
himself."

Everard bit his lip in silence ; he saw her
softened glance and returning colour, and heard
the passionate sigh that escaped her parted lips.
To walk coldly beside her, without demonstration
of either love or hate, taxed his self-control
almost too far. He strained his keen vision in
all directions in hopes of discovering Mrs Prescott,
so as to be able to escape from his ordeal,
but she was nowhere to be seen.

Lucia, occupied with her own engrossing
interests, went on 

I want advice and help sadly. May I trust
you, Mr Deane ? "

I do not know," he answered. " Men trust
me for the most part ; I am not sure a woman
would be well advised to do so."

I will risk it," she said, with her radiant
smile. " Hugh has been led to believe that I
have been false to him, instead of which I have

been fond and true throughout, under the same
difficulties which have proved too much for him.
And yet not quite the same. Had I seen him
in just such circumstances as he saw me, don't
you think  you who know the world so much
better than I do  there would have been room
for some displeasure and doubt ? "

Possibly. Let us say he is quite justified ;
and go on to the practical part of the matter."

If I write' she continued eagerly, " he is
angry, and will not read my letter. I cannot
go to him myself  it would not be thought
proper, though, God knows, there would be no
harm in it ! Oh, Mr Deane, you do not know
how we have loved and believed in each other
until now ;  are cruel lies and a false impression
to avail to part us in the end ? My father  I
dare not open that subject with you. I am ready
to sink with shame ; but  but "

She could not go on.

But you are resolved to win back your lover !
I see ; you are a solitary maiden, set in the midst
of enemies to your peace, and casting about for

succour. You look upon me as the innocent
cause of your present distress, and think you
have a claim on my services  at least I will
place them, almost without reserve, at your disposal.
Tell me a little more about the matter ;
not to-day, you have already suffered too
much, but some other time  and, I repeat, I
will help you if I can."

Tears of passionate gratitude filled the tender
eyes she lifted to his face.

You will come and see me tomorrow, at
home 1 " she urged in low vibrating tones ; " and
when I have told you everything  everything 
and proved to you there is only one way of convincing
Lieutenant Marriott of his mistake, you
will not refuse to take that way 1 "

I will come tomorrow morning at eleven,
and hear all you think proper to tell me ; but
the only promise I can give you in advance of
my ignorance, is that I will be as true a friend
to your real welfare as I can. Thank heaven,
I see Mrs Prescott ! "

She looked at him in hurt surprise, and

noticed for the first time  so light is friendship
in the scale of love  that he was unusually pale.

You are not well  in pain ? " she asked, ina
tone of tender compunction. " I have heard
how much you have to bear at times; and I
have kept you in attendance so long as this 
oh, forgive me ! "

It is a premonitory twinge of my old enemy,
neuralgia ; but I assure you, I have felt nothing
till this moment, and you must not believe what
you hear. Still it is sharp enough, as you perceive,
to make a man forget his manners. I
will just put you into your carriage, and then
get home by hansom as quick as I can."

And you will be better by tomorrow ?
otherwise I entreat you not to go out  for my
sake ! "

She meant it. He looked searchingly into
her face, all aglow with an eager sympathy,
hard enough to endure, and decided that she
spoke in absolute sincerity.

I shall certainly be better by tomorrow.
I know precisely how to treat myself You

may rely upon me without the slightest misgiving."


He bowed over the little hand that closed
over his in such a friendly clasp, and departed.

Lucia looked after him till she could see him
no more, then, drawing a deep breath, said
impulsively 

I used to think Hugh Marriott the kindest,
gentlest, and most generous of men ; but at least
he is not that."

Lucia ! " exclaimed her mother, in an uncertain
tone, which vacillated between pain and
satisfaction, " what do you mean ? "

At the sound of her voice the girl seemed to
arouse herself to a new sensation. She sat up
from the lounging attitude she had taken, and
looked straight into Mrs Prescott's face.

Mother," she said, " I am half afraid I have
lost my lover  my dear Hugh. That would be
dreadfully hard  almost too hard  to bear ; but
there is one thing that would be almost worse 
if I had lost my mother as well ! "

Mrs Prescott's lips trembled.

You are cruel, Lucia, to speak to me in
this way. I do not understand what you
mean."

I mean, Hugh has been deceived about me.
You must know what my father has done. Why
did not you warn me he was workings against
our happiness ? Why did you let me go on
writing to poor Hugh ? I thought you at
least were good and true."

Mrs Prescott trembled. Were all known, her
daughter's aoony of shame and indignation
would destroy her. Lucia must never know
the depth of her treachery, or she would hate
her. There was no peace for her in confession
and pardon  her husband held her conscience
in his hands.

Lucia," she faltered, " is it right to question
me in this tone, or say such things of your
father? Whatever he has done, he thought it
best for your happiness.

Lucia looked at her with anger so softened
by pity, that it was almost gentleness.

But you knew, mother, what was best for

my happiness, and what we both should suffer
if we thought each other unworthy. But never
mind, dear, I will forgive you everything ; for
it will all come right now. Only you must
not fight against me any more."

CHAPTER Nil

The tables are turned when you get a start of
me, Everard ! Your horse at the door at this
hour of the morning, even before my cab is
come round ! I need not ask if you are going
to Richmond  at least you are no laggard in
love. '

Your sagacity, dad, is preternatural, though
a trifle in fault on this occasion. I am out of
gear, and bent on hard riding. Don't look forme
at dinner to-day; it is just possible I may
call on Miss Prescott before I get back''

"Does all go well in that quarter ? You
keep your own counsel, Everard, which is hardly
fair, when you know how anxious I am about
the matter."

Mr Deane was standing outside his door, in
VOL. I. . M

the pleasant summer morning, watching his son,
who, after his manner,, was testing and tightening
the girths of his saddle before mounting ;
and concluding that his employment had prevented
him from hearing what was said, he repeated
the question, with a little variation of
phrase.

This time Everard looked up.

Would it vex you very much if I were to
tell you I was cooling in the chase ? "

An angry colour came into the old man's
cheeks.

How can you ask ? I should be grievously
disappointed, when you have given me
such good grounds for hope ; and perhaps
more disappointed still, because it would

serve as a fresh proof " He stopped and

hesitated.

Of the chronic unworthiness of your son ? "
supplied Everard, with a slight smile. "I assure
you he did mean well ; but the bias of circumstance
is too strong for him. I was never
meant for matrimony."

Do you wish me to understand that all is
over between you 1 "

Not exactly. I shall see Miss Prescott today,
and reach a positive conclusion. I have
not committed myself in any way, and can
draw back with honour."

Scarcely that ! " returned Mr Deane, bitterly.
" If you have been too cautious to
pledge yourself to the young lady, you cannot
cancel your pledges to me. Do you hold that
the claims of honour are only binding outside
the family circle ? "

Everard looked up quickly, with a flush on
his face. '' No one should ask me such a question
but you ; and even you should not stretch
your immunity too far. Later on, I may have
some explanations to give that will qualify your
feelings ; for the present, as neither of us is cool
enough for discussion, I will say good morning."

He mounted his horse laboriously, as he always
did, though he would not permit the assistance
of a groom ; but once in the saddle he
was master of it.

He repeated his salute to his father, and rode
off at a leisurely pace, which he continually
quickened so soon as he was free of the streets.
His secret feeling on this occasion was  however
exaggerated it may sound  that he was
being whipped with scorpions.

Every hour that had passed since Lucia
had released his hand from her tender clasp,
had strengthened his belief in her lover's unworthiness,
and exasperated his hate against
him.

As for his love, he hardly dared to question
himself on this point, the wound was too deep
and recent for deliberate handling ; only, he said
to himself, that she was the desire, not of his
eyes only, but of his soul and conscience, and
that his hunger for her could never be appeased,
except by the very possession which was denied
him. His father's reproaches, not so much in
themselves as showing the depth of his disappointment,
were a very serious addition to his
personal trouble ; and as if in mockery of these
mental complications, he was enduring the premonitory

symptoms of one of his frequent attacks
of nervous suffering.

A man predisposed to neuralgia is ill-advised
when he plays the lover for hours at
a stretch on open-air benches, or continually
exchanges the heated temperature of tropical
greenhouses for the refreshing atmosphere outside
them.

As Everard Deane consumed the distance
between him and Eichmond, he was conscious
of a certain rhythmic response between the
sensations of his physical and mental being,
which almost made him doubt if he should
be equal to the interview before him ; but he
possessed in large measure the almost indomitable
endurance, not uncommon in men of his
constitutional type, added to the supreme inducement
of Lucia's expectancy.

He was glad to find the room empty into
which he was shown,  the pretty morning-room
where he had seen her first at home, and with
which his happiest associations were connected.
It gave him the opportunity of recovering the

forced composure, both of mind and body,
which he felt was never more necessary than
now.

But he had not long to wait ; he heard
almost immediately the sound of her light
rapid footsteps, and then the door opened and
admitted her.

Perhaps it was in the nature of things, but
he never thought her so beautiful before. She
was dressed in a plain pale pink gown of some
soft clinging texture, which fell in straight lines
to her feet, and seemed to add to the height
and dignity of her appearance ; and the pallor
of her cheeks, and the slight redness of the
large lidded eyes, served to prove that her face
had intrinsic loveliness enough to bear the
absence of colour. The involuntary contraction
of the fair brows and the droop of the
lips, added the potent charm of suffering to
beauty.

He went up to her at once and held out
his hand frankly; he had come to play the
part of disinterested friend and cool adviser.

and the sooner he committed himself to it the
better. Also it would be better that he should
accomplish the task, which his first glance told
him would task his courage to the uttermost,
with as much despatch as possible.

'' I am come," he said, '' according to promise,
to take your orders this morning. I see you
are in trouble. I repeat what I said yesterday  
I will help you if I can ; but I shall be obliged
to ask you a few questions, and to say some
things which may be painful for you to hear."

'' About my father 1 " she asked in a low
voice.

Incidentally about your father no doubt,
but I want, first of all, to be satisfied  forgive
me for speaking harshly to the point  about
your own truth and honour. AVe have known
each other now for nearly three months : have
I to believe that you were not made acquainted
with the motive which led me to seek an introduction
to you  namely, that my father was
very anxious to find me a wife, and that he
had the presumption to think that you might

have been induced to stand in that relation tome
1 "

"I did not know  till yesterday," she answered,
her pale face all aflame with sudden
blushes ; " such an idea would never have
occurred to me."

Naturally ; nor ought it to have occurred
to any mind except to be dismissed. But a
father's partiality outruns his judgment ; that
is the only excuse I can offer for mine having
had the folly to suppose that anything short of
youth, vigour, and beauty, would have found
favour in your eyes."

I assure you, Mr Deane," she said, '' that
is not all which Hugh has to recommend
him."

'' No," he replied gently, " I am quite sure
you endow him with every virtue under heaven ;
but I have another question to ask. How did
it happen that in all the intimate talk we have
had together, you never told me of your engagement
? "

He looked at her searchingly as he spoke ; the

doubt that possessed him was that she would
be unable to clear herself of all complicity in
the shameful fraud which had been practised
on his father and himself. For although he
knew he must forest her, he had a strong'
desire that she should fulfil the ideal he had
formed of her ; it would not have been compensation
but increase of his loss to find her
unworthy.

I was forbidden," she answered, meeting his
eyes with perfect candour. " There were many
occasions when I longed to ask your help and
advice, but I dared not disobey my father.
But yesterday I had resolved to tell you the
very next time we met."

And circumstances have relieved you of the
necessity ? "

They have," she said firmly ; '*' but had it
been otherwise, I should certainly have told
you. Don't you believe me, Mr Deane ? "

There was a child - like simplicity in her
appeal, and a deepening expression in her face.
He turned from her and walked to the window.

Lucia followed him. She waited a few moments,
as if expecting him to answer her, then said 

I shall be doubly miserable if I have lost
your good opinion."

The inflection of her voice, the very poise of
her figure, which seemed to take a beseeching
attitude towards him, were a desperate appeal
to susceptibilities as acute as ever made the
bane or blessing of humanity. He wondered if,
after all, he should be guilty of some incredible
folly  of seizing her in a frantic embrace, or
otherwise betraying his passionate love. He
was morbidly conscious that his face must be
expressing more or less of the conflict of his
mind.

"You have not lost my good opinion," he
forced himself to say. " I think I understand
that, until yesterday, you did not see any necessity
for warning me, from the simple reason that
you believed I wanted nothing from you but an
agreeable society friendship."

He paused a moment, for he saw that her
eyes dropped with some sudden change of feeling,

and that a wave of colour again swept over
lier cheek and neck. It would be necessary for
him to take another forward step in the way of
self-effacement.

''I do not mean," he added hastily, "that
you were mistaken. I have no doubt that in
course of time, and under the influence of my
father s wishes, my feeling for you would have
taken a warmer tone ; but as it is  happily for
my peace of mind as for yours  we are friends
only."

Lucia drew a long sigh of infinite relief, and
raised her eyes to his face with some return of
their usual radiance of expression.

Ah," she said, " you do not know how proud
I am of your friendship, and at the same time
I am so dreadfully afraid of trespassing upon it.
I am distressed lest you should think me wanting
in reserve or delicacy. I don't know what
I ought to say or to leave unsaid. May I tell
you all about Hugh \  it will make things easier
to understand."

Pray do, if you think so."

*' But you will sit down ? I mean, you are
not impatient to be gone, nor have any other
engagement in view ? I know I am asking a
great deal of your patience and kindness ; but I
am so situated that I have no other friend to
help me, and I am miserable enough to make
me selfish'

I will sit down certainly, and my whole
morning is at your command. I assure you I
have been the confidant of a good many love-tales
in my life, which, I suppose, is almost as
long again as yours, and have always been
credited with a fair amount of sympathy and
resource. Between us, Lucia, we will put
matters straight."

Thus encouraged, the girl told her story.
There was no want in her nature of sweet
womanly bashfulness and the purest strain of
delicacy, but she was singularly free, as we have
had occasion to say before, from awkward or
morbid self-consciousness. She was not in the
least ashamed of her love for her gallant young
sailor, and she was also profoundly anxious to

vindicate his merits to Deane. She told him of
their boy and girl attachment, of their courtship
and engagement, with a simplicity and sincerity
which were infinitely charming  that is, they
were infinitely charming as an abstract consideration
of her merits, though partaking more
of a process of slow torture to her listener. Into
this artless narrative she had, as a matter of
course, woven the incidents of the shipwreck
ofi" the Cape of Good Hope, and warmed with
tender ardour over her lover's magnanimity.

"You will own now," she asked, "that Lieutenant
Marriott has something more than youth
and good looks to recommend him ? "

My dear Miss Prescott, it is not an uncommon
thing for an Englishman to do his duty,
but I am prepared to allow that he did it. But
it is not from any sense of duty, I suppose, that
he has harassed you by his absence and silence
of late ? You have not told me yet what was
the original cause of quarrel between you."

I cannot explain  we have never quarrelled.
We parted last the best of friends, expecting to

meet again on the morrow. But I believe my
father has come between us, and deceived us
both. It is dreadful to say this  to you ; but
how can I otherwise make you understand and
forgive Hugh's conduct 1 I have written to
him again and again, and he has not answered ;
then, when he saw us together yesterday, he
would be induced to think his suspicions confirmed
; he could not know we were talking of
nothing but far-away African adventures."

She smiled, but very sadly.

You do not answer," she continued ; " you
think he should have trusted me and come tome,
and so do I. But I suppose a man's faith
in woman is never so entire as hers in him; and
at any rate, the strongest desire I have is to
convince him that he has wronged me. If you
could only know him as I know him, you would
feel as sure as I do that he has been shamefully
deceived. Do you think he has written to me,
and they have kept back his letters, or that
mine could never have reached him ? Would
such a thing be possible nowadays ? "

It would be very difficult, but  perhaps,
not impossible."

He added the last swords in compassion to
her eager appealing expression ; personally he
had no faith in her lover.

Suppose," she continued, with the same
painful eagerness, '' my father should have
told him that what he wished was really going
to happen, would not any man be excused for
treating me as Hugh treated me yesterday ?
Think what your own anger and scorn would
have been if the girl you loved had given you
up because she was ordered to do so  to marry
a richer man ! But it was false ! Never for
one moment in all the pleasant hours we have
passed together, did I think one thought that
was disloyal to him."

He will believe you when you tell him this
he could not help believing you."

'' But how am I to tell him % He is angry
with me, and will not give me the chance  do
you not understand ? But here it is, Mr Deane,
that you can help me ; will you tell him this 

that you are my friend, and not my lover 1
That is the great service I want to ask you to
render us ; you can speak to him with a power
of conviction he could not resist, and bring him
back to me again. Will you go to him, and
tell him the truth ? He must believe what you
say."

As he did not reply at once, which she had
confidently hoped he would, she went on again,
changing a little the form of her representation.

I did not know," she said, '' that my request
would seem to you presumptuous or unwelcome,
for I had such a strong belief in your being willing
to help me ; but I would risk even your good
opinion to comfort Hugh. It hurts me more
than I can say that you should think me
wanting in delicacy and consideration, but the
happiness of my life is at stake ! And yet that
is scarcely what I mean  it is his happiness
I am thinking of most. If he is allowed to
believe that I am false to him, he will suffer as I
suffer ; and meanwhile one word of disclaimer
from your lips would be absolutely convincing."

He interrupted her.

"And if you should lose your lover on these
grounds of hasty and ungenerous suspicion,
would it be his fault or yours ? "

What good is it to ask me that ? " she
answered sadly. " I do not care to measure
and weiorh blame and wrong; in such a matter
as this. Say, he ought to trust me in spite of
all he hears and thinks he sees, but that he fails
to do this  under strong provocation. All I
want is to prove to him he does me injustice 
to win him back to the old love and faith. You
see I am such a commonplace, unheroic girl,
that the knowledge that I do not deserve my
misery, won't make it the least bit easier to bear.
I don't try to hide from you what I feel for
Hugh ; life without him would be like  what
shall I say 1  a fair landscape with the sun
withdrawn  life, with all the pleasant warmth
and colour gone out of it. Then  oh, I never
doubted that you would be willing to help
me ! ''

'any letter you think proper to write to
VOL. I. N

Lieutenant Marriott I will engage shall reach
his hands."

She shook her head sadly.

"He would not read it. He would say 
What excuse can she offer ? ' Whereas  but I
will not urge you any more. No doubt I am
misled by my own strong feeling  I ought not
to have asked you."

No' he answered, with a groan, ' you ought
not."

But the groan was an inward one, and the
words spoken to his own fighting spirit.

Lucia turned from him as she spoke, with an
air of accepted disappointment.

I had been going to ask you other favours,"
she said, " but now I feel a little afraid. Still
I must venture. Will you advise me what I
should say to my father ? I hardly dare to suggest
that you should tell him that  that you
have no wish to marry me ; but it will be necessary
for him to understand this, and he will
be very angry and bitterly disappointed. Then
there is another thing : he has told me that.

in some way I do not Understand, lie is heavily
indebted to you, so as to be at the mercy of
your forbearance. Do I ask too much if I ask
you, Mr Deane, to continue to be merciful 1 "

The matter does not rest with me. I have
conferred no obligation on Mr Prescott, but I
am quite sure he is safe in my father's hands.
For the rest, I have no difficulty in promising
to make him fully understand that I absolutely
renounce all pretensions to your hand ; and
perhaps I may be able to support your lover's
suit in such a way that your father will reconsider
his objections."

Lucia sighed.

You will do all this and it will be useless 1
Hugh will not come back to me, because he
hears you have withdrawn a claim you never
cared personally to assert, rather he will despise
me the more, thinking that you despise me too.
There is but the one way of helping me, otherwise
my happiness is lost."

'' Is it really so ? " he answered. " You are
persistent to cruelty, Lucia, though you do

not know it ; but you shall have your way. I
will go to this young man and defend you at
all points ; and if I should not send him back
to you, blame his stubbornness, not my advocacy.
But, you turn pale ! do not be afraid 
I shall succeed."

I am not afraid ; I am only too happy and
grateful. How can I thank you enough ! "

She held out both her hands to him in the
fervour of her spirit, and lifted up her lovely
face where the lips were smiling and eyes brimming
with glad tears, in the full confidence of
meeting the responsive pleasure in his.

But there was no such response : the singular
sweetness which for the most part softened the
expression of his face when it was turned upon
her, was wanting on this occasion. His eyes
smote hers like flame ; the hands, which scarcely
touched and instantly dropped her own, were
cold as ice ; his whole manner was alien to all
her former experience, and filled her with a
vague distress and foreboding.

She looked at him like a chidden child.

AYhat have I done that you are angry with
me ? You cire angry ! Do you think it unbecoming:
in me to be so orlad ? "

Then, as he still stood silent, with his face
turned away from her, another thought occurred
to her.

You are ill ! you were not well when we
parted yesterday, and I have not even remembered
to ask you how you were ! You have
kept your promise to come to me this morning:,
when you ouo-ht not to have crone out,
and I "

Her shame and compunction at her own selfishness
were so acute that she could not go on ;
she did not dare to ask for his forgiveness.

*' What you must think of me ! " she added ina
low tone. But he had recovered himself by
this time.

*' Forgive yourself," he said, smiling, "for I
forgive you. Trouble and joy are always selfish
; benevolence wants cool hearts and leisure
hands. Besides, Lucia, one of my weaknesses is
an invincible objection to be considered ailing;

you could not hurt my feelings more than by
asking me *how I am But if you are really
concerned about me, I can assure you that I
was conscious of no sensation this morning that
ought to have kept me at home."

All that you are so good as to say in my
excuse, Mr Deane, only increases my self-reproach.
Neither joy nor sorrow would make
you selfish."

He was silent for a moment, and then he
looked towards her with that sudden illumination
of spiritual expression to which his face
lent itself at times.

"You encourage me to deserve your sweet
opinion. But, come, we are forgetting a matter
of importance  where am I to find Lieutenant
Marriott ? "

She moved eagerly towards a writing-table,
and wrote the address as she stood, he watching
her hand as she formed the letters of the beloved
name, with a pang so sharp that he was
half contemptuous of his own sensibility.

*' You will oro," she said as she aye him the
paper, " soon ? "

' I will go tomorrow."

He saw the faintest shade of disappointment
touch her fair face : such a long summer day
still stretched before them !

Trust me," he said gravely ; '*' it is better
to wait till tomorrow."

He held out his hand to her in his usual way
when he was about to take leave ; but Lucia,
who was at once ardent and demonstrative, did
not like to part so formally.

She clasped the hand he extended in both
hers.

*' I trust you implicitly," she said, '*' and pray
God that you may be as happy as you have
made me."

In the years that were to come, this simple
benediction, in its ironical fulfilment, came back
to the memory of each.

CHAPTER XIII.

That love is akin to madness, is an axiom hoary
with the wisdom of the ages, but seldom has it
been realised to a fiercer excess than in the breast
of Hugh Marriott.

As he plunged out of sight amidst the scrubby
wastes of the garden outskirts, it is scarcely a
figure of speech to say that his brain was on
fire. At least so hot did the mental fever burn,
that it amounted to temporary delirium.

He had just seen the girl he adored with the
full measure of young love's extravagance  for
whose sweet presence he had been pining in
sickness of hope deferred through the last three
dreary months  fresh and radiant as if no care
had touched her, sitting at ease beside another
man in the strictest privacy a public resort

could offer, and so absorbed in what be was
saying to ber, that bar eager looks bung upon
the words as they fell from bis lips.

It yas not a case of filial obedience to a
shameful mandate or of mental coercion, but of
flagrant personal perjury and disloyalty. He
was himself simply shelved and bis rival accepted,
with a facility that outdid in infamy all
former records of female faithlessness.

Tbe smooth tongue of this " dyspeptic voluptuary
" bad triumphed over the long devotion,
the sustained denials of the last ten years of ibis
life.

Ten years ! He bad loved ber since bis boyhood
 since the sweet spring mornings when
be bad picked, unwearied, the buttercups and
daisies off the remote pastures of Richmond
Park at ber infant pleasure, or first taught ber
to trundle a book round the aspbalt paths of
ber father's villa.

And when the sea divided them, no sun bad
ever risen or set without bis first and last
thought  bis boyish prayer and benediction 

being silently but ardently breathed for the
lovely child he had left behind. On his return
England seemed scarcely his native land till he
trod its ground with her beside him ; and there
was no joy in home-coming till their hands or
lips had met. What had given him courage todo
right in the supreme moment of surrender to
duty but the divine aspiration of being worthy
of Lucia, and justifying her love ? Worthy ! (oh,
the pity of it !) worthy of the false and frivolous
creature who could throw such a past behind her
as a spent perfume, and take as compensation
the colossal fortune of a notorious debauchee ;
who was able to forget all the music of his
honest vows, and lend a fascinated ear to the
practised flatteries of a tongue which had deceived
a score of women before her !

He almost gnashed his teeth in the extremity
of his indignant rage.

It was perhaps characteristic of the sex, that
his first violent excitement of feeling should be
directed against the woman he loved, not against
the villain who had supplanted him ; but his

turn came in time. And Marriott, as he thought
of Everard Deane, and recalled the slightly
stooping figure, the indescribable air of refinement
and weakness which distinguished the
man, and the beauty of his face, cursed him
with a malignity of which he would have believed
himself incapable a few hours before.

Philosophy, pondering the deep things of the
spirit in the serene morning of human thought,
has told mankind to learn to know itself; but
the race has made small progress in the search,
and nine-tenths of it go down into silence without
having acquired even the rudiments of such
knowledge. It is not that there are no depths
to sound, for such there are in the poorest and
weakest amongst us, but that there is no faculty
for plumbing them ; and also, it often happens
that circumstances have left in us latent capacities
both for good and evil, of the existence of
which no suspicion has been aroused.

Hugh Marriott's life hitherto had been an
auspicious one. The only child of an early
widowed mother, he had been steeped in tender

forethought from his cradle ; and when, at her
death, this sweet influence failed him, he was
taken by the hand by a kindly distant relative,
who consulted his boyish tastes, and not only
allowed him to follow the profession he had
chosen, but smoothed his way and helped his
progress over the few inevitable difficulties that
arose. True, the boy was grateful and affectionate,
with a trained desire after goodness,
which temptation had never yet put to any
severe trial.

His professional career, with which we have
not much to do, was prosperous. He sailed in a
good ship under a good captain, who, though
he knew it not, loved him for his mother's sake
as well as for his own ; and his brightness of
spirit and charm of person made him a favourite
with officers and men.

He worked indefatigably, and went beyond
the requirements of professional duty; but the
spur was the sooner to woo and win the childish
maiden who proudly called herself " his little
wife " : and at a later period, the very incident

which had appeared likely to mar was now
helping his credit and advancement. Then the
crown of life had been given him ; Lucia Prescott
loved him, and, although with some reluctance,
their engagement had been sanctioned by
the family.

But now the cross-currents of life were setting
in. Greed and injustice threatened to rob
him of what he held almost as a birthright, but
he had been able to contend against that wrong
so long as Lucia's faith and love helped his own
in the struggle. We have seen, however, that
his trust in her was not sufficiently robust to
keep at bay doubt and suspicion ; and there had
always been a tendency in his mind to gauge
his sentiment for her as something stronger and
nobler than hers for him.

Then, too, though he was ignorant of the
weakness, he had that instinctive appreciation
of his own merits and flawless fidelity which
came as the result of the general favour and
approval which had been the portion of his
life. He thought himself virtuous because he

had no inclination for the vices in which some
men indulged, not pausing to consider that that
man alone is strong who can resist the attacks
to which the bias of his nature inclines him.

In the first tumult of his feeling every vestige
of generosity and tenderness seemed swept from
Marriott's mind ; the possibility of explanation,
or excuse, or mistake, never occurred to him, or
occurred only to be rejected with derision.

His goddess was not only fallen from her
shrine, but his impulse was to trample upon her;
while his feeling towards Deane was of virulent
animosity. He did not stop to think that
there was a great probability that the man did
not know of his own existence, but he hated
him as we hate the perpetrator of a deliberate
and malignant wrong.

He passed the rest of the day and the long
night that followed in a true inferno  that of
racking jealousy and fury  than which there is
no deeper in the abyss. When morning came
he had not made up his mind to any course of
action ; he had half thought of going to Richmond,

seeking an interview with Lucia, and
scathing her with his contempt. But he justly
considered the chances of being allowed to
see her so much against him, as to make the
attempt scarcely worth while.

Then he sat down after an impatient breakfast
and wrote to her. He had a fair power
of expressing himself, and his passion was at
full tide ; the result was a page or two of such
stinging and relentless castigation as no truehearted
man should inflict even on the weakest
woman who has betrayed him.

In the afternoon he went to his club, for no
purpose of distraction, but with a craving desire
to pick up any gossip that might be afloat concerning
either the man or the woman he felt he
almost equally hated ; but society seemed quite
oblivious of its recent scandal.

He met Grattan, but he had not a piquant
Avoid to utter ; not a rumour to report nor an
anecdote to relate. He talked of nothing but
the weather, which happened to be oppressive,
and of the extortion of his unpaid tailor's bills.

Marriott, not much practised in social self-restraint,
could scarcely bring himself to be
civil.

He went out again into the open air, and
drifting aimlessly, found himself, after sometime,
in the neighbourhood of Eaton Square.
Then a new idea suddenly occurred to him.

He would find out Everard Deane and deliver
his soul. The days of duelling were over, or
he would at once have seized upon this resource
for his injury ; days which, whatever may be
said against them, had at least the advantage
of making it possible to enter a protest, not to
be mistaken or overlooked, against an insufferable
wrong, and of keeping brutal manners in
check.

Marriott never stopped to consider what
course he should adopt when standing face to
face with his enemy ; rather strength would be
given him in that hour to discharge his righteous
vengeance, and reduce him to shame and
humiliation. If more than this were possible 
if any form of chastisement or means of reprisal

presented themselves  he could trust himself
to make the best of such opportunity.

On reaching the house and inquiring for ]mr
Deane, the porter left him in the hall while he
went to ascertain if the banker would receive
him, Marriott ha vino; announced himself as a
stranger. Before the man returned, he remembered
he had asked for the father instead of the
son, and in his impatience followed in the direction
in which the servant had gone, with the
idea of repairing his mistake.

The great house seemed strangely silent, nota
sound or a footstep reaching his ear ; and he
was in a frame of mind to observe, with almost
savage bitterness, that the indications of wealth
and luxury on all sides exceeded anything with
which he had been hitherto acquainted. To the
simple manly tastes of the young sailor, the
deep piled carpets, and windows made dim with
heavy velvet draperies, were out of palace in the
passages and landings of a dwelling - house ;
while the glimpses he caught through the half-open
doors moved him to a sort of ascetic scorn.

VOL. I. o

He knew there were no women in the family,
therefore all the elaborate inducements to indolence
and self-indulgence  the cabinets filled
with bronzes and china, the perpetual white
gleam of sculpture, the prodigal abundance of
exotic flowers and plants  seemed to him proofs
of weakness and effeminacy. The whole house
was faint with perfume, and darkened from the
sultry afternoon glare like the boudoir of a
fashionable lady. He was just about to return
to the hall, not having succeeded in tracing
the direction in which the servant was gone,
when he came unexpectedly upon him in an
anteroom to a larger apartment, engaged in
an under-toned altercation with another man
whose foreign appearance, and a certain air
of superiority, made Marriott doubt if he were
also one of the servants of the household. He
was apparently about forty years of age, with a
complexion and physiognomy which suggested
Creole birth, and a . singularly animated and
agreeable expression. Hugh, apologising for
intruding so far into the interior, explained his

mistake, and that it was Mr Everard Deane
he wished to see, implying that his business
was so urgent, that if that gentleman where at
home he would not be denied.

The Creole slightly raised bis shoulders.

But the gentleman must be denied to-day,"
he answered ; " Mr Deane is ill and can see no
one."

This assertion seemed to Marriott an impudent
lie, reasoning from what he had seen
the day before, but it was absolutely true.
Everard was lying prostrate on his couch  a
true Ixion's wheel  motionless and silent, with
clenched hands and shut teeth, enduring such
extremity of physical torture as might have
satisfied the rancour of the most cruel enmity.
As it was, Marriott regarded the denial with
contempt, as part of the routine of an idle man's
system of escaping unwelcome interruption; and
perceiving that the servant's eye, while speaking,
had instinctively turned to the door of the
other apartment, he rightly judged that it was
the one occupied by Everard, and advanced

quickly towards it with the idea of forcing an
entrance.

My business cannot wait," he said ; *' if
your master is within I must see him."

But rapid and unexpected as his action was,
the other was not taken unawares ; he interrupted
it by a sudden flank movement of almost
panther - like dexterity, and placed his back
against the door.

For God's sake, stop ! " he said, in an eager
whisper, his dark face growing paler ; "it will
be almost murder if he hears our voices ! You
do not wish to drive a sick man mad ? "

Marriott's face expressed a sort of contemptuous
loathing. From what unfailing Nemesis
could this exhausted libertine be suffering?
This was the thought that occurred to him,
exasperated into madness almost by the recollection
that it was none the less to him to
whom Lucia had delivered her sweetness and
her purity. He turned away from the door.
It was a privacy which even his enmity did not
care to penetrate.

If I positively cannot see your master, you
must at least take him a message and bring mean
answer before I leave the house."

Not I ! " returned the Creole, doggedly.
I dare not go in without leave, and I would
not if I dared ; '' but at the same moment he
started violently, for he heard his name called
from within the apartment.

What I feared has happened," he said ; ''he
has overheard us. I must go iu, but  you will
not attempt to follow ? "

No ; but I wait here for your return."

As the door opened to admit the attendant,
Marriott's position gave him a momentary
glimpse of the room ; but although it was not
yet six o'clock on a sultry August afternoon, all
the lights were so effectually darkened, he could
distinguish nothing. The door was closed ao-ain
immediately.

Tell Lieutenant Marriott I have already
written to him, and dismiss him at once. Is
this your care-taking, Pietro 1 "

The man's mobile face worked with excited

feeling, made up of sympathy and compunction.
He crept towards the sofa from which
the voice proceeded.

I may come back ? " he asked in a whisper.

"On no account. Go and deliver the message,
and keep a stricter guard for the
future."

He obeyed instantly ; and as the door again
closed noiselessly behind him, an involuntary
groan broke from Everard, the nervous excitement
of the interruption having intensified his
torment to the point of compelling some vent
for agony.

'* Good God ! " he muttered, scarcely knowing
what form his protest took till the words struck
his edit; and then he added, with a sudden
betrayal of secret bitterness, " Good God ! ay,
to believe in such, I would bear this and more ! "

The Creole gave his master's message to
Marriott with an air of sullen hostility. He
received it in silence, and at once withdrew.
As he passed out he glanced back towards the
man with an impulse of curiosity, and saw that

he had placed himself on a mat before the door
which divided him from his master, in an attitude
no European could or would have assumed,
and with his ear bent to catch the sounds
within  if any such should reach him.

CHAPTEE XIV.

On reaching his lodgings in Bruton Street, Hugh
found Deane's note awaiting him. It was a
brief but courteous announcement that he proposed
to call upon him at such an hour on the
following morning, and hoped, as his business
was urgent, that he should be fortunate enough
to find him at home.

Marriott threw the paper from him as if it
had been a scorpion and had stung him ; the
proposal seemed to him a piece of matchless
effrontery.

What object could Deane have in view ? It
was not credible that he had any intention of
offering excuse or reparation for the wrong
inflicted, or of bringing some message from
Lucia.

Lucia I God, that the hour should ever
have come to associate her name with such
as Everard Deane's, and provoke in his own
breast no emotion but indignant scorn ! Had
he not seen it, no evidence would have sufficed
to convince him of her treachery. And then,
with all the perverse luxury of self-torment, he
let his head fall on his arms wearily crossed
on the table, and reproduced once more before
his mental sight the scene he had witnessed in
Kew Gardens.

The deliberate seclusion of the spot  the
slanting evening light falling upon that lovely
upturned face, with its tender eyes, and parted
lips, and ineffable air of charmed attention. Of
the man beside her he had little more than a
general impression that in face, figure, and posture,
he looked the subtle and alluring seducer
which he was.

Still, he would see him if he came. At least
it would give him the opportunity of self-expression
 of telling the man to his face what
he was, and declaring his own absolute repudiation

of the girl who had offered a new proof
of the possibilities of feminine worthlessness ;
in short, of renouncing charity, faith, and love
in the future.

Then he would bid an eternal farewell to
England, and cut all ties that held him to the
past. There was a new expedition being fitted
out for the Arctic Sea, and on the point of
departure ; he would offer himself as a volunteer
for this service and was sure of acceptance.
And the issue of it, so far as he was concerned,
would be a matter of the most complete indifference.


What had life to offer him ?

He passed another sleepless night, and got
up in a condition of such bodily weariness and
nervous irritation as boded ill for his self-command
in the coming interview.

He was unused to suffering, either mental or
physical, and the experience had for him all
the bitterness of a new and intolerable sensation.


For all this, Hugh Marriott never perhaps

looked to better advantage than when, a few
hours later, he rose stiffly from his seat and
stood np to acknowledge the entrance of Everard
Deane. The fine proportions of his supple
but vigorous figure, the admirable poise of the
head and throat upon the broad shoulders, and
the fair bronzed beauty of the face, to which
trouble and the effort at self-command lent
unusual dignity, were characteristics detected
by his" visitor at the first glance, and appraised
by him even beyond their value.

The young man, with a view to maintain
his attitude of insolent defiance, remained
standing, and abstained from inviting Deane
to be seated. He had been tormenting himself
all the mornings with the fear that the latter
would not be able to keep his appointment,
and that he had done so renewed in his mind
the suspicion that the indisposition of yesterday
was but a ruse.

I did not expect you," he said brusquely,
running his eye in obvious and disdainful
scrutiny over the face and figure before him.

Are. you able to be well or ill at discretion 
that is, are you better this morning ? "

Everard looked at him with a curious smile.

I am quite well this morning ; the neuralgic
attacks from which I suffer often leave me as
suddenly as they come. Also, I always keep
an enoraorement. I will add, Lieutenant Marriott,
that it will be as well for you to drop
your tone of hostility. I wish you to understand
that I come to you not in the character
of a rival, but as a friend."

The blood rushed into Hugh's face, and a
smile of bitter sarcasm touched his lips.

I perceive," said Everard, still keeping his
searching eye upon the young man's face, " that
you think I was ill advised to make use of a
word that seems to you simply ridiculous as
applied to myself. Be quite sure that I am
prepared to take your advantages and my deficiencies
even at your own valuation. I agree
with you that, personally, I could never be a
very formidable antagonist. But fate has redressed
the balance by investing me with

certain extraneous compensations which count
for something in an age of calculation."

''For so much," retorted the other, "that
granting I was the conceited ass you imply,
I should still be forced to admit that in any
competition between us I should be simply
nowhere."

In the matter that brings me here to-day
there is no question of competition. I am
come to state a matter of fact, and to correct
a mistake into which you have fallen  quite
naturally, perhaps. You think I am engaged
to marry Miss Prescott, and that she has
ruthlessly thrown you over out of consideration
of my position as my father's son. It
is not true."

What ! " cried Marriott, turning pale with
excess of suppressed indignation; "you give the
lie to a fact that has been public gossip for
weeks, and which my own senses have confirmed
! Do you take me for a fool \ "

eye are all fools," returned Everard, coolly,
when our passions come into play. I was

prepared to find my point-blank assertion would
stagger you a little. Mind, I do not say a
marriage between Mr Prescott's daughter and
myself has not been talked about  by outsiders.
But I require you to believe me when
I assert that she personally has been kept
in ignorance of her father's wishes, and has
never looked upon me in any other light
than as a casual acquaintance, more or less
acceptable''

It was certainly rather more than less,"
said Hugh, with a sneer, " according to my own
observation. I cannot understand the object
you have in view by this contradiction of
facts admitted on all sides, and which, I
assure you, I shall have pride and courage
enough to accept. Have you any statement
to make on your own account ? "

Yes ; that a pretty extensive knowledge of
the world and of poor human nature under
extreme provocation, helps me to bear your
boyish insolence with patience. My personal
statement in regard to Lucia Prescott is this 

that what she thinks necessary for her happiness
I am pledged to help her to obtain. It is
this pledge to a girl who stands very high in
my esteem which brings me to see you this
morning. Shall we sit down ? "

That is as you please : I prefer to stand."

In that case I mast follow my host's example,
which will tend to shorten a disagreeable
interview. I have not much more to say,
Lieutenant Marriott," continued Everard, with
gathering wrath in his pale face. " I am sent
to you by one of the sweetest and noblest
of women with assurances of innocent passion,
and tears of iU-deserved anguish at an estrangement
she cannot understand; but it must be
left for you to decide in what spirit you receive
them."

He turned aside a little to conceal the indignation
which he felt was growing too hot, but
he had already stirred the better part of Hugh's
nature.

*' If I could but believe you !" he said. " Can
you explain why she has not written to me ?

why I have received no sign from her since the
day we returned together from Lufton ? To my
mind your statements sound like insult and
mockery ; it is hard to reconcile her conduct
with any pretence of love."

Everard was silent. So far as the speaker
was concerned he had not a touch of sympathy;
the very expression which he had just employed
grated on his ears as he recalled the tender
ardour of Lucia ; but he had pledged himself
to her to succeed, and in order to do this he
must command himself to explain, and even to
expostulate, in defiance of the passionate revolt
of personal feeling and the weariness of bodily
prostration.

I should ill deserve to be the ambassador of
so fair a lady'' he said quietly, " if I failed to
make the position quite clear to you. You say
you have never received any letters from her
since such a time ; she makes the same complaint
of you, therefore on this score your wrongs are
equal. Only there is a difference  she believes
confidently in your being able to explain the

neglect, while you condemn her at once and
unheard."

Hugh smiled bitterly. " The difference lies
in quite another direction ! During the three
months which have passed since we met last,
I have lived only on hope and remembrance ;
until yesterday, have scarcely passed an hour
without anxious thought for her. She on her

part " he hesitated and turned away his head:

*' have I not heard and known of your constant
association ? Did I not see you together 1"

His voice fell and his face flushed.

*' Pray put on one side so trivial an incident
as that you saw me taking charge of Miss Prescott
for a few minutes in the absence of her
mother, and doing my poor best to amuse her !
Is a lively girl's interest in an old traveller's
story to outweigh the courageous fidelity with
which she has maintained your rights against
her father, and, in default of other friends, sent
me to tell you that  that  I am a poor exponent
of her meaning !  let us say that she thinks
life not worth having without you 1 "

VOL. I. P

Is it SO *? " said Hugh, moved in spite of
himself; " it is hard to believe I "

That she should hold such an opinion ? "
returned Everard ; " there I agree with you.
No man yet was worthy of a true woman's devotion,
but do your best to justify hers. You will
go to her, of course  to-day  at once ?"

Wait a moment ! You have asserted but
proved nothing so far, and I am still at a loss
to understand the motive of your interference.
I hesitate, not because I do not love her, God
knows, nor that I value my life in comparison
with my belief in her  if only I could get it
back ! But I have not got it yet !"

He threw himself impatiently into a chair ashe
spoke, and covered his face with his hands,
moved partly by the instinct to hide the workings
of his mind from a keen observer, and
partly the better to concentrate his thoughts on
the difficulties of the situation. His rapture
of relief was largely qualified by the apparent
inconsistencies of events and the suspicion that
Everard had some ulterior motive in view, also

by a sense of shame at his own passionate rashness,
and at the expression he had given to it in
the first heat of his indignation.

May I ask you some plain questions ? " he
said, looking up at length. " If you are really
Lucia's friend, and honestly anxious to bring us
together again, you need not mind trying to
satisfy me on some points difficult to understand."


Everard sat down with a gesture of assent ;
but Hugh had not proceeded far in pouring out
one eager inquiry after another, broken with
references to this point and that, before he
perceived that both he himself, and probably
Lucia, were in complete ignorance of many circumstances
to which Marriott referred. After
listening in silence for some time, he said 

*' I have every reason to believe that Miss
Prescott knows nothing of her father's interview
with you, and he must have exceeded
his rights in making the statements you repeat.
The facts are simply these : My father
is anxious I should marry, and I had consented

to an introduction to Miss Prescott with this
end in view, though, personally, I prefer a single
life. So far it has gone no farther than a pleasant
friendship on either side ; but had it been
otherwise, Hugh Marriott, it is quite as well
that you should understand that I was told
the young lady was disengaged both in heart
and hand, and that I never knew of your existence
till you crossed our path at Kew."

Hugh sat for a few moments stricken with
compunction.

Then what must you have thought of me
to-day 1 " he ejaculated.

That is a matter of no consequence. I see
plainly that you have been very grossly deceived
by Mr Prescott. Neither his wife nor
daughter has left town since I made their
acquaintance ; and the latter has received no
letters from you, though she has written several.
If facts like these do not carry you to her feet
at once, you are  even less worthy of her than
I supposed."

He looked at the young man with a smile

SO doubtful in its expression as to bring the
sensitive colour into his face.

You think ill of me 'i " he questioned ; " and
indeed I have behaved to you like a graceless
hound."

I need not think specially ill of you because
I doubt your desert of Lucia Prescott's love.
But if you should leave her to-day with one
single movement of her sweet mind misunderstood
or inadequately met by yours  if you
should cause her one pang of disappointment,
or alloy your reunion with reproaches and suspicions,
you shall find you have one to reckon
with who has made the accomplishment of this
girl's happiness the object of an idle life, and
who does not intend to have his purpose
frustrated."

An angry rejoinder sprang to Marriott's lips ;
but there was something in the look and manner
of the speaker which held it in check. As he
encountered the fire in Deane's eyes, habitually
soft and languid, and marked the fine lines of
the pale but admirable features, he silently

corrected his first estimate of the other's insignificance
as a rival. A face like that, which
could gather into it such sudden force of
expression, was one which would cause any
woman's glance to linger upon it; and in the
inflections of his voice, now that personal feeling
animated its usual quiet cadences, there
was a subtle fascination.

After all he held a doubt of Lucia. Could
she have failed to discover the charm in this
man which was reported to be omnipotent with
the sex, and to which even he himself was not
insensible ?

While he hesitated Everard spoke again.

I was too warm, Lieutenant Marriott, as I
am apt to be when I see a woman unhappy.
I will try and believe my anxiety is superfluous,
and I beg to apologise. When you see Miss
Prescott, tell her I give you both free permission
to claim my services at any point where
you think they might be useful."

Hugh's response was not so fluent as might
have been expected if Everard Deane had looked

for gratitude. But he did not, nor did he hold
himself entitled to it, seeing that not one effort
made in behalf of Lucia's lover had its origin
in any feeling of goodwill towards the man
himself. " For her sake  for her sweet sake
alone," he said to himself as he went downstairs,
having closed his interview with Hugh
by a cool " Good morning," and without appearing
to notice the hand half reluctantly extended
in farewell.

CHAPTER XV.

Two days after this interview Everard Deane
was considerably surprised when Pietro came
into his private room to announce that Lieutenant
Marriott had called, and pressed to see
him.

And what did you tell him ? "

That you were on the point of going out."

Everard smiled. " I will see him ; and no
eavesdropping, recollect ! That is the unpardonable
sin even in so faithful a follower as you.
Why do you dislike this young man 'i "

I do not dislike, I hate him."

So ! you give yourself a deal of unnecessary
trouble. A week ago I did not know the man
existed  he has done me no wrong."

Pietro's eyes fell below the steady look he

encountered, and he hastened to banish from
his face the suggestion of dissent which it
expressed.

I will admit the gentleman at once," he
replied, meekly, " and try and remember that
he is your friend."

Everard Deane was a man with whom the
sentiment of hospitality was of almost oriental
strength. He received Marriott with a cordial
graciousness which the young sailor had no
means of knowing would have been almost
equally extended to his worst enemy had he
come under his roof, and which certainly served
to quicken Hugh's sense of compunction as he
recalled his own reception.

"I see you are in trouble," Deane said, after
the first greeting was over, " and I am glad to
find you take me at my word, and bring your
trouble to me."

My trouble is on Lucia's account. AVe have
met and parted, and all is right between us,
but in so doing we have disobeyed the positive
commands of her father, and he is mad with

rage and disappointment. I fear that he treats
her with great severity."

Everard's face whitened beneath its habitual
pallor.

You fear ?  and you have left her to suffer !
But explain ; in what way can a father nowadays
have it in his power to maltreat his daughter?
Yet stop! I want no answer ; in a hundred
ways he could make that tender soul shrink
and tremble ! "

He broke off to gain composure, for he felt he
was betraying too much, and every nerve in his
body seemed to thrill in response to this monstrous
demand on his sympathy.

Hugh glanced at him with his former suspicion
renewed, but he went on notwithstanding.

Any expression of my feelings," he said,
with some dignity, " seems superfluous, and
beside the matter in question. Simply, I was
coerced to leave her, and could only have added
to her distress by resistance. But she has the
idea that you have some power over Mr Prescott
which might be used to overcome the

violence of this opposition. He swears not only
that she shall never be my wife, but that you
shall fulfil your promise of marrying her. In
this extremity she has sent me to you."

For what purpose ? Why don't you run
away with her, and marry her tomorrow 1 "

She is under age," answered Hugh, stiffly,
and with raised colour, for he felt the abrupt
proposal to jar upon his sense of propriety;
and besides, nothing would induce Lucia to
leave her mother to bear the brunt of her husband's
brutal exasperation alone."

Good God ! " exclaimed Everard, getting up
and pacing the room  " do such men live ? "

Then, after a pause, " Does she tell her
father that she holds to her enojaorement with
you?"

Yes, with a gentle determination which fills
me with admiration and gratitude"  (rand
shame ! " muttered the other below his breath) 
*' but I cannot bring her to the point of resisting
the authority against which she protests."

Everard looked at him steadily. "Does she

support with equal loyalty my assertion, that I
have never made love to her ? "

She does ; but Mr Prescott treats it with
derision. He is bent on forcing a marriage
between you. There is neither decency nor
reserve in his behaviour. He bluntly owns that
he has tampered with our correspondence, and
that he considers any means available which
may help to bring about our separation. Worse
than this  but I betray too much "

He hesitated.

Tell me nothing she would not wish me to
know; otherwise, your disclosures are as safe as
if made at the confessional. Perhaps all that
you need say now is, in what precise way she
thinks I may be useful."

Marriott coloured and fidgeted under Deane's
eager observation.

There was too much painful excitement atour
last meeting for Lucia to be able to express
her wishes clearly ; but I believe I know what
they are. Her father is under heavy obligation
to you  his commercial credit lying at your

mercy. If you were to put upon him a due
amount of pressure, lie must yield obedience to
any course of conduct you choose to dictate.
She thinks you will see him and force him todo
this."

Everard was silent.

The scheme does not commend itself to
your mind, Mr Deane ? " asked Hugh, in a
tone of repressed irritation ; " in other words,
it comes to this  we ask you to give us something
more definite than empty assurances of
goodwill."

"The scheme certainly does not commend
itself to my mind. In the first place, I have no
such authority as you suppose. Mr Prescott
may or may not be under obligations to the firm
of which my father is the head, but of business
matters I know nothing, and have no power of
interference. And supposing the case stood as
you put it, I should hesitate a long time before
I threatened a defenceless man into doing what
I wanted."

Hugh's face burned with annoyance.

I accept the reproach of having a less delicate
sense of honour than yourself. I don't
possess the privilege of much personal acquaintance
with you, Mr Deane; but I cannot help
saying, the world at large has a good deal to
answer for in doing such scant justice to the
refinement of your principles. To my coarser
mind any means seem justifiable which would
reduce a bad man's power of making misery.
But your consideration for Mr Prescott's feelings,
of course, closes the matter''

I think," said Everard, quietly, " it will be
well to close it. You are not the best advocate
of your own interests. I repeat, that I am not
disposed to bully Lucia's father into submission,
but that does not mean I will not do my best
to influence him."

He stopped and reflected a moment, then
added 

"I am sorry the world gives me a bad character,
but you may do well in going through it
to remember the charitable proverb, that ' even
the devil is not so black as he is painted ; ' and

at least of one thing I am certain, that as a
man so much better in every sense than myself,
Lieutenant Marriott could never be guilty of
the cruelty of disparaging me in the eyes of anyone
whose good opinion I value. I will speak
more plainly. I have a very strong desire that
Lucia Prescott should continue to think well of
me ; that man must be bad indeed who would
not make an effort to justify a good woman's
estimate."

Marriott's eyes dropped. He found it impossible
to meet the direct gaze of the other.

"I see ! " said Everard ; " I speak too late 
you have already done so ! "

He got up and went to the window. Under
ordinary circumstances it would have seemed
incredible to him that any man of character
could have been guilty of the meanness of
which he suspected Marriott, but it went beyond
sufferance or excuse in one under such
heavy obligations to his generosity.

But there was the restraining consideration
that the offender was under his own roof. He

consumed his wrath and disdain in silence, and
turned again to his companion.

"Am I to understand that you were commissioned
by Miss Prescott to ask me to visit
her?"

Marriott's morality did not admit of lying
under any pressure of expediency ; but the
question tested his veracity. If there was one
thing more than another that he dreaded, it
was that Lucia and Everard should come into
frequent intercourse. A dull fire of suspicion
and jealousy still lay smouldering in his breast.

Any visit of yours to Lucia, Mr Deane,
would be misunderstood by her father, and
turned by him into a fresh weapon against her,
besides confirming the public gossip, which is so
disagreeable to all of us. Give me leave to tell
her that you promise to do all in your power
with Mr Prescott on our behalf, though I doubt
altogether the success of any efibrt short of that
I offended you by pointing out."

You will understand that you have not yet
answered my question."

Thus pressed, Hugh took refuge in prevarication.


"Lucia did express a casual wish to see
you, but relinquished it at once on my showing
her its inexpediency, as I have tried to
show you."

"Poor girl, she must be sorely bestead amongst
you ! But I tell you openly, Lieutenant Marriott,
that I shall entirely disregard your objections
on this point. My object, as I have explained
to you before, is not your happiness and
peace of mind, but Lucia's. The one may come
by way of the other, but I must renew mv certainty
that such is the case before I take any
further steps to secure it. There is not a shred
of obligation binding me to consult your personal
interests."

"That means," said Hugh rising, and pale
with excitement, " that you throw off the mask
and declare yourself my rival ! It is what I
have suspected all along, and I was justified in
my suspicion. Good God, what a deep game
you play ! "

VOL. L Q

Everard quietly laid his hand upon a bell
that stood on the table between them, and which
was so disguised by elaborate design and workmanship,
that the other had not recognised it
for what it was. Instinctively the young man
followed the movement of his fingers, and such
was his mood of morbid perception, that he was
quick to observe the singular beauty of the
hand and wrist brought into prominence by the
action, and to be aware that it caused an additional
throb of jealous aversion.

Why," he added recklessly, " if you meant
to supplant me, was all this elaboration of
treachery necessary ? "

Everard pressed the bell, and the piercing,
sonorous note sounded clear through chambers
and passages. Almost without a pause of
intermission the door opened and the Creole
entered. As he advanced into the room he
met his master's stern look of inquiry, and the
blood rushed to his face.

Excited as Hugh Marriott was, he could not
help watching the scene with nervous interest,

and he saw the expression of submissive deprecation
which succeeded to the man's evident
confusion.

I rang, Pietro," said Deane, in the quiet tones
peculiar to him, '*' to ask you to show Lieutenant
Marriott out ; but on second thoughts, I will
perform that service myself."

He dismissed the servant with a careless creature,
then rising, crossed the room and opened
the door for Hugh's departure.

It will not be necessary," he said, bowing
ceremoniously to his guest, " for us to meet
again. You and I part, Lieutenant Marriott if
not as rivals, at least  not as friends."

CHAPTER XVI.

It was well perhaps for Hugh Marriott's interests
that the cruel and unmanly letter he had
indited in his first passion to Lucia never
reached her hands. The same system of withholding
her letters was still in force, and the
one in question was duly delivered to her father
instead of to herself.

It had a misleading effect upon Mr Prescott's
actions. Naturally supposing that the man
who abused in so reckless a manner the girl he
supposed had jilted him, would be under no
inducement to seek her presence, and ignorant
of the counter-influences at work, he took no
precautions to restrain Lucia's freedom. Also,
his confidential servant happened to be ofi" duty
on the day when Hugh Marriott presented himself

at the house, and the result was that he
was ushered by the neat parlour-maid without
hesitation into her young mistress's immediate
presence ; and then the alchemy of love worked,
and did all the rest.

The moment Lucia's rapturous glance encountered
the yearning deprecation expressed
in Hugh's beautiful blue eyes, doubt was solved
and explanation needless. She flew into his
embrace by instinct ; and murmured protests,
tears, and kisses, made a tempered ecstasy of
the next hour or two. To her eager, hopeful
temper, all difficulties were to be overcome now
that their mutual faith was re-established.

Hugh had felt a slight surprise that Lucia
met his explanations and confessions with such
tender forbearance, not perceiving at first that
she had never received the shameful letter which
he justly felt to be the head and front of his
offence. When this point became clear to him,
it gave, of necessity, fresh confirmation to the
theory that their correspondence had been
intercepted, and also relieved his mind of a

heavy load. As he looked at the lovely girl
by his side, full of ardent affection lateness
and loyal fidelity, he felt not only that there
were some passages in his letter which he
could never forgive himself for writing, but
which she might also have found impossible
to forgive.

For once Mr Prescott's tactics had stood Marriott
in good stead. During the interview, a
good deal had naturally been said about Everard
Deane; and though Lucia's statements corresponded
in every particular with his, her lover
was irritated to the point of torment by her expressions
of admiration, gratitude, and goodwill.
He was one of those men who consider
any perception of merit in another man on the
part of the woman they love, a disloyalty to
themselves. Still, he succeeded in keeping
his annoyance within decent bounds, which,
however, did not prevent him from making
some attempt to enlighten Lucia on the mistaken
idea she had received of Everard's
claims to consideration. He left her at last

with the promise of coming again on the following
day.

But before the morrow came poor Lucia had
a heavy penalty to pay for the happiness she
had dared to enjoy. Mr Prescott, whose brutal
excesses it is not necessary to dwell upon in
detail, was frantic with rage and discomfiture
when he understood what had happened.

If anything more had been wanting to drive
him to extremity it was supplied by his daughter's
sustained declaration that Mr Everard
Deane had no T\-i3h to marry her, and had never
entertained such a wish. He scarcely knew
against whom his wrath burned hottest until
Marriott's own appearance upon the scene
decided this point, when it broke out, to the
disgust or consternation of all who witnessed
his intemperate violence. He fell back upon
his old threat of punishing his wife and
daughter until they yielded obedience to his
wishes, and defied Lucia to entertain the monstrous
assumption that the great banker's son
had not courted her as his wife. The sweet

patience and simple dignity of the girl under
these provocations were such as would have endeared
her still more passionately to her lover,
had not the feeling been qualified by perceiving
that, although her dependence on his love and
her own firmness was great, it was greater still
in Everard Deane's power of assistance. The
one thing that held Mr Prescott's rage of disappointment
a little within the bounds of reason,
was his daughter's willingness to grant an interview
to Deane, even under the condition of her
father's presence.

But I beg of you," she had said privately
to Hugh, "so to arrange that I may be able to
speak to him alone first."

This idea he had strongly disapproved, and
expressed his disapproval ; but he certainly drew
rather upon his wishes than upon facts when
he stated that she had relinquished it. It had
been the day following these incidents that
Marriott had called in Eaton Square, and
Lucia, knowing that such had been his intention,
looked anxiously daily for the appearance

of her friend, and was profoundly disappointed
that he did not come.

Everard Deane, on his part, deliberately abstained
from seeing her again until some more
definite conclusion had been reached in the
state of her affairs, and this could scarcely be
accomplished until he had come to an understanding
with her father. He thought it undesirable
to seek George Prescott himself, as
his doing so would be an obvious loss of advantage
; and he had fully expected the stockbroker
would have been easier to brings his
grievance under his notice, and was in his turn
disappointed and ill at ease that he had not
done so.

His solicitude for Lucia's happiness was unshaken
even by the strong under-current of
passionate yearning and regret.

In this state of mind he felt a certain satisfaction,
when a few days afterwards his father,
on his return from the city, said 

'* Can you persuade yourself to dine with me tonight,
Everard, and spend the evening at home ?

George Prescott has been with me to-day, and
we must talk this matter over together."

"My dear dad, the most pressing engagement
in the world should yield to any wish
of yours."

Then you have some such engagement 1 "
asked the banker, irritably.

The relations between father and son had become
somewhat strained of late, since the former
had received the idea that Everard was intending
to repudiate the marriage which he had
himself so much at heart. Also, he had seen
very little of Everard during the last ten days,
as his son was deeply anxious to avoid discussion
of the subject till a decision had been
reached ; besides which motive, he had been
suffering more or less during the same period
from persistent attacks of his malady ; and
whenever this was the case, he was in the
habit of disguising the truth from his father,
out of consideration for his distressed sympathy,
by giving orders to Pietro to say he was out,
and would not be at home till late.

Many a night when Everard was lying in his
darkened chamber, locked against intrusion,
and enduring his torment in speechless patience,
the old man had sat up in his lonely diningroom
far into the small hours, sadly wondering
or when the son he loved with a consent



treated affection would have sown his wild
oats and would settle down into a steady
member of society, and he himself be relieved
from the load of care and disappointment he
had so Ions* carried.

It was the remembrance of such recent hours
that gave the unusual touch of acrimony to his
tone.

Everard glanced towards him with a momentary
sense of surprise.

I have no ensaoement at all ; I meant if I
had such, I would forego it."

' And you have not already dined off mutton-broth
or rice-pudding ? "

On the contrary, I had the menu brought
to me this morning, and reserved my appetite.
I have eaten nothing since breakfast, and you

will find, consequently, that ' my strength is as
the strength of ten.' "

There was a fascination in Everard's smile
and caressing manner, which, whoever might
resist, were irresistible to the fond old man who
was watching him with so much inward and
unspoken anxiety.

So far well," he answered ; " and for the
rest, we will leave business till we have dined."

And then he hurried back into the diningroom
to consult with his butler as to what
choice vintage should be specially selected from
his cellars, to please the difficult and fastidious
palate of his son, who of all his guests was
the one he secretly most delighted to honour.
And the son on his part not only ate and
drank to please him, which in itself was no
slight sacrifice, but exerted himself to while
away, by varied and vivid talk, the tedious
period which the elaborate formality of the
dinner exacted.

As soon as it was over, wine and dessert
were placed on a small table near the open

window, for the heat was oppressive  and the
servants left the room.

This was the hour the banker enjoyed whenever
Everard sat opposite to him. Ensconced
in his favourite chair, with his long limbs
stretched at ease, he poured out slowly a glass
of Burgundy, to which age and judicious care-taking
had given an almost priceless value,
and looked across at his companion, with his
hand in the act of raising it to his lips"'

Here's to the health of the most charming
girl we know, and to yours too, Everard, as
bound up in hers. Will you pledge me 1 "

*' Not quite on those terms, or I should be
misleading you. Will you tell me, in as few
words as possible, what George Prescott wanted
with you to-day 1 I should have thought his
business would have been with me."

Mr Deane put down his glass untasted.

A very few words will suffice. He told me
it was reported that you wished to draw back
from your engagement to Miss Prescott, to
which you were committed from the first moment

of introduction. He asked if I knew
anything of your change of mind, and what
course, under the circumstances, I should advise
him to adopt  professing his willingness to
abide by my judgment in consideration of obligations
received  supposing the libel to be
true."

He was very submissive, then ? I mean,
he did not hint at reprisals, or threaten in
any way ? "

He did not, simply because I told him the
report was a lie, and no man who bore my
name broke his word," answered Mr Deane, in
hard and aggressive tones.

Did he say nothing of his daughter's state
of feeling ? "

' Nothing it would be worth while to repeat;
he gave me to understand your addresses were
acceptable to her."

Liar and cheat I " said Everard ; and then,
in a few succinct words, he explained how
matters really stood  how Mr Prescott had
concealed the fact of Lucia's attachment to

Lieutenant Marriott, and in what way he had
himself accidentally arrived at the discovery.

His father interrupted him angrily 

*' Am I to be induced to believe that the girl
was no party to the fraud ? Where is your
common-sense, Everard ? It is incredible the
man could have ventured on such a scheme had
he not depended upon her to abet him. Rely
upon it, she was ready enough to throw over
the old lover for such chances as you offered
her ! "

It is a sufficient answer to that view of the
case," said Everard, quietly, '' that she refuses to
throw over the old lover now."

I cannot understand ! Has she then been
amusing herself all this time in accepting your
attentions, with the ultimate view of throwing
over in the end one of the best matches in
town?"

My dear father, I am constrained to confess
that the attentions I have offered her did not
necessarily force upon her mind the idea that
I was a suitor for her hand. I was desperately

afraid of scaring my bird before I had tamed
it, and the consequence was that she scarcely
looked upon me in any other light than as a
tolerable companion for the fulfilment of certain
social duties, whose age and appearance put all
nonsense of that kind out of the question. All
the time she has been fretting her innocent
heart for her absent and silent lover  absent
and silent through the shameless trickery of
her father. You may take back your old belief
in Lucia's goodness : a sweeter, more loyal
creature never trod the earth."

Mr Deane looked at him sharply.

But you," he said, "you loved her, or I am
very much mistaken ; and, please God, you
shall have her yet ! This impecunious sailor,
disallowed by the father, has no better claim
than yourself, to whom the most solemn pledges
have been given. We have the means of coercion
in our own hands."

'' Over whom ? George Prescott is ready
enough to fulfil his lying compact, and needs
no coercion ; and over the strength of an ardent

girl's first love we have no power at all, and if
we had we would not use it."

Then your conclusion is, tamely to give her
up and pocket the outrage and affront ? "

One can scarcely be said to give up a thing
of which one had never even a momentary
possession," answered Everard, with a somewhat
dreary smile ; and then, meeting the full meaning
of his father's anxious scrutiny, he added 

Had circumstances favoured me, I believe I
could have become very fond of Lucia Prescott ;
but at my time of life we do not rush into love.
I assure you, my first tender whisper has yet
to be spoken, and I find myself able to discuss
her marriage with another man with perfect
coolness and disinterestedness."

Mr Deane shook his head sadly.

Then my disappointment is a great deal
deeper than yours ! I cannot say how I regret
this lost chance  at least she was a woman you
were content to marry. Had things turned out
as I hoped, I should have felt certain of keeping
you by my side for the short space of life left

VOL. I. R

me; also  shall I say it, Everard ?  of seeing
you conform to those bounds of regular domestic
observance to which you still seem to
find it impossible to submit."

Everard looked up quickly. '' Pray," he said
with emotion, " do not harass yourself with the
fear of my leaving England again for any
length of time. Beyond a very short and occasional
holiday, I am quite content to promise
to stay at home so long as you continue to wish
it. That you should be good enough to wish
it so earnestly, fills me with shame and self-reproach
for past neglect. As for the rest, I
am not quite sure I understand what you
mean."

'' Simply, my dear Everard, ask yourself how
many nights last week saw you in bed at three
o'clock in the morning ? You will perhaps
answer that houses where people entertain are
kept open even beyond that time, but then I
know you detest both dinners and dances. I
allow for club-house and opera ; and indeed it
has always been a satisfaction to me that you

should be able to find so unfailing a resource in
the latter  but neither is to be found open at
that hour. I am driven to conclude that you
must supplement such justifiable indulgences by
others that would scarcely come under the same
category. I am no puritan, as you know, but
I had hoped such pleasures would have palled
before now."

"My dear father," began Everard, warmly, 
and then he stopped on the threshold of his
exculpation, withheld by the feeling that he
could scarcely wring the old man's heart by
referring to his own sufferings, and thus proving
the injustice of the accusation. ''My dear
father," he repeated, with greater gentleness,
your anxieties on this score are groundless,
but I pledge myself you shall not have occasion
to complain of my late hours again."

He would have added something more with a
view to his self vindication, but at that moment
there was a knock at the door, and a servant
entered with a telegram.

The telegram was for Everard, and was to the

effect that Lady Portisham had met with a
severe carriage accident, which threatened to
prove fatal, and urgently desired to see him.

"In case of her death," he said, handing it to
his father, and more moved by the communication
than he cared to show, " I shall lose one
of my best friends, who always did me the
inestimable kindness of thinking better of me
than I deserved."

*you will go to-night 1 "

"I will go as soon as Pietro can push a
change of linen into a portmanteau. I shall
catch the night-mail, and be in Edinburgh by
eight o'clock in the morning."

CHAPTER XYIL

Lady Portisham was dying. No Roman loved
life better, or was more reluctant to bid it farewell.
She was forty years old, but was conscious
of exhausted capacities for giving and
receiving pleasure. She was still handsome,
ardent, and insatiable of enjoyment.

Twenty-four hours before, she had stepped
into her carriage radiant with health and animation,
with a hundred delightful schemes for the
morrow and its followers, to be brought back a
crushed and miserable wretch, the beat of whose
pulse was reduced to an awful problem of so
many hours, more or less.

She was a widow without children, and almost
without kith or kin ; but she was beloved by
her servants, and by the faithful woman who

had been companion and friend during the last
twelve years of her life.

After all had been done for her which surgical
skill could suggest, but which was almost ineffectual
for the relief of her sufferings, which
she endured with prodigious fortitude, she said
to her immediate medical attendant with a
smile 

"You must keep me alive for twenty-four
hours, at worst. My affairs are not in order.
I have not only my soul to shrive, but my
lawyer to see."

I will not leave the house," was the answer.
Is anything in my power ? "

Telegraph to Everard Deane. He is one of
my oldest friends, and the creature I love next
best to myself; and remember I will not die till
I have seen him 1 "

She calculated accurately the hours that must
elapse before the possibility of arrival, and then
commanded herself to wait with patience.

In the meantime she sent for her lawyer, and
gave him instructions to draw out a will, in

which the bulk of her fortune was bequeathed
to Everard, leaving a blank for the name of the
inheritor until her condition should have rendered
the ratification of the deed imperative, her
motive being that she anticipated some opposition
on the part of her legatee. Through the
hours of the long night she lay speechless, with
doctor and skilled nurse in attendance, and her
faithful friend sitting close by the bedside but
with the dropped curtain between them.

From time to time the latter looked at her
watch and announced the hour. What thoughts
passed through the dying woman's mind in that
awful quietude, so soon to merge in the still
more awful quiet of the grave ? Did she remember
that throughout her prosperous and joyous
life she had taken all her good things as an
inalienable birthright, and employed them solely
as tools and channels of personal enjoyment *?
She had never felt any hunger of the soul
after God, nor scarcely a momentary yearning
towards the bleak heights of moral aspiration
and endeavour.

She had been charitable, and even generous,
to the poor and friendless ; but her charity had
never cost her a personal sacrifice, and her
generosity was compatible with a boundless
self-indulgence. Self had been the centre of
her system, but she had never yet realised that
she was selfish  did she realise it now '?

Presently she broke the silence. " Draw back
the curtains ; the dawn breaks. Let me have
the window open. Send for some fresh roses,
Alice, and put everything out of sight that
could offend a fastidious eye. Everard will
soon be here."

She was obeyed implicitly. And then, with
help from doctor and nurse, she was raised into
a reclining posture on her pillows, a stimulant
administered, and she renewed her patient
watch.

It was half-past eight o'clock when the man
whom she thus awaited arrived. She heard
the sound of his carriage-wheels, and turned her
eyes on the doctor, who was still standing by her
bedside with his hand on her fluctuating pulse.

"Go to him yourself, and prepare him for
the shock  there is no time to lose ; " and
then she added to her friend, in a voice that
grew perceptibly weaker, as her eyes followed
the doctor out of the room, " when he comes,
leave us alone : he within call, all of you, but
not within hearing."

A few moments later Everard Deane was
kneeling by her bedside, and had pressed his
lips on the pale hand she feebly extended.

Lady Portisham looked at him eagerly, and
smiled faintly.

You are deeply shocked and very sorry forme,
Everard 1 " she said. " I imagine you are
the one human being who may be able to
understand what I suffer. You will not have
forgotten that I once saw you in one of your
paroxysms of torment, and the remembrance
of it has braced my nerves under this terrible
experience ; but  I see  I am cruel  forgive

me, dear ." Her voice dropped.

Everard's pale face worked with emotion.
The rack could scarcely have had a sharper

agony for him than the sight of excruciating
pain which he was powerless to relieve, endured
by a woman with heroic fortitude, and that
woman bound to him by a lifetime's friendship.

I cannot speak of what I feel and you
suffer," he answered ; " with you one of the
lights of my life will go out. Can I in anyway
serve you ? You have sent for me for
some definite purpose 1 "

Yes," she said, gazing at him with what he
felt to be a heartrending intensity. " I have
sent for you to bid you good-bye, as friends
must do who are obliged to part, and  to
make you a wedding - present in advance of
the event. You must not refuse it ! "

He looked up quickly. It is superfluous
to have reserves with the dying; and all the
subdued and scarcely acknowledged anguish
of his soul was expressed in the face he lifted
towards her.

"Do not," he urged, "let us speak of my
affairs, only  I shall never marry ! "

A spasm contracted the brow of the dying

woman and passed convulsively through her
crushed frame. Everard hesitated a moment
whether he should call assistance, but she made
a pathetic gesture of restraint. He rose quietly
and rendered her what help he could  raising
the drooping head upon his breast, and wiping
the dews of agony and dissolution from her
forehead, with a skilled tenderness which owed
as much to experience as to friendship. He
was going to replace her on her pillows, in
order to reach a cordial close at hand, when
she checked him.

Do not move. I am a little easier so,
and I must make haste to tell you what I
want. I have made you my heir : I have no
near relations. And  I have loved you, Everard
! You must humour a dying woman, and
make no puerile objections  promise me this ! "

He was inexpressibly touched and distressed ;
but the proposal seemed one impossible to
accept. He was hesitating in what words
sufficiently gentle he could convey his refusal,
when she spoke again 

You will never marry, you said ? God
forgive me ; but I could go down to my grave
better content if I knew that you spoke
the truth ! You will never marry  Lucia
Prescott ! "

He made another attempt to divert her mind
from himself, but it only served to irritate her
dangerously.

Do not thwart me ! I have no time for
contention. Tell me what you mean, when
yon say that you will never marry  Lucia '? "

I mean she is heart and soul in love elsewhere,
and was engaged before ever I had
made her acquaintance ; therefore, dear Lady
Portisham, destroy your will. It is not yet
too late. You see I want no wedding-gifts."

She made no answer. He was not quite sure
she had followed what he said until he perceived
that tears, which pain had not sufficed
to force from her eyes, were slowly gathering
sunder the closed lids and trickling down her
cheeks.

'' Oh," she said at length, in a voice of painful

concentration, " fate is cruel ! A heavenly
dream seems to mock me. Did you understand
what I said just now, or was it too
ridiculous? Fool as I am  just ten years
older than yourself  I have loved you, I repeat.
Not as a friend, Everard, but as a wife
might love ; nay, more  more  as a woman
who knew herself misprized and contemned.
You shudder ! I am thankful I cannot see
your face."

He placed her with careful gentleness on her
pillows, and came back to his former position
at her bedside, so as to be in the full focus of
her failing vision.

Live now ! " he said with gleaming eyes,
and voice that vibrated with emotion, " and I
will love you a hundredfold better than you
have loved me ! "

He lifted up her hand again as he spoke, and
kissed it in a sort of strained exaltation of feeling.
She lay gazing at him in silent hopelessness.


"Too late! too late! I think, perhaps, I

might have consoled you, but that thought is
born only of such an hour as this. Strong
and well  in my old riotous health and spirits
you would not have spoken so. It comes
of your knight-errantry, Everard ; you would
not let a dying woman go down shamed to
her grave ! "

She was silent for a few moments, almost as
if she had lapsed into unconsciousness, then
opening her eyes, and looking at him with a
sort of remorseful tenderness, added 

Kiss me once, before my lips grow cold
enough to revolt yours."

He bent over her and kissed her once and
again with grave deliberate tenderness ; but she
was right  the impulse of magnanimous self-sacrifice
was subsiding.

Had she lived he was capable of making the
surrender of his life to her love, but he would
soon have discovered that love comes not even
at the call of magnanimity.

After a pause she said 

You shall leave me now for a little time

while I see my doctor and my lawyer. I wish
you had been a poor man that I could have
enriched you ; as it is, I shall at least render
you independent of a father's authority and
caprices. I say to myself, ' My money will serve
to keep my memory green in his recollection ;
I shall weave myself into the texture of his
everyday life. At times he must pause and
think, " I owe this and that to her  poor soul,
she loved me ! '" "

I quite understand," he answered gently,
and I am profoundly grateful, but it must not
be. I implore you to listen patiently a moment,
for my sake, who will suffer such bitter
pain and self-reproach if I am the cause of
hurting you in any way at this time. For me
to accept your fortune would be nothing less
than infamy. I am too rich as it is, and should
dread to increase the responsibilities of a position
which even now I fulfil very badly. My
dear, the world would execrate me for my
cupidity, and very justly : you would weight
me with a load heavier than I could bear.

Give it to those who have claims upon you 
there must be such."

There are none," she cried with distressing
eagerness, "or I should not have overlooked
them! You know better than I my sister's
sad story. Everard, you are cruel ! I wish the
world to know I have loved you ! "

And the world would deride your love and
lay it to my charge, as one other offence against
me. We do not offer oar dead hearts for dissection,
Claudia I Let me help you to decide
what is best to be done. Do you know of no
struggling lives you can brighten '? No charity,
deep and broad enough for you to rejoice to
help it forward?"

He leaned over her, speaking low and rapidly,
and agonised by the consciousness that her mind
at this supreme crisis should be disturbed and
irritated by anxieties of which he was the cause.

But even the awful shadow of death works
no magic change in human character. Lady
Portisham dying, was still impatient of opposition,
and resolute in working out her own

will, which now took the passionate determination
of showing the man she had so honor
silently worshipped, some public proof of her
regard.

'you are hastening my end, Everard," she
whispered, but with eyes aflame with excitement,
'' and robbing me of the chance to find
a few minutes before I die to set my soul in
order. Do not speak another word  I am
resolved ! If you refuse to help me, and to
send me my lawyer, who is waiting down-stairs,
at least have enough mercy upon me to let
others do what you refuse. Will you ring that
bell?"

He hesitated, oppressed by a conflict of feeling
which filled heart and brain with a sense
almost of stupefaction. It is hard to resolve a
problem in casuistry with the sands of a human
life running out rapidly under the eyes. Then
a sudden thought, coming as if from without,
penetrated his mind, and was accepted after
a moment's pause of instinctive revolt.

"You are resolved? "he asked in the same
VOL. I. s

low but incisive accents as before, and taking
again in his the pallid hand which lay motionless
on the coverlet ; " then I must yield. You
leave me your fortune because you love me,
Claudia "? In that case you will suffer me to do
with it what pleases me best. Well, I accept
it on these terms ; here on the spot and instant
as a gift, without the legal formalities, for which
we have no time, and which count for nothing
between friends like us. And having accepted
it  do you follow my meaning 1  I give it
back to you again that you may dispose of
what was mine according to my wish and
direction''

He spoke with metallic distinctness, she following
each word with strained effort and eyes
fastened on his pale, set face. As he paused
she gasped for breath.

'' What would you do '? " she succeeded in
saying. " You shall have your way."

' I would have you, in laying down your
life, bring joy and gladness into other lives,
and give a better man than I the chance of

making a sweet woman happy. I desire you
to make Lieutenant Marriott, late of H.M.S
Albion, your heir, in recognition of his gallant
behaviour in the performance of his duty off
the Cape of Good Hope on the 17th of last
December. Shall I send for your lawyer ? "

'' You wish it," she asked faintly  " with all
your heart ? I think I understand. It is a
piece of knight-errantry again ! "

'' Yes," he said with a quiet smile, "it is a
piece of knight-errantry ; but if you would have
me love you even better than I do, and adore
your memory for sweet submission to what
seems to you my unreason, help me to do it ! "

"' It shall l>e done," she answered ; '* but lose
no time about it. You will stay and help me,
and witness the deed ? '

I will stay that I may be at hand to answer
any questions or give any information your man
of business may require, but my name must not
appear in the transaction."

She looked at him for a few moments with an
undefinable expression ; then, as the sound of

approaching footsteps reached her ears, said ina
low, hurried, shame-stricken voice 

God forgive me, Everard, and you, too, if
you can ! but I shall die better content that it
is not your vocation to make that sweet woman
happy!"

CHAPTER XX.

The finest estate in the county was that belonging
to the great banker Marcus Deane, and
was immediately contiguous to Hugh Marriott's
more modest property.

The house itself was an ancient and inconvenient
structure, with not even a claim to the
picturesque ; but it was known and celebrated
far and wide for its interior completeness and
luxury, and the priceless treasures of art it contained.
Also, the elaborate beauty of its extensive
gardens, and the magnificent scale on
which its hot-houses and conservatories were
conducted, were points conceded on all sides,
and from which a reflected credit fell on the
locality.

I suppose you have seen Deane's pictures ? "

was a question by which Hugh Marriott had
often been chafed when first settling down on
his Hertfordshire estate, especially as it was
generally followed by a chorus of laudation as
to the unapproachable excellence of his pines
and his cellars, and a regret incessantly repeated
that the owner had been so Ions; an absentee.
Fortunately for Hugh's peace of mind, the
house continued to remain unoccupied for the
first fifteen months succeeding his marriage ;
for the prospect of being thrown into renewed
intercourse with Everard Deane disturbed both
his temper and his judgment. The unexpected
discovery of the neighbourhood of their respective
properties, and the allowed superiority of
the one to the other, had served to sow his
path with thorns and brambles. During the
interval mentioned his irritation had, inevitably,
somewhat subsided, and the growing security of
his own position had given him a sense of social
equality he had not succeeded in enjoying before.
Christmas was now drawing near, and brought
with it the news that the Deanes were intend-vol.

II. D

ing to spend it at Hurstpoint : the bustle and
stir of preparation to get the place in readiness
after a very short notice to that effect, together
with the general welcome and felicitation given
by the whole neighbourhood in advance of their
arrival, almost robbed the season of its charm
to Hugh Marriott.

All his wife's relations were to spend Christmas
at Hawthorndene. Mr and Mrs Prescott
were already their guests ; and Lucia was
brightening and expanding under the influence
of family affection, which had always been a
very active principle with her.

Hugh, who had not yet ceased to be the
lover, thought he had never seen her look
more bright and charming than when dispensing
her cups of afternoon tea on the day
her sister and her husband had arrived. Lucia
had looked forward with intense pleasure to
Helen's visit, and now sat drinking in her
vivacious chatter with affectionate enjoyment.
After matters of immediate personal interest
had been touched, Mrs Lorimer remarked 

We travelled down from town with Mr
Everard Deane and his father ; and I was astonished
to hear, Lucia, that they were such near
neighbours of yours  you have never mentioned
them!"

The house has been shut up ever since we
have been married'' replied Hugh, hastily, and
observing with deep annoyance the glow of
pleasure that lighted up his wife's face ; " moreover,
neighbours are not of necessity friends."

But," said Lucia, eagerly, " when friends
become neighbours, it is a delightful satisfaction
! "

Her smile was radiant, and her voice had
taken its sweetest inflection : there was a softened
expression in her face, as if she were recalling
pleasant memories. Hugh watched her
with attention till, on looking up, their eyes
met.

We must not forget," she said, " because weare
so very happy now, how near we once were
to being miserable, and that it was Mr Deane
who saved us from that."

In what way '? " asked Mr Lorimer. '' Come,
I see I do not know the story. My notion of
Mr Deane was hardly that of a loreux chevalier''

My wife has a most exaggerated notion of
the slight service he once rendered her' said
Hugh, impatiently ; and I do not admit any
obligation to him whatever. Moreover, he is
not at all the man whose intimacy I should care
to cultivate."

Had you not better wait," asked Helen, " to
see if he gives you the opportunity of cultivating
it ? As matters stand, the first advances
must come from him : he may find it disagreeable
to visit at this house under its change of
proprietors."

'' I would do my best," cried Lucia, earnestly,
to reconcile him to that ! He will not find
much changed  I suppose he used to be here a
great deal in poor Lady Portisham's lifetime ?
I found heaps of music with his name upon it
in the morning-room where, I have been told,
her favourite piano stood. She was a great
musician."

Thank heaven ! " exclaimed her husband,
inwardly, " that you are not."

I only hope," said Helen, " that he may ask
us all to dinner, and that we shall be allowed
to accept the invitation ! I am informed that,
though there are no women in the family, it is
a liberal education in the art of entertaining,
to see how they do it ; and now, Lucia, for the
sake of Hugh's digestion, we will talk of something
else. I am dying to know what chance
I have of fulfilling the ambition of my life, and
going a-hunting ! My neck is not of the same
value as yours, nor my reputation either, so I
am in hopes I shall get leave to distinguish
myself."

She went up to discuss the matter with her
host, with her usual lively banter, which, on
this occasion, he was not unwilling to indulge ;
while Lucia sat motionless in her low chair,
her hands loosely clasped, her eyes dreamily
searching the depths of the glowing fire, and
her mind lost in a reverie of anticipation and
remembrance.

As Lucia Marriott stood before her glass on
Christmas-day morning, clothed in costly furs
and velvet from head to foot, and blooming with
health and beauty, she said to herself she was
surely one of the happiest women in the world.
She was dressed for church, to which all the
beings she loved best were to accompany her,
each one of whom regarded herself and her dear
husband with more or less of proud and tender
satisfaction. She was the mistress  ah, the so
happy mistress !  of one of the sweetest homes
in England, which perhaps never looked to
better advantage than under its present covering
of " innocent " snow, cried to the point of
resistance by two nights of severe frost, and
gleaming now under the cold radiance of a
wintry sun.

Through the still, clear air she could hear the
sound of the church bells with thrilling distinctness,
and they moved her heart with an almost
passionate emotion of piety. Her simple prayer
was that, had it been possible, every sentient thing
that day should be holy and glad ; and a yearning

pity and sympathy towards the sufFering
that she could not reach, changed her gratitude
to sadness as she passed down-stairs by guarded
windows, over thick carpets, with the warm air
enclosing her in an atmosphere of luxurious
comfort, and the blessed prospect of a long and
happy life  for see, how young they both were !
stretching before her.

They were all waiting for her round the hall
fire as she entered.

She went up to her mother, and kissed her
tenderly.

"Darling," she whispered, ''I was not half
glad enough this morning when I wished you a
merry Christmas ! You must feel this, for my
sake, the merriest you ever had."

Her mother looked into her beaming face, and
a prophetic shadow seemed to fall across her
own.

My dear," she said, gravely, " it is not well
to be too merry ; and a bounding heart, like
pride, often goes before a fall."

Hugh overheard her and smiled, and approaching

his wife, drew her hand within his
arm.

It is time to be moving," he said, " and we
have decided to walk, for the ground is as hard
as iron. We are three couples, and we will each
keep our own."

He bent over his wife and kissed her as they
passed through the open door.

I wish you a cycle of merry Christmastides,"
he said.

"And you are quite sure you love me, Hugh,
as well as this time last year  our first Christ-aside
together ? "

"I love you better, sweetheart, and I am
happier than then."

The parish church was situated just outside
the park-gates of Hawthorndene, and the direct
path was just three-quarters of a mile in
length.

Lucia thought she had never enjoyed a walk
so much ; also, that earth had never seemed so
sweet nor heaven so kind. The trees had a
phantom-like beauty in their garniture of snow ;

the pure plain of glittering Avhite followed the
undulations of the ground with a delicious
softness ; the pale blue sky was full of an
icy sunshine ; and the ringers in the fine old
belfry were doing their best to honour the
sacred festival.

Just as they reached the loch-gate, which
opened into the churchyard, a carriage drove
up, and the people who bad been standing
gossipping around it instantly divided, and
made way for the occupants to descend and
pass them, with many indications of respect.

Hugh Marriott drew his wife forward quickly
so as to avoid the necessity of a recognition, but
not before Lucia, looking involuntarily back,
had responded with a smile of cordiality to
Everard Deane's somewhat grave and distant
bow.

Good heavens ! " whispered Helen, pressing
forward to her brother-in-law's side, " those bays
are matchless ! I am humiliated at feeling myself
a pedestrian ! But I understood Everard
Deane never went inside a church."

You will oblige me by remembering we are
inside one now, Helen," said Hugh, feeling
more irritation than he cared to betray.

If it were true that Everard Deane was no
habitual church-goer, he certainly set an admirable
example to those who were. The pews
belonging to the great houses of Hawthorndene
and Hurstpoint were so situated as to enable
their occupants to command a full view of each
other ; and Mrs Lorimer, of course with well-bred
subtlety, availed herself of her privilege.

She had a theory of her own to test as
regarded Everard, but she was bound to acknowledge
she had gathered no fresh data from
her careful observations of that morning.

The voluntary was still being played as they
took their places, and for perhaps the space of
a minute, she saw he looked with a searching
grave deliberation of regard at Hugh and her
sister, but his eyes dropped with an absolute
reserve of expression, and throughout the protracted
service she never detected them glancing
in the same direction again.

The rector was an old man of singularly
venerable aspect and amiable disposition, for
whom the wheels of life had always been
efficiently oiled. It was his habit to present
divine truth or orthodox dogma in a form of
pliant adaptability to the needs of modern
humanity. He was no Baptist of the wilderness,
demanding the ruthless laying of the axe
to the roots of moral evil; no Paul of Tarsus,
insisting upon the absolute surrender of the
human to the divine will, as but an elementary
and reasonable service.

He said a good deal about the duties men

owe each other, and much about the fatherly
tenderness and indulgence of God towards His
erring creatures, but there was no hint of any-such
superfluous stringency as the crucifixion
of the flesh, nor of the deadly struggle between
good and evil being other than an easy and
certain victory.

But the sermon for the most part commended
itself fairly to the genial mood of a congregation
under Christmastide influences. Most of them
were prosperous and respectable members of
society; and even those who were not, had a
comfortable knowledge that, on that day at
least, the liberality of their richer neighbours
had brought plenty and cheerfulness to their
tables, and were prepared to thank God devoutly
for the unaccustomed beef and strong ale.

Everard Deane sat throughout with folded
arms and the immobility of a statue ; and if a
slight expression of cynicism sat on his lips, it
was too subtle and reserved to attract attention.

As soon as the service was over, Hugh signalled
to his party that it was his wish to make

Lis way out of church with as little delay as
possible, but he found them by no means of his
way of thinking.

Mr Prescott had discovered that the great
banker had followed the rector into the vestry,
and that his son still sat in his pew awaiting
his return with seemingly invincible patience,
and he was not disposed, by a swift retreat, to
lose the distinction of claiming acquaintance
with the great man of the neighbourhood.
Even Lucia again glanced across with undisguised
interest, and eyes that seemed to ask for
recognition. Hugh felt there was nothing for
it but to submit.

They met, owing to the diplomacy of Mr
Prescott, in the wide porch of the church, and
in full view of the congregation, and he at
once claimed acquaintance, and shook hands
with both father and son, with an eager deference
which made Marriott's face burn with
shame. 

Then Everard came forward and spoke to
Lucia with the old sweetness of regard and low

winning utterance : no one who had seen his
calm, level glance, and heard his words of fluent
courtesy, could have guessed how much his
composure cost him, nor how greatly he had
desired to avoid the meeting.

The day would have been less happy tome,"
was Lucia's reply, " if you had not given
me the opportunity of wishing happiness to
you."

Less happy I that means there has been no
disappointment 1 "

"None'' She answered in a tone that
left no room for doubt ; and then she added
simply 

Please come and see us soon ! Helen is
with us, and your music is still in its old place,
and you will remember that you have also a
pledge to redeem."

A contraction of pain crossed his face.

Ay," he answered, " I remember more than
one." 

At this moment Mr Prescott interposed. He
was extremely anxious to fix a day for the

Deanes to dine at Hawthorndene, and took
upon himself the responsibility of the invitation,
only calling ujon his son-in-law to endorse
what he said, which Hugh did with obvious
coldness.

Everard listened to each with that fine air
of solicitous attention which distinguished his
manner, but excused himself from accepting
their kindness.

My father," he said, " is come into the
country to enjoy perfect rest and quiet, and I
have not dined out for the last seven years
or more. You may judge ht)w confirmed my
habits are, when even Hawthorndene will not
tempt me to break them."

I incline to think that is disguised irony,"
replied Helen with a charming smile ; " I shall
be sure of it if you will not promise to come
and see Lucia and me."

'* You wish me to come ? " he asked, apparently
addressing Lucia, but with his eyes on
Marriott's face as if awaiting his answer.

Hugh responded to the appeal, and the gentle

touch of his wife's hand on his arm, as well as
his nature allowed him.

We shall all have great pleasure in seeing
you at Hawthorndene, where you may, possibly,
feel yourself more at home than ourselves. I
am sorry you Avill not dine."

He bowed stiffly, and drew Lucia on into the
open air. His irritation was obvious when he
remarked 

"Let us make haste, or we shall be trampled
down by their horses ! "

But there was no fear of any such casualty,
as the carriage ws waiting, according to orders,
fully a hundred yards from the church door.

CHAPTER XXI.

We see men's actions, but it is a truism to
say how erring and inadequate is our estimate
of them. There are social treacheries which
look splendid to the world outside ; and sacrifices
costing blood and tears, which produce the
effect of meanness and transgression. Even the
conduct which is practically beneficial or heroic
may be tainted by want of healthy purity
of motive. Kingdoms have been saved by
others than patriots, and martyrs have died
not always for conscience' sake ; and though
the deed has stood, its sacramental efficacy is
wanting.

We suppose there are few things which ask
for a more thorough integrity than a man's or
woman's resistance to an unlawful passion.

VOL. II. E

It is SO entirely a matter of the inner consciousness,
where we are apt to believe that our
personal sway has a right to be despotic ; it is
capable of being indulged with a secrecy which
we assure ourselves can be injurious only to our
own peace of mind : or should it grow beyond
these bounds, and involve our neighbour in its
blight, there is no transgression under heaven for
which so many specious palliations can be found
or extenuating parallels instanced.

It will probably be allowed that Everard
Deane up to this time had behaved very well :
he had not only foregone a claim he might have
urged with powerful effect, but he had accomplished
the happiness of the woman he loved by
a series of sacrifices of the most absolute generosity
; and he had done this with that higher
refinement of chivalrous feeling which carefully
guarded the generosity from being suspected.

He had kept his secret faithfully ujd to the
time of Lucia's marriage, and turned his back
on temptation so soon as he found his resolution
flagged. He wandered about Europe fox a



month or two, not in the mood of the youthful
lover driven to passionate despair, and in whose
sight the whole world is darkened, but with the
suppressed concentrated bitterness of the man
who perceives that the good thing which is
inexorably denied him is precisely that which
he is best qualified to value and exhaust, and
which would have made life a sacred and exquisitely
precious gift, instead of a burden it
is not permitted to throw away.

There is always something pathetic in the
collapse of disused faculties : the anguish which
comes with the memory of " the things which
are no more," is far less penetrating and hopeless
than the review of those which " might
have been." Everard Deane (when the natural
excitement of his self-sacrifice had subsided)
found himself hardened rather than strengthened
by his present experience. His feeling of contemptuous
disparagement of Hugh Marriott increased,
and his opinion of all women became
lowered. To his mind, though little inclined to
rate himself too high, it was evident that what

had won Lucia's heart were advantages of a
superficial and trivial description : she was true,
but her truth had not been reserved for the best
type of manhood. To that, he said, he could
have willingly surrendered her.

The claims of his father, added to his knowledge
that the newly married pair were abroad,
induced him to return home after a comparatively
short absence ; and it was to the credit
of his heart and temper that he accepted his
filial duties with consummate patience and
devotion.

Mr Deane, not to be outdone on his side,
and fearing lest his persistent tax on Everard's
society should be too severe, proposed in the
spring to give himself a few months' holiday, on
the condition that his son would accompany
him abroad, and act the part of amateur courier
and cicerone. This programme had been accurately
fulfilled, and with so much satisfaction
to the untravelled banker, that he had protracted
it from month to month, declaring
that he had never known before what men

lost by staying at home, nor the true value of
his son.

To that son himself, it was perhaps the purest
passage in his life since boyhood, and one that
served to brace and purge his soul, although
he knew it not. He never wearied of making
the rough places of foreign travel smooth for
his father's steps, of suggesting and inventing
pleasures, of acting himself the part of guide-book,
giving life and reality to the shifting
scenes of history or art by criticism or dissertation,
at once animated and penetrating ; or if he
did weary, he never suffered the fact to be suspected.
He regarded all this as a sort of atonement
for past neglect ; and no penitent ever
fulfilled his task better. When at length they
returned to England, the autumn was far advanced,
and London had long been empty. Mr
Deane had now decided to retire from all personal
participation in the banking - house in
Lombard Street, and to spend what remained
of life for the most part in the retirement of his
beautiful seat of Hurstpoint. In making these

arrangements, he said to this son that, while
anxious not to abridge his liberty or enjoyment
of town pleasures, he naturally looked forward
to his spending the chief part of his time in
Hertfordshire also ; and he was full of schemes
and considerate suggestions as to what sources
of interest it would be possible for Everard to
find and develop in the country.

The neighbourhood of Hawthorndene and its
new owners had not entered the banker's mind
as either for or against this arrangement, but it
at once presented itself to Everard as a sinister
influence in his destiny, and one to which resistance
would be difficult, if not impossible.

He was perfectly aware that his feeling for
Lucia Marriott was, if not the same as for Lucia
Prescott, at least of equal intensity. The one
had indeed been a sort of sacred fire, but it was
no fault of his if it had now degenerated into a
burning craving for the unattainable. He still
said to himself that her happiness was of more
account to him than his own, and that under
any circumstances it was best likely to be preserved

by abstaining from a renewal of their
former intimacy. It would be necessary for
bim to ascertain if she were really happy in
the life  which meant the companion  she had
chosen for herself, and if her husband treated her
well : this settled to his satisfaction, reason as
well as duty required that he should keep aloof
from interference. Added to this, there were
some secondary considerations which made visiting
at Hawthorndene disagreeable. It did not
suit his views to enter any man's house as guest
unless one he would cordially have welcomed to
his own, which was certainly not the case with
Hugh Marriott ; also the associations of the
place with his late friend Lady Portisham could
not fail to be painful to a man of his temperament.
He could indeed endure to see Lucia
there as mistress, but it would be hard for him
to see her husband treading its familiar floors
and presiding at its table as self-satisfied proprietor.
Acting under these impressions, he had
decided to avoid recognition and speech on
Christmas-day with the Marriott household, except

so far as distant civility exacted, and to
keep the strictest guard over his own behaviour.
The sight of Lucia, more charming than ever,
and with the same endearing aspect of simple
and affectionate friendliness towards himself,
tried him severely ; but, happily for society, the
quickened beat of mutinous pulses, and the
sinking of heart that follows the fresh conviction
of bitter, irremediable loss, can be sustained
without betrayal. Perhaps, however, they
deepened his secret scorn for the gentle but
shallow optimism of the sermon to which he
was forced to listen.

His good resolutions were, as we know, overcome
by Mr Prescott's determination to dine
with him., and of Lucia to wish him Christmas
joy. On a reconsideration of the matter, his
decisions shifted a little. If, as appeared certain,
the family at Hawthorndene, unconscious
of their mistake, would not leave him alone, and
also if Mrs Marriott were so efficiently armed
against him by her complete satisfaction with

her husband and personal devotion to him, no
hurt could accrue from intercourse, except to his
own peace of mind, and that was at his own
disposal. Still, so strong were the bonds of
natural honour and integrity, that he refrained
from availing himself of Hugh's permission
to visit ; and before the time came when at
length he suffered himself to do so, he had
met Lucia at other houses, and blunted a
little the first keen edge of his passionate
susceptibility.

It happened that at one of these houses the
venerable bishop of the diocese was a guest,
whose admirable knowledge of and devotion too



music were as well known facts as the self-denying
discretion with which he had tempered
his zeal to his duty. The host, who was an old
friend of the Deanes, had asked Everard, as a
personal favour to himself, to indulge Dr Fleming
by an immediate withdrawal after dinner
to the music-room. He promised that the audience
should not become a mixed one, but, if

possible, should be confined to the bishop alone,
in order that he might have his own way indirection
and choice.

Everard  who, while almost destitute of personal
vanity, was full of the impersonal enthusiasm
of the true artist  had willingly lent
himself to this scheme, partly from his prompt
kindness of nature, partly from the opportunity
it afforded of whiling away a tedious evening of
provincial society. He had brought with him a
quantity of ancient Italian music, consisting of
certain recondite masses and chants little known
in England, but with which his own minute acquaintance
with the earlier schools of musical
art had made him conversant; and, according
to arrangement, he and Dr Fleming prepared
to devote themselves to a long winter evening's
recital. So little popular was the performance,
and so much interrupted by comment, criticism,
and elucidation on both sides, that the two
musicians had very soon the unfeigned satisfaction
of finding themselves alone with their art.

To both of them time fled on winged hours, and
it was almost with a groan of disappointment
that the bishop, looking at his watch, announced
that it was eleven o'clock, his routine hour for
retiring.

How I am to thank you, Mr Deane, I don't
know," he added. . " Few young men would
sacrifice a winter's night to an old churchman's
hobby ; but it is a night that will be marked
with a white stone in my memory. But how
have you managed, in a busy life, full, I am
told, of travel and adventure, to devote so much
time to one pursuit ? One would think your
knowledge of music could only have been gained
by the application of a lifetime."

It was the one aptitude nature gave me,"
said Everard, smiling, " and I have lived a hundred
years. I am a much older man than your
lordship ! "

Dr Fleming smiled too. " It is not hard to
believe that you live fast and keenly. I suppose
there is always a penalty attached to exceptional

endowments. You have a divine gift ;
I can scarcely help regretting that you were
not obliged to turn it to public use  a voice
such as yours should seldom be silent. Like all
the best voices of this type, it seems to include
and exhaust the possibilities of spiritual expression,
and suggests to my mind that you are a
creature of special accountability."

He paused and looked with curious earnestness
at his companion. It was as if he had laid
his fingers lightly on the other's heart, and hesitated
to try the stops of the organ.

Everard smiled.

Your lordship points to where we must not
follow : there are no confessionals in your cathedrals.
But are you really bent on departure 1
It is I who am under the chief obligation : comprehension
and sympathy such as yours we only
meet once or twice in a lifetime. May I play
you this '? "

He was almost morbidly anxious to divert Dr
Fleming's attention from the personal direction
it had taken, and struck the first notes of a

nocturne of Chopin's as he spoke. It was one
in which he himself specially delighted. Ashe
had hoped, his listener not only forgot
the hour, but the player. The nocturne was
repeated through its whole length a second
time; and then, with a sigh of delicious oppression,
the bishop said, " AYe may as well
steal a sheep as a lamb I I cannot let you go
till you have sung me something more  even if
it cost me a night's rest."

Everard opened the " Lieder-reis " of Beethoven,
and obeyed at once ; but the renewed
sound of his voice brought an influx of listeners
from the drawing-room, and amongst them Mr
and Mrs Marriott, who had not been able to
dine at the house, but had come in later for the
honour of meeting Dr Fleming.

When, a little afterwards, Everard, sufficiently
tired, at last got away from the piano and
looked round the room, he encountered Lucia's
eyes fixed on his face with a new expression
in them. It conveyed the idea not only that
she had been profoundly moved, but that some

chord of her being had been struck which upto
that time had been silent, and that she
was half afraid of the vibration. He did not
approach her, but contented himself with acknowledging
her recognition at a distance.
Presently he sought out his host.

Look here, Harcourt, I am going home
without leave - takings ! I have a splitting
headache, and the walk will do me good ;
excuse me to any one to whom excuse maybe
necessary."

It was the look in Lucia's eyes which had
wrought upon him, and made of that long
night-walk a protracted conflict between honour
and desire. It told him, as well as if he could
have read the veiled secrets of her innocent
soul, that there lay in her nature capacities
of passionate comprehension which had never
been evoked by her lover and her husband,
but which his own touch might have stirred
to their depths, had it been so given him
to do.

Had it been so given him to do ? It had ;

and he had thrown away his prize like a fool,
beguiled by the ignis fatuus of self-renunciation.
He had given up this capable and lovely creature
to a colder heart, and narrower brain, and
more selfish needs than his own ; and she would
find out, sooner or later, what manner of man
she had chosen, and chafe and bruise her tender
conscience against the discovery.

Had he held her to him as he might have
done, he would soon have taught her a deeper
love and a finer bliss than her crude girlish
fancy had conceived, and to his own distraught
and weary spirit would have been applied the
balm of blessedness.

It was very late when he reached home ; but
he knew his father's habits  that he would be
sitting up for him, and anxious to hear his
report of the evening's entertainment. He
cleared his brow and went into the diningroom,
where Mr Deane always preferred to
sit after dinner when alone.

He was greeted with the usual smile of

o

abounding welcome, and drew a chair close

to his father's, in the full heat of the still
fierce fire. 'rit is good to be at home again,"
he said ; " I am very tired."

He had laid his hand on the elbow of
his father's chair as he spoke, and, with a
sudden movement of parental yearning, Mr
Deane took it in his own strong grasp and
looked into his face with an expression of
penetrating anxiety.

Was George Prescott's daughter there ? "
he asked, sharply.

For a moment the impulse was upon Everard
to discharge his secret into the kind and faithful
heart beating so close to his own, but he
checked it. Life would not be bearable under
the conditions of his father's aroused watchfulness
and comprehension of his state of mind :
if a man must suffer, let him at least ask for
no spectator of his contortions.

She was there," he said, meeting fully the
gaze of inspection ; '' but I scarcely spoke to
her. Dr Fleming and myself have been ruthlessly
working Mrs Harcourt's new Gerard for

the last three hours, and in my zeal I forgot
discretion. But he is a fine old man, and
handles the violin, if not like a master, as
nearly like one as a bishop may dare to do."

"And you got on together V

Perfectly ; he was a capable judge, and a
gentleman."

It was this mild chit-chat that amused Mr
Deane, and which Everard allowed him to protract
 doing his best to reproduce the evening's
incidents  to what seemed to his taxed weariness
an interminable time.

The hands of the clock on the mantelshelf
had made a full circuit before Mr Deane rose to
go to bed. Like most old people, he slept
badly, and was averse to early hours.

You won't find this life too heavy a pull on
your patience ? " he asked, as his son headed
him his candle. ''To me it seems that the
last days of my life will be the best."

Do not be afraid ; I have taken root at
last. AYe will never part, until it is your
desire that we should do so."

VOL. 11. F

Only' he added to himself, as he turned
back into the empty room and flung himself
on a couch, ''to hold me to this promise is to
rob me of the one chance of escape from
certain wreck."

CHAPTER Xxii

EvEEAED Deane suffered three weeks more to
elapse before lie called at Hawthorndene. He
had an almost superstitious impression that to
cross that threshold was the first step towards
surrender to the temptation against which he
was still holding out.

As he approached the house he saw that a
groom was leading two saddle-horses up and
down in front of it, and at the same moment
Hugh Marriott and Mrs Lorimer appeared
equipped for riding.

We are unfortunate," said Helen, holding
out her hand with her brilliant smile.
Hugh, shall we send the horses back to the
stables ? "

But this was a concession to the importance

of his guest which neither Hugh's pride nor
Everard's courtesy would allow.

"My wife and her mother are at home, Mr
Deane," he said, stiffly, "though at present I
know they are particularly engaged with an
unexpected visitor ; but if you don't mind waiting,
they will soon be at liberty  and, after all,
they are the friends you know best."

Everard was about to leave his card and
depart, when a servant hurried forward with a
message from her mistress, requesting he would
come in and do her the favour of waiting a few
minutes, as she would be almost immediately
disengaged.

He followed the girl through the familiar
house, and was shown into the same apartment
where he had spent so many pleasant hours
with his late friend. As Lucia had told him,
his music lay as if untouched in its old place
near the favourite piano.

He sat down in an accustomed chair, and
looked about him for some indications of the
present mistress. Not only the furniture of the

room but its arrangement was the same ; it
almost seemed that lie might expect Lady
Portisham to enter through the opening
door.

There was a piece of embroidery lying on the
table  snowdrops worked on black satin  which
showed great taste and skill in the gentlewoman,
and he knew Lady Portisham had never cared
thus to occupy her time. He took it up and
examined it carefully, first from an instinct of
criticism, which he carried into all matters great
or small, then handling it with a certain tenderness,
as having been held by Lucia's fingers.

Then he noticed a book half hidden in the
dainty basket work-table, the open place being
kept by a few strands of the same silk as that
used by the embroidered ; and in turn he too]
this up for examination.

It was a volume of Landor's ' Imaginary Conversations,'
and the mark lay at the one between
Lord Brooke and Sir Philip Sidney. The book
had been one of his early favourites, and he
knew the dialogue well. It struck him as an

illustration of the refinement of Lucia's mind
and taste that such a writer should find acceptance
with her. He still held the volume in his
hand when the door opened and she entered.

At the first glance he saw that something had
happened to disturb her. Instead of the gentle,
confident friendliness of her accustomed manner,
she looked troubled and uncertain, half withdrew
her hand almost before he had touched it, and
hesitated over the conventional words of greeting
with an embarrassment he had never observed
in her before.

It was at once an appeal to his better feelings.
He put down the book he still held, and said,
with his usual air of quiet friendliness 

'' I am afraid my visit is inopportune ; something
has occurred to vex you. Mr Marriott
told me you were engaged. I will call again
another day. Pray," he added, half smiling
at her girlish want of self-command, for she
still continued to gaze at him with an indefinable
expression, " do not think it necessary
to explain."

Lucia dropped lier eyes and drew a long
breath : it might have been a profound sigh,
or a mere physical relief to the tension of her
feelings.

Huo'h is Done?" she asked; and on his
answering in the affirmative, she suddenly turned
away and walked to the window.

Please don't go away," she said, after a
pause ; " I am trying to think what I ought to
say and do."

Can I help you to decide ? "

He put the question gently, and without lessening
the distance between them, and Lucia
continued to stand with her back towards him,
her hand shading her eyes, almost as if she had
not heard what he said. Then, as though she
had taken her resolution, she dropped her hand,
and turned the full light of her suffused eyes
and speaking face upon him.

It is about you that I am troubled 1 What
must I, what must Hugh and all of us, have
appeared to you ? We have taken your gifts 
appropriated that to which we were never entitled

 robbing you of what was really yours,
and never even stopped to thank our benefactor !
Our conduct must have seemed to you hateful,
or rather of inconceivable ingratitude. How
have you endured to treat us with so much
patience and forbearance ? "

I do not in the least understand what you
mean," he said.

'' I mean," she added, with less passion, "that
a curious circumstance has just occurred. Mrs
Alice Dunbar, the friend and companion of the
dear lady who lived here, wrote to me asking
permission to come here to gather together some
things that she had left behind. She is in
the house now, and as soon as she and my
mother met, they recognised each other as schoolfellows
and early friends. You may imagine
how much they had to say to each other."

Lucia paused and looked at Everard with
such an expression of pathetic tenderness as
pierced his thin mail of resistance through and
through ; but for the present he restrained himself,
and waited in silence for her to go on.

She has told us it was you that enriched
my husband  against Lady Portisham's own
earnest wishes  out of your abundant goodness
and pity for me."

For a moment he forbore to answer her ;  not
that he hesitated as to whether the moment to
speak had come, but from that sensation of
oppression which seizes us when we have been
overtaken unawares by one of the crises of
life. Then he looked up as once before he
had looked at her  his face pale, but lit with
passion.

*did she tell you so much, and you have not
guessed the rest ? Do you think, Lucia, men
like me are moved by pity and goodness only ?
It is true I enriched Hugh Marriott, fool that I
was, moved by the mad ambition to see you
happy, at all costs to myself! And ever since
ever since "  his voice fell a little  ' I have
regretted what I did, and would barter half of
what may be left to me of life to win you for
the other half. What do I say ?  six months 
the bliss of a single day  would pay me for all

which earth might have to give or heaven to
refuse ! I love you, Lucia ! "

She had grown very pale while he was speaking,
but without removing from his face the
steadfast gaze, which seemed to grow more
wistful as he went on. Her attitude and manner
expressed nothing but an unlimited pity
and sympathy : it never occurred to her to resent
the confession that held within it the
blight of his happiness, and gave the key to the
generosity which had secured her own.

You love me ! " she repeated, in such an
accent as a mother might use to a suffering
child ; " you mean you loved me from the
first?"

His impulse was to seize her in his arms and
crush her against his breast, her sweet looks
and tones working upon him almost to madness
; but he forbore. There was something
in her Madonna-like purity and graciousness
that would have deepened the wrong into an
outrage too base for him to commit. He turned
from her, sat down by the table, and shut out

the sight of her by burying his face in his folded
arms.

For a few moments there was silence between
them, during which the silvery tick of the clock
on the mantelshelf and the tinkle of a cinder
falling on the hearth seemed sounds of unnatural
loudness : then he looked up, moved by
the overmastering desire to see in what way she
was regarding him. She was still standing near,
as if watching' him, and her eves were wet with
tears.

I have loved you, Lucia," he said, '' from
the first time that I saw you ; and since then
we have never met or parted without adding
something to my love. The one motive which
led me to make your acquaintance was to win
you for my wife ; and your kindness induced
me to believe that, unworthy as I was, I might
succeed. I had no notion you had a lover, for
your father told mine you were absolutely free.
That day in Kew Gardens gave me one of the
cruellest blows which life had ever dealt me : it
killed my personal happiness, and a good deal

more besides, of which it would do little good
to speak, but it did not kill my love. I went
through a fiery furnace in the days that followed
; but fire purges, as we know "  he smiled
as he spoke  " and my love at least endured the
ordeal. For a time self was burnt out, and I
worked in order to help your marriage with
your lover, as if  as if  strong words are useless
!  I had been nothing more than the friend
I pretended."

He stopped, for he saw the tears were slowly
rolling down her cheeks.

For God's sake," he said, in a suppressed
voice, " do not weep, unless it were granted me
to wipe away your tears 1 It is something that
you are sorry for me  that you do not upbraid
me for telling you this, as some good women
would do."

Upbraid you ! " she repeated. " I cannot
find words to express my shame, and humiliation,
and remorse."

Ah," he answered, with a groan, "all that is
a stone, and I have given you living bread !

Is there no better compensation for the ruin you
have wrought ? ''

Her cheek flushed, and she wiped away her
tears.

*' Yes' she said, looking at him now with undimmed
eyes ; " there is much more, only I
confess it is all poor in comparison with what
you have given me. My weak words cannot
express what an honour I think it that you
should have loved me ; and had it been possible,
I would have paid you back in such a way as
might have satisfied even you. But "  her eyes
fell a little before his burning gaze  "' you know
it was not possible. I loved Hugh with all my
heart ; and at this moment, after more than
eighteen months of wedded life and daily intercourse,
I love him better than I did then."

"Ay," he answered, "you would not be a
woman if not cruel."

She went on as if she had not heard him 

But could it have been otherwise,  I mean,
if I had not loved my husband ever since I was
a little child, and could have believed that you

thought me worth the winning,  I must have
loved you, of necessity. It would have been
impossible to have resisted your sweet kindness
and indulgence ; more than that  but perhaps
I ought not to say more ! At least, believe how
humbly grateful I am for the unselfish goodness
you have shown us. Sometimes men fail
when tried as you have been ; but you hye
never failed hitherto. I know you will not
do so now."

Her voice had an accent at once of appeal
and entreaty : he dropped his head upon his
hands again, as if to hide from himself the
sight of her face. She went on, 

When I spoke of shame and remorse just
now, I meant, if I had understood better I could
have spared you much. Now my whole heart
goes out to you in the strongest desire I have
ever felt to spare you in the future what I
can."

Love me," he answered, without looking at
her,  " love me a little, if only a little you can
love ! There is no other mercy !"

'' But as it is, I love you' she replied, with a
sweet boldness, "much more than a little. I
am a wife, it is true ; but may I not continue to
love my friends as they deserve ? and I never
had a friend so dear to me as you. Add a little
more of admiration and respect to my old
feeling, Mr Deane, and suffer us to be friends
still"

Was she wise ? Her motives were heavenly
pure, but she had a very mistaken idea of the
quality and strength of the passion to which
she made her appeal.

"Am I then to understand," he asked, looking
at her searchingly, " that you wish me to
stay here  that is, at Hurstpoint ? "

A sudden flame of colour swept over her face.

"And why not?" she said, with some indignation.
"Is anything really changed between
us because I know for the first time how much
we owe you I You conquered your feelings
nobly once, when there was no constraint of
positive duty ; you will scarcely do less now,
and shame my gratitude and respect ? "

' I know not," he answered, " whether you
are saint or temptress, but you try me terribly !
I am almost mad enough to frighten you out
of this icy propriety, but I spare you : your
mother is close at hand, and you are under the
shelter of a roof that I have given you. But 
just one saving word in this drought of expediency
and virtue !  was there ever a moment
since we met, either before or since you married
Hugh Marriott, when you doubted whether you
could not have loved me better than him ?"

He saw that she trembled a little from her
former sweet composure, and changed colour,
whether from shamed self consciousness or
indignant repudiation, he could not decide; but
at least his self-restraint was over.

His face glowed with a sinister beauty, his
very figure seemed to dilate ; he stretched out
his arms towards her, and the accent in which
her name  " Lucia I "  fell from his lips, made
her heart thrill with a new experience of pain 
the bitter pain we feel for a lost ideal.

Alas ! " she cried, looking at him with an

expression of heartfelt compassion ; '' and if I
had been so disloyal, would it have pleased
you ? Would you wish me to be unworthy of
your regard, and shamed to the very core of
my own heart and conscience 1 You, to whom
I should have turned to help me to do right ! "

He looked at her for a moment or two, and
the expression of his face changed; the vivid
passion faded out of it, and a gleam of mingled
tenderness and compunction took its place. He
stooped towards her, and raising the hem of her
gown, pressed his lips upon it.

There was a time," he said, " when a good
woman would have saved me from the follies of
my youth ; she shall save me now from dishonouring
my manhood. I love you, Lucia ;
remember that always !  and shall love you so
long as my heart beats ; but, since such is your
desire, I will prove it only by faithfulness and
silence."

There was the sound of footsteps in the passage
outside : Mrs Prescott and her friend were
approaching.

VOL. II. G

Everard took up his hat.

"I cannot meet them," he said hurriedly,
especially that woman who has betrayed me !
Allow me ; this window is but a few feet above
the garden,  I have often taken my departure
in this way when I have stayed too long. I
have stayed too long to-day ! "

He opened the window and sprang out 
Lucia, guilty of an act of concealment for
almost the first time in her life, closing it
swiftly after him. She had just turned back
towards the fire as her mother and Mrs Dunbar
entered the room.

Have I missed Mr Everard Deane ? " exclaimed
the latter, in a tone of acute disappointment.


He could not wait," said Lucia ; "he left a
few moments ago. Dear mamma, we must not
let Mrs Dunbar leave us to-day, but persuade
her to stay and make Hugh's acquaintance.
She will have so much to tell him."

CHAPTER Xxii.

Mes Dunbar ties not found difficult to persuade
to remain as a guest at Hawthorndene, and indue
course repeated to the other members of the
family the details which her dying friend had
given her of the manner in which her publicly
known intention to make Everard Deane her
heir had been overruled by him.

In the first instance, she had supposed that
Hugh Marriott must of necessity know the
circumstances under which he had been enriched,
and had no idea she was betraying a
secret ; but having revealed it to his wife and
her mother, both these preferred that the narrative
should come direct from her own lips to
his ears.

Mrs Dunbar had been desired by Lucia not

to open the subject till they were all assembled
after dinner in the pleasant family privacy of
one of the smaller sitting-rooms; and it was
with acute anxiety that she watched the effect
of the disclosure on her husband. She was
fully aware that it would be a very painful
revelation to him, and she had placed herself
in a low chair by his side, with her
embroidery in her hand, from the instinctive
wish to show her sympathy, and at the same
time to avoid the appearance of observing
him.

The effect was greater than she expected.
Hugh turned as pale as his sunburnt complexion
would allow  even his lips grew white. The
narrator was going through her narrative with
that unction with which some minds seem to
reproduce the ghastly details of mortal illness,
and she had not the very least idea she was
hurting her listener. She had loved and
greatly admired Lady Portisham ; and as she
was apt to view most things in the same light
as her benefactress did, she loved and greatly

admired Everard Deane also, and she had no
reserve in betraying these feelings.

What her story lacked in precision and detail
was soon elicited by the sagacious and eager
questions of Mrs Lorimer, vrho showed extraordinary
interest in the matter. So keen was
the cross-examination to which she submitted
Mrs Dunbar on difficult or doubtful points, that
Hugh had not found it necessary to ask a single
further question.

The only question he did ask was of his
wife.

You were not in the secret '? " he said,
harshly. " You knew nothing, and  suspected
nothing ? "

She was astounded by his look and manner,
but he appeared satisfied with her distinct
assurance. '*

"It is certain that Lucia speaks the truth,"
said Helen ; " she was never capable of fibbing
in her life. But if she suspected nothing, I
beg to proclaim that I was not equally shortsighted.
You remember that day at Richmond,

when Mr Deane called at Lucia's request, and
passed you afterwards, without speaking, in
the Park '? You were very much put out by
the rencontre; and I was on the point of
opening your eyes to the truth, but I spared
you."

Spared me ! " he repeated. '' I do not
understand ! "

Helen shrugged her pretty shoulders, and
balanced in her own mind arguments for and
against a full explanation of her meaning;
apparently she decided on the latter.

"I mean, you would not have been well
pleased to discover that you did not owe
your fortune to the renown of your own
merits."

I was never fool enough to think myself
entitled to it. I always looked upon the bequest
as an act of folly on the part of the
testator, and under some circumstances would
not have accepted it. But  it gave me
Lucia ! "

He turned towards her, and laying his hand

on her head, raised her sweet face, bowed in
painful complexity of feeling over her work,
towards his. "Would to God I never had!"
he continued, passionately ; '*' you would have
come to me without the bribe of this place,
darling ? "

You know I would," she answered, pressing
her lips to his, '' had I been allowed ; but there
lay the difficulty ! Had Mr Deane been less
generous, we had never been so happy. Cannot
you acknowledge this, Hugh '? "

Ton my soul, Marriott," said Mr Lorimer,
stretching out his long legs and surveying them
critically, *' it passes my comprehension why
you cut up so rough in the matter ! It was
surely very handsome conduct on Everard
Deane's part, and I should find no difficulty
in pocketing such an obligation. All you need
do is to explain how entirely you have been in
the dark, and thank him properly now you are
enlightened."

'' Thank him ! " muttered Hugh beneath his
breath" I hate him ! "

He got up and left the room ; after a few
moments Lucia rose and followed him. She
found him walking up and down the floor of
the dining-room, where wine and dessert still
stood on the table. He turned sharply as she
entered.

Why are you come ? " he asked. '' I am
only fit to be alone. I feel as if a blight had
suddenly fallen on everything. The world 
even you, Lucia  has a different look from
what it had an hour or two ago. I repeat it
I hate Everard Deane ! "

He went up to the table, poured out a
bumper of wine, and swallowed it at a draught.
Then he turned towards his wife again.

Are you come to praise him T' he demanded ;
'to try and bring me to a better mind 1 Be
advised  don't do it."

She was profoundly disappointed and hurt 
it was a revelation of weakness and unworthiness
that cut her to the heart ; but she had the
wisdom to be silent. She was reluctant to
leave him to himself, so walked slowly towards

the fireplace, and stood leaving against the
mantelshelf, a little turned away from him.

Hugh continued to walk up and down the
room, and to feed his bitterness with recollections
and suspicions.

Again," he said, suddenly stopping before
her  " again I ask you if you knew nothing,
suspected nothing, of this farce '? Good heavens !
what a hoodwinked fool he must have thought
me, taking as my right a magnificent bequest
which instead I owed  Lucia, to what did I
owe it ? " He seized her hand as he spoke, and
searched her face with eager, angry eyes.

*' Can you ask 1 " she said, meeting his look
with grieved surprise. " You owe it to the
goodwill of a rich man who gave you what
he did not want in order that you "  she hesitated,
and a faint blush came into her face 
might make me happy."

Ay, he gave it for your sake, not for mine,
you do well not to mistake the case. But
I have another question to ask you. Me he
hated  to the length that he would never give

me Ms hand; what, then, must have been the
strength of his feeling towards you to neutralise
the ill-will he bore me ? Did he wish to
make me happy ? "

The sneer with which he spoke was so venomous,
his whole frame of mind seemed to her
so perverted, that she could not repress a movement
of warm indignation.

If he did not," she answered, " and yet did
it so effectually and so silently, his merit is all
the greater."

The words and manner stung him to the
quick. He had a difficulty in crushing back
the oath that started to his lips ; he looked at
his wife, not only with an expression such as
she had never seen before, but which she would
not have believed his face could wear. Involuntarily
he tightened the hold he had taken
of her arm until he hurt her.

You think so ! You are mad enough to
praise Everard Deane to me, and talk of the
merit of a man whose name is a by-word for
vice and sensuality ! I see it all in its true

light. He bought your gratitude by the gift of
Hawthorndene ; he calculated that he might
also buy your love, in the near future, when
you had grown weary of your husband ! Marriage
bonds have no sacredness to him .

Good God ! do you blush and tremble ? "

He flung her arm violently from him, and
turned away.

Lucia stood for some moments, her head a
little bowed, as if beneath the fierceness of his
wrath, and her hands clasped over her eyes.
Her instinct was to shut out the sight of the
man who had so cruelly outraged her love and
her honour  at least until she could summon
reason and self-command to her aid. Her experience
of her parents' married life had been
so unfortunate, that she was perhaps not quite
so much shocked by her husband's physical
violence as some women would have been ; nor
did the instant purpose to leave her husband's
roof because he had grossly insulted her in the
transport of his exasperation, take possession
of her mind. So great indeed was her faculty

of feeling with others, and comprehending a
state of mind thoroughly alien to her own
nobler nature, that some breath of compassion
softened her indignant displeasure. But there
was no balm for the exquisite smart of disappointed
hope and love inflicted on her heart
by Hugh's unworthiness.

But the paroxysm of his anger was over, and
shame began to quicken within him.

You do not answer ? " he said, in a low
tone.

"You could scarcely expect me to answer
reproaches and implications which it was a dishonour
for you to utter," she said, sadly. " You
make me feel at this moment as if you had
broken my heart. I don't mean," she added
more gently, as she saw his changed expression,
'' that I shall not be able to forgive you, but
you have spoilt our life. You have shaken my
trust in your goodness : as you have spoken
now, you may speak again." She shuddered a
little ; it was a complex emotion that seemed to
grasp her heart.

You are cruel, Lucia ! I was mad  forgive

me!"

Oh yes, I will do that," she answered,
stretching out her hand to him with tears in

o

her eyes ; '' but my sorrow is, that I should have
anything to forgive."

He seized her hand and would have drawn
her towards him, but she resisted the movement
; she was not of the type of women with
whom kisses are a healing ointment for the
deepest wounds. He was forced to content
himself with pressing the hand he had taken
against his lips.

She stood for a few moments thus ; then
gently withdrawing it, she quitted the room.

She wanted solitude ; an imperious desire,
new to her experience, to question her own
soul, possessed her. She passed lightly and
hastily the door of the room where Helen's gay
voice reached her ears, and took shelter in the
unlighted apartment where she was accustomed
to sit when alone. It had been Lady
Portisham's favourite morning-room, and was

the same where she had received Everard
that morning. It was unlighted, as we have
said, for it was seldom occupied after dinner ;
but a low fire still burned in the grate, and a
cloudless moon, now almost at the full, was
shining in at the uncurtained windows. There
was light enough to think and suffer by ! 

She sat down in her usual place, and leant
her head on the table before her. Now that she
was able to think about herself, she found she
was trembling with excitement.

The cry of her spirit was, " My life is spoiled!
my life is spoiled ! Hugh, you have broken
my heart ! "

It was not that he had been unjust and cruel
to her that moved her so profoundly ; it was,
that injustice and cruelty were possible to him
that he could be so blinded by vindictive passion
as to be able to allow no merit in another :
alas 1 that she should never more be able to
measure her ideal of manly excellence by his
example.

And then  for the room was quick with

perilous association  came back the image of
the contemned benefactor.

Had he, even under the keen stimulus of
personal disappointment, uttered one word in
disparagement of the man who had first taken
from him what he wanted, and then accepted
his services with neorliorent ingratitude '? Had he,
even in the crisis of his passion and his anguish,
vexed or hurt her gentle dignity by word or
touch ? And (perhaps it was the most dangerous
thought of all) how prompt and complete
had been the generous response to her endeavours
to win him to conquer himself for the
sake of honour and rectitude !

She had ventured to commend him for his
kindness and consideration to others  " points
where some men fail sometimes," she had said ;
how little she had thought of the painful illustration
her words were so soon to receive !

That very morning she had rejected with
loyal indignation the question he had asked as
to her unwavering fidelity; to-night she recalled
it with a sensation of agonised dread.

*' Love me, love me a little ! " he had prayed.

Lucia was repeating the words to herself,
half confused by her unwonted introspection ;
and she remembered that she had told him
frankly that she had always loved him. Did
she know what her own words meant 1 Had
she not indeed always loved him in a sense
which she perhaps had misinterpreted 1 Was
it possible that her love for Hugh had been
more a feeling of habit and long association and
accepted fact than a living reality 1 or rather,
had she loved something that was better and
nobler than the actual man ? If she had known,
before she married, that Everard Deane loved
her, and all the bitter pain his self-denials cost
him, would it have worked a conscious change
in her feelings 1 Was all change infamous 1
Was it a law of fidelity that love should be
independent of vital conditions 1  that we
should close our hearts against the most winning
manifestations, and keep them open for
the less lovable, because it is our duty todo
so ?

But to the brink of what madness were such
thoughts leading her ?

With a sigh that was almost a groan of uttermost
depression, Lucia lifted up her pale face
in the moonlight, and became conscious that it
was bathed in tears. She dashed them away,
as if the mechanical action would help to scatter
their cause, and rising slowly from her seat,
decided to escape all further observation that
night, and go at once to her bedroom. As she
stood in suspense for a moment, a ray of moonlight
fell direct on a small object that lay glittering
at her feet and caught her abstracted
gaze. She stooped instinctively and picked it
up. As she did so, she recognised it as one of
the sleeve-links Everard Deane was accustomed
to wear; he had doubtless dropped it that
morning. It was an exquisite specimen of antique
goldsmith's art, such as he had no doubt
picked up in some old Italian store, being curious
in such things : and it was well worth
a few moments' intent study  scarcely, 

II. H

ever, to be accomplished by the rays of a wintry
moon.

But Lucia stood and held it, gazing at it
motionless, as if it had possessed some weird
power of fascination.

It did in fact possess the property of mental
illumination. As she stooped and recognised
it, she was conscious of a sudden leap of her
heart, an impulse to clasp it tighter in her
fingers, even to press it eagerly against lips and
bosom. True, this was but an impulse  ruthlessly
repressed, indignantly contemned  but it
seemed to steep her soul in a flood of conscious
guilt.

She suffered the trinket to drop from her
fingers, and flung herself in a paroxysm of spiritual
distress on her knees.

My God ! " she cried, " help me ! I did not
know  my sin is not wilful ! Surely, surely
resisted temptation is not crime ? "

And then another idea occurred to her, and
she changed her prayer.

Console him, for he must have suffered !
Strengthen me, that I may strengthen him!"

So poor human nature struggles and stretches
out its lame hands into the infinite silence ; butin
the struggle and aspiration alone there are
germs and pledges of the Divine.

CHAPTEE XXIV.

Perhaps the bias towards jealousy and suspicion
in a man's mind is in proportion to his
self-esteem.

It had been a source of immense satisfaction
to Hugh Marriott that he had been in a position
to enrich his wife, and that this was owing
to his own merits, even though he was prepared
to admit those merits had been greatly overpaid.
He had felt a natural exultation on this
ground when contrasting his claims with those
of Everard Deane. It had lifted him to the
same social level, and removed the harassing
feeling that in marrying him Lucia had sacrificed
her worldly interests.

But the information he had received changed
all. As he expressed himself, it blighted his

prospects, and turned his honey into gall. In
strict reckonings Lucia owed nothing; to him
on this score; he had received everything for
her sake, and in the shape of a free gift disdainfully
cast at him by her other lover, and
his rival.

Still, when the first blinding effect of his disappointment
passed, he could not help pondering
a little over the strange form a lover's
rivalry had taken, and asking himself if there
could really be the merit his wife perceived in
the action. But he came ao-ain to the same
conclusion, that a man like Everard Deane
could only have his own ends to answer, and
that those ends were presumably bad. Of
course he acknowledged that he had been wrong
in expressing this deliberate conviction with the
violence and brutality he had used towards
Lucia,  at least so far as impugning her honour
and faith, which in his right mind he held to be
absolute ; but he thoroughly justified to himself
his suspicions of Deane.

The element of rest was taken out of his life ;

he set himself the odious task of keeping a
constant watch on Deane's proceedings, and felt
baffled but not convinced at the absence of any-confirmatory
result.

Everard went much less into the society of
the neighbourhood than Marriott  also he did
not hunt, and rarely went to church ; and this
narrowed very much the area of observation.
Hugh would have hesitated to question Lucia
whether she met Everard in her walks or drives ;
but fortunately for his anxiety, her sister washer
companion, and he had no scruple about
examining her on the point. But Mrs Lorimer's
reply was always in the negative.

"No such luck, my dear Hugh," she said on
one occasion ; " it seems to be the odd fashion
of father and son to confine themselves pretty
much within the limits of their park-gates, except
when Mr Everard Deane is indulging in
that violent form of horse exercise which he
affects. He is an admirable rider ; and I am
told, that though he does not often hunt, he is
allowed to have no rival in the field."

And does Lucia share your admiration of his
horsemanship ? "

She is not so good a judge, and on the few
occasions when I have seen him on horseback,
she has happened not to be with me. He is
very often accompanied by that Creole servant,
and always by a magnificent bloodhound, which,
I am told, is also of Cuban descent."

Accompanied ! " repeated Hugh, with his
ready sneer : " in what capacity ?  as groom or
confidential friend 1 There is always something
damaging in these unequal associations."

There is a story connected with it : Everard
Deane saved the man's life under-some extraordinary
complications, or the man saved his,
I am not clear which. The only thing, my
dear Hugh, which is damaged by their connection,
is your inveterate prejudice against your
neighbour."

A week or two after this conversation, when
his vigilance was beginning to slacken a little,
Marriott was disagreeably aroused by Lucia's
mentioning at dinner, in a quiet, matter-of-fact

way, that she and the Lorimerss had met Everard
Deane and his father during their morning
walk, and accepted an invitation to luncheon
for the following day, for the purpose of seeing
the picture-galleries and gardens of Hurst-point.


That is to say," she added, " that Helen
and Philip accepted for themselves  I made my
consent dependent on your convenience."

"And it is only fair to say," interposed
Helen, " that we almost invited ourselves.
Philip is a good judge of pictures, and I could
not answer it to my wifely conscience to let
him leave the neighbourhood without seeing
the gallery at Hurstpoint."

"And do you choose to go, Lorimer, on the
footing of a sight-seer  like any third-class
excursions  to a house where you have not
been invited to dine ? Luncheon, to my mind,
is a meal offered by our social superiors as a
compromise between neglect and equality."

*' My dear fellow, I am not going to feast my
appetite, but my eyes ; and I don't care a straw

whether the Deanes think Philip Lorimer above
or below them. After all, bankers can never
be regarded otherwise than as traders, though I
am bound to say there is nothing of the snob
in either father or son. You were duly included
in the invitation."

Which I shall certainly decline. You have
no wish to go, Lucia 1 "

I have no wish to force your inclination,
but I am almost as anxious to see the pictures
as Philip himself; and I am still more anxious
that you should meet any overtures of friendship
from Mr Deane in a frank and natural way."

I shall not go," he repeated. " You will,
of course, do as you think right. You can go
without me."

He frowned, to give the effect of authority
and displeasure to his unreasonableness, and
the subject dropped. When, however, Lucia
found herself alone with him later in the
evening, she reopened it.

She had anxiously and with intense conscientiousness
considered her line of duty, and her

present conduct was the result of the conclusions
she had reached.

"You will not be angry, Hugh, I hope, if I
mention again the matter we were discussing at
dinner, and beg you to reconsider your decision.
I want you to go with us tomorrow."

'' Us ! Is it possible you would entertain the
idea of going without me 1 "

"I earnestly hope," said Lucia, "you will
not force me to the alternative, but it would be
easy to make excuses for you. And I should
prefer that to giving rise to the suspicion that
you bear malice against the man who has befriended
us, or feel any reluctance to my keeping
up our former intimacy."

She spoke in a very low tone, and there was
an expression of deep solicitude in her manner,
which struck him as unusual.

So that is your way of expressing that you
are unwilling that Everard Deane should guess
that I hate him, and  am jealous of him 1 "

*eyes, if you prefer to put my meaning in
such a form," she answered, with a grave reproach

in her eyes. "Is it strange I am careful
of my own honour when it has become of so
little account to you ? "

Lucia, surely that is not fair ! I doubt
him ; heaven forbid that I should doubt you !
I trust you implicitly."

She smiled a little bitterly.

There is offence, Hugh, in the very assurance
of your trust. Believe me, dear, you may
trust me."

She leaned her head on his shoulder and
passed her arm round his neck. God helping
her, she would keep her marriage vows in their
integrity  in the spirit as in the letter; she
would not only honour and obey, she would
love him as she had loved him in the past.
That involuntary failure of allegiance should
never be again repeated; not in the deepest
searchings of her own heart should she ever be
again constrained to acknowledge that another
man was dearer to her than her husband. But
then her husband must maintain his worth and
self-respect in her eyes.

'' Hugh," she said, smiling, " I fancy, since
you have been a rich man, I miss a little of your
old gallant way of thinking. I am quite sure
in the old days you would not have found a
favour so burdensome, nor suffered prejudice or
even opinion to make you unjust. Until lately
you did not know what Mr Everard Deane had
done for you ; now you do know, can you as a
man of right feeling refuse to thank him ? I accepted
this chance invitation for tomorrow in the
hope you would allow yourself to be persuaded."

Are you wise, Lucia, to press me ? Don't you
know you tread on dangerous ground ? "

I do," she answered. " Nothing could hurt
me more than a repetition of that painful scene,
only it must never be repeated. And I am
so deeply anxious, Hugh, that you should justify
my love and pride in you."

The softness of her manner was irresistible ;
he frowned a little, then stroked her beautiful
head with the ineffable air of marital proprietorship,
and asked, " How far do you expect me to
go as thankful recipient ? "

Simply be courteous and like your best self;
frankly tell him you have only just learnt the
share he took in Lady Portisham's sill, and say
what is gracious."

*' I will try, Lucia, for your sake ; but remember,
there is no change in my mind as to the
character of the man and his motives, nor in
my personal antipathy to him."

The protracted review of the pictures and
sculpture of the Hurstpoint galleries was over,
as was also the luncheon which followed ; but
Hugh Marriott had not yet found an opportunity
of fulfilling the promise he had made
to his wife.

Throughout the morning no privacy had been
obtainable,  and he was the last man to make
such an acknowledgment as was lying heavy' on
his conscience in public. The Lorimerss, especially
Philip, were bent upon a thorough examination
of the celebrated art-treasures of the
place, and on hearing all that their present proprietor,
who had contributed largely to them

himself, had to say about them in the way of
explanation or criticism.

Everard was constrained, very much against
his will, to take the burden of the day on himself,
and play the distasteful part of cicerone to
his own possessions.

Hugh grew weary and impatient long before
the others. He had very small aesthetic instinct,
and it chafed him to observe the mastery of the
subjects under discussion possessed by Everard,
and the equally obvious indifference with which
he exercised it. Then Everard's behaviour to
Lucia at once baffled and irritated him. It
was courteous and solicitous certainly, with that
indefinable suggestion of deference to the sex
which distinguished his manner ; but there was
not a touch of self-consciousness or embarrassment,
nor hint of any feeling held in reserve.

Another form of annoyance to his sore and
sensitive perceptions was the absolute completeness
of comfort and the thoroughly disciplined
taste which marked all the appointments and
arrangements at Hurstpoint, and seemed to conceal

their luxury; it forced upon him a disagreeable
sense of inferiority, and he at once asked
himself if Lucia might not think she had chosen
the less instead of the greater. Added to this,
as he watched her listening to Everard's careless
but brilliant remarks, he knew she could not
fail to be aware of the difference between them
in talent, taste, and cultivation : here was one
who could have supplied the wants she so pathetically
deplored at Eome  for he seemed free of
the very sanctuary of art and science, the threshold
of which Hugh was conscious he had scarcely
crossed.

He had pledged his word to Lucia that he
would not leave the house without making some
acknowledgment to Deane, and he therefore held
himself bound to do so. He attacked the difficulty
in the direct formal way which was best
calculated to increase it.

Can I have five minutes alone with you ? "
he asked, as they rose from table and Helen had
begun immediately to propose their departure.

Everard, though both surprised and reluctant,

assented readily, and at once led the way into
a neighbouring room, where he stood leaning
carelessly against the mantelpiece awaiting his
guest's pleasure to open the business.

Marriott showed such obvious signs of hesitation
and difficulty, however, that, after a few
moments' awkward pause, Everard felt obliged
to come to his relief.

Can I be of any service to you 1 " he asked,
indifferently.

Hugh's face flushed.

I scarcely think," he answered, " that I am
likely to solicit services of you ; what I want
is to thank you for those I have already received.
I little guessed I owed my possession
of Hawthorndene to your intervention, and I
am bound to thank you for so magnificent a

gift."

Everard turned and looked at him sharply :
grudging admission and instinctive dislike could
scarcely have revealed themselves more unmistakably
than in Marriott's look and speech.

You are quite right," he answered. '* Sofar

as you are concerned, you are certainly
bound to make some acknowledgment ; but personally
I am not entitled to your gratitude. If
you had not been possessor of Hawthorndene,
you would not have been possessor of Lucia
Prescott  there lay my motive. I gave you a
fortune that she might be happy ! "

Hugh quivered with suppressed anger. In
the low, distinct, but hard accentuation of the
speaker, and the flash of his eyes, there was
something progressive  a directness of address
and intention that showed in marked contrast
to his habitual manner.

I don't know," he answered hotly, '' whether
you want to quarrel with me, Mr Deane, but I
tell you bluntly I find something offensive in
the way you put the matter. I do not choose
that any man should say I owe my wife  whose
name I would rather not hear on your lips  to
his interference."

Everard smiled. '' ' You do not choose,'
Mr Marriott ? Are you oroinsf to challenge
me to single combat ?  but I won't resent

VOL. II. I

your warmth on her behalf  it can scarcely be
too fervent. Before, however, we leave this
subject  now that it has been opened between
us  I think it would be well to ask you one or
two questions, and make one or two statements.
I should never have sought this explanation,
but now it shall run its course." He sat down
as he spoke, with an air of deliberation, and
paused for a moment or two. " Has it never
occurred to you," he then said, looking steadily
at Hugh, '' to ask yourself why Lucia Fresco tt's
happiness was a matter of such supreme importance
to me V

Why ? Had I not your own explanation of
the motive ? What did you tell me in Bruton
Street ? That you preferred a single life, though
Lucia had been commended to your notice, and
that your intercourse had been nothing beyond
a pleasant intimacy on either side ! Are you
going to tell me such deliberate and repeated
assurances were false '? "

They were absolutely false, and could never
have imposed upon any man less self-absorbed

and self-satisfied than yourself, and a girl
less singularly artless than the girl we bosh
loved."

Hugh started and shivered a little, or, at
least, made some movement indicative of hurt
sensibility. The declaration sounded to him
like blasphemy. " And you venture to say
this to me ? "' he demanded, with angry
insistence.

Venture ! Your anger runs away with your
discretion ; but I am not to be provoked by a
choleric young man. Will you try and explain
why I, Everard Deane, was not as free to love
any woman as yourself? "

' Ay, any woman ; but not Lucia ! "

His voice shook a little as he pronounced the
beloved name, and for the first time the glance
of the other man softened and fell.

And why not  Lucia ? " he asked.

Because she was mine already  promised
from her childhood, and loved and reverenced
by me in a fashion inconceivable to a man of
your character ; because, even if I had never

existed, it was not fit that such as you are  or
i you like, we will say, have been  should win
her. If wearied and exhausted profligacy is to
gain in the long-run such exquisite purity and
trust, there is no right nor justice in heaven
or earth ! "

Stop ! I wish to call one fact to your
mind : until you crossed our path in Kew
Gardens, I never knew of your immaculate
existence. Don't interrupt me ; I have more
to say. You shall take your innings afterwards.
I am quite prepared to accept your
reputation at your own high estimate, and
even to admit that the love which keeps a
young man chaste for his lady's sake is a
beautiful and beneficent sentiment. But temperaments
and temptations vary ; your abstinence
may have cost you less than my temperance.
As for the indiscriminate abuse you
cast upon my life and character, of which
you know absolutely nothing, it is not my
way either to deny or resent it. I have probably
not been a Sir Galahad like yourself 

it is a type which has a singular aptitude
for making itself obnoxious to sinners at
large ; but it is equally true I have not
been a Don Juan or a Lovelace. Still, I grant
Lucia Prescott was too good for me." He
stopped, got up from his chair, and began to
walk the room. " I am growing hot," he said,
when I meant to keep cool, but you have the
secret of exasperation ! I tell you that I loved
your Lucia, and in a fashion that did her no
wrong. If your love kept you pure, mine
wrought in me a new passion for virtue : the
sentiment which can save and sanctify is, depend
upon it, not less strong than that which preserves.
I adored your wife, Hugh Marriott,
when you stepped on the scene and snatched
her away from me."

Hugh turned pale and red by turns ; he
was strongly excited. '' Why do you tell me
this ?" he demanded; 'perhaps you will have
the audacity to say that you adore her still ? "

"That is precisely the point to which I have
been leading up. I adore her still ! "

He spoke almost with solemnity, and laid a
restraining hand on the young man's arm.

Wait a moment ! Do you think I tell you
this to exasperate and insult you ? My motive
is quite otherwise. I tell you out of regard to
her happiness, to which  let me say it this
once  I have sacrificed all that it is hardest
for a man to forego. For her own sweet sake,
I gave into your arms the woman whose lightest
touch was rapture, and effaced my love so completely
in her presence that she never guessed
it. Could I have done more ? "

Hugh passed the question by. " But now ? "
he asked, eagerly.

"But now," said Everard, bitterly, "comes
the need of some small sacrifice on your part.
I went away, as you know, before your marriage,
and stayed away until other duties forced
me to this place. I have met your wife
again ; and, in spite of the best resolutions, I
find the old feeling stronger than ever. You
may not think it, and may put it down to
hyperbole ; but the sight of your relations

together, and the need of preserving a quiet
and guarded manner towards her to-day, cost
me about as much effort as, I suppose, it needs
to make a man smile when the rack is turned.
Now I am not of a tough or heroic fibre at
all ; I can leap in the air sometimes under an
impulse of generosity, but I am not equal to
a daily and hourly conflict with nature. Sooner
or later I shall commit myself to some mad
folly, and ruin her peace of mind, if she and
I remain near each other."

'this is unbearable!" said Hugh. "rit is
an outrage that you should talk thus to me
of the woman who is my wife ! If she could
know of this, I should feel that her purity was
sullied for ever ! "

"Then she may feel very thankful that she
holds her purity in her own right, and not
dependent on your miserable estimate ! If she
did know this, shall I tell you how it would
appear to her higher nature 1 That the honest
love I had for her, and proved at the cost of
my own heavy loss, was a gift no woman need

blush to accept; and that the purpose I have
now formed that the happiness I have given her
shall not be marred by the possible outbreak of
a feeling I have not the strength to conquer, is
as much as can be required of any man  be
he saint or sinner. And it is because I have
reached this conclusion that I announce it to
you  with a purpose."

Would it not have been better to have
carried out the purpose you rate as so meritorious,
without taking me into your confidence
? "

Everard looked at him from head to foot
with an expression in which incredulity and
contempt were mixed.

*' Good heavens ! " he exclaimed, passionately,
"what can such a woman find to love in
you, except it be so many feet of fair proportion
and so much surface comeliness ? I have
tried you all round, and not one generous
instinct can I provoke ! You must surely
understand I have not told you this for the
pleasure or glory of it, but in order to induce

you to fall in with the proposal I am about
to make  that you will take your wife away
from Hawthorndene for the present."

Hugh uttered an ejaculation of contemptuous
surprise.

You propose that I shall break up my home
to relieve your peace of mind ! By God, Deane,
your effrontery is matchless ! / have no fear of
consequences, and am able to take care of what
I possess. Go elsewhere yourself ! "

Perhaps it was the harsh intemperance of the
one man which served to strengthen the self-command
of the other ; he had never spoken
with more persuasive courtesy than when he
answered 

That is so obvious an alternative, that
you might feel sure there is some very strong
reason against my adopting it. I have been
a wanderer all my life, and have no personal
objection to becoming a wanderer again ; but
simply I have pledged my word to my father
to stay at home. On the other hand, I heard
Mrs Marriott express to - day, as well as on

other occasions, a very strong desire to travel
on the Continent again. Gratify her wish,
and make my daily life a little easier ! "

Hugh was silent. At length he said, coldly 

'you ask a great deal. It is not the right
season of the year for foreign travel, and I
immensely prefer to remain in England."

Enough 1 I have told you the truth, and
warned you ; now go, and do as you think
best. We have nothing more to say to each
other''

His eyes flashed with the disdain which,
under his own roof, he could not bring himself
to express in words. He got up to leave
the room.

Wait a moment ! " said Hugh. " I do not
mean to be offensive ; but under existing circumstances,
you will not come to my house 1 "

*' No," replied Everard, quietly ; " I will not.
Do not ask for any further pledges, for I will
not give them."

He opened the door of the room and went
out.

CHAPTER XXV.

When a man is not perfectly satisfied with
himself, he is apt to be hard to be pleased hj
others.

Helen Lorimer asserted that she was ciittinor
short her visit at Hawthorndene because of the
ill-temper of the master of the house. Lucia,
too, found, though she did not express it, that
Hugh was becoming daily more uncertain and
irascible. Formerly, he had been anxious to see
her take her full share in the society of the
neighbourhood ; now, he seemed positively unwilling
for her to leave home. He made himself
almost her constant companion, and whenever
she was out without him, required from her a
full account of visit, walk, or drive.

Lucia, in the time which had elapsed since

her marriage  or, indeed, in the few months
preceding it  had matured much both in mind
and character. Thought, emotion, and experience
had come to her in these latter days ; she
was no longer a mere girl accepting her handsome
lover as the incarnation of masculine
merit and charm, but a woman capable of reflection
and comparison.

No doubt it would have been better for her
peace of mind had her eyes never been opened,
had Hugh still appeared to her perfect and
adequate to every requirement, and her ambition
never gone beyond the wish to please him.
But other men besides Everard Deane had
taught her that her husband's interests were
somewhat narrow and selfish, and that, however
exemplary his morality, his manners often
lacked the sweetness and courtesy which endear
so much the relations of daily life. Nor could
she fail to observe that, while professing special
merit as a devoted husband who had never been
guilty of admiring any woman but his wife, he
generally contrived to make her personal wishes

or predilections defer to his own. It may well
be said that a loving wife should not have been
so keen-sighted ; and, indeed, we are quite prepared
to allow that a certain bluntness of feeling
and dulness of apprehension are qualities
not to be despised as elements of marital contentment
in this perplexing and disappointing
world. At the same time, she was tremblingly
on her guard against the danger of allowing the
idea of Everard Deane to rise in her mind in
opposition to that of her husband. She had
admitted to herself, amidst burning tears of
penitence and shame, not that she loved him, 
that was a crime beyond her endurance to contemplate,
 but that he was very lovable, and
had been exquisitely kind to her. The confession
of his love had failed to shock her delicate
conscience as it might otherwise have done,
because that love had its origin in a time when
no taint of dishonour touched it, and it had
been confessed in explanation of an act of generosity
which moved her profoundly. It was
true he had told her he loved her still, and

beso-ed for some return : but she condoned the
transgression as a sudden lapse of self-control,
and atoned for by the promptitude with which
he had accepted his duty of conquest and renunciation.


It was a duty which, up to that time, he had
rigidly fulfilled. He had made no attempt to
seek her ; and even when circumstances threw
them together, as on the day when she had
accompanied her friends to Hurstpoint, he had
never failed in strict allegiance to his promise.
Doubtless he would conquer himself, as she
would aim to do were she under the same sad
necessity.

She had questioned her husband in reference
to his private conversation with Deane, but had
received abrupt and evasive replies, and perceived
that it was precisely on this subject that
reason and patience most certainly failed him.
Of course she drew her own dejected conclusion,
that Hugh had failed to express his thanks in
an acceptable manner ; but she forbore, for
obvious reasons, to press the point.

The constant supervision he kept of her
movements wounded her sensibly ; she did not
imagine he exercised it from anv direct doubt
of herself, but she relented the silent evidence
thus afforded of his distrust of one whom she
held to be trustworthy.

Thus matters stood between husband and
wife at the time that Mr and Mrs Lorimer
brought their visit to a close.

The severe frost that prevailed at the time
unfortunately put a stop both to Hugh Marriott's
work on his farm and in the huntino:-
field, and therefore left him abundant leisure for
nursing his bad humours. He had all the irritability
of a man ill pleased with himself; he
was scarcely able to deny that he had behaved
ill in his recent interview with Deane, and it
is needless to say that the reluctant self-condemnation
aggravated his antipathy. Another
trifling circumstance added to his annoyance.
The one resource open as employment or recreation
under hard frost is that of skating. Huo-h
was an admirable skater, and promised himself

great pleasure in enjoying this amusement with
Lucia, who had practised the accomplishment
from childhood  and even from childhood with
him, having often skated hand in hand with
her boy-lover in Kensington Gardens or the
Regent's Park. But it happened that the chief
available piece of water in the Stockdale neighbourhood
was in the grounds of Hurstpoint,
where all the inhabitants were made free of
its use.

Hugh Marriott, however, naturally felt that
he could not decently, after what had passed,
appear there. Once or twice he had driven
with Lucia to a considerable distance, where
there was a quiet reach of the Thames ; but
not only was the spot dangerous, but he was
morbidly conscious that the singularity of such
a proceeding excited notice and remark. In
order to check this tendency to gossip, he
decided it would be perhaps as well to sacrifice
dignity to expediency.

Therefore, one morning in the beginning of
February, when Lucia entered the breakfast-room

and made some comment on the frosted
window-panes and the perfect state of the ice,
with a pretty air of being resigned to her own
accepted deprivation, he said with unusual

graciousness 

I have no objection to put its condition to
the test this morning : will you go ? "

"To Hurstpoint?" she asked, brightening.

Yes, to Hurstpoint, if you like  we will
walk across the Park."

Hugh had presented his wife, as a Christmas-gift,
with a skating-dress of Russian fur and
crimson velvet, and he was justified in thinking:
it the most beautiful and becoming costume
she possessed. As she came into the room
equipped in it for her excursion, and beaming
with health and animation, he thought he had
never seen her look so lovely, and an emotion
of pride filled his heart that she was his and
not another's  his cherished, but still more, his
inalienable possession.

They walked arm in arm towards Hurstpoint
in a mood of mutual complacency, which had

VOL. II. K

become less habitual of late. The ground rang
like iron beneath their light rapid footsteps, and
the sky was an ice-cold blue dome above. The
weird beauty of the frost-bound landscape,
combined with healthy exercise and pleasant
excitement, stimulated the sense of vitality
in each : they rejoiced in life and in each
other with a new sense of happiness.

When they reached the skating-ground they
found themselves in the midst of an animated
scene, and were welcomed with a cordiality to
which their slack attendance gave added zest ;
it seemed as if every one they knew was there,
and that every one was pleased to see them.
Their performance was an innocent triumph 
watched, admired, and praised on all sides.

Moreover, Everard Deane was not on the ice,

 .

nor had his name been mentioned in their hearing.
This, surely, was more as things ought to
go. Hugh Marriott felt more at peace with
himself and mankind than he had done for
months : had he pondered the metaphysics of
life as taught in Shakespeare's school, he might

have distrusted his lio:ht-hearted confidence as
an omen of evil.

They had already been on the ice for two or
three hours, and most of the party, who had
developed a healthy appetite, were proposing an
adjournment to the house. It was the hospitable
custom at Hurstpoint for luncheon to bespread
daily in the hall for the benefit of the
skaters ; it was thoroughly satisfactory and complete,
as became the establishment, but of quite
an informal character, the guests being expected
to go in and help themselves without the tax of
invitation, greetings, or adieux.

"You'll go in, Marriott?" asked Sir Owen
Hamilton, master of the hounds, and great man
of the neighbourhood ; " I assure you, it is worth
while. There is a hogshead of home-brewed
in tap, as mild as milk, and as life-stirring as
elixir ; or if you prefer Burgundy "

"Thanks, no' said Hugh, turning and looking
round for his wife ; " it is getting late, and
we dine out  Mrs Marriott will be anxious to
go home."

On this point he certainly spoke without
authority, for Lucia would much have preferred
to stay longer, although careful not to raise any
objection to his proposal. Perhaps she was the
more careful to yield implicit obedience to his
wishes, because she was painfully conscious of a
disallowed sense of disappointment that she had
not seen Everard Deane throughout the morning,
nor chanced to hear his name mentioned.

It so happened, however, that the explanation
she dared not ask for was soon to be given. As
they approached the park-gates, they saw the
Deanes' carriage waiting outside, and Pietro
standing with the open door in his hand, as if
expecting the immediate return of the occupant.
Everard stood just inside the threshold of the
lodge talking to the woman of the house. At
the sound of their approaching footsteps, he
turned round, and a recognition was unavoidable.
Hugh bit his lip with fierce vexation :
had it been possible, he would have drawn off
his wife in some contrary direction, in defiance
of civility; but it was not possible, the path on

which they walked having been laboriously cut
through the drifted snow, and no other offering
itself. They met just as Everard had
stepped out of the lodge to enter the carriage,
and Hugh observed  for jealousy quickens perception
more keenly than love itself  that he
had never looked to better advantage. He was
wrapped in a large fur pelisse, the massive folds
of which concealed his defects of figure, and
added breadth and dignity to it, while the fur
cap he wore seemed to enhance the effect of the
pale and vivid face beneath. Hugh could not
help remarking how very pale his face was ; also
that he looked grave, almost to sternness  an
expression, however, that instantly disappeared
as his eyes fell on Lucia.

This is an unexpected pleasure," he said,
holding out his hand, and speaking with that
winning frankness of look and manner which

o

was characteristic of him. " I have missed you
on the ice, where I hope you have enjoyed yourself,
to meet you here. You will be able to
wish me ho a voyage."

Are you going a long journey ? " asked
Lucia. "Is it not very cold to travel in such
weather as this, and especially for you ? "

It was difficult to restrain some special softening
of glance beneath the tone of sweet solicitude
in which she spoke ; and if he succeeded, it
was not because he knew her husband's eyes
were watching him, but merely because he felt
her simple friendliness an irresistible appeal to
his honour.

At least," interposed Hugh, glancing towards
the open door of the carriage, which
disclosed special provision for a traveller's comfort,
and then at Everard himself, " Mr Deane
has done the best he could to fortify himself
against the season and his constitutional susceptibility."


Not quite the best," said Everard, quietly ;
the best for me would have been to stay at
home. I am going across the Alps : " he added
the last words after a pause, and as if the result
of deliberation.

They will be impassable," said Lucia. (The

St Goddard Railway was not yet opened.) " Is
it not a season of quite extraordinary severity 1
You cannot surely be going for pleasure? I
beg your pardon ; I did not mean to be inquisitive."


"It is not for pleasure ; more, it is on very
disagreeable business, which leaves me no choice
but to go. You have double reason, Mrs Marriott,
to wish me hon voyage. Forgive me for
keeping you standing so long in the cold 
farewell ! "

Hugh watched the carriage out of sight with
a strange eagerness. " Thank heaven for this
reprieve ! " he thought. " Across the Alps !
What casualties may not occur and keep him
absent for months ! " He walked on pondering.
What had become of Everard's reluctance to
leave his father? Was he to suppose that he
took an unseasonable journey to get out of the
way of a temptation he had confessed ? Hardly !
There had seemed something almost ominous in
the tone in which he had allowed the necessity
of his going ; and if looks meant anything, he

was certainly suffering either from mental or
bodily discomfort. What stress of business
could force a man of wealth and leisure like
Deane to leave home at such a time ?

His charitable conclusion was, that it was
probably to be explained by some entanglement,
more or less disreputable, connected with
his past life. Only, he himself could now once
more breathe freely and be happy.

Everard's journey must be explained at some
length. It was the result of a communication
he had received only the day before, and the
importance of which was quite apart from his
personal interests.

He was in the habit of breakfasting alone,
his father's early hours not suiting his habits
or his health, and he objected to have his
letters brought to him. The natural consequence
was, that they often lay unopened until
an advanced hour of the morning, as was the
case on this occasion.

Mr Deane, who was sitting in the breakfast-room
busy with the morning papers, looked up

anxiously as the sound of a sharp ejaculation
from Everard reached his ears.

Nothing wrong, I hope ? " he exclaimed ;

and getting no reply, and seeing that his son's


attention seemed painfully absorbed by the letter
in his hand, he came up to the table where
he sat.

What is the matter, Everard ? My dear
boy, what on earth can have the power to upset
you like this 1 "

Everard hesitated a moment ; then put the
letter in his father's hand, and getting up from
his seat, walked to the window, where he stood
for a few moments to recover self-command.

The banker glanced somewhat impatiently
through the letter, then took up the envelope
in order to examine the post-mark, and threw
both down as impracticable.

"My Italian won't hold good for such penmanship
as this. Who writes, and what is it
all about 1 You must translate."

The letter was dated from a Carmelite convent
in a remote district of the Apennines, and

the writer was one of the priests of the establishment.
He stated that in the exercise of his
spiritual functions he had received a confession
from a sick or dying woman, accompanied by
the urgent request that it might be forwarded
immediately to the English gentleman, Everard
Deane. Consequently, he had taken her deposition,
duly attested by himself and a lay brother,
and therewith enclosed it.

The deposition was to the effect that she,
Maria Perugini, had been the nurse in attendance
upon the last hours of the Signora Beatrice
Frascati ; had accepted from the dying woman
the charge of her child ; that the report of the
death of that child maintained by herself some
years later was untrue, and this fact she was prepared
to prove ; also, to give full particulars as
to all that had happened in the past, and where
the girl was to be found at the present time.
She strenuously desired to give these details to
the young Angles, who had known mother and
daughter twelve years ago, and whose address,
as he had bidden her, she had always preserved,

in case of her standing in need of assistance.
Him she could trust and no other ; and if he
failed her, she should die with her secret untold.

The priest added to this statement, that it
was still possible the woman might live some
days longer, and that her desire to make a full
disclosure to her English friend was so great
as to unfit her for due preparation for death ;
therefore he ventured to suggest that, if the
end she desired was to be accomplished, and
he was willing to cross the Alps at such an
inclement season of the year, there was not a
day or hour to be lost.

mr Deane followed Everard's eager translation
of this epistle with considerable impatience
; time seemed to him lost until he could
hear a clear explanation of the mystery, and
express his indignant disgust at the proposal
made. As soon as the last words were uttered,
Everard flung down the letter, and exclaimed
in a tone of subdued excitement 

You understand ? you remember ? "

I understand and remember nothing 1

Twelve years ago you were a boy of three-and-twenty
: do you expect me to have so good
a memory as yours for all your romantic and
sentimental indiscretions at that time ? But a
child, Everard ! I hope you will be on your
guard against possible fraud and extortion."

My dear father, you are making a grave
mistake. I want you to carry your memory
back till nearly twenty years ago, when Beatrice
and Claudia Vaughan were frequent visitors at
my mother's house ; and to me, poor prostrate
little wretch ! always the most welcome and
delightful of companions. To see my chamber-door
open and admit one or both of those
bright generous girls, was like sunshine in a
dungeon. For all that," he added, with one of
those sudden revulsion of feelings common to
his temperament, " I would take those days
back again."

*' I cannot in the least understand why."
No matter ! let me go on with my story.
Claudia, as you know, did well for herself, and
married rank and age in the person of Lord

Portisham. Poor Beatrix committed the unpardonable
sin of loving unwisely, and carrying
her passion to the utmost limits of indiscretion.
She ran away with her music-master and
married him  an Italian, you may possibly remember,
who gave me lessons at the same time."

Yes, yes, it all comes back ; but I had forgotten
the name of the scoundrel ! Her family
cast her off, and from that hour to this I have
never heard her name mentioned, nor bestowed a
thought upon her. I can guess the sequel : you
met them years after in Italy, befriended them
in your munificent reckless manner, perhaps
incurring my anger for what seemed personal
extravagance, and seem to have made an unfortunately
indelible impression upon the nurse,
Maria Perugini."

We will not call it unfortunate, if it is to
lead to a righting of wrongs ; and yet surely
no man was ever placed in a more painful and
difficult position ! Don't you perceive that if
the birth and identity of Beatrix Frascati can
be established, she is* heir-at-law to the deceased

Lady Portisham's property, which she
bequeathed by will to Mr Marriott ? "

"Granted; but how does that affect you?
I always thought the will a very doubtful and
objectionable piece of folly ; and my liking for
the Marriott is so small, that their loss of a
property to which they had never the shadow
of a claim, will not cause me much personal
regret. Besides, George Prescott can well provide
for his daughter."

As Everard remained silent, Mr Deane's perplexity
and irritability increased.

What answer," he asked, abruptly, " will
you send back to this priest ? Will he not
have power enough over the woman's conscience
to force her to confess all that she
knows ? "

*' I shall write urging that upon him, in case
I should unfortunately arrive too late. I cannot
start to-day."

Mr Deane's anxious and solicitous face suddenly
hardened ; a feeling of angry displeasure
excited him almost to passion.

"Am I to understand that you are fool
enough and ungrateful enough to think of
undertaking this journey ? "

Yes, if you put it in that way. But spare
me, if you can, the further vexation of your
disapproval I Nothing could be more disagreeable
than such a prospect is to me ; there
is not*an inch of my body nor a sensation of
my mind which does not protest against it.
Hurstpoint is precisely that spot of earth where
I wish to remain at present, and few things
could hurt me more than the knowledge that I
was causing you anxiety or disappointment.
Still, for all that, I must go."

*' I refuse to see it ! Send out a competent
lawyer."

*' And if the woman should keep her vow of
secrecy ! I remember her as a stiff - necked
creature, and the child as one of the prettiest
and most enoaorinor of creatures. More, I remember
how I pledged myself to poor, dying,
broken-hearted Beatrix to look after her little
girl, and how shamefully I have failed to redeem

the pledge. But, if possible, I will redeem
it now, cost me what it may."

I am quite unable to see, Everard, how
your oddly perverted faculty of self-blame finds
food in this case. They told you the child died
and was buried, and there your responsibility
ended. I own it is a matter of immense regret
to me that you are going to give it a ne lease
of life. What are we to do with a young girl
on our hands ? "

That is for further consideration. Lady
Portisham's heiress would never want friends. I
wish that were the only difficulty ; what weighs
most on my mind is poor Marriott's discomfiture,
should he find himself ousted from his snug
quarters at Hawthorndene. The matter must
be thoroughly investigated, and I will trust no
other investigator than myself. I will not stop
a day or an hour longer than I can help, and
will take as much care of myself as if I held
my poor existence at your valuation."

CHAPTER XXYL

It is not necessary to go into minute detail
respecting Everard's journey. A passage of
the Alps in midwinter even some few years ago,
was a more formidable and fatiguing undertaking
than now.

But he had the advantage of a thorough
knowledge of localities, of practically unlimited
resources, and, above all, of the tact, adaptive-ness,
and endurance of the experienced traveller.

Such, however, was the state of the roads,
and the severity of the season, that more thana
fortnight had elapsed before he and Pietro
reached Arezzo, the nearest town to the remote
hamlet in which was situated the Carmelite
convent from which the priest's letter had been
addressed. It was already three o'clock in the

VOL. II. L

afternoon when they entered the yard of the
wretched inn, which was the best accommodation
the place afforded. Everard's orders were
imperative.

We must push on at once ; see what chance
there is of getting fresh horses, for we must
stop neither to rest nor eat this side of the
Monte Pieta. Then we will hope the hospitality
of the fathers will make amends."

*' But you will rest while I am getting ready ?
And even a hole like this can furnish some milk
and macaroni. I could light a fire instantly 
I saw a stack of fir-cones in the yard."

Everard smiled, and glanced round the huge
careless uncurtained chamber into which they
had been shown, where the imperfect windows
and ill-fitted doors admitted the keen mountain-air
on all sides, and fluttered the meagre drapery
of an unwholesome-looking couch which filled
a recess in the wall. It seemed as if the accumulated
dirt of a quarter of a century might
have gathered on its filthy floor and windows.

Rest here ! " was his answer. " I will find

my way to the kitchen, or wherever a ray of
warmth is to be got, and raise some food for
myself, while you are busy outside. In default
of horses we shall start on foot  any boy will
serve as guide to the Monte Pieta."

And on further inquiry it was to this alternative
they found themselves compelled; no
horses could be procured, and even if any had
been at command, the road, they were informed,
was too narrow and precipitous for the passage
of a vehicle. Everard ruled that they should
press forward at once, taking as guide a bright-faced
boy, who was in the habit of carrying
necessaries to the convent ; but in spite of his
strenuous endeavours at despatch, it was nearly
six o'clock in the evening before they reached
their destination.

That their way lay through some of the finest
mountain-scenery in Europe, raised to sublimity
by the dazzling envelopment of frozen snow,
and glowing beneath the sunset skies with
opaline hues of exquisite tenderness, was meagre
compensation to the Creole, who followed in his

master's footsteps like a shadow, and watched
him with an anxiety which was akin to exasperation.
Somehow or other, Pietro had conceived
the idea that this unseasonable journey,
against which he had heard the elder Mr Deane
so urgently protest, and which he himself held
as perilous to the life and health of rational,
warm-blooded creatures, had some connection
with Hugh Marriott's interests, or if not, was
quite apart from those of Everard. Therefore
the strain of fatigue and discomfort he was
enduring formed another item in the account
against the man who had excited in his mind a
singular antipathy. In some fanciful way he
looked upon Hugh as being the enemy of his
master, his personal devotion to whom amounted
to a passion.

The convent of the Monte Pieta stood on
elevated ground, at the base of a mountain,
which served to protect it on two sides from
the blasts of heaven ; but not a shrub or
tree was to be seen near it, and the herb-garden
and burial-ground which surrounded

it were indistinguishable under the investment
of snow with which the earth was covered. It
reared its harsh stone walls four-square in hard
relief against the granite rock and heavenly-background,
still retaining the ineffable tints of
sunset, and it presented as inhospitable and
chilling an aspect as could well be conceived.
This impression was confirmed when the gates
were opened to their summons, and Everard
and his servant stepped inside the outer hall or
vestibule. The light was admitted only through
apertures in the massive walls, which, with the
rapid advance of evening, gave the impression
of almost utter darkness, combined with a
sensation of cold aud damp so intense and
raw as to strike to the very marrow of the
bones, and almost make the teeth to chatter.
The porter who admitted them was evidently
one of the brotherhood ; and Everard saw, with
an instinctive shudder, that the feet which
pressed the frozen stones were bare, and the
coarse serge gown fastened round his waist
with a rope, from which a wooden cross was

suspended, was but a poor protection against
the cold.

To Everard's eager inquiries after Fra Bartolommeo,
the monk responded by making a sign
of silence, placing his forefinger across his closed
lips, and beckoning him to follow  an act of
obedience which required them to give good
heed to their footsteps in the thickening darkness.
He led the two men into the refectory
of the establishment, a chamber dimly lighted
from above by an oil-lamp swinging from the
ceiling by an iron chain, and furnished with
a long wooden table scrupulously clean, and
benches of equal length on either side. The
whitewashed walls were covered with finely
illuminated texts of Scriptures, and quotations
from the fathers, each of which set forth incisive
commands to silence and abstinence.
There was no fire, nor any apparent means of
warming the room, the temperature of which
struck on the sense with almost a death-like
chill.

The porter indicated the bench to the

strangers as a seat, and passed out of the
room, his naked feet robbing the dreary scene
of the familiarity even of an echo.

Pietro had opened his lips in disgusted protest,
but was immediately silenced by a gesture
of restraint from his master, who sat down, and
leaning his elbows on the table, propped his
chin on his hands, and surveyed the scene
with a mixed expression of wistfulness and
concentration.

He was asking himself what were the compensations
that men perhaps as keen and delicate
as himself in physical perception, were
able to find in such complete and remorseless
sacrifice, not only of the pleasures, but of the
supposed necessities, of life. Was it the one
efficient way of subduing the mutinous flesh to
the spirit  the rarefied and exhausted medium
through which alone the Divine voice could
reach the dull human ear ?

Once before, long years ago, in his passionate
youth, he had asked himself similar questions,
and even subjected himself to an ordeal, if not

quite so stern as that of these Carmelite monks,
more perilous and repulsive in some of its
conditions ; but it had failed, except as a
new experience of life, and a discipline salutary
in proportion to the natural recoil it
excited.

But now, with his increased knowledge of
the absolute barrenness of self-seeking, even
under its most engaging and varied forms  of
the pain and weariness and abortive effort of
life  it might be worth while to try the experiment
once again. Perhaps in some distant
future, when the tender old father was dead,
and Lucia's friendship had grown cold, and he
was sick of bodily pain, which neither skill nor
wealth could relieve, and of moral and mental
unrest, which were a finer torment still, he
would come here and try if he could starve or
freeze the old Adam out of him !

'' But I should give in," he answered himself
with a cynical smile. " I have perhaps resolution
enough to endure the cold and the hunger ;
but the dirty feet and fingers of the brethren.

the absence of clean linen and the right sort of
soap, would kill my zeal ! "

Here the door opened, and Fra Bartolommeo
entered. Everard rose and advanced to meet
him.

He wore precisely the same garb as the
porter who had admitted them, but he was a
man scarcely yet in the prime of life, with an
erect carriage and alert eye.

The Angles, Everard Deane ? " he asked.

Everard produced the father's own letter in
proof of his identity, and then inquired eagerly
if he were yet in time ?

*' Maria Perugini died a week ago; you are
too late."

Everard uttered an ejaculation of acute disappointment
; also the absolute indifference of
tone in which the announcement was made
served to irritate his feelings, till a moment's
reflection showed him how small must be the
interest excited by the trivial secular affairs of
the outside world to a man pledged as was the
man before him.

At least," he answered, " I earnestly hope
that you succeeded so far in influencing the
mind of your penitent that she made a full
disclosure of the secret she had in her possession
? otherwise, father, my journey will have
been undertaken utterly in vain."

Whether it was the fluent Italian in which
Everard spoke, or the charm of his manner,
which influenced Fra Bartolommeo, is uncertain,
but the habitual reserve of his manner quickened
into an expression of interest. He looked
at him attentively before he answered slowly 

She told me nothing beyond my original
statement to you, but she gave me a letter or
small packet, which I was either to deliver into
your hands or send to you. I hope you may
find it satisfactory."

He produced as he spoke a small parcel,
neatly wrapped and sealed, from the not very
savoury recesses of the bosom of his gown, and
handed it to him. Everard accepted it with
a general impression of being baffled. He had
small hopes of finding the letter conclusive ;

moreover, now that the sustained excitement
was over which had seemed a sufficient stimulus
to his journey, he became conscious of both
bodily and mental collapse.

There is no longer any need of haste," he
said, " and I shall not hesitate to postpone the
examination of this till tomorrow. Meanwhile,
I must throw myself and my servant on your
hospitality. I know I shall not appeal to it
in vain. AVe have travelled incessantly, and
at the present time are half dead with hunger
and fatigue."

The father smiled gravely.

That means, your last meal dates perhaps
half-a-dozen hours ago, and that for a week
you have been divorced from down quilts and
spring mattresses ! I am sorry. This is not a
house of entertainment ; our rule is very severe.
I can offer you nothing but dried fish and milk,
and a bare cell with sloped plank for bed, and
single rag for covering. How will you endure
that 1 "

He touched as he spoke, with his long thin

forefinger, the sleeve of Everard's fur coat, and
looked at him with an expression of irony, in
which, however, an element of pity, almost of
tenderness, seemed to mingle.

I the more regret it," he added, " because
you do not look robust."

'' It will not be the first time," returned the
other, " that I have slept in a monk's cell, and
I have often endured worse fare and rougher
quarters than you are prepared to give us. But
pardon me  have you no fire anywhere in
the front of which my servant could stretch
himself? He is a creole, and suffers greatly
from the cold."

None ; fire is lighted at intervals as necessity
requires, and then extinguished. I will
fetch at once what food we have."

There was no choice but to make the best of
matters. The night showed neither moon nor
stars, and to retrace their way in the darkness
to Arezzo was impossible. Pietro bore his
severe penance with tolerable patience  partly
because he was ashamed to complain of what his

master accepted with such quiet equanimity, and
partly because he was anxious to mitigate that
kind master's solicitude on his account.

Fra Bartolommeo, who had returned with a
somewhat scanty supply of the provisions he
had named, watched them both with a curious
interest. He observed that the gentleman accepted
graciously and ate freely of that which
the sergeant rejected with ill-concealed impatience,
although the best morsels were served
out to him. Indeed there was something; in
Everard Deane's manifestations, perfectly natural
and characteristic as they were, that seemed
to warm the chill current of the monk's blood,
and bring the disused and checked yearning
after human affection to his heart.

'' That man must have many friends," he
thought, and sighed.

When the meagre repast was over, Everard
asked to be shown to their sleeping-rooms :
he privately indulged the hope that the temperature
of these might be a few degrees higher
than the refectory.

The father led the way, bearing in his hand
a small lamp that scarcely did more than make
darkness visible. He introduced Pietro into
his cell first, at Everard's request.

Would it be against rule," he asked, smiling,
'' to give my servant another blanket ?
Otherwise, give him mine, for I am better
defended against the cold than he, and shall
probably not attempt to sleep."

He glanced round as he spoke on the unmitigated
desolation enclosed within the narrow
walls.

How many years," he added, " have you
lived in this frozen Inferno ? "

Ten. I was twenty-five when I first took
the vows, and to-day I have reached my thirty-fifth
year. But the Signore forgets  it is not
always winter, nor are there many winters such
as this."

True, or human endurance would fail even
in a man like you. Strange ! you are precisely
my own age ; you have lived ten years a lifelike
this, and I " He paused.

A life like what ? " asked Bartolommeo, looking
at him with a penetrating expression.

Well," answered Everard, " perhaps I assume
too much. A life, I meant, in which natural
instincts and requirements, as well as that innate,
imperious selfishness which rules us in the
world outside, are ordered into subordination
and trampled under foot. That the feet so
engaged are naked," he added, smiling, 'adds
very much to the difficulty and glory of the
victory."

A victory so difficult," answered the other,
that I never yet saw any one amongst us
attain to it. That is the ideal  of the selfish
world outside ; shall I tell you what is the
reality within the bleak walls of the Monte
Piety 1 One illustration is as good as another :
we all watch, with as much keenness as we dare,
the distribution of our unsavoury food at the
bare table of the refectory, and are only restrained
by decency from contending for the
larger and daintier portions which fall by
chance to the share of one or another amongst

US. It is true, certain faculties and susceptibilities
collapse for want of use, as a bandaged
limb grows stiff and unserviceable ; but that
strikes me as a different thing from self-conquest.
I am a more selfish man than

you."

At this moment a bell rang through the
house, striking the chill and gloomy silence with
a harsh and piercing distinctness. Cell-doors
opened, and other figures crept slowly out into
the passages, all turning in one direction.

It is the chapel bell' said Bartolommeo, in
answer to Everard's look of inquiry. "You
will hear it every two hours through the night ;
we sleep and pray alternately during those
intervals."

Pray ! for what do you pray ? Desire must
grow jaded and sick under such incessant
demands. Can a man realise that he is in the
presence-chamber of God twelve hours out of
the twenty-four, and be always ready with a
petition to present? Is such your experience,
father ? "

It is not permitted to me to speak anymore,"
was the reply ; "'' the hour of grace granted
on your account is expired. I go to the chapel
to-night I will pray for you. Actio."

He disappeared as he spoke, and Everard,
entering the cell and wrapping his furs more
closely about him, placed himself on the inclined
board, which seemed to mock the idea of
rest. For all that, with the aptitude of an old
traveller, he slept profoundly for the next two
hours, when he was startled into wakefulness by
the thrilling reverberation of the chapel bell.
Then his restlessness and discomfort became so
extreme that he rose, lighted the lamp which
Bartolommeo had left in his cell, and drawing
the packet from his pocket, set himself to decipher
the contents by the flickering and uncertain
light.

VOL. 11. M

CHAPTEE XXVII.

The information which was conveyed to Everard
in Maria Perugini's confused and disconnected
letter, we will present to the reader in a condensed
form.

When Beatrix Vaughan, the beautiful and
accomplished co-heiress of Hawthorndene and
other substantial properties, ran away from her
home and married her singing-master, Luigi
Frascati, before eight o'clock in the morning, at
an East-end London church, her mother disinherited
and cursed her with a promptitude and
intensity that seemed incompatible with any
softer feelings. That such existed was naturally
to be concluded from the ardent affection that
the widowed lady had always manifested for
both her daughters, but no expression of yearning

or regret was ever known to escape lier
lips.

The girl was of age when the marriage was
accomplished, and the ceremony was ascertained
to have been perfectly valid ; henceforth Beatrix
was dead to her family. Letters were received
from her as years rolled on, but they were
destroyed unread, even unopened. The intercession
of friends who became acquainted with
the miserable issue of the marriage, and the
passionate expostulations of her sister Claudia,
were equally disregarded.

I am no longer her mother, for she decided
to break all ties between us ; her interests are
less to me now than those of a stranger ; let her
reap the harvest she has sown," was the substance
of the stern woman's reply. But she died
prematurely  as absolutely of heart-break as
did the wilful daughter she was supposed to have
cast out of her memory. Her magnificent property,
which she held in her own right, descended
in its entirety to her younger daughter Claudia,
at that time the wife of an elderly and respectable

peer. Viscount Portisham, and in default of
any direct heir-at-law, was left absolutely at her
own disposal.

At the time of her death, Mrs Vaughan was
aware that Beatrix had borne a child to her
husband, and it was concluded by the lawyers
and friends of the testatrix that she was probably
willing to condone so far the offences
of the mother as to suffer her daughter to
retain her vague chance of inheritance.

Such a chance was naturally held to be remote
: Lady Portisham had not been married
more than a year, and in all probability she
would fulfil her social duty by raising heirs to
her husbands name, as well as to her own
ancestral property, to the exclusion of the offspring
of Luigi Frascati. In the meantime, she
did not fail to perform the duty nearest to
her, so soon as her mother's death removed the
hard restrictions which had hitherto been laid
upon her.

She sought diligently for news of her unhappy
sister, yearning to help and comfort her

but she sought in vain. She could discover
no trace of the woman, whom she knew to have
become both impoverished and miserable. Some
three years afterwards, during one of Everard
Deane's brief periodical returns to his native
land, she learnt from him that her sister had
died and been buried in some obscure village
amongst the Apennines, where, by chance, he
had discovered her. He stated that he had
immediately communicated with Mrs Vaughan,
telling her the hopeless condition of her daughter,
and asking for instructions respecting the
child, but had received no answer. Under these
circumstances, he had done what seemed best,
and had left the little girl, whom he described
as a very bright and engaging creature, in the
charge of the nurse, Maria Perugini, who had
been a faithful and affectionate attendant at the
sick-bed of unfortunate Beatrix.

Lady Portishams distress at this information
was moderated a little by the delightful
prospect of obtaining charge of her infant niece:
she was still childless, and was prepared to receive

the daughter of Beatrix with the tenderest
afFection. Her mother, she concluded, in explanation
of Mrs Vaughan's cruel silence, had
probably burnt Everard's letter without reading
its contents as soon as she discovered they
concerned the outcast.

Everard readily undertook to fulfil Lady
Portisham's wishes, but found considerable difficulty
in tracing the nurse, who had left the
neighbourhood where he supposed her settled ;
and when he had succeeded in finding her, he
was met by the disappointing statement of the
death of the child  a certificate of burial, in
which he was unable to detect any irregularity,
being shown him in confirmation of the fact.
Maria also added details of sickness and death
which he had no reason to suspect, simply because
there seemed no motive for fraud ; and
he communicated the news to his friend with
that measure of mild if tender sympathy which
the death of early childhood excites.

From that time to the receipt of Fra Bartolommeo's
letter, the incidents of Beatrix

Yauo-hau's miserable marriage had almost been
dismissed from his mind. Now, however, every
circumstance connected with it that had ever
been known to him, recurred vividly to his
recollection.

Luigi Frascati had loved the beautiful English
girl he had married with far less passion
and devotion than he had excited in her : it
was chiefly her position and fortune which had
attracted him.

So soon as he became aware that his expectations
on this score were doomed to complete
disappointment, and that, in fact, he should
never be enriched by her to the amount of a
shillings, rao-e and malice succeeded to his brief
complacency. He not only neglected but ill-treated
her, forcing the proud, high-spirited
girl to drink to the dregs the cup of marital
outrage and humiliation.

Their only means of income was Frascati's
profession, which he was too maddened by disappointment
and too indolent to exercise, so that
in process of time Beatrix was herself compelled

to become breadwinner for the family  to which
child and nurse were now added  by giving
lessons in music and her own lanouaofe.

In the eighth year of her marriage her husband
finally deserted her, and it was soon after
this event that Everard had chanced to discover
her in a dying condition, had tenderly and
generously supplied all her wants and met her
wishes, and had made provision for the welfare
of her child.

Unquestionably he applied himself now to
the examination of Maria's papers, with an
eager hope that her statements would not be
substantiated. Better far that the innocent
child should be resting in her Roman grave
than that such painful complications should
arise as would inevitably follow on the proof
of her existence.

Still he was prepared to sift the evidence with
deliberate conscientiousness, and to restore the
rights of the young heiress, should her identity
be established, without regard to personal feeling,
or, what was far harder to disregard, the

feelings of others. If necessary, Hugh Marriott
must be dispossessed and humiliated, and his
own motives made doubtful and perverted ;
and further still, in all the angry suffering
that would follow, Lucia herself would be
involved.

He read with an eagerness so great as to
render him insensible to the cold or the discomfort
of his position, bent over the father's small
and flickering lamp.

Maria stated that she had spread the report
of the child's death in obedience to the pledges
she had given to her mother, which bound her
to save the daughter from the custody and
brutality of her father. Beatrix had inherited
the artistic and musical tastes of both her
parents, and as soon as Frascati learned that
his wife was dead, he wrote a peremptory letter
to Maria, commanding her to deliver up the
child to his guardianship.

His motive simply was to turn her infantile
talents to account for his own profit. At seven
years old the little Beatrix touched the piano

brilliantly, and sang like an angel. The exhibition
of her childish gifts had been one of the
points of sharpest contention between husband
and wife during the last wretched years of the
poor mother's existence, and she had bound
Maria by the most solemn promises not to surrender
her for this purpose under any pressure,
however severe.

In obedience to this obligation the faithful
woman had carried her treasure from place to
place, baffling the father's cunning with an even
keener subtlety, but became finally convinced
that in the end she would have neither the
right nor the power to keep back the girl from
her natural guardian. Still, to consent to give
her up to a man whom she knew to be destitute
of pity, honour, or shame, and to break an oath
given to a dying woman, seemed still more
impossible.

Then the idea occurred to her mind of placing
Beatrix in some remote religious sisterhood, to
which her exquisite voice would recommend
her, and to spread the report of her death. In

England such a fraud should be wellnigli impossible
; in the heart of Southern Italy it was
not so. Maria took her confessor into her confidence,
and enlisting his sympathies on the
ground of the peril to which the girl would be
exposed, she succeeded in her plot. Beatrix
was constrained to simulate sickness  the report
that it was an infectious fever of a severe type
being carefully spread to keep intrusion at a
distance,  the parish priest visiting her both in
the exercise of his spiritual function and as the
medical adviser of his parishioners.

She was supposed to have died and been
buried  a scheme not difficult to carry out
under the circumstances of isolation in which
Maria and her reputed daughter lived, and the
haste of foreign interments. In truth, she
had been secretly conveyed by night to the
convent of Santa Teresa, near Piacenza, on the
borders of Lombardy  a locality so far removed
from her own home being selected, partly to
baffle future inquiry, and partly because the
Lady Superior of the convent was known to

the priest who had interested himself in the
fortunes of the child, and had consented to receive
her.

From that time to the present, wrote Maria,
Beatrix Frascati had remained in the same convent,
and in complete ignorance of her parentage
: under what conditions, she did not know,
as the girl had been received on the express
stipulation that all intercourse with the outside
world should cease, and that she should take the
vows of the order on arriving at a suitable age.
Of her health and welfare Maria had received
tidings at distant intervals from the priest, who
occasionally visited his native town, Piacenza,
and the convent of Santa Teresa, and who
would confirm in every particular the statements
she had made.

Name and address were duly given.

t Also, she had given to the Lady Superior a

box containing clothes, papers, and other effects

which had belonged to the mother of Beatrix,

and would alone suffice to establish her identity.

Maria's motive in making this deathbed confession

was, that Luigi Frascati being dead, no
reason existed longer for the seclusion of his
daughter; and remembering that the English
stranger, Everard Deane, was known to the
mother's friends, and had proved himself generous
and faithful in bygone years, she devolved
this trust upon him, in reliance upon his fidelity.
His duty was to extricate the girl from her
long death in life, and restore her to England
and her friends.

So prompt and implicit was Everard's acceptance
of this trust, that three days after the
perusal of Maria Perugini's communication, he
succeeded in finding himself face to face with
the Mother Superior of Santa Teresa. He had
taken great pains to propitiate this lady, so as
to avoid vexatious hindrances to his recovery of
the girl, providing himself with letters of elaborate
recommendation from the most influential
of his Italian friends, and submitting to hera
copy of Maria's letter (which he sent her in
advance of his visit), as also a confirmatory
statement from Era Bartolommeo.

Also he had ascertained that, by a rare stroke
of good fortune, the same priest who had been
the means of Beatrix's introduction to the convent,
was at that time at Piacenza, and prepared
to lend whatever assistance was in his power,
not altogether uninfluenced by Everard's announcement
that the young lady's friends would
be prepared to pay handsomely for the shelter
and education which had been provided so
generously for so long a period of time.

The investigation of the contents of the box
deposited with the sisterhood at the time of the
child's entrance, was so conclusive of the truth
of the story told, that no opposition was attempted
to the wish to restore her to the world
and her friends.

"The more so," said the Lady Superior,
"that it was becoming evident to the whole
convent that the girl had no vocation. But
you Avill like to see her ? "

Assuredly," replied Everard, " if I may be
allowed;" and he waited for the appearance
of the girl with the most intense anxiety, which

he endeavoured to conceal by a solicitous consultation
with the Superior as to which of the
sisters might be inclined to undertake the charge
of conducting her to England.

At length he heard footsteps approaching 
the muffled regular beat of the sister's feet who
had been commissioned to fetch Beatrix, and a
lighter but scarcely more rapid footfall ; then the
door opened, and both entered.

The girl advanced a few steps into the room,
and then, with her hands crossed on her bosom,
made a profound reverence to the Superior, precisely
repeating the action on being presented
to Everard.

She was eighteen years of age, rather below
the medium height of womanhood, and slight
to fragility. Also she stooped a good deal the
result perhaps of weakness or constant sedentary
employment, other than which she had scarcely
known. When she was neither learning nor
teaching (for the convent of Santa Teresa was a
great educational establishment), she was bending
over her embroidery frame or musical score,

or wearied repeating her prayers in the endless
succession of chapel services. An hour's
routine exercise in the convent garden was all
the recreation she knew ; her chief pleasure had
been the stolen kisses and furtive chatter of the
little children whom she helped to teach, and
who belonged to the happy world outside.

Without them she sometimes thought she
must have died.

No wonder her cheek was pale, the outline of
the oval face too sharp, the large dark eyes
resolutely fastened on the ground  languid
and heavy. Yet none but the most careless
observer would have said there was no beauty
in the face, so great vas its delicacy of line,
so superb the mass of shining hair, dusky to
blackness, and the thick fringe of the curling
eyelashes.

Her dress was singularly ungainly ; a brown
stuff frock, short enough to display her coarse
woollen stockings and clumsy shoes, and so
scanty as to defy grace of arrangement.

As Everard looked at her he experienced a

sensation of the warmest indignation and the
most tender compassion. Was this checked and
passive creature the outcome of the charities of
conventual life, and of the lovely, joyous child
he had received as a sacred deposit from the
arms of her dying; mother'? She looked as if
love, joy, and laughter were unknown conditions
of life, and she was standing before him
trembling with a nervousness almost amounting
to terror.

*' My dear child," he said to her in the
lancruao-e familiar to her, and with an accent
gentler than had perhaps ever reached her ears
before, " look up ! I am an old friend who
loved your mother very dearly, and nursed you
as a baby."

He tried to take her hand, but she drew back
in seeming distress ; the lids of the downcast
eyes quivered, but were not even furtively
raised ; the dainty mouth trembled. He was
afraid she was going to cry ; not a word could he
obtain. A feeling of commiseration and despair
came over him. He turned to the Superior 

VOL. IL N

'rit is natural that she should be shy, and I
will not tease her. I must ask you still to take
care of her a little longer. As there seems
some difficulty in finding a suitable person hereto
accompany her to England, another idea
has occurred to me. There is a lady connected
with her family by long years of friendship,
who, I feel sure, will undertake the duties of
a mother towards her. I will send for her at
once, but it will probably be more than a week
before she can arrive. But this delay will give
me the opportunity of making arrangements
for the discharge of the heavy obligations under
which you have laid us''

The Superior bowed. 'ein that case, you
will probably not care to see the signorina again
until the arrival of madam ? "

No," he said, smiling ; " I fear it would give
her doubtful pleasure."

It was a matter of serious regret to Everard
that he should thus be compelled to protract
his stay in Italy. His strong desire to return
home was. he told himself, on account of his

father, and of the pressing affairs that would
demand instant attention ; for the sake of his
own health also, sorely tried by fatigue, exposure,
and discomfort.

But he knew that all this counted for nothing
in comparison with the imperious yearning
to meet again the lovely wistful eyes which
had last looked into his with such tender solicitude,
and to hear the sensitive voice, every
inflection of which was known to him, express
joy to see him safe home again.

How, he was constantly asking himself,
should he break to her the news of her husband's
downfall ? or rather, how should he
break it to the suspicious and vindictive man
himself? It would be hard to persuade Hugh
that his act of passionate self-sacrifice was nota
fraud and provocation after all.

He had written to Mrs Alice Dunbar, urgently
desiring her to join him with as little
delay as possible, and giving her sufficient
particulars of the story to warm her affectionate
heart towards the recovered kinswoman of her

beloved friend, Lady Portisham, and had also
despatched Pietro half-way to meet her in order
to hasten her arrival.

During the dreary interval of waiting, he
employed himself in collecting every scrap of
information that bore upon the interests of the
young heiress, and succeeded in obtaining from
the priest, still staying at Piacenza, a detailed
written statement of the fraud he had helped
to perpetrate, and the motives by which he had
been influenced.

The box which had been delivered into
Everard's keeping, contained letters and papers
conclusive of the identity of Beatrix Fraction
her mother's side.

There were pathetic journals of the once
joyous and high-spirited girl, to whom life upto
her wedding-day had been nothing but a
festival, which, having glanced at, Everard put
aside as too sacred for his intermeddling.

There was a charming miniature of the child
herself at the age at which he had first known
her,  a smiling, blooming, happy creature,

whom it was bard to identify with the pale
and melancholy brown-garbed maiden he had
lately seen. Still the resemblance was to be
traced, as well as her likeness to her mother,
of whom the box also contained a picture,
taken when not much older than her daughter,
but as radiant and spirited as she was shadowy
and depressed.

But," said Everard, " it shall not be my
fault if we do not warm the poor child's frozen
heart and gladden her life. I have a heavy
debt to pay to the daughter of sweet Beatrix
Vaughan."

At length Mrs Dunbar arrived, and twenty-four
hours after saw Beatrix Frascati domesticated
at their hotel. Everard was eager to
depart, but he could not refuse a lady the
day or two of rest she required, or the opportunity
of getting some more suitable apparel
for his ward.

He himself wisely forbore to press his presence
or attentions upon the painfully reserved
and frightened girl, who seemed to doubt her

right to look, move, or speak at her ease. Her
life was bound round with mental fetters which,
he soon perceived, would take longer to castoff
than he had at first supposed.

The one present point of satisfaction was,
that the homely affectionately of Mrs Dunbar
seemed gradually reducing her timidity and
exaggerated respect

On the evening before their departure, which
had again been unavoidably postponed, he had
entered the salon of their hotel, expecting to find
Mrs Dunbar waiting to distribute the cups of
afternoon tea, which he generally succeeded in
getting administered to him wherever he might
be. But she was busily engaged in making
some last preparations for the morrow, and
had intentionally left Beatrix as her representative,
being greatly solicitous to overcome
her un-english dread of speaking or being
spoken to by any man, other than a priest,
and knowing how" implicitly Everard's kindness
and tact could be trusted.

Obedience had been, up to that time, the

acquired instinct of the girl's life ; but she was
secretly trembling with nervous apprehension.
She was sitting in a low chair close to the wood-fire,
which had been stimulated by fir-cones to
an intense heat and vivacity, with her little
table properly set out, and the tea at the right
point of infusion.

She wore a pretty woollen gown of crimson
stuff, with a graceful adjustment of muslin and
lace about the throat, which had the effect of
making her look more like other girls.

Madam told me I was to pour out tea for
you," she said, in the lowest of tones, and without
raising her eyes from her tray.

Everard drew his chair close to the fire and
looked at her.

She is certainly very pretty," he thought to
himself; 'but it is lamentable to see how her
hand shakes ! " Aloud he answered  " Your
mother, Beatrix, has poured out tea for me
many a time when she was about as old as I
suppose you are now, and I was a poor miserable
little cripple, strapped down to a reclining-board."

On this occasion, as he had promised
himself, the long lashes were suddenly raised,
and he encountered the first full gaze of her
beautiful eyes.

Her lips opened instinctively, disclosing
small square teeth, white and regular; but
they closed in silence again.

"You have given me cream but no sugar,"
he said, after tasting the cup she had nervously
handed.

I have observed that you did not take
any," she faltered, with the painful hesitation of
one accustomed to instant and sharp rebuke.

*' Your observation is correct," he replied,
smiling ; "I was cruel enough to wish to test
it. And now, as we have been left to amuse
one another, shall I tell you a little about
England and myself and about your mother,
Beatrix, and her old home 1 "

Her eyes quickened and colour rose ; but beyond
a gesture of assent she made no further
reply.

Everard had a delightful faculty of talk, and

on this occasion lie was bent upon informing
his ward of her mother's story, as well as of
her own future prospects.

He described slightly his own afflicted boyhood,
because he saw it excited in Beatrix a
feeling of sympathy and pity which was calculated
to break down her reserve, and he
dilated on her mother's beauty, kindness, and
brightness of temper, not only because it washer
due, and all his memories were grateful,
but that it brought a flush of pride and pleasure
to the pale cheek of her daughter. Of
Beatrix's inheritance he did not think it as yet
wise to speak ; but he described Hurstpoint to
her as her future home, and spoke a good deal
of his father, commending him to her filial care
and affection in the future, readily perceiving
how much easier it would be to her to prove her
gratitude by acts than words. Now and again
her eyes met his in the abstraction of her rapt
attention, and a monosyllabic inquiry dropped
from her lips. He felt a step towards intimacy
had been gained.

Before they reached England the icy fetters
which bound her had been a little further
thawed by the constant forethought and consideration
of her travelling companion. It was
still impossible to induce her to express an
independent opinion or hazard a spontaneous
remark ; but she no longer shrank into herself
when he approached her, or trembled with nervousness
did he unexpectedly address her.

CHAPTER XXYIir.

It was a lovely morning in the end of March,
with a breath as warm and odorous as a medieval
May; or at least the air was odorous
which had first swept across the violet beds, over
which Lucia Marriott was rapturously bending.
The sound of carriage-wheels on the gravel-drive
caused her suddenly to change her position
and look round ; she recognised it as the
pony-phaeton of Lady Hamilton, the grande
dame of the neighbourhood without controversy,
and one respecting whom Mrs Marriott's inclination
was a little uncertain. She enjoyed her
neighbour's spirited and somewhat cynical banter
when kept within certain limits, but there
were times when her freedom of speech and
manner made Lucia blush and feel uncomfortable.

Did all leigh-bred ladies, versed in the
great world and its ways, permit themselves
the same licence ?

Lady Hamilton on seeing her hostess on the
lawn, threw the reins to her groom, and advanced
to meet her.

"Do not come into the house, my dear, for I
would rather stay and gossip outside. I am
come for an exhaustive gossip, and hope you
are in the vein  I assure you it is a fine art,
and has its ebbs and flows. You look saucy 
what do you presume to mean ? "

That whenever I have the pleasure of meeting
your ladyship, I am fortunate enough to
find it at full tide," said Lucia, dropping a
charming courtesy.

Lady Hamilton laughed good-naturedly and
tapped her cheek.

I am glad to find you in such good health
and spirits, my dear, but you have probably
heard my news. At last Everard Deane is
come home ; which means one has again the
chance of talking to a man who does not misconceive

your meaning, and can answer without
setting your teeth on edge. For my part, saving
your presence, dear sir' she added, addressing
Hugh who had just discovered the ladies,
and had hastened to join them,  "I hate a
country gentleman, or rather, I do not know
one ! "

"I am not crushed; I hardly dare to rank
myself under the category," answered Hugh.
But I thought I heard you speaking of
Hurstpoint  so the wanderer is come home
again ! "

He is, and under such extraordinary conditions
that I rushed over this morning to see if
his nearest neighbours could throw any light
upon the matter. He has brought back a foreign
young lady, incapable of English, her
duenna, and a French maid. If it were not
for the duenna, I should hazard a guess that it
was his bride. What does this mean ? "

Let those speculate who care," said Hugh,
loftily, '' it is all a matter of profound indifference
to me. I saw the carriage drive past

yesterday and caught a glimpse of Deane ; I
thought he looked wretchedly fagged and ill."

Lucia was silent. It struck her mind with a
painful chill that her husband had not mentioned
Everard's return : also she was anxiously
asking herself whether the quickened beat of
her pulses, and the vague swelling of heart
which the news produced, were to be repressed
and condemned as criminal, or allowed as the
innocent manifestation of her grateful friendship
?

*' I am not much given to speculate about our
neighbours' affairs," she said, in a tone so serious
that Lady Hamilton looked at her attentively,
but we met Mr Deane on the point of departure,
and he admitted that the business which
took him abroad was disagreeable. I hope it
has not proved more so than he expected."

'' One fact is patent," remarked Hugh, " that
the disagreeable business which he was compelled
at such a season of the year and with
his wretched health to do for himself, instead of
devolving it on another, must have been of a

closely personal nature, and would probably
not bear investigation. I confess the popularity
of Everard Deane in this neighbourhood is a
source of constant surprise to me ; his comings
and goings, his health and interests, seem to
be points of such unreasonable and undeserved
importance."

Lady Hamilton laughed.

'' My dear Mr Marriott, when you have lived
as long as I have in the world, you will have
learnt that every man and woman gets dealt
out to them precisely what they deserve. We
love what is lovable, and admire what merits
admiration. Of course, to a sweeping assertion
like this there may be exceptions, but it
holds for the most part. As for Everard
Deane, he is unselfish and sympathetic ; he
is fastidious as a man is entitled to be who
has his gifts and graces, and yet he is full
of ardour, pluck, and adventure. Also, he has
the uncommon merit of rating himself below
his true value : he has fine manners, a beautiful
face, and a voice which could scarcely

plead to any woman in vain. For all these
things we like him, and he deserves to be
liked."

I believe," said Huge, with a sneer, " that
success with women is the secret of success
with them ! My views are obsolete ; I decline
to accept this speciality as amongst Mr Deane's
merits. It is his reputation as a libertine, with
his position as public favourite, which vex my
notions of right and wrong."

Lady Hamilton shrugged her shoulders.

All I can say is, that I heartily wish the
chaste and ascetic virtues would commend themselves
to society with a little more grace and
courtesy ! The prude and the prig, even granting
their claims, are invariably odious  it is
only a question of degree. Everard Deane
never sneers, Mr Marriott ! "

But," said Lucia, in a low but firm voice,
'ris it quite certain that Mr Deane deserves the
bad reputation he has got ? May not the very
qualities you have mentioned have helped to
produce false impressions, and rare slips and

shortcomings been magnified by rumour into
consistent ill-doing ? Has conduct, base or disreputable,
ever been proved against him ? "

Her colour rose, and face and figure seemed
to gather expression as she spoke ; she returned
her husband's angry glance with a certain sweet
and steadfast dignity which had the effect of
constraining him to silence.

Mr Deane," she added, " has been so generous
a friend to us  quite outside the common
bounds of generosity  that it would hurt my
mind grievously to think of him as even some
of his friends would lead us to think."

If that is a cut at me, my dear, I am prepared
to receive it meekly, as chastisement
deserved. I like what you say very much,
and am prepared to acknowledge that no little
intrigue of Mr Deane's has ever come under
my personal notice, and lots of his friends, if
pressed, would say the same. Still, he has the
reputation of being a man of gallantry ; whether
built up on the traditions of his Oxford career,
or on the imperfectly known eccentricities of his

VOL. II. o

conduct abroad, I cannot say. Anyhow, I am
charmed to hear a handsome young woman
defend her friend, even when he is a male
friend, and especially in the presence of her
husband."

Lucia has the most exaggerated faculty of
gratitude I have ever known," said Hugh, feeling
it necessary to say something.

"Of which you get the benefit as well as
others," returned Lady Hamilton, smiling. " I
am going to Hurstpoint now, will you come
with me '? "  addressing Lucia. " You know
you ought to call on the young lady."

'*I think I will wait a little longer' returned
Lucia, quietly. "I am not an old and
honoured friend like you, but if I can be of
service in any way, please be good enough tolet
me know. I shall so enjoy a girl at
Hurstpoint ! "

Lady Hamilton kissed her as she bade her
good-bye.

"You deserve all the fine things our friend
Everard says of you," she said, " and I will see

you again in a clay or two, and report how
matters stand."

But long before Lady Hamilton redeemed her
promise, the air was full of rumour, which,
busying itself with the interior of Hurstpoint,
circulated through every nook and cranny of
Stockdale society, and of necessity reached the
occupants of Hawthorndene.

In the first place, it was soon discovered that
the lady in attendance on the foreign girl that
Mr Deane had brought home with him, was
no other than the late Lady Portisham's well-known
and attached friend, Mrs Alice Dunbar,
although she had not yet been seen outside
the park gates, and it was whispered did not
desire to be recognised or visited at present.
What could this mean but that there was some
secret to conceal ? And as it could scarcely
touch the quiet and respectable lady herself, it
must concern the young stranger under her care.

Lady Hamilton, it was known, had seen her ;
but Lady Hamilton was keeping her own counsel,
and had no explanation to give.

The fact that Everard Deane had been ill
ever since his return, and that it was on this
account the house was kept quiet, was not to
be accepted as sufficient explanation by anyone
who knew the world, and who also knew
how very often these illnesses occurred. In
the course of time the young lady was seen
driving out, with Mrs Dunbar in attendance, 
and her appearance was keenly criticised, with
an odd bias to the unfriendly. Another point
of animadversion was that she did not appear
at church, but that old Mr Deane with Mrs
Dunbar sat in their pew alone.

Lucia observed  it was the third Sunday
after their arrival  how pale and stern the venerable
master of Hurstpoint looked ; and a pang
pierced her heart when the idea occurred to her,
that serious anxiety for his son might have produced
the unusual expression.

The weather had changed Within the last few
days : the premature spring seemed to have
been strangled in the hard grasp of returning
winter ; the welcome sunshine and genial

breezes had been succeeded by frosty nights
and cutting east winds by day, that reduced
the temperature in elevated situations below
freezing-point. It all told against an invalid's
convalescence.

Lucia, who was alone that morning, waited in
the church porch after service until Mr Deane
came out. She was always aware of a certain
formality in the banker's manner towards her,
which unquestionably implied an absence of
personal regard, but it had never been more
marked than on this occasion.

My husband and I," she said, holding out
her hand to him, " are very anxious to hear that
Mr Everard Deane is better."

"He is not better, madam, I grieve to say,"
was the answer, and he scarcely touched the
little gloved hand that sought his ; " nor is he
likely to be, under present circumstances of
anxiety."

And the old man turned aside with a stiff
bow, to speak to some other importunate friend,
as if there was nothing more to be said.

Lucia walked home with a heavy heart. A
grey sky brooded overhead, the keen air stung
her cheek as it touched it, and she shivered
with a sensation of cold that seemed to penetrate
deeper than flesh and blood, and made her
spirit shrink.

Not better !" she repeated to herself. '' Was
he then very ill ? suffering acutely, as she had
heard people say he was accustomed to suffer ?
What was the meaning of Mr Deane's marked
allusion to ' circumstances of anxiety,' as if she
or her husband were in some way implicated ?
She had often recalled Everard's leave-taking, and
the significant manner in which he had said or
implied that she had special cause to wish him
hon voyage' Had it then failed to be such*? "

As she entered the hall, Hugh, who considered
himself as an invalid, excused by a slight
cold from Sunday duty, came out of the diningroom
to meet her.

He looked pale and disturbed.

Make haste and take ofi" your things," he
said, "and then I have something to tell you."

"Cannot you tell me at once, Hugh'? Have
you heard bad news ? "

He hesitated.

Not personally bad news ; you need not
alarm yourself."

Lucia took ofi* her cloak and bonnet, and laid
them down on a table at hand ; then she led
the way back into the well - warmed diningroom,
where she saw her husband had been sitting.
Her mood was one of unusual excitement.
She was conscious that every pulse in her body
was beating hard, and that she had turned very
pale.

'' Tell me now," she said, in an eager and
almost imperious tone. And as she spoke she
mechanically pushed back the hair from her
forehead, and pressed her hands against it with
a sense of painful oppression. " Tell me now,"
she repeated ; " it is about Everard Deane ! "

Hugh uttered a passionate expletive ; his face
assumed the expression his wife had seen but
on one occasion before  it grew hard and vindictive.


You are a good guesser," lie said, with concentrated
rage. "It is about Everard Deane.
I have received a note from him."

He seemed to hesitate, especially when Lucia
held out her hand as if to demand the sight of
it ; but after a moment's consideration, he pulled
a crumpled morsel of paper out of his pocket
and threw it towards her. Surely, he may be
pardoned if he watched her blanching cheeks
and quivering lips as she read it, in an agony
of bitterness !

She put down the note, seeming as she did
so to call all her faculty of self-repression to
her aid, and looked with strained composure at
her husband.

I will go at once," she said in a low tone,
moving towards the door as she spoke.

Hugh intercepted her.

Pardon me, Lucia, you will not go at all."

He was white with excitement, and his tone
that of a man who has strung himself to the
uttermost point of resistance ; but he was very
anxious not to forget himself as he had done

once before, and was trying hard to preserve his
self-command.

It was, however, difficult to keep his good
resolutions when he met his wife's eyes full
for the first moment of indignant astonishment,
then softening to pathetic appeaL

You cannot mean it 1 " she cried. " Huoh,
you will break my heart ! "

He bit his lip in silence, and renewed his
purpose; he knew she would plead again, but
it was in a different tone.

Can you be a man and resist a letter like
that 1 " she urged, in a voice so low and suppressed
that it was barely audible. " He has
written to you himself  you may see with what
difficulty  asking your permission to see me, in
order that he may tell me something that weighs
on his mind and aojorravates his condition  as a
personal favour from friend to friend, and  you
refuse ! "

"I do refuse," he replied. "What right has
Everard Deane to have any communication on
his mind for your ears only '? Let him tell it

to me ! I will not lend him my wife to soothe
his deathbed  no, not even at the cost of her
own suffering ! "

Lucia shuddered; then suddenly stretched
out both her arms towards him  her eyes were
swimming with tears.

Go with me ! " she implored. " Hear every
word we speak, and learn the wrong you do us
both ! I do not ask for anything more  only,
let me go ! "

Love has been said to be strong as death, and
cruel as the grave ; probably it was such love as
moved Hugh Marriott's reply : 

Not," he answered, "if by so doing you
would save his life. Do not urge me any more
I am resolved."

She turned from him, and sitting down in a
chair, covered her face with her hands ; he saw
that her whole body shook with agitation. And
well it might, for she was fighting the sharpest
battle she had ever fought  a wife's love and
duty contending against passionate yearning and
the tenderest regard.

Hugh touched her arm.

Promise me, Lucia, that you will not disregard
my  my feeling in this matter. I mean
it is as well to be plain  that you will not
disobey me."

She did not answer or look up.

My honour, my happiness are involved,"
he added, almost in a tone of entrccity.

Then she lifted her head proudly, and looked
at him steadily.

*' Neither is involved ! Your refusal is an
insult to me and a cruelty to him, but that is
the power your position gives you, and I suppose
 I do not know  that it is my duty to
submit. At least I will obey you to-day.
More than that I will not promise. I mean,
if I hear tomorrow that Everard Deane is
indeed dying, and still wishes to see me, I
shall go to him at all costs  save that of my
own conscience."

She rose up and left the room.

CHAPTER XXIX.

When Lucia reached the hall she paused and
looked out. The skies were still the same
leaden grey as if weighted with snow  a gale
was rising, and the trees swayed and groaned
in the blast, shedding their tender leaf-buds on
all sides. Some downfall threatened; but while
the wind was so high, she concluded that it
was not likely to descend, and her state of mind
urged her to seek relief out of doors. In the
house she was not sure of interruption from her
husband, and she needed to be alone to think.

To think ! alas, it was rather to suffer and to
feel!

She put on her cloak and bonnet which still
lay where she had placed them, opened the door
and went out.

Everard Deane dying ! The generous friend
who had been so ill repaid, and who perhaps
owed his present sickness to fresh efforts in
their behalf. But, again, was she blinding her
own heart and conscience in calling him friend
only  was he not lover too ?

And if he were ? could love, deep as the
springs of being, dry up at arbitrary command 1
was it not enough  ay, even in the sight of
God  that he held his passion under the restraints
of duty and regard for her honour, and
even abstained from sight, or word, or touch ?

Could any knight of old have been more
faithful to his vows of chastity than he, the
so-called libertine, had been to his pledges of
silence and fidelity?

But death levels not only the conventions
but the lawful restraints of society : if the
curtain were so soon to fall between them in
eternal separation, would it be a crime to kneel
for a moment at his side, suffer him to hold her
hand, and bid him a tender adieu before the
eager and loyal heart ceased to beat ?

It would not render lier less faithful or less
dutiful to sacred vows in the future : but to be
forcibly restrained from this last act of human
charity, would burden her life with an endless
remorse.

Of what he had to say she thought little ;
but she was intensely conscious of the cruelty of
forbidding him to say it.

She had walked rapidly, and had now reached
the park gates which opened on the road leading
from their own house to Hurstpoint. She paused
and looked wistfully in that direction. At the
same moment she perceived in the near distance
a neat brougham being rapidly driven in the
direction where she stood, and recognised it at
once as that of Dr Hall am, the well-known and
distinguished local physician. No doubt he was
just come from the Deanes' house, and could
give her the information for which her soul was
thirsting.

Did any moral or social law forbid her to
question him?

She opened the gate with a hand that

trembled with eagerness, and as the carriage
drew near made a signal to the coachman to
stop.

The doctor put out his head and recognised
her, then opened the door and stepped out.
She was suddenly struck by an unusual reserve
and coldness in his manner.

Did you wish to speak to me '? " he asked.
Nothing wrong, I hope, at Hawthorndene ?
I was coming up to your house  if you are
returning, may I offer you a seat?"

There is nothing wrong at home," said
Lucia, becoming painfully conscious of the awkwardness
of her situation. " I recognised your
carriage, and took the liberty of stopping it to
ask after news of Mr Everard Deane. Is he so
very ill?"

She thought she spoke with perfect self-command,
but the ears that heard her were
acute, and detected a ring of pain. He looked
at her steadily.

"Pray step in," he said. "We can talk as
we go. I have not a moment to lose."

She obeyed, and they drove quickly up the
avenue ; but Dr Hallam appeared to have forgotten
that her question remained unanswered.

Lucia bore the suspense for some moments
in distressed silence, then said 

You do not answer ; I am afraid you do
not like to tell me bad news."

"It is bad news for his friends," returned
the physician, curtly ; " he is very ill indeed.
We have telegraphed for Dr Adam Park, but
the answer Mr Marriott returned to Mr
Deane's note of this morning, has done him
more harm than the great man will do him
good."

Lucia strained her hands together.

Answer ! I  I was not at home when the
note came. I did not know an answer had
been sent; but, no matter, Hugh will explain''

Even in the first moment of her anguish and
indignation, the instinct of loyalty moved her
to preserve her husband's credit.

Oh, you were not at home ! " said Dr
Hallam., with more complacency ; " perhaps if

LUCIA, HUGH, AXD ANOTHER. 'I'll

you had been, the aDs\Yer would have been
different. My business now is with your husband
; shall I be able to see him ? "

"I will go in and inquire," she returned,
conscious for the first time of some awkwardness
in the situation.

But the sound of carriage-wheels had attracted
Hugh's attention in his state of restless
anxiety, and it was he who stepped forward to
help her to descend. Ashen she raised her eyes
to his face, she encountered an expression of
hard displeasure, which found some vent in the
sharp bitterness of his voice 

*' I will ask the meaning of this another
time," he whispered. " Dr Hallam has brought
me some message, and I must receive it alone.
Had you not better go to your own room ? "

It was not a suoro-estion but a command.
Lucia looked up for a moment with a flash of
hurt dignity, but suddenly her eyes fell before
her husband's stern regard, and without protestor
reply she turned from him and walked slowly
up-stairs.

VOL. II. p

Hugh watched her till she was out of sight,
then with some indistinct apology to Dr Hallam,
led him into the room he had just quitted.

The physician approached the fire eagerly,
extending and chafing his white well-formed
hands, and poising first one daintily shod foot
and then the other upon the fender. He was a
little man, with slight well-knit figure, aquiline
features, and an acute eye. While he thus
stood and warmed himself, he was furtively
watching Marriott.

It is atrocious weather," he remarked ;
'' the worst possible for man or beast. The
east wind cuts like a knife : it is hard to keep
the current of life flowing in one's veins ! "

May I offer you a glass of wine ? " said
Hugh, turning back to the table, which was
spread for luncheon. '' One is doubly bound
to keep your blood in healthy flow, in order
that you may do the same for others."

Dr Hallam shru2f2:ed his shoulders.

God knows how little we can do in that
way I You will understand, Mr Marriott, without

further prelude, that I come to you direct
from Hurstpoint."

"Yes?" asked Hugh, in a constrained voice.
He could not command himself to ask any
direct question. The next words the doctor
spoke might determine whether the stone on
which his happiness threatened to be broken
was likely to be moved out of his way.

I may as well say at once," resumed the
other, " that I am in Mr Deane's confidence. I
knew he had written to you this morning, and
what he asked, and I was present when your
reply was brought back to him. I think, if you
had seen the pain and disappointment it caused,
you would have regretted having sent it."

*'My regret is," said Hugh, stiffly, " that any
man, whether sick or well, should have been so
ill-advised as to make such a request. It was
impossible to grant it ! "

wye will waive all discussion of the point, if
you please; that is not the object I have in
view. You proposed in your letter to go and
hear what Mr Deane has to say, instead of your

wife. He accepts that proposal, and I am to
urge you to lose no time in carrying it into
effect." .

"But surely, if his condition is so critical, it
will be unadvisable to expose him to the excitement
of a painful interview '? "

*' That," returned Hallam, " is a point for his
medical advisers to decide. Nothing can be
worse for him than the fret and chafe of disappointment
and anxiety ; every symptom becomes
aggravated, and the worst consequences
may occur."

Hugh made no answer ; his heart was beating
hard and strong under his frigid manner, for in
truth his selfish instincts were waging a sharp
battle with his moral sense. To desire the
death of this man was not only a crime, but an
infamy; he must take careful heed to preserve
his soul from the stain of active transgression.
If fate had in store for him this blessed relief,
he at least would do nothing to accomplish it.
"You distinctly assure me," he said, "that it
will be better for Mr Deane's health of body

and mind that I should go and see him ? I unconvinced
the meeting will be painful and exciting,
and I am personally very reluctant to
submit to it. Be good enough to remember, Dr
Hallam, that I deliberately wash my hands of
all responsibility in the matter."

"There is one point of the responsibility,"
replied the doctor, sharply, "from which you
cannot escape,  I mean the exercise on your
part of the greatest discretion and consideration.
It will depend on you to reduce the pain
of the interview to a minimum; but it is superfluous
to urge this under the circumstances of
the case."

"And with those circumstances I am very
imperfectly acquainted. I do not even know
what is the mortal disease from which your
patient is suffering, and why it provokes such
special interest and sympathy."

I should hesitate to call neuralgic rheumatism
a mortal disease, unless it should attack
the chief organ of vitality, which is the thug
to be feared in this case ; but surely you can

have no difficulty in understanding that special
suffering excites special compassion ! With
Everard Deane the extreme susceptibility of his
nervous organisation, added to the weakness of
his constitution, exasperate the ordinary conditions.
Perhaps you may scarcely be aware that
what causes one human being only a slight
sensation of pain may produce torture in another
? "

Hugh smiled. " To my mind it is simply a
question of fortitude. The man who cries out
is not of necessity suffering more pain than the
man who grins and bears it ; but perhaps he is
in the way of exciting more sympathy ! ''

But this man does not cry out ! There is
something that even you might find pathetic in
his pluck and sweetness of temper  two qualities
not often allied. The way, too, in which
both father and son control themselves for each
other's sake is an example I heartily wish could
be more generally followed. But, for all that,
it would be the death-blow to the one if the
other were to die."

LUCIA, HUGH, AXD ANOTHER. 231

And will he die ? "

"I am not sure. This morning I was in
despair, thinking he must sink under the
severity of his repeated attacks; but he has
rallied again a little since then. 'We have
telegraphed for Adam Park, to satisfy the
father's anxiety ; but he can do no more than
we have done. It is not a case of uncertain
diagnosis, or where much can be effected beyond
experimental alleviation."

'' Oh, he will get well, depend upon it," said
Hugh, with sudden harshness; "he is one of
those men who delight in keeping the susceptibilities
of their friends on the stretch. I will
go to Hurstpoint as soon as I have dined."

It would be unreasonable to expect more,"
returned Dr Hallam, drily ; " only I hope the
dinner-hour is not very late, or may be anticipated
a little. The reason of Everard Deane's
anxiety to see you soon is because he fears Dr
Park mioht forbid the interview. You will bear
this in mind in making your arrangements ?
Thanks ; no more wine. I must be off''

Hugh accompanied him to his carriage.

You remarked just now you were in Mr
Deane's confidence," he said with some hesitation,
as the doctor was taking his seat ; " have
you any idea what he has to tell me '? "

'' It is bad news, I believe. I was at liberty
to divulge so much as some sort of preparation,
but of the nature of it I know nothing. I am
due again at Hurstpoint between seven and
eight, and, if you choose, I will call for you and
take you along with me."

Hugh assented, watched the carriage out of
sight, and then went back into the dining-room
with a cud of very bitter fancies for rumination.
Bad news ! there is scarcely a more potent
spell to conjure with : many of us may be
strong enough to stand up against it when it
is told, who have small patience to abide the
telling !

He wandered up and down the floor for a
little time, full of such fierce passionate disquiet
as he had never felt since the day of first seeing
Lucia and Everard together. This man, who

had been his bane throughout, was drawing; his
wife's heart out of her bosom by the pretence of
an imminent and agonising deathbed ; and yet,
after all, he would fail to die ! As for his bad
news, what power could Deane have in his hands
to hurt him '? On this point Hugh was inclined
to be defiant. But he would go up-stairs and
speak to his wife, he decided : it was necessary
to remonstrate with her on the impropriety of
which she had been guilty, and justice and
charity too might require him to tell her how
the arrangement stood between him and Everard
Deane.

On entering Lucia's dressing-room, which he
did without knocking, he saw she was kneeling
before a couch with her head buried in her
arms ; but whether she was pouring out her soul
in prayer for her lover, or only hiding the tears
her misery forced from her, he did not choose
to speculate. She sprang up at once on his
entrance, showing a pale face wet with tears,
but remained silent, without any attempt to
approach him.

I forgot to mention just now," he said, in
the harsh off-hand way which bears witness to
secret self-dissatisfaction, ' that I answered that
note of Deane's this morning, by proposing to
go and see him instead of you. Hallam came
to fix a time for the interview. I am going
after dinner."

After dinner ! Then his danger is not
immediate ? "

By God ! Lucia," he answered in a suppressed
tone, ' you try me more than I can
bear ! That is a question I cannot answer, nor
care to answer, except, perhaps, in one way. I
mean, that the life on which your happiness
seems to hang is just the life that is hateful
in my sight. Do you understand what you are
doing when you show me that Everard Deane
is more to you than any other man  than T,
your husband ? "

He had expected some indignant disclaimer
or tender appeal, but none came. He approached
a step nearer her, his eyes alight
with anger.

LUCIA, HUGH, AXD ANOTHER. 'loo

'' You do not even deny it  you accept your
disgrace ! More, you have utterly shamed me
by betraying your anxiety to Dr Hallam. Conceive
of this going back to Hurstpoint and
telling the man you waylaid his carriage to
ask news of him ! "

He extended his hand as if to grasp her
shoulder, but restrained himself with a great
effort. Her absolute passiveness of attitude
and the set expression of her face baffled him :
it seemed as if she were holding some feeling
or purpose in reserve, and his inability to understand
the state of her mind exasperated him
still further.

" Will you speak ? " he said, roughly. '' Let
me know at once the extent of your dishonour 
own that sou love this man ! "

'rand if I did  own it," she answered in low
but distinct accents, " what action would you
take?"

What action ? The action that every be-fooled
and outraged husband takes in such
circumstances ! If I could not cast you out of

my heart, Lucia, I would at least cast you out
of my house ! "

Would you ? " she asked. '' Would you
have no pity at all  not hesitate a little ?
Would you forget all the past and ruin my
whole future life for an involuntary fault, resisted
to the uttermost, and to which voice or
form has never been allowed ? Would you be
so cruel, Hugh, and  unjust ? "

He looked at her with horror : this was worse
than his worst fears. When he had said he
doubted her he had lied unconsciously; he had
believed in her fidelity and sensitive honour
until now.

What do you mean ? " he said vaguely, in
his unutterable distress. " Am I to understand
that you admit it  worse, excuse it ? That
you, Lucia, my wife, plead guilty to loving
another than myself '? I  I never meant what
I said when I accused you. I thought your
liking, your gratitude, absurd  exaggerated ;
but not that it was love ! Unsay what you
have said  you will drive me mad ! "

He turned away from her and threw himself
into a chair, averting his face from her. Whatever
littleness of character he possessed, his
love for his wife was a strong and generous
sentiment, built up, not on passion and possession,
but on a frank recognition of the sweetness
and goodness he had thought her special attributes.
That she should cease to love him was
scarcely worse than that she should cease to
be worthy of his love. Hugh was one of the
many who in the pride of their own (untempted)
virtue feel that a moral transgression  even
though involuntary  repented  retraced, still
leaves between them and the sinner a barrier
never to be surpassed.

Lucia looked at him for a moment with an
expression of distressed compunction, then came
forward and knelt down by his side.

Hugh," she said, " will you be patient while
I try and explain ? I am like those groping in
the dark who are feeling for a hand to guide
them ; I don't understand my own heart nor see
my duty clearly. I am not sure whether I am

not wronging myself and making a terrible mistake
in saying what I have said. But, any way,
are not you my husband, whom I have loved
from a little child and must love to the end of
my life 1 Are we not pledged to each other for
all time  for better or worse ? You cannot
throw me aside ! "

Cannot I ? " withdrawing his hand from his
face, and looking down into the pleading eyes
whose softness hardened his heart. " Does
better or worse include the possibilities of a
wife's faithlessness or a man's measureless
capacity of condoning it ? Trust me, Lucia,
I will set you free to follow your own shameful
inclination ! Will you go to your lover tonight
 instead of me ? it is not yet too late.
Curse him 1 " he added between his shut teeth.

"I will never go to him!" she cried with
sudden energy. '' My duty lies here," touching
his arm as she spoke ; " and the purpose of my
soul is to do right. Only  you must help
me 1

She stopped to control her voice, which was

full of tears, though her eyes were shining
with excitement ; then suddenly changing tone
and attitude, and flinging her arms about
him as she knelt, she went on more passionately


Hugh, think how you would try and save
me from cold, or hunger, or bodily peril ! Will
you not do the same because the danger that
threatens me is greater than any of these ? I
have searched my heart through and through ;
and even now I do not know whether the love
I feel for Everard Deane is in any way an act
of disloyalty to you ; but I am afraid lest the
time should come when the doubt will be settled
when I should be so miserable as to be sure
of my guilt. I have confessed the truth, so far
as I can find it out, that you, who are stronger,
may help me against myself. Who should save
me but you ? "

He had again turned away from her and
covered his face with his hands ; but she felt
the trembling of the limbs against which she
leaned, and at least he had not repulsed her.

But it was the cruellest moment of Hugh
Marriott's life. Her posture of humility, the
pathos of her voice and the force of her appeal,
he felt unable to resist ; but had he tenderness
and magnanimity enough to do what she
asked him? was he great enough to forgive
the woman he adored for loving him less than
he loved her  less than her duty and his
rights ?

"God help you!" he said at last, in a
smothered voice; "there will not be much in
my power, Lucia ! "

Everything is in your power," she urged,
pressing closer against him. " Love me still,
and I will love you better than of old  hold me
tighter, Hugh, and I cannot go I "

The expression she used cut him to the quick
hold her against her will ! He put her gently
away from him and rose up ; he was trying
hard to control himself so that no rash expressions
of either his love or his bitter hate should
escape him.

I have loved you, as you know, all my life,"

he answered, " and yesterday I should have said
I should love you to its end. To-day I do not
know what to say or how to answer you.
You break my heart by your appeals. Am I to
force your faithfulness ? "

Yes," she said ; '" in the sense that goodness
and patience constrain gratitude and love. Bear
with me a little while and I will pay you back
with the devotion of my life, if that is worth
your having."

He shook his head. " I don't think we will
talk any more now on the subject, Lucia, for I
can't talk calmly. I have been robbed of what
I valued most, and what I believed was safe
from attack, still more from surrender ; but I
will do nothing rash or unkind. Everything
henceforth will be different, and only time can
show whether I shall be able to bear the
difference."

He hesitated, looked at her as she stood
before him with bowed head and face contracted
with pain, and then went up to her and laid a

VOL. IL Q

kiss upon her forehead. It was not an impulse
of affection so much as a pledge for tolerance
and forgiveness.

In return, his wife bowed her head upon the
hand he had placed upon her shoulder, and
pressed her lips upon it.

CHAPTER XXX.

Circumstances, no doubt beyond his control,
delayed Dr Hallam's movements so far that it
was almost nine o'clock before he called at Haw-thornton
to fulfil his ensrao-ement with Huo-h

o o o

Marriott. Husband and wife, after mutual
consideration, had fulfilled the routine duty of
dining together, or rather Lucia had obeyed an
intimation to that effect from her husband.
There was nothings that could have been more
distasteful to Hugh than that his domestic relations
should become a subject of gossip with
his servants.

But unfortunately his self-restraint did not go
far enough to enable him to keep up his ordinary
manner towards his wife : he was stern, stiff",
and taciturn. To Lucia it had already become

an agonising question whether she had not
wrecked their happiness by a refinement of conscientiousness
exceeding the strictest demands
of duty. Pale and subdued, she sat opposite
the man whose satisfaction in their relations
had been absolute a few hours before, but in
whose breast she had herself sown the seeds of
bitter disappointment and distrust. The " difference"
of which he had spoken was already
painfully felt : had it been necessary to risk his
peace of mind? could she not have suffered
alone and conquered herself better without that
hard confession ?

It was a relief when a servant brought in a
message from Dr Hallam, saying his carriage
was at the door, but he would not get out,
and hoped Mr Marriott would not keep him
waiting, as he was already very late ; also, that
the night was bitterly cold, and he had better
put on an overcoat. Hugh coloured with passionate
feeling as he received this message : had
not events so changed the position of affairs that
he could not be expected to keep his promise ?

He balanced towards this wife, and met her sad
and anxious look fixed on his face.

You still expect and wish me to go 1 " he
asked, sternly.

"Yes," she answered, with more firmness
than he had expected. " Every one need not
suffer for my fault."

She stopped, then added in a lower tone, with
that fine courage which distinguished her 

You will remember that he is very ill ? "

I will remember that you love him, Lucia ! "
he replied with concentrated bitterness, and
went out.

The two men drove rapidly through the
silent night, the stinging frosty air being saturated
with the beams of an unclouded moon
at full. They were both silent : we will suppose
the doctor's thoughts were professionally
enraged : Hush sat with folded arms and hat
pulled low down over his brows in such a
mood of sullen wretchedness, that he had a
difficulty in keeping it within the bounds of
decent self-restraint.

Even now he doubted if he had been well
advised to consent to this forced interview ;
if he should be able to prevent himself from
cursing the man who had fooled him with a
worthless gift, and surrendered a treasure after
he had rifled it of its value.

When they reached Hurstpoint, servants evidently
on the watch ran softly out to open the
carriage-door noiselessly and conduct the visitors
into the house. Hugh, as he entered, glanced
round the hall  as thoroughly warmed, flower-adorned,
and cheerful-looking as ever. There is
something profoundly pathetic in the routine
observance of these external forms under the
remorseless conditions of human loss and change.

Before he and Dr Hallam had crossed the
hall to the staircase, Pietro stepped forward
to meet them. Hugh could not but observe
that the man's face looked haggard and careworn,
and his eyes red as if he had been
weeping  though this sign of weakness was
likely to rank as an offence in the young
Englishman's view"'

How is your master ? " asked Dr Hallam,
sharply.

Worn out with watching and waiting, but
very quiet. Why did you not bring him
before ? "

Hugh glowed with auger, but it was thrown
away on the preoccupation of the other.

Show the way up-stairs, Pietro ; I will go
in first and prepare LIr Deane."

The room which they now entered was nota
bed-chamber, but a library and sitting-room
combined  the accessories of which were on
the same scale of luxury, suggestive of self-indulgence,
which never failed to excite Hugh's
scorn and displeasure. The very couches and
chairs, in their ingenious adaptations to bodily
ease, provoked his temper. Exquisite replicas
of antique statuary gleamed in crimson-draped
recesses ; the walls were covered with paintings,
bas-reliefs, or prints, wherever the bookcases left
an available space. The high and curiously
carved mantel was a marvel of medieval ingenuity
; and its niches enclosed specimens of

Asiatic pottery and ivory carving, grotesque
and consummate in execution, which might
have driven the most ambitious collector to
despair. There was no light but that supplied
by the fire of fragrant pine-logs, which blazed
up the wide chimney, and the moon, which
shed her full rays through the windows from
which the heavy draperies had been pushed
back : the perfume of violets from a large bowl
on a distant table filled the room.

Everard Deane was lying upon a couch that
occupied a recess in the wall, and was wrapped
in a large sealskin pelisse, which doubtless
served the purpose of the sick manes usual investment
of sheets and blankets, as nothing of
this kind was to be seen. A coverlet of some
soft woollen stuff had been thrown off, and was
lying in a soft heap on the floor. The pillows
which supported his head were covered in crimson
silk, and gave to Hugh Marriott's perceptions
the finishing touch of the strange and
fantastic to the scene. They served also as
an effective background to the almost mortal

pallor of the face which pressed them, and the
features of which looked as if they had been
cut in marble, so fine and sharp was their
outline. The eyes were shut and the lips firmly
closed ; while the hand, which was thrown
across the breast, was rigidly clenched.

He was not quite alone, as Hugh had at first
supposed ; for a girl of an age he was not able
to determine  she being so much in the background
as to be imperfectly seen  was seated
on an ottoman watching the invalid in such
a position as to be beyond the range of his
vision, and as motionless as a statue. The
apparition of this girl sharpened the bitterness
of Huo-h's feelings, which had for a moment
yielded to an instinct of compassion as his eye
fell on the sick man. He guessed it was the
newly imported stranger, and it seemed another
bizarre and characteristic incident.

Dr Hallam stepped softly to the couch and
looked at his patient.

He is asleep ! " he remarked in a tone of
satisfaction. " How long ? "

He addressed the question to the girl, who
answered by holding up the delicate forefinger
of one hand, and laying the other on her lips.

The doctor silently indicated a chair to Hugh,
who sat down, feeling like a man who is walking
in his sleep. In the effective picturesqueness
of the sick-room and its accessories, or rather in
the complete absence of everything which could
rank as such, there seemed to him something
unnatural and unreal ; nor was the impression
reduced when he saw Pietro enter and take his
place noiselessly at the foot of his master's
couch, with his eyes fixed on his face. For
ten minutes an unbroken silence reigned ; the
watchers seemed almost to hold their breath,
and that of the sick man was quietly drawn ;
then he stirred uneasily, the lips twitched, the
brow contracted, and the hand, which had relaxed,
was again clenched hard  consciousness
had returned, and with it, the relentless despotism
of pain.

Hugh sat and watched him with a hard scrutiny.
The indications of acute suffering were

SO unconscious and palpable that he could not
resist their evidence, even before the patient's
lids were raised and disclosed the dim and
sunken eyes ; but his sympathies were bound
in the fetters of his vindictive jealousy.

"Let him suffer; he has cursed my life," he
said to himself

Dr Hallam stepped forward and leaned over
the couch, so as to exclude the sight of Hugh,
who drew back accordingly.

You have been sleeping  you are better ? "

Better ? yes, let us say so ! You have
brought the man I want ? "

"He is here ; but I still doubt if I am justified
in letting you see him ; let us wait for
Adam Park. I should like to divide my
responsibility ! "

My dear Hallam, don't drag me over that
ground again ! You consented, and I slept on
the strength of it. Give me some coffee, Pietro,
and then clear the room. I have no time to
lose''

Hugh observed that the girl had glided out

of the room into- another which opened out of
it, and soon reappeared with the coffee, which
she handed to Pietro without coming into
sight.

Thanks, kind Beat ; but it is time for children
to be in bed," said Everard, on whom no
movement seemed to be lost. '' Don't resist,
but come and bid me good night."

She came forward at once, sank on her knees
by the side of the couch, and pressed her lips
upon his hand.

*' Good night for you would be good night
to me," she whispered. '' Say you are easier 1"

She spoke in a language Hugh recognised as
Italian, but could not follow. The exquisite
modulation of her voice pleased even his reluctant
ear.

I am easier. Sleep well, dear child, and
let yours be the first face I see in the morning."

He could not have given her a deeper satisfaction.
A lovely blush spread over her pale
face and delicate throat. When she reached the
door she turned and made a general obeisance

to the rest of the company, which was as charming:
as it was un-english.

Thank heaven," said Everard, " that she
and the dear old father have consented to goto
bed ! If it were not, Hallam, for Pietro's
womanish eyes, I could groan now a little at
roy ease."

"You do not know," cried Pietro, eagerly,
Mr Marriott is present ! "

Everard looked vexed, and the painful colour
rose slowly in his face.

That is hardly fair," he said, as Pietro raised
the pillows, and held the coffee to his lips with
equal tenderness and dexterity, '' to leave me
unwarned ; but I will be thankful that I have
not disgraced myself, and that he has been
good enough to come. AYill you let me see
you?

Hugh came forward reluctantly, and with a
stiff inclination ; but there was something in
the eager and wistful expression of Everard's
face watching his approach, which moved him
in spite of himself.

I am sorry to see you so very ill," he said,
in a constrained tone.

Everard made a movement of dismissal before
answering. Both doctor and servant withdrew
to the further apartment, and the former dropped
the heavy velvet curtain over the door of communication.


You are sorry, Marriott I " answered Everard,
with a slight smile  " well, it is hardly worth
while to carry enmity into the grave."

He paused, whether to conquer some paroxysm
of pain or of feeling, Hugh felt doubtful, then
added 

Will you think me a fool, and refuse to
answer if I ask, is Lucia sorry ? "

Hugh felt sick at heart ; involuntarily he
grasped hard the back of a chair near which he
was standing.

She is sorry," he said, dropping the words
sternly from his unwilling lips.

Yet you would not let her come and seeme
! You had the power to deny a sick man's
craving, and you used it. What harm should

1 have done her ? I might have clasped her
hand in the valley of death, and left yon all
the same a lifetime's blessedness,"

I do not think you will die," said Hugh,
with growing hardness of look and tone ; " dying
men are not alive like you. But, if you
please, we will discuss nothing but the matter
of business about which you have sent for me."

For her  not you ! I wished to tell her 
who would have believed the truth  in order
that she might soften it to you, who will find
it hard to accept. This you refused, so I must
tell you my own way."

He stopped again  for speech, or rather the
continued repression of any outward sign of
physical distress, was hard to sustain  then
added 

You must pardon my abruptness, for I have
not strength to enlarge. You noticed the girl
who left the room just now ? She is the late
Lady Portisham's niece, the only child of her
elder sister, and heir-at-law to the Hawthorn-done
estates."

Hugh's first sensation was that he had received
a cruel and unexpected blow, which
stunned him for the moment; the next was a
moment of scornful incredulity, to yield finally
to an emotion of the most furious indignation.

The idea which possessed him was that
Everard himself was at the root of the mischief,
and had brought about his downfall, if
such were indeed threatened, by the exercise of
some fraudulent contrivance. The notion was
untenable for a moment in the light of reason;
but his reason was obscured by passion.

An oath, not impulsive, but of concentrated
malignity, passed his lips ; the face he turned
towards Everard was white with hate and fury.

Everard slightly raised his eyebrows. He
had no key to Marriott's state of mind, and was
simply amazed at this want of decency and self-command.


The man was a greater brute than he had
supposed. Alas, poor Lucia !

I am sorry," he said, " you take it so hard ;
but it is not my fault. The matter has worried

me a good deal ; but I have no free will
in regard to the course of it. I felt bound
to tell you myself, but perhaps I have made a
mistake. You will, of course, have full opportunity
of investigating the truth of my statement;
and I need scarcely say that all that
can be done in the way of compromise and
arrangement "

Hugh interrupted him.

Stop," he cried, in a tone hoarse with passion.
'' Drop this farce of generosity and goodwill
: it is played out ! You think I have been
your dupe all through, but you are wrong : I
never believed in you I From the first hour
my instinct taught me, that what looked like
generosity and merit in you must be some
deeper form of evil. I understand clearly why
you cheated me with the fraudulent gift of
Hawthorn dene, and as clearly why you now
deprive me of it  keeping your heiress hidden
till it suited your purpose to produce her. I
understand that you are as utterly without
conscience or pity as the very devils in hell ;

VOL. II. R

only, please God, please God, you shall not
get what you want : I will yet save what you
would destroy ! "

He pushed back his chair and began to pace
the room, the thick carpet muffling his footsteps
; but the movement operated on Everard's
nerves like vitriol on an open wound.

For God's sake, sit down ! " he said, in a
suppressed voice.

Hugh turned sharply round and looked at
him, his eyes fascinated by the indications of
pain, that obviously reached the point of torture,
and of fortitude so absolute as to extort
his recognition.

Do not look at me ! '' said Everard, with a
faint smile, " it is the one thing I cannot bear.
I am in the clutch of another paroxysm ; if you
are not as pitiless as the devils in hell, you will
go and leave me alone."

Hugh hesitated. A moment before he would
have said any emotion of sympathy towards the
other was impossible ; but there was something
in Deane's combined extremity and resolution

which suspended for a moment the force of his
enmity.

'' I would rather help you if I can," he answered
awkwardly enough, going up to the
couch, and making a movement as if he would
have raised him on his pillows ; but the attempt
was resisted with a decision not to be mistaken.

' The only kindness you can do me is to go.
Do not touch me, for mercy's sake ! Yet, wait a
moment."

A few minutes elapsed before he was able to
speak again, then he said 

I have not breath for many words, only 
break the news I have given you gently to her,
and  don't let her know anything of what you
have chanced to witness. I am better now."

Hugh felt an indefinable pang. In the light
of these manifestations it was hard utterly to
hate or contemn the man ; any way, he had
chosen an ill time for the expression of his
wrath.

'Before I go," he said, ''I have a word to
say. I meant every syllable of what I said just

now, though, naturally, I was under strong excitement
; but I ought not to have forgotten
the condition you are in. I beg your pardon
for this."

He had expected a prompt response, estimating
the value of his apology by the effort it had
cost him. But Everard remained silent. Presently
looking towards him, lie saw that Hugh
was still standing stiffly by his side awaiting an
answer.

'you are expecting me to say I accept your
apology, and in the sense of bearing you no
malice, I do. But it is a poor equivalent for
blows so brutal and unmanly as yours. You are
under some insane delusion, but -let it pass ! "

Hugh hesitated and coloured. " Do you wish
me to understand that you dispute or deny the
view I take of your conduct ? that you claim to
be honest and straightforward in this matter 1 ''

"No," returned the other, with his slight
smile; "I don't mean that. I can scarcely
conceive of myself as defending my life or its
motives against your interpretation of them.

But I am sorry for one thing : I had wished
you and I to carry out the settlement of Miss
Frascati's claim between us, but you have rendered
that impossible. In the future the lawyers
must manage it, and that is the one
thing I planned to prevent ; but it is not
quite certain that with that future I shall be
mixed up."

Hugh felt himself dismissed, but also an unaccountable
reluctance to leave matters as they
were. As he looked at Everard, who when
speaking seemed galvanised into eager vitality
only to intensify the collapse of reaction, the
doubt pressed upon his own mind whether, after
all, his future was not as limited as he himself
and some of his friends thought it.

If this were the last time they were to meet,
and there were a possibility that he had wronged
him, he would like the parting to be different.
After a few minutes' painful pause, he said in a
constrained voice 

I will go now ; have you any message to
send to  Lucia ? "

Everard opened his heavy eyes, in which fora
moment the fires seemed rekindled.

None  by you. You forget I have prayed
to you once in vain''

Then he added with evident difficulty 

But to you I leave a message. Be good
to her under all changes  my love has never
smirched her purity. I have heard you profess
your firm belief in God  ask Him to make
you worthier of the gift you have got, and to
give you finer and clearer notions of what hurts
and heals. It would comfort me, if I were
dying, to know that you better deserve her."

Hugh held out his hand in silence ; he was
more moved than he liked to express. But
Everard made a slight gesture of restraint.

' It would be a hard matter to shake hands
with my dearest friend, but any way, it would
be mockery for us to do so. As you pass out,
please touch the bell."

Hugh obeyed, waited a moment to see that
Dr Hallam had re-entered the room, and then
found his way out of the house.

CHAPTER XXXI.

Such was Hugh Marriott's mood that he cetero



mined, after a good deal of deliberation, not to
tell his wife the startling news he had received
from Everard Deane.

In the first place, their relations had become
very much strained, and he avoided her society
with a determination which cost her the most
exquisite pain ; also, he considered that until
he had more definite and legal information on
the subject, no action was required on his part,
and it was unnecessary to trouble her peace of
mind. He contented himself with telling her
that the business had to do with matters connected
with the Hawthorndene property, and
stood over for further arrangement. To this he
added that there was no denying the fact of

Everard Deane's severe illness; but details he
gave none, nor did she dare to ask for any.

He had said to her on the following day, that
as a matter of conventional propriety, a messenger
should be despatched to Hurstpoint every
morning to make inquiries after the invalid ;
and this arrangement was duly carried out. She
had received the suggestion in silence  to have
thanked him would have been an offence ; but
the receipt of the answer to the inquiry was
one of the most painful incidents of the day.
If Hugh happened to be present, he would
watch the effect of the tidings with a hard
scrutiny that cut her to the heart.

The noble boldness which had hitherto enabled
her to maintain the sacred rights of a
strong but authorised friendship, had deserted
her ever since the miserable hour when grief
had taught her that the feeling she cherished
went beyond such limits and usurped the claims
of duty.

Her husband's bitter reproach, that no man's
life was so dear to her as Everard Deane's, had

been one her sensitive conscience dared not
repudiate, and with this had come to her the
conviction that she ought to make confession
of her sin. If Hugh Marriott had possessed
the magnanimity to which his unhappy wife
directed her appeal, she might have judged
wisely; but lacking this, it was a mistake.
She would have fought better and more successfully
against her love if she had not given it
the form and force of this admission, and weakened
her hands by the knowledge that she had
lost a great portion of her husband's affection
and respect. Could he have taken her closer
to his heart, recognised her ceaseless effort,
and encouraged and rewarded it, he would not
only have recovered but increased her devotion
to himself.

But this was not his way."1(l To forgive a
moral transgression almost seemed to him like
becoming an accessory to the deed ; and weare
bound to allow that it would have been
a hard part for any man to play ; only in her
case the deflection from the straight line of

duty bad been so slight, and her purpose to
return to it so absolute and so ardent.

Hugh, as we have said, avoided her society,
and treated her, when they were together, with
coldness and constraint, which forced her still
more upon solitude, and the dangerous examination
of her own aching and distracted heart.

Then the fluctuating reports of the health
of Deane served to keep her own sternly repressed
anxiety and her husband's irritation inconstant
exercise.

There is something exhaustive of patience
in the condition of a man who will neither die
nor get better : and for some weeks Everard
Deane kept his friends and enemies in this
state of suspense. In the close and limited
society of Stockdale, his illness, and the circumstances
attending it, were matters of frequent
and interesting discussion ; and Lucia's heart
often ached with a passionate pain. She could
not forget that he had earnestly desired to see
her, or deny that to kneel by his side for a few
minutes and see for herself the ravages of disease,

and what chances of life remained, and
express the scarcely understood movements of
her own soul, would have been a measureless
relief. She felt sure that had this been allowed,
no word, or look, or touch would have escaped
her that would have gone beyond the limits of
womanly compassion and sympathy; but possibly,
on this point, she overrated her strength.

Meanwhile Hugh Marriott received no further
intimation respecting the new claim to the Haw-thornton
property; and this fact, though easily
to be explained, excited, as time went on, a
certain sense of security. He reflected that he
had the right of actual possession ; that Everard
Deane, over and above other delinquencies, was
eccentric and impulsive. It was possible he
had espoused a cause, or laid a plot, that . he
was unable to carry out  that had not stood
the test of legal manipulation  otherwise common
honesty would have led to some steps
being taken to redress the wrong.

Then, again, he stood in need of distraction
from personal trouble, and the season of the

year was precisely that which gave most zest
and interest to farming operations ; under any
circumstances it was neither wise nor profitable
to neglect the accumulated work arising from
a late and untoward spring. So he threw himself
with abated ardour, and a dull sense of
chronic disappointment, into these out-of-doors
pursuits, with a constantly strengthening impression
that he should reap the fruit of them
in due course.

On another point Hugh Marriott's sagacity
ultimately justified itself.

Everard Deane did not die, but after repeated
relapses, began to make a slow but assured recovery.
The world said that it was another of
Dr Park's professional successes, which, when Dr
Hallam heard, he accepted with a quiet smile
and slight protesting shrug. He was quite satisfied
with the recognition of his merits by his
patient, who attributed his recovery to his judgment
and skill alone.

There was no longer need of daily inquiries
at Hurstpoint, but local curiosity still hung

about its inmates ; the relations of Everard with
the Younfij foreigner, and those of the latter
with Mrs Alice Dunbar, being of engrossing
interest.

Lady Hamilton had already adopted and disseminated
a theory on the subject.

He will marry her," she said to Lucia ;
men such as he always choose at last a girl
out of the nursery."

She had run down from town for a few days'
rest from the hard work of the season, and had
driven over at the first opportunity to see her
young friend, and gather up the floating threads
of gossip.

It was a delicious morning; in June, and she
had wandered across the park with Lucia to a
certain meadow on the home-farm which skirted
the public road, and where the process of hay-making
was going forward. Hugh himself was
busily engaged in watching, and to a certain
extent directing operations, with that superfluity
of zeal and interference which is apt to
mark the amateur farmer.

There was not a cloud in the faint blue sky,
and the remote distance was lost in that tender
vapoury haze which is held to be a good sign of
settled weather. From the copse which flanked
the meadow on one side, and the leafage of
which had not yet lost its tender vernal green,
was heard that full chorus of singing birds
which is, after all, of such brief duration. In an
opposite field a flock of full-fleeced sheep, ripe
for the shears, were nibbling the crisp pasture
audibly, so still was the warm air, while their
discarded lambs, at that precise stage of growth
when they are the most comely, were rushing
backwards and forwards after their manner, in
aimless protestation of the joy of pure animal
existence.

Lucia stood and gazed till the tears came
into her eyes : nature, in her emotionless tranquillity
and mechanical observance, presses with
a dreary weight at times upon the restless and
aching human heart. Even Lady Hamilton felt
touched by the same influence.

*' Such a morning as this," she said, " makes

one long to be a child again, with one's chances
all before one, and one's wretched blunders not
yet committed. I wonder what we should make
of life if we had a second chance ! "

We should blunder still," said Lucia, " only
it would be on the other side."

Lady Hamilton smiled. " My dear, you are
growing worldly-wise ; that means that your
childhood, which has lasted longer than most,
has at last taken flight. But I hear carriages
in the distance ; we will wait just long
enough to see whether it is worth while to
advance or retreat."

"It is the Hurstpoint carriage," said Lucia,
glancing back, for Lady Hamilton was shortsighted
; and then she stopped, conscious that
her heart was beating wildly, and that if her
companion looked into her face she would
surely read what the trouble was that had cut
short her age of innocence. With a orreat
effort she added quietly 

There are two ladies inside, and Mr Everard
Deane."

Then we will offer him our good wishes  I
believe it is the first time he has been outside
his own gates; " and Lady Hamilton sent out a
cheering greeting in advance, and signalled to
the coachman to stop : he drew up at the point
where they were standing.

Lucia dared not look up : it was one of the
most painful moments of her life. The agitation
of her mind was so great as to deprive her
of self-command, and convince her of sin. She
knew she dared not raise her eyes to look at
the man towards whom her whole soul yearned
with passionate sympathy, lest he should read
her secret in them. She felt infinitely thankful
that Lady Hamilton's eager friendliness
and fluent speech covered for the moment her
own bewilderment ; but her turn would come,
when proper words of congratulation must be
found.

But the sound of Everard's voice, weak and
subdued from its accustomed searching sweetness,
supplied the necessary stimulus, and
changed effort into impulse. She lifted her

eyes and looked at him, and the moment she
did so self consciousness was lost in commiseration.
She held out her hand, with the
words she had framed to say arrested on
her lips.

He was lying back in the carriage, so muffled
in wraps that the outline of his figure was not
discernible, but it was easy to judge how wasted
and shrunken it was from the attitude of collapse,
and the pallor and haggardness of the
countenance. No one could look at the man
without perceiving that he had gone through a
terrible experience.

Lucia realised the idea with an emotion little
short of agony : after all, how inadequate her
pity had been !

"I  I scarcely know how to congratulate
you," she stammered, her voice full of the tears
she drove back resolutely from her eyes ; '* I
can scarcely believe you are better. I hope, at
least, you do not suffer now ? "  waiting for his
answer with an eagerness she was quite unconscious
she was betraying. Everard's sunken

VOL. II. S

eyes quickened and flashed ; he still retained
her hand in his weak grasp, which, because of
its weakness, she did not resist.

I suffer  horribly I " was the answer given
by his secret consciousness, as her look of piteous
yearning and tones of instinctive tenderness
pierced him to the quick. Oh, to take her
in his arms, hold her against his breast, and
rifle those kind lips and eyes of their cruel
sweetness  for just once ! And then he turned
upon himself with cynical bitterness, remembering
his utter weakness and ghastly looks, which
made even of passion and desire a mockery and
burlesque. Aloud he said 

'' I felt I was no fit object for ladies' eyes,
and drove this way expecting to escape them ;
but I am really better, thank you, though it is
hard to believe. I have given my friends no
end of trouble, but let us forget all that ! I
am anxious to present to you a dear little friend
of mine, Mrs Marriott  Beatrix Frascati ; Mrs
Dunbar, I think you know." He dropped her
hand and sank back into his seat into the same

attitude of weariness and debility from which
he had with difficulty roused himself.

Lucia observed that the eyes of the youno-
stranger followed every change of movement
and expression with a quiet but intense anxiety;
also, that she looked very earnestly at herself as
she acknowledged Everard's introduction by a
few gracious words. Indeed there was a tender
sweetness in Lucia's face and manner which
could scarcely fail to win a young and sensitive
nature.

Everard perceived the impression produced,
and made an effort to express what Beatrix was
too shy to say for herself.

We shall all think it very kind, ]\lrs Marriott,
if you will come and see Beatrix at Hurst-point.
That is what she wants to tell you,
though she has not courage enough to trust her
English in native ears.

"Of course Mrs Marriott will come," interposed
Lady Hamilton, " or we will come together.
I am bent on being good friends with
your charming signorina ; there is nothing that

pleases me better than being a young girl's
idol. We will improve her English, and in
return she shall correct my Tuscan, of which atone
time I was not a little proud. Mrs Dunbar
is an old friend of mine to boot. How
delightful to have at last some women at Hurst-point
! ''

Everard shivered involuntarily.

We must not stand any longer, I am afraid,"
said Mrs Dunbar, roused to her duty as nurse
by a guarded glance and touch from Beatrix ;
*' there is too much air across these fields for
Mr Deane."

Too much air ! I assure you, my dear,
there is not a leaf moving, and that he looks
better already for a little friendly chat. Besides,
I see Mr Marriott resuming his coat
preparatory to coming up and speaking to you ;
you must wait five minutes longer. By the
way," she added, watching Hugh's approach, and
addressing Everard  who, she saw, was watching
it too,  " don't you think the lucky master
of Hawthorndene a very handsome fellow ? "

I think him the handsomest man of my
acquaintance; and there is something almost
exhilarating to a death's-head like myself, in
the look he has of perfect health and vigour."

He spoke in so low a tone that Lucia could
scarcely catch the words, and apparently with
no sense at all of envy or of complaint, and at
the same moment Hugh came up, carrying his
straw hat in his hand, the full sunshine falling
on the tall lithe figure in its becoming
suit of grey, the fair bronzed face and crisp
curling hair.

Lady Hamilton took possession of him at
once, and introduced him to Beatrix, in spite of
Hugh's quick movement of disinclination, for
she was anxious to spare Everard any further
exertion.

Hugh's recognition was so slight and discourteous
as to cause Lady Hamilton some
bewilderment, and to bring a flush of vexation
to Everard's face.

He wished they had driven on and avoided
this rencontre; the young man's manner to

himself was made up of embarrassment and
defiance, dashed with a contemptuous pity.
Hugh thought he had never seen any man look
so ill before, and glanced towards Lucia, not
only to mark how she was conducting herself,
but with an instinctive desire to call her attention
to the contrast they presented. He was
actually inclined to believe that each was responsible
for their respective conditions, and
to take the credit of his advantages.

Everard watched him with half-closed eyes,
as Hugh exchanged civilities with Lady Hamilton,
and addressed a few words of greeting to
Mrs Dunbar, in a stiff, ungracious way: he had
answered very briefly his inquiries after his own
health, and, as before, had failed to see Hugh's
offered hand. He was watching Lucia with
equal intentness, and perceived that she was
following her husband's manifestations of temper
with an obvious anxiety he had never
remarked before.

' I see  they are no longer happy together ! "
was the conclusion he reached. *' Under that

belief, temptation will come to me in a form
that will defy resistance. That is," he added,
with a bitter smile, '' if such a moribund wretch
as I, is capable of being tempted, or of the
poorest effort at resistance ! "

CHAPTER XXXIII.

Lady Hamilton's garden-party was favoured by
one of the finest days of the season. It not
only did not rain, but the sun shone persistently,
so as to render anxiety about the weather impossible;
also, it had done the same the preceding
day, so that there was no lurking fear
of wet grass or damp benches. The ladies
were able to appear in their most diaphanous
costumes ; and the gentlemen found the supply
of ices and iced drinks equal to the demand.


But as follows inevitably, there were counterbalancing
disadvantages : the temperature
was so oppressive that the croquet-lawns and
tennis-courts, on which Lady Hamilton had
depended as supplementary resources, were deserted,

and the company gathered in languid
groups about the shaded garden-seats, or stood
aimless under the trees. The result was a severe
strain on the mental resources of all, to which
the guests might conscientiously decline to respond,
at the obvious cost of increasing the pressure
upon their hostess. Another point that
added to her sense of failure was that she perceived
the cream of her society had naturally
gathered to the surface ; " the best people" drew
together in knots or couples, while the residuum
held themselves in a sort of dreary aloofness,
sitting a little removed from what appeared
to be the places of honour, and watching the
rest of the company rather as spectators than
guests, with an obvious appearance of discontent
and discomfort.

It is as yet an undiscovered art to effect even
a temporary amalgamation between the higher
ranks of county society and the class immediately
below them. The landowner and tenant
may be hail fellows amongst the stubble orin
the hunting-field, and their wives aware of

each other in the parish schools or church-porch;
but on the unaccustomed lawns or in the unfamiliar
drawing-rooms, the line of demarcation
starts into strong relief.

The Cabinet Minister, who was personally
one of the most insignificant men on the
ground, was enjoying a flirtation in a sequestered
corner with one of the most brilliant girls
of the Hertfordshire preserves, but who did not
know, and cared still less, what department he
represented; the bishop, with a group of children
about him, was making himself and them
happy ; and the African prince had failed to
put in an appearance.

Lady Hamilton was painfully aware that the
social mercury was lowering rapidly, and looked
round for help or redress.

Hugh Marriott was leaning against a tree
contemplating his shoe-ties.

Good heavens ! " she exclaimed, approaching
him, " the process of petrifaction seems already
to have begun with you. I was about to ask
you if you could suggest nothing that might

help to make these dry bones live. It is becoming
serious."

Perhaps the Caffre may arrive even yet."

I have abandoned hope. There is a girl
here that can play on the harp  almost a lost
art nowadays. I wish it had occurred to me
to have mine dis entombed and brought out, it
would have made an opening to an amateur al
fresco concert. Have you any encouraging
proposal ? "

None, unless Miss Frascati should chant usa
Miserere, or I should volunteer to dance a
hornpipe. But surely a man of Mr Deane's
social resources would be better to consult thana
rough sailor like myself ! Is he not here ? "

Hugh glanced towards her with secret anxiety.

'' If he is I have not seen him, and he is
hardly a man to neglect his duty to his hostess.
Beatrix came alone with Mrs Dunbar,
bearing apologies for delay. But where is
your wife, to my mind the sweetest woman
of them all 1 "

*' Five minutes ago I saw her with the young

lady from Hiirstpoint, and I promised to wait
for her here. We are going out to dine and
must not be late."

What he said was perfectly true. Lucia and
Beatrix had strolled away together across the
velvet turf towards a distant shrubbery which
looked invitingly cool and green under the
burning azure of the sky. They were each a
little shy of the other, but Lucia was very
anxious to make friends with the stranger, not
only for her own sake, but to prove that no feeling
of bitterness restrained her goodwill. The
result, however, was not satisfactory. Beatrix
could not be induced to trust her English except
in monosyllables, and shook her pretty head continually
as not understanding her companion,
who, on her part, was still less able to make her
schoolgirl smattering of Italian a medium of
communication between them. Under these
difficulties, and an odd perception that the girl
did not seem to reciprocate her attempts at
friendliness, Lucia's spirits fell, and she became
conscious that both in body and mind she was

far below her usual level, a feeling she had been
struggling all day to resist.

When she saw Mrs Dunbar coming towards
them with a somewhat flurried and anxious air,
as if uneasy at having lost sight of Beatrix, it
was a relief to give her up to her guardian.

I think we had better all go back together,
my dear Mrs Marriott," remarked that lady,
"so many people have been asking for you.
Lady Hamilton is trying to get some of the
ladies and gentlemen to sing  without any
accompaniment, you know  and that is why I
have come to fetch Beatrix. They are all dying
to hear your lovely voice  would you mind
singing a song, my dear ? "

"Would it be right '? Would Mr Deane
think it right ? "

She looked at Lucia for an answer, but Mrs
Dunbar spoke.

'' Lady Hamilton would never propose anything
that was objectionable, and Mr Deane
would always wish you to be amiable. Shall
we go back ? "

They had just reached the point they aimed
at  a secluded bench lost in a thicket of laurels,
and out of sight and sound of the gay crowd.
Lucia sat down : the heat was intense, her head
ached, and a dull sense of oppression weighed
upon her.

*' I am not musical," she said, " and shall not
be missed. I will stay here a little while and
rest. I dread the idea of retracing my steps in
this blazing sunshine."

"Then I will let Mr Marriott know where
we have left you."

Please don't ! I want to be quite quiet fora
little while, and should be sorry to take him
away from the rest."

Mrs Dunbar protested, but finally acquiesced,
and in a few moments she was left alone.

The silence after their departure seemed
profound. It was a neglected corner of the
grounds, skirting the quiet country lane which
was divided from it by a thick hedge of box and
holly, in which a little wicket-gate was set.

But passers-by there were none : the whole

rustic population were in the broiling harvest-fields,
and it was rarely that carriage or pedestrian
passed that way. She could hear the
twitter of birds amongst the branches, and the
sound of an occasional dry leaf which was dislodged
by their movements and fell to the
ground. She sat so motionless, with her eyes
closed and head leaned against the tree-trunk
behind her, that her presence did not startle
the birds. She had truly said that her head
ached, but her heart was heavier still. Harsher
and crueller words had been dealt out to herby
her husband than she had before heard,
ostensibly in blame of her defence of Everard
to Lady Hamilton, but indicating an unrelenting
severity against which she felt herself
powerless.

Would life be endurable under these conditions
? life too, at sea, of which she had a constitutional
dread, and where she would be cutoff
from the alleviations of friendship and family
affection ?

Would to God she had kept her secret confined

to her own breast, and not put into such
cruel hands this weapon against her ! Her
confessing had been a vain attempt to enlist
her husband's strength to help her weakness.
He had only used it to oppress and humiliate
her. Could he not see how hard, how almost
impossible, he made the return to full-hearted
allegiance ; and that the want of that forbearance
and tenderness which would have secured
her love and gratitude, was driving her further
from him ?

She was hardly aware that her eyes were so
full of tears as to escape the closed lids and to
be trickling over her pale cheeks, till the sound
of the quiet opening of the little gate caused
her to start up in alarm and try to conceal
them with nervous distress.

Everard Deane came forward with his hat
in his hand, and an expression on his face of
strong restrained feeling.

'ris it you, Mrs Marriott?" he asked. ''I
saw in the distance a figure sitting here so
motionless that I feared something was wrong ;

VOL. III. C

but I did not know it was yon. Something
is wrong  you are in trouble ? "

His voice was steady, but with an inflection
of impersonal anxiety which conveyed a deeper
assurance of sympathy than the most passionate
protestations would have done. Lucia felt its
power and its sweetness with an acuteness
which doubled her anguish and her shame.
She was conscious that her power of resistance
was at its lowest ebb. Unless he spared her,
she was at the mercy of her own miserable
weakness  deplored, repudiated, it is true, but
none the less a fatal hindrance to her fight.

Moreover, she could not deny her tears, her
pale cheeks, her attitude of profound dejection,
as she stood turned away from him, and leaning
for support against the tree near her.

Everard stood looking at her in silence fora
few moments. He saw precisely how the
case stood  that is, he saw she was too deeply
agitated to recover her composure, and that
his presence added to her difficulty and distress.
He had said to himself again and again that

if ever he and Lucia stood face to face, as they
had done on a former occasion, no power should
deter him from taking in his arms the woman
he adored, and giving to the passion that wasted
him the poor relief of the kisses so long
delayed.

The idea of her sweet lips meeting his, her
tender body strained against his breast, her
pure breath upon his face, moved him to a
frenzy of yearning and desire. And now, no
combination of circumstances could well have
placed her more utterly in his power.

He stood, as we have said, looking at her,
and feeding his ardour at every glance, his
lips slightly apart, his face flushed, and his
half-closed eyes scintillating with passion. It
was not love only that moved him, but an
almost limitless compassion, and a fierce indignation
against whatever gave her pain.

Lucia ! " he said, in a tone that was at once
confession and appeal ; but he did not seize her
in his arms, or even lessen the distance between
them, her obvious weakness being the one

thing powerful enough to hold his impulse in
check.

She turned at the sound of his voice, and
looked at him. She had none of the arts of
a woman of the world, and not much power
of self-containment. Besides, to deny her obvious
distress and agitation, oi: to find some
ingenious explanation of it, would have been
next to impossible to her simple and truthful
nature.

You have surprised me when I was very
unhappy," were the words that dropped hesitatingly
from her lips, " but it is impossible forme
to tell you why. If you would be really
kind  as you once promised to be  you will
leave me without asking me any more questions."


I have no questions to ask," he answered ;
your face and manner tell me everything.
What I expected has happened. You have
found out the mistake you have made. You
are a disappointed woman  an unhappy wife."

He came a little nearer to her.

*' When last I spoke to you alone you silenced
me  do you remember ?  from the triumphant
height of your perfect satisfaction and happiness,
and had small sympathy for my need and
wretchedness. You can feel for me better now."

He stretched out his hand to touch hers, but
she shrank back from the contact. What did
he mean 1 Was she so miserable that he had
guessed her shameful secret ? The terror of the
thought nerved her courage.

There never was a time since I knew you,
Mr Deane," she answered, with a certain sweet
formality, " that your welfare was not dear tome
; you never suffered  anything  without
my feeling for you  deeply. Your long illness
has given me great anxiety, and your recovery
"

She stopped, moved by a sudden and overpowering
impulse that a moment's reflection would
have condemned as dangerous and disloyal.

*' I hope you did not think I refused to come
when you sent for me on that Sunday ! " The
pathetic appeal in her voice was irresistible.

'' Good God ! " he said, '' how shall I forbear ?
You are now, as before, merciless, Lucia, by
holding the cup of your pity to my lips and
then forbidding me to drink. I sent for you
then because I thought myself dying, and could
not let life go without bidding you farewell.
Now I am alive again  and with that craving
for your love which I should have taken out of
the world with me, still unappeased. It has
been, ever since I knew you, at once the saving
and the ruin of my life ! Yield a little to
my desperation  grant me living what you
surely would not have denied me on my deathbed,
 kiss me  Lucia ! "

He stretched towards her his arms as he
spoke. The face raised so close to her own
was lighted with passionate appeal ; the tones
of his voice were of a sweetness penetrating
enough to lure her to her own undoing.

For a few sickening moments she felt a doubt
of her power of resistance,  a fear lest she
should yield to the desire that shook her own
agonised soul  lest she should sink into his

imploring arms, and suffer him to satisfy himself
with kisses.

Had there been no such impulse of weakness,
her victory would have been less. As it was,
she drew herself awayvfrom him with a low cry
of horror  not provoked by any anger against
him, but by the passionate strength of her self-condemnation
 and covered her face with her
hands as if to shut out an object she loathed or
dreaded. Everard's mood of tension relaxed ;
his arms dropped by his sides, and the colour
and glow went out of his face, leaving it white
and stern.

"It is good women such as you," he said,
that drive men mad. You warm my heart
first, that you may chill it with fuller effect
afterwards ; you draw me near, the better to repulse
me ; you give me in exchange for my love
hatred, or if not hatred, an insufferable sentiment
of blame and pity. And yet  I love you ! "

He looked at her searchingly, but she did not
change her attitude ; he saw she was trembling
from head to foot.

''Do I hurt you, Lucia?" he went on, in
accents so kind that her heart secretly cried out
to him for mercy. " I would not willingly do
that. Or is it that your simple purity is so
shocked by the wickedness of my behaviour ?
Dear, you know I loved you long before you
were a wife, when I even thought you might
be mine, and cheated many an hour by planning
how I would make you happy, and myself
more worthy. Such love does not dry up at
the word of command, not even when duty
speaks it ; nor can what was once pure to the
height of man's poor faculty become corrupt
because arbitrary circumstance has turned the
current wrong. I shall love you, Lucia, to the
last hour of my life ! "

Oh, my God," she prayed in the recesses of
her tormented soul, and behind the veil of her
sheltering hands, "save me, or I shall tell him
that I love him ! "

Let me see your face," he said again, after
a pause spent in watching her, * and judge
how far your anger goes against me. I took

your hard commands before, and compelled myself
to silence  for obedience follows true love
as its shadow  but then you were a happy wife.
It will be harder now, perhaps too hard. At
least, comfort me on one point, Lucia  he is
not unkind to you 1 I can bear my own
misery, but scarcely yours. '

Lucia started violently, and her hands fell
from her face ; for a moment her dilated eyes
met his with an expression so stricken with
terror that he made an involuntary movement
towards her, fearing she was likely to faint.
Was it possible that the words he had just
spoken could have produced so great an effect
upon her tender conscience ?

Then he became aware of wdiat had caught
her strained sense earlier,  the sound of rapid
footsteps approaching them. He had been
standing with his back towards the garden, and
so profoundly absorbed as to have become almost
unconscious of their surroundings.

He now turned quickly round, and in so
doing, met Hugh Marriott face to face.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

There are no crises more supreme in life than
those which arise from the culmination of
human passion.

There glowed in Hugh's countenance such
concentrated wrath and scorn that it was almost
exalted to the sublime ; his very figure seemed
to dilate as he stood before the guilty pair, ashe
believed them, and struck them with the
cold lightning of his clear blue eyes.

Lucia remained standing in the same attitude
as that into which the sight of him had transfixed
her, while her appealing gaze encountered her
husband's with a speechless misery in it that
at once distressed and baffled Everard.

As for himself, such a position as he occupied
is beyond doubt the most painful, humiliating,

and difficult that can befall any man in whom
honour and sensibility are not extinct.

He touched Marriott's arm with the purpose
of withdrawing his attention from Lucia.

' Try and find words ! I am quite prepared
to hear and answer anything you may have to
say ; only believe that Mrs Marriott is innocent
of word or thought that could offend you. I
seized the opportunity that tempted me beyond
control, I forced her against her will to listen
to me."

*' I don't know," he added in a lower tone,
* if it wall do any good to say that nothing but
rash words on my part have provoked her just
displeasure."

Marriott stepped back with a gesture as if the
contact were defilement, and looked at him from
head to foot, his face working with passion.

These are words of course," he articulated,
with cutting sharpness, "which men without
honour on all points are, however, bound to use.
I refuse to make a controversy of such a matter
as this. AVill you cross the Channel with me ? "

Everard rather felt than saw the look of
startled terror in Lucia's face.

No' he answered quietly, '' that I will not
do. The fault lies only at my door, and is not
to be cancelled by adding madness to folly.
Bear one word further  do not revenge yourself
on me by visiting it upon one who is absolutely
blameless."

He turned towards the shrinking woman ashe
spoke a glance of irrepressible compassion.

Hugh almost gnashed his teeth.

*' What end do you think it will answer to
keep up this damnable farce ? " he cried. " Do
not things speak for themselves,  the seclusion,
the careful arrangement, the shameless
wife's anxiety to prevent her husband from
seeking her ? Do I not know that no ties
are sacred in your eyes  no woman's honour
anything to you but incentive and lure ? And
more "

But at this point Lucia sprang to his side
and caught his arm.

Stop ! " she cried, almost inaudibly ; "for

mercy's sake spare me the deepest shame of all I
Believe  believe  that I have betrayed neither
myself nor you ! "

He looked at her a moment incredulously,
and then flung her roughly from him.

What care I for the more or less of treachery
such as yours 1 It is nothing to me that you
stand this side of actual dishonour, or that
something has been kept back from his kisses
or your words ! You are as false to your
marriage vows as if you had broken them
at every point,  and here on the spot, I
release you from them. Go !  to your lover,
I had almost said,  but not that  not
that ! "

His passion slackened and his voice broke.

To Everard, this exhibition of Marriott's indignant
resentment, not only against himself,
but against his wife, was received simply as in
keeping with the rash and intemperate character
of the man. He drew no conclusions from it
derogatory to Lucia's fidelity as a wife, or as suggesting
an admitted response to his own passion.

Hugh was jealous, unjust, unmanly, as it was
his nature to be.

But at the same time every feeling of decency
compelled him to leave them at once. The
woman he loved was grossly wronged and insulted,
and he had brought this humiliation
upon her ; but however intense his remorse
or his sympathy, it would be worse than useless
to express it. He waited a moment to be sure
that Lucia had no longer anything to dread
from the violence of her husband, and then
opened the little gate by which he had entered,
and passed out into the road.

Hugh, aware that he was gone, flung himself
down on the bench, and with his elbows on his
knees, covered his face with his hands. He
was asking himself what he should do next 
in what way he should revenge himself?

It was the personal affront to his own honour 
the audacity of the lover who defied his right
to his wife's single-hearted devotion  which
made him frantic with indignation, the more
so that the intolerable prudery of modern society

offered difficulties to the washing out the insult
in blood. Had some immediate chastisement
been possible, he could better have endured
his wrong:. His hatred of Everard Deane had
always been instinctive ; it was now virulent,
and nothing short of absolute personal injury
would satisfy him. If it were not to be accomplished
in one way, it should in another. He
shook himself together with a groan of impatient
misery, and as he resumed an erect position
met the sad solemnity of his wife's pathetic
eyes. She was not weeping : the departure of
Everard had relieved her a little ; for he was
gone without having discovered her shameful
secret, and in the cruel ordeal just passed, she
was conscious of no added stain on her conscience.
If indeed the doubt she had hitherto
cherished was solved, and the conviction accepted
that her love and her duty were at
war, she had too clear a notion of right and
justice, not to distinguish between sin indulged
and involuntary, between surrender and resistance.


But Hugh Marriott had no such faculty of
discrimination : she was as utterly condemned
by him as if she had gone the full length of
possible transgression ; and she was there before
him  not escaped as her lover was  and capable
of receiving the punishment she deserved.

He looked at her steadily.

What are your plans for the future *? " he
asked.

My plans ? " she repeated humbly. " I
have none different from what they were.
Will you try and believe what I say, that nota
word has passed my lips which need alter
our relations ? My fault, great as it may be,
is only known to yourself."

Then after a pause, seeing he did not answer,
she added 

'' I should like to go away from home for a
little time."

He smiled cynically.

For once we are of the same opinion. It is
not my purpose to discuss and weigh the degrees
of your offence, only I have a deep-rooted

conviction that the wife who prefers another
man to her husband and achieves secret interviews
with her lover, forfeits all right to her
home. The same roof shall not shelter you and
me to-night."

He took out his watch and looked at the
time.

*' It is now six o'clock, but these summer
days are long. There will be time enough for
you to return to the house, pack what you
may think necessary for immediate use, and
get to the station by 7.30. I presume your
father's house is not shut up before eleven
o'clock at night?"

There was a hard determination in his manner
that convinced her remonstrance would be
hopeless, as also any attempt to remove the
mistaken belief he had adopted.

I will do as you wish," she answered ; *' but
what explanation shall I offer for surprising
them so unexpectedly ? "

Whatever explanation best commends itself
to your prudence, only it will be well to keep

VOL. Il D

prudence in view. I shall have no reserves
from your parents, who thought they bestowed
upon me a priceless treasure ; on that
point I shall of necessity undeceive them.
Your mother shall receive from me tomorrow,
as clear and unprejudiced a statement of the
circumstances which have led to our present
separation as I can induce myself to write tonight.
So it will scarcely be worth while to
try and mistake your case. I have warned
you ! "

Lucia clasped her hands together.

Is this necessary ? " she asked, in a low
tone of strained endurance. " I would not beg
your mercy for myself, but I beseech you not
to write to my mother ! It would not be an
unprejudiced statement, and  it would break
her heart ! "

"These considerations should have occurred
to you before," he answered, "and you will
scarcely mend matters by adding insult to
injury. I will do so much of a husband's duty
as to commend you stringently to her safe keeping.

AYliat else I may determine is no longer
business of yours ; but ultimately I shall take
up my burden again. I mean, when I go to
sea, I take you with me  not as wife, but as a
weak and fallen woman, whom it is my bitter
business to protect against herself. I could
not answer it to my conscience to leave you
in England."

He waited for her to reply, but she was
silent. The feeling his conduct excited in her
mind was a grieved wonder at his inhumanity.
Could he ever have loved her 1 had he no comprehension
of her state of mind  her self-condemnation
 her penitence  her deep desire to
offer what atonement was in her power 1 But
if he chose thus to thrust her away, and hurt
and degrade her to the utmost, nothing remained
for her to do but to accept his severity
with submission, and with what power of self-respect
was left to her.

She was not guilty as he thought her, but
she was guilty enough  condemned before God
and her own conscience. She thought his

UNIVERSITY QF ILLlWOia

treatment harsh and unjust; but she acknowledged
that the criminal is not the best judge
of the fairness of the sentence, and that the only
dignity left her was to acquiesce in her husband's
decisions.

Shall we return to the house and say goodbye
to Lady Hamilton 1 " she . asked after a
pause, during which she had taken her resolution;
''or what do you propose?"

"Would you be equal to such a farce, or
fraud rather?" was his answer. "No; we
will escape, not court attention : we will
walk in the direction of"  home he was
going to say, but corrected himself quickly
" of Hawthorndene, and shall probably meet
the carriage."

He stepped forward and opened the little
wicket-gate for her to pass through before him,
with marked ceremoniousness.

You will understand," he said, " that I
accompany you in defiance of personal feeling,
as a simple point of duty which, though you
have foregone, I still acknowledge."

V

She made no answer except lifting to his as
she passed him her tender eyes full of tears, but
expressing no other reproach.

An hour later she was standing ready dressed
for her journey, waiting for the carriage to be
announced, which her husband had told her he
would do himself.

She stood by the window of her dressing-room
 the pretty and dainty chamber which
Hugh had taken such pride in having refitted
and adorned according to her own taste  and
looked across the smooth lawns and dazzling
flower-beds to the park beyond, where the
evening shadows of the trees were lying motionless
on the grass.

Should she see it all no more *? was the brief
blessedness of her married life over for ever 
and hers the fault *? How short her hold had
been of that sweet home and of her innocent
delights ! That Christmas morning, when her
heart had been so full of thankful joy, and
Hugh had kissed her with such pride and
tenderness, and wished her a lifetime of merry

Christmas-tides  was it only last year? A
great gulf seemed to divide her from it, and
cheerful pious festivals would come no more
perhaps to either of them. Then she remembered
her mother's ominous words, and the
thought of the cruel pain about to be inflicted
on that sensitive soul pierced her through and
through.

I deserve to suffer, but, would to God, I
could suffer alone ! "

She felt courage and self-control ebbing
away. After all, was it not her fault which
had transformed Hugh from the old love and
gentleness to this hard severity ? And on
her would lie the sin of having warped and
ruined a noble nature ; if so, her punishment
was almost greater than she could bear.

Memory mocked her with a thousand recollections
of Hugh's lifelong devotion to her,
trivial in themselves, but all the better calculated
to wound and soften her aching heart.
It was not he who had been false to her 
misled by winning charm, that ought to have

lacked the power to lead astray  but she who
had stumbled and fallen.

When a moment afterwards the door opened
and Hugh entered, the deep tide of her penitence
and yearning was at its full ; to win his
forgiveness and be permitted the chance of
atonement, were become the one good to be
attained. The fact that he looked very pale
gave to her trembling desire the impulse
required.

She took a few hesitating steps towards him,
looked in his face, and then suddenly flung
herself on her knees at his feet.

Do not send me away ! it is too hard. Oh
Hugh, forgive me ! "

She would have strengthened her prayer by
the natural action of throwing her arms about
him, but she feared to give offence ; as it
was she knelt with her hands clasped, and
eyes raised in the utmost tension of supplication.
She had before taken off her bonnet to
relieve her aching head, and now the impetuosity
of her movements had loosened her hair,

and the shining coils fell over her shoulders ineffective
dishevelment.

She had never looked more beautiful.

There was something of natural asceticism
in Hugh Marriott's nature ; he perceived this
beauty in every fibre of his frame, and was
instantly on his guard against the weakness.
He asked himself whether he should forego his
deliberate decision, because the pathetic loveliness
of his guilty wife appealed powerfully
to his feelings ? No ; it was precisely in such
self-mastery as this that the difference lay between
him and men like Everard Deane.

He stooped coldly and helped her to rise.

I do not like to see you on your knees,"
he said. "It is not a proper attitude for one
human being to assume towards another ; or if
in your case it may be, it brings home your
humiliation too painfully to my mind. It is
absolutely necessary for me to send you away ;
and it is an idle waste of words to talk of forgiveness
between us. Wrongs like mine are
not often forgiven."

She saw all \Yas in vain, and with a great
effort recovered her self-command. It was as
much as she could do to fasten up the heavy
plaits of her hair with her trembling hands ;
but this accomplished, and her bonnet resumed,
she signified she was ready for departure.

During the interval Hugh had approached
the disordered dressing-table, and was noting
the different articles with which it was strewn.
Lucia's jew el-box stood upon it, closed and
locked ; he lifted it in his hands and found it
was very heavy, as if full.

*' Pardon me for detaining you a little
longer," he said, in the formal way he had
thought proper to adopt in speaking to her ;
but I wish to open this. I imagine you have
left all your trinkets behind, but that is not
necessary. I will send after you all gifts received
from friends to which I think you are entitled,
my own presents I shall retain ; under present
circumstances they must be worthless. If you
will give me the key, I will ask you to assist
my memory."

Lucia silently pointed to a little open box
which contained the key he wanted ; the proposal
was painful and distasteful to her in the
utmost degree, but she read his determination
in his quiet repressed manner, and knew that
objection would be useless. Also, the process of
selection was likely to be a long one, and was
a fresh demand upon her distressed patience.
She dreaded losing the up express, and so
driving her arrival at Eichmond to a still
later and more irregular hour.

Hugh opened the box, and began to examine
diligently the contents ; they were not so numerous
as might have been supposed, for Lucia
was not a woman with heaps of friends, and he
was not personally addicted to lavish gifts. The
more costly trinkets had been given her by her
parents or Helen ; these, with some others, he
put carefully aside, separating his own from
them. Before finally closing the box he opened
a deep drawer in the side, which had up to that
moment escaped his observation. It contained
nothing besides a curious shallow casket, with

which he was entirely unfamiliar. He examined
it for some time with close attention,
and with a sort of strange angry apprehension
rising in his mind.

What is this ? " he asked, sharply. " I have
never seen it before."

"You have often seen me wear the contents
a pearl necklace, bracelets, and brooch. They
were a wedding-gift."

His face changed ominously. " I remember 
you wore them on your wedding-day, and I was
under the impression they were a present from
your father ; you know I never heed such things
as some men do. Was that impression false ? "

She made a gesture of assent.

From whom, then, did you receive them 1 "
he asked, almost in a whisper, and with his eyes
searching her face relentlessly.

It was a crucial moment, for Lucia almost
stood in dread of some physical violence on his
part ; but on the other hand, her conscience
acquitted her of blame, and enabled her to
retain perfect dignity and self-control.

' I might say," she answered in low distinct
tones, and meeting his menacing glance without
shrinking, " that I did not know, for they
were sent to me anonymously, but that would
not be the truth. I have every reason to believe
that they were given to me by Everard
Deane."

Hugh uttered an ejaculation between an oath
and a groan  the cup of bitterness which had
been filled before seemed to overflow; the courage
of his wife looked to him like effrontery,
and the date of the gift carried back his suspicions
even to his wedding-day. He had been
her tool and victim throughout.

He shook the box roughly, but the lock
would not yield to his violence; then he held
it towards her at arm's length, commanding her
in a voice of brutal authority to open it.

Lucia hesitated a moment, but she perceived
his mood was such that protest would be
nothing less than dangerous. The key was in
itself a dainty work of art, inlaid with jewels,
and she wore it attached to her watch-chain.

Her doing so had been originally Helen's suggestion,
who had been present at the delivery
of the gift, and she had continued the habit
without reflection, and absolutely without attaching
any sentiment to so doing ; but she was
none the less aware that it would have a fatal
significance in her husband's eyes.

She detached it with difficulty, and handed
it to him with a trembling hand. Hugh took
the key without spoken comment, and commanded
himself so far as to manage successfully
the intricacy of the lock ; he even opened
the casket gently, and gazed at its contents
with a certain sort of deliberation, but his face
was of a sickly pallor, and his eyes shone like
flame.

In another moment he had reversed the box
in such a manner as to shed all its costly contents
on the floor ; the next they were trampled
under his feet into an indistinguishable mass of
worthless atoms.

Lucia uttered no sound, but she shivered
involuntarily.

Do not dare to speak," he said, " or you will
drive me to worse outrage. Would to God I
had beneath my feet something that could
wince and suffer ! But my time will come 
wrongs like mine don't go unavenged. Go ! "
he added, with a gesture of dismissal ; " I dare
not trust myself to look at you, again."

CHAPTER XXXV.

The small local drama that was being enacted
at Stockdale advanced rapidly during the next
few weeks. We call it small, but its constituents
were precisely the same as make up the
most momentous and tragic incidents of human
history;  the strife of will, desire, and passion 
the defeated purpose and degraded aspiration.

It was known that Mr Marriott had signified
his intention of making no resistance
whatever to the claims of Lady Portisham's
niece, and was winding up his affairs in the
neighbourhood, and dismissing his establishment,
with a view to immediate departure.
Also, that he had entered his name at the Admiralty
as a man seeking instant and active
employment, and to whom an appointment to a

far-off station would be a matter of preference
rather than objection.

The circumstances of Lucia's departure on a
sudden visit to her parent's house were naturally
not known, although the observation and
gossip of servants betrayed that there was something
unusual and suspicious in connection with
them.

Lady Hamilton was perhaps the only member
of Stockdale society who had a suspicion
of the truth, and even she stopped short of
attributing the smallest real transgression to
Lucia, in whose honour and candour she had
the most implicit belief: she explained to herself
any conjugal rupture which might have
occurred by Hugh's restless and ill-tempered
jealousy, or by some indiscretion on the part of
Deane.

As for Everard himself, his state of mind was
intolerable. No retribution so severe had ever
tracked his errors before. In giving the rein to
his own passion, he had ruined the happiness
of a woman of whom it is little to say she was

dearer to him than his own life, for that he had
always lightly regarded. Her instant and contumelious
dismissal was known to him, partly
through the covert watch he had kept over her
movements for the rest of that disastrous day,
partly through the news of the Hawthorndene
household percolating through Lucia's maid to
Pietro, and dropping in pregnant innuendo from
his lips before his master had time to silence
him.

If Lucia had loved him (a doubt he had now
decided against himself), and would have left
her home for his protection, Everard would have
tried to convince himself and her that such a
step might be made to include all the possibilities
of mortal rapture and content ; and perhaps,
owing to the subtle mixture of good and
evil in his own character, the union might have
lacked a little of the bitter disappointment
incident to like ventures.

But he never entertained the hope of such a
consultation : had even Lucia loved him, no
power he could exert would have sufficed to

VOL. III. E

overcome her repugnance to that signal apostasy
from all the traditions of duty and virtue, and
he was inclined to doubt whether, had he possessed
such power, he would have chosen to
exercise it. The delirious joy of possession
would be sorely qualified to him by the despondency
and remorse of his mistress, and to
these sooner or later she would have become a
prey. But as the case now stood, in spite of
her immaculate goodness, he had ruined her
peace of mind, and perhaps her social position.

She was condemned for his fault : not for
loving him, nor even for encouraging his love,
but simply because her husband thought his
purity soiled by the knowledge that she was
loved by another man. Marriott was putting
her away from him  hardening his heart against
her  clouding the clear waters of her sweet life.
Could he do nothing to save her 1

In this condition of restlessness and self-reproach
 to which it must be added Hugh's
action in regard to the Hawthorndene property
gave additional zest  he found the daily

life at Hurstpoint hard to bear. To shut himself
away from observation only deepened the discomfort
of his position, and yet it was a sore
strain to defy the serious penetration of his
father and the deferential solicitude of Mrs
Dunbar, whom, at meal-times at least, he was
constrained to meet, and who watched him with
the combined pertinacity of accredited nurse
and faithful friend.

Still worse was the consciousness that Beatrix
regarded him with an unexpressed solicitude,
the more oppressive from its very reserve.

He had asked her one day why she had not
come for her daily lessons to his room as usual,
and she had answered she feared he had grown
tired of teaching her.

Have I been rough and impatient then '? "
he asked, almost with a groan, feeling as if
everything sweet and good he touched turned
to ashes in his hand. The girl looked at him
steadily, but he saw, to his pain and surprise,
that tears were gathering in her eyes, and that
her lips began to quiver.

*' No," she said simply ; '' but I saw you were
unhappy, and I know how hard it is to be
patient then."

*' You saw, little one  you know ! " he repeated,
smiling. *' Is it that I am so poor a
dissembler, or that you are so versed in the
secrets of the human heart '? It is as if a babe
were to enlighten its nurse ! "

*' I am not a babe," she answered, with more
energy than he had ever heard in her tones
before ; " I am eighteen. When will you consider
me a woman  ' grown up,' as you call it 1 "

Never ! You will always be the little child
your dear mother put into my arms and bade
me take care of for her sake. You may very
likely be regarded as a goddess by other men,
and prayed to as such ; but in my eyes, Beatrix,
time won t touch you. You nestle in my heart
as the baby-girl of a dozen years ago, and help
to keep that corner of it at least sweet and
clean."

He turned from her, but she called him back
by a timid gesture.

May I come to you and say my lessons tomorrow

?

He said " yes " kindly ; but she saw the permission
was carelessly and languidly given, and
did not go. It hurt her deeply to find that,
when they met again, he did not refer to the
matter, but seemed to have forgotten the arrangement.


He was in this mood of mind, constantly revolving
the problem how best to undo the harm
he had done, when it occurred to him to call on
Lady Hamilton. He knew she was very intimate
with the Marriott, and could possibly
tell him much that he desired to know; also,
he would gather from her whether any rumour
were afloat which could hurt Lucia's fair fame.

It was a day of sultry brooding weather in
the middle of August, and Lady Hamilton, not
expecting visitors till the canonical hours for
social intercourse arrived, was lying back at her
ease in a favourite lounging-chair, in her ,
wrapped in a very comfortable but
unbecoming dressing-gown, and with a charming

novel in her hand. Every window was
open to admit air, and every Venetian closed to
exclude sunshine.

She was annoyed at the interruption when
the card was brought her, but relaxed on reading
the name upon it.

What is the meaning of this ? " she asked,
extending her hand as her visitor entered, but
neither turning her head nor changing her
attitude,  '* you abroad in such a glare ! I
imagined you being fanned by punkahs. I
have no doubt you have introduced such an
arrangement at Hurstpoint for casual seasons
such as this  with the signorina at the piano
in the corner ; for it is never too hot to
sing, or at least to listen to singing. What is
wrong J

*' Your ladyship is wrong  I am a salamander
and enjoy this weather; and although I
have occasionally given the signorina a music-lesson,
I assure you her time is too profitably
employed to admit of her sacrificing it for my
amusement. May I lighten one of the blinds ?

I perceive your mood is aggressive, and I like
to be able to see my enemy ! "

As I am rather a greater fright than usual, I
should prefer not to be seen, but I sacrifice
myself to friendship. Shut that window before
you sit down  a decrepit valetudinarian like
you should never put yourself with your back
to a draught. And now, are we settled ? Again
I ask you, what is the matter '? What do you
want of me ? "

I want news of Lucia Marriott."

Then you have come to the wrong person,
Everard ; I should rather ask that question of
you. Whose fault is it that she is an alien
from her own house and her good young husband's
favour, and suffering for other shortcomings
than her own 1 How could a man of
the world like you so recklessly compromise
the poor thing's good name and domestic
peace for  I cannot conceive what ? Why
were you not content with her good opinion ? I
have heard her praise and defend you over andover
again  she will never do that any more."

How do you know all this ? " he asked.

Her husband has been to see me, and
though he thinks he has told me nothing, I
have naturally had certain questions to ask,
and he has not the gift of reticence, especially
when speaking of you."

Everard did not answer, and Lady Hamilton
looking at him curiously, saw an expression in
his face so intense and yet so controlled, that
she felt baffled.

Are you  after all your experiences  in
love with your neighbour's wife ? "

He looked up very gravely. '* You imply
a reproach or a sneer, but I loved Lucia before
she was any man's wife  when I was told she
was willing to be mine ; and I suppose I love
her with a strength of feeling not often experienced
in these lukewarm days. Men and
women are accustomed to say they would die
for those who are dearest to them : I would do
that as a matter of course and think very little
of it, for I don't much value my life. But I
would do more. I would live for her; live

dishonoured, or tormented, or desolate, to the
longest term of possible existence, if by so
doing I could restore the happiness I have
destroyed. I am come to ask you if you can
help me in this direction 1 "

And is it in this * high saluting ' strain you
have made love to her ? "

You must not mock me'' he said, " for I
have not a quip or retort at command. I
know how honest and good your heart is at
the core, and it is to that I am laying my
folly bare. Tell me, if there is any reparation
in my power ? "

What does that mean in plain English ?
that you are anxious to make her and her
husband friends again ? "

"Yes, if I am convinced that her happiness
lies in that direction. I suppose he has cooled
down by this time, and might be induced to
hear reason. Does it strike you as a monstrous
idea, an unmanly concession  women are the
best judges in these things  for me to go to
him and try to convince him that I came upon

his wife unawares, and forced her against inclination
as well as conscience to listen to me ?
Also, that she has never, from the first moment
we met, given me word or look that went beyond
the genial kindness she shows to all her
friends '? "

' I do not think mere assertion would do
much good ; he would take all that as the
routine practice of a man of honour, and would
probably insult you."

About that I am quite indifferent ; only if
this will not do, try and suggest some more
effectual way."

Perhaps if you Averse to pledge yourself
never to seek her aoain  to the length of
practical and perpetual avoidance ; but  I see 
that is more than you are prepared to do."
She smiled ironically.

*you are mistaken; it would not be more.
That is, I would pledge myself never to speak
to her again nor to solicit her attention ; but
at the same time, I should wish to reserve to
myself the privilege of seeing her sometimes 

unknown to herself  if only to discover that
my sacrifice had made her happy. I should
hesitate to bind myself to forego that."

Well, you would be at liberty to guard
that point as a reservation in your own mind,
I suppose ; you would scarcely lay it before
Hugh Marriott as part of the bargain. Still I
doubt your success  he is stubborn and unforgiving,
like all the impeccables."

There was a short silence, then he resumed 

There is another thing that troubles me ;
he is giving up everything without protest or
examination, and even pledges himself to discharge
the arrears due to the heiress in process
of time. You will allow that in making him
Lady Portisham's heir, I did him unintentionally
an irreparable injury."

Lady Hamilton glanced keenly at her companion
; she perceived that in his great preoccupation
he had inadvertently admitted a fact he
had hitherto guarded as a secret, but which she
herself had often inferred from words spoken
by Lucia.

"Are you going to propose endowing him
with another estate on a firmer basis ? "

"Not in my lifetime, at least. I fear he
would take that as adding insult to injury.
But he is going back to his profession; we
have no interest at the Admiralty, but Sir
Owen has much  would he be disposed to
exert it?"

I do not think it will be necessary. Lieutenant
Marriott belonged to a special branch
of the service, and has volunteered to go out
to superintend some nautical surveying of the
remoter portions of the Australian coast. I
believe young and ambitious officers shun this
kind of duty, as it shuts them off from promotion,
and means long exile from friends and
England. But his motive, my dear Everard, is
clear enough."

'* I do not see it."

He takes his wife with him."

Everard's face changed. " Impossible ! I
have heard her express horror of the sea, and a
forced exile to the antipodes would be too cruel."

'' For whom 1 Not for lier, if she loves her
husband, and is reconciled to him  the sacrifice
will be all the more welcome. Not for you,
since you are already prepared at all points to
renounce her."

Then I am a liar and a hypocrite, or rather
a self-deceived fool. Take her with him to
Australia, away from her friends whom she
loves so tenderly, for a term of years I She
will die of unconfessed misery  he will starve
her heart to death."

He got up and went to a distant window.
Lady Hamilton saw he was deeply moved.

Her fate is fixed," she said, " for Hugh
Marriott came to me yesterday, and took mea
little into his confidence. His mind is fully
made up. He is going unconsciously to lend
his aid to your virtuous resolutions, friend
Everard. Recall your own fine words just
now."

I do recall them. I said I would bear much
for her sake; I said nothing of bearing the infliction
of misery upon herself."

It is the best thing for both of you. Suppose
she were to be left behind at her mother's,
would you keep your vows 1 "

"Ah," he said, "you torture me. There are
temptations which it is not given to me to
resist."

They rose before him as he spoke, fired by
the lurid lights of his imagination and his love.
Her loneliness, which would render her so susceptible
to the influences he would have it in
his power to bring to bear upon it : the resources
of his comprehension, sympathy, and
care. Would they not conquer at last ? and
should he not see her stepping down from the
bleak heights of sterile duty, to join hand in
hand, heart to heart, on the fervid plains of
passion? What, after all, was there on the
other side comparable to the joy of such communion
? What had virtue to show as an
equivalent for bliss ?

Lucia his  not body only, but soul and spirit
in a union at once indissoluble and intimate.
The protest of society would be less than nothing

in the account ; and as for shame and self-reproach,
they should not touch her. He would
satisfy and strengthen her heart.

He turned his pale face and gleaming eyes
towards Lady Hamilton.

The question is not what I might do under
certain circumstances, but what a delicate and
sensitive woman can endure. To be banished
to Australia will be worse than death ; and life
at sea in a man-of-war will be so terrible to
her constitution and her nerves, that I doubt
if that may not be death itself Her friends
and parents must prevent this."

Lady Hamilton was silent.

Do not you agree with me ? "

'* My dear friend," she answered kindly, " I
see you are terribly in earnest, and that you are
quite disinterested in your objection to this
scheme. But there is no help for it. Forgive
me if I say that, now I have heard and seen
you, I should feel it my duty to confirm Hugh
Marriott in his purpose. As for her parents,
they will not interfere. Her mother is a strict

religious woman, who would rather follow her
daughter to the grave than keep her at home
exposed to your solicitations."

There should be no danger of that. To save
her from a penal punishment like this, I will
willingly go back to my first position. I will
give husband and friends any guarantees they
choose that I will not molest her. Can I do
more '? But I am willing, if more is to be done."

** And for all that, I would not trust you !
You mean what you say, and you are capable
of great acts of self-denial ; but should any sudden
temptation arise, your passion would sweep
down your purpose at the first blast. After all,
there is nothing like the solid earth of religious
obligation as a foundation to build on. Your
ought, Everard, is not imperious enough ; it
would be over - crowed by desire and opportunity.
Mrs Marriott will be safer in Australia."


You are an honest friend," he answered,
with a dreary smile, " but a poor comforter.
I ask for bread, and you give me a stone.

Somehow, all through life, I have never had
served out to me the food convenient for me."

*' As for that, I imagine we all pretty well
choose our own bill of fare, or, at least, it is
only children that ask to be fed. I suppose
some of us reject as flat and tasteless what
to others is the very bread of life, and can
easily believe your choice of dainties at the feast
has not been a very judicious one. Suppose
you take this trouble of yours as an invitation
to turning over a new leaf and becoming a
useful member of society ? You look surprised,
but I can give good advice upon occasion."

I should have become an excellent member
of society if I had married Lucia Prescott ; but
this chance was denied me."

Nonsense ! In that case you would have
dwindled into a stay-at-home, uxorious country
gentleman, with no ambition beyond seeing
your wife the best-dressed and best-pleased
woman in the county, and no more stimulating
resources than your pianoforte and the last
new poem. My dear  let me speak to you

VOL. III. F

as a mother might have done  you were meant
for better things than these. Find out what
they are, and do them."

I should have made a good music-master,
and not a bad public siege ; but again, fate
was against me."

' I see," said Lady Hamilton, "you won't
show me your serious side. You might have
been, under certain conditions, saint or reformer.
I sometimes wonder, on the principle
of the demand producing the supply, that our
modern Babylon has never found its prophet,
equal to waking up its shallow and lymphatic
multitudes to the lost notions of right and
wrong, of Divine requirement and human responsibility.
If you had the necessary belief,
you have all the other gifts that are wanted,
of course under modern adaptations and reserves.
Own I can see into a millstone as far
as my neighbours ! "

Everard had an almost morbid dislike to find
himself an object of personal discussion, and
rose to take his leave.

*' At all events' he said, "it is too late forme
to undertake a new vocation : prophets and
their congeners are consecrated from infancy, I
believe. Unfortunately for me I have always
heard very little of that imperious ought which
I am glad to find is held in such honour by
your ladyship,  I wish it had been a little less
powerful on this occasion."

Here a servant entered to ask if his mistress
were at home, as Mr Marriott had called and
would like to see her.

Lady Hamilton turned to Everard with a
look of anxiety.

You were on the point of departure  let me
beg of you to go at once. There is nothing I
should dislike so much as a meeting between
you under my roof. All that you have proposed
to say to him would be worse than
useless."

Your wish, of course, is conclusive ; but
if he has any news " he hesitated.

I will come and see Beatrix in the cool of
the evening, and all that he tells me you shall

know. But he has only come now on a point
of very uninteresting business."

She held out her hand, which Everard raised
respectfully to his lips.

I have not been half grateful enough for
your patience with me this morning'' he said,
"but forgive this with all other offences, and
be my friend still in spite of ill-desert ! "

"A friendship," she answered smiling, "that
will very soon be put to the proof! Hugh
Marriott is a good hater; for my sake don't
keep him waiting; open that window and go
out through the garden. I will have no collision
on the stairs ! "

CHAPTER Xxxvi

When the cab in which Lucia had driven
from the station reached her father's house
at Richmond, it was close upon eleven o'clock,
Mr Prescott's routine hour for securing locks
and bolts and sending the household to bed.
The cabman's summons was answered almost
before he had let the knocker fall from his
hand, as Willis was in the very act of bolting
the door for the night. Lucia perceiving
that there was some hesitation on the part of
the old servant, let herself out of the cab, and
came forward to make herself known. She
was deeply anxious that her untimely visit
should attract as little attention as possible.

It is quite right, Willis," she said, approaching
near enough the open door he was guarding

to receive the inner light upon her face and
figure. "Be good enough to look to my luggage,
and pay and dismiss the man quietly. I
am not expected, but I hope my father and
mother are at home."

The man's face brightened,  he had known
and loved her, as we have said" before, from a
child.

You must be always welcome, ma'am," he
said heartily, "whenever you do come ; but a
little later you would have had to knock up
the house : we keep up the old rules, you see.
The master is out of town, but Mrs Prescott is
still sitting up  only all the lights are turned
off."

I will sit down for a moment here and
wait till you are ready, then you shall light me
up-stairs," said Lucia, placing herself on the
familiar old ottoman, and dreamily watching
the man as he went his rounds, shaded lamp in
hand. So had she sometimes watched him in
her happy girlish days, on returning from some
lively party, where she had perhaps stayed

beyond the appointed hour. It was a great
comfort to find herself once more amidst these
dear accustomed surroundings  at home in a
sense fuller and more satisfying than ever
belongs to any other roof-tree, be the husband
what he may. It is the mother's love and the
child's blessed sense of safeguardedness and
irresponsibility that give a peace and security
to the first home of our affections which can
never be transferred to another.

Indeed, as the girl's unhappy thoughts recurred
to that she had left, she felt an emotion
of profound gratitude that she had this to come
to as an asylum. It was a relief that her father
was away ; she would not at present be forced
to meet the painful necessity of stating and
defending her position ; on her mother's tenderness
and forgiveness she thought she could confidently
rely.

The last incidents which had occurred before
leaving Hawthorndene seemed to have confused
the current of her mind. She could not fix the
limit where her husband's just severity ended

and his cruelty and outrage began, or decide
the dimensions of her fault, and the length to
which his right of punishing and disgracing
her extended. She seemed to want a hand to
guide her in the way she should go : would her
mother be equal to the demand of her present
extremity ?

Now, ma'am, I am at your service," said
Willis ; " you will excuse my saying how surprised
and delighted the mistress will be."

Lucia followed him upstairs, he carefully
lighting her footsteps as they went, to the door
of the familiar morning - room in which Mrs
Prescott always preferred to sit when alone.
It was full of the memories of the days when
her girls were her constant companions, and
the solitary woman fed her tender heart with
such associations. She was sitting now as
Lucia had often seen her sitting before, with
her little reading-table in front of her, and her
open Bible upon it, and the face she lifted up
at the unexpected opening of the door expressed
an almost absolute serenity.

*' An unexpected visitor, ma'am," said Willis,
his honest face one broad grin of delight that
was sufficient to appease the most nervous
anxiety  " Mrs Marriott" ; and then he retired
swiftly and closed the door upon them.

Lucia, who had held back a little not to
alarm her mother, now that she was within
the magnetism of her presence, rushed into
her arms, and pressed her against her bosom.
Here, here at least was a love to which she
was entitled, which would distil like balm upon
her wounded heart.

Mother ! mother ! " she cried, with an intensity
which seemed very strange to the quiet
ears she addressed, but which arose from the
long repression of her own feelings, " say you
are glad to see me ! Kiss me again, darling ! "

Mrs Prescott kissed her again as she desired,
but with more agitation and less effusion
than the eager girl expected. She was indeed
sadly perturbed by the suddenness of her
appearance.

Where is your husband, dear ? " she asked.

nervously. " Are you alone '? and is it not
very late for you to be travelling by yourself 1
Is anything wrong, dear Lucia ? It seems so
strange ! "

She looked up into her daughter's face with
something of the old deprecation of manner, as
if half doubtful whether she wasn't going beyond
her rights in pressing these inquiries, and
by so doing called forth in Lucia's mind the
same feeling of yearning, half-pitying tenderness,
which had always been the form in which
her love for her mother manifested itself. She
decided at once she would not trouble her
mother's peace of mind and endanger her rest
that night.

I am quite well," she said, evasively, "and
so is Hugh. My coming was such a sudden
thought, we had no time to write, and I knew
my darling was sure to be always found at
home. You are glad to see me 1 "

Mrs Prescott met the wistful look, felt the
pathetic ring in the dear familiar voice, and
her eyes filled suddenly with tears.

Glad to see you, clear ? Yes ; but I wish
Hush had come too. Is he coming; tomorrow
? "

You will hear from him tomorrow. His
arrangements are not quite fixed," replied Lucia,
with difficulty ; " but, you know, we are obliged
to leave Hawthorndene."

Mrs Prescott felt relieved. Here, no doubt,
lay the solution of a mystery she had felt was
painful.

To be sure ! " she said ; " I understand
now. It is a very grievous business, dear  it
cannot be right ! "

She began to ask questions, which Lucia did
her best to answer without betraying how faraway
this matter was from the trouble of her
mind. While talking, she laid aside her bonnet
and cloak, and pushed back the hair from her
forehead with the gesture habitual to her when
sad and weary. Her mother was at once recalled
to her neglected duties.

My dear, how forgetful I am ! You must
be quite faint for want of something to eat ;

but, you know, everything is locked up at this
time of night. I will go to cook's room."

Before Lucia could protest she wanted nothing,
there was a knock at the door, and Willis
entered, beaming, with a supper-tray, on which
he had arranged a dainty little meal, with a due
regard to his young lady's affectionately remembered
tastes. He placed it with functional
stolidity, oddly contradicted by the twinkle in
his eye, on a table before her, adding, as he
retired 

Please, ma'am, Madeira  I remember you
could never abide sherry."

Thanks ! " said Lucia, almost too warmly ;
for when the heart has been grievously wounded,
every common act of consideration becomes
a boon for which to be grateful. Then her
mother came to the table to pour out the wine,
and choose the daintiest morsels, that she might
be tempted to eat and drink ; and although a
few moments before Lucia would have said it
was impossible for her to touch food, now that
it was actually before her, she found she was

really sick Avitli exhaustion, and that her
healthy youth was prepared to vindicate its
natural claims to appetite. Her mother sat
near her, pleasing herself with waiting upon
her, and observing the signs of reviving
animation.

It reminds me," she said, smiling, " of the
time when you and Helen were children, and
used to sit up to supper as a great treat, and
we were homely enough to dine at two o'clock.
At least, my dear, you have both been happy
in your marriage  it would have broken my
heart otherwise ; there could not be a kinder
husband than Philip Lorimer, and if ever a
girl loved a man dearly, Lucia, you loved
your Hugh. As I sit alone here I often think
about it all, and admire the courage and trust
you showed. I could not have been so brave,
dear ! Trouble is easy to bear when man and
wife love each other like that."

Had she spoken with intent to wound, she
could not have pierced her daughters heart
more cruelly ; it was with great difficulty she

could help betraying lier distress, for Lucia
was not skilled in heroic self-control.

*' Mother, dear," she said, " let me be a child
again in another way to-night, and come and
sleep in your bed, as Helen and I used to do
when papa was away from home  taking it in
turns ! May 11"

My darling, of course you may, if you wish
it. And we will read a chapter and have
prayers together, like the old times. Ah me ! I
often wish my girls were children once again."

Mrs Prescott's pale face was flushed with
tender excitement ; she went back to her former
place and began to turn over the leaves of the
open Bible with a hand that shook a little.

Come and sit near me," she said, with a
fond glance at Lucia, " and choose the chapter,
as you liked to do when you were a
little girl."

Lucia rose, and taking a low stool sat down
at her mothers feet, and leaned against her
knees  it had been her favourite position in the
happy innocent days gone by. She felt as if

her heart were breaking : more self-condemned
in the quiet light of her mother's simplicity
than she had yet felt before.

I cannot choose," she said, in a broken voice;
"you know best."

I will ]sad the fifteenth chapter of St Luke,
because you were always so fond of it, and my
daughter has returned to me to-night when I
did not look for her ; though," passing her hand
tenderly over the bowed head, " I thank God,
not as a prodigal ! Do you remember," she
continued, for happiness had made her talkative,
"how your sister used to shock me by
saying she felt so sorry for the eldest son, and
thought he was not treated fairly ? but then
Helen was always very bold ! "

The good woman began to read in slow and
measured accents, for she thought the Word of
God required an intonation peculiar to itself;
but in spite of her formality the familiar narrative
never before had seemed to include such
power and such pathos to her listener.

It is one thing to listen to a lesson taught, a

sentence pronounced, which is common to the
whole huTiian race, and quite another to realise
that the Divine voice, hushed to a whisper, is
speaking to the individual ear. Some such
consciousness as this entered Lucia's soul as
she sat motionless, her tearful eyes bent upon
her hands.

I will arise  I will arise, and go to my
father : " why, she had heard the words week
by week since infancy, but they had another
inflection now. Not prodigal ? Never so much as
at that moment, when she knelt by her mother's
side, had she comprehended how wide her deviation
had been from absolute right and duty.

It was true no outward response had escaped
her to Everard's intemperate prayers, but at
heart the same desires moved her. Had she not
yearned to yield the kisses she rejected, and to
feel, if only for a moment, his heart beating
against her own ? Even now, while saying
"Amen" to her mother's prayer, did she not
know that the love of her childhood had gone
out, and that the illicit flame was burning with

a heat that threatened to consume her happiness
and her virtue ?

Threatened ? Yes ; but it was a threat that
should not be fulfilled. She was still young
and beautiful, with probably a long life before
her. God helping her, she would lift it up
again by penitence and atonement into the clear
atmosphere of difficult but necessary duty.

She would compel her husband to render back
to her his esteem : she would delight by deliberate,
unwearied effort the flame of conjugal
love, and never desist till the spark answered
the blast.

She lay awake all night by her sleeping
mother's side, seeming to gather strength and
peace from the peace she could not share ; then,
when daylight came, she rose softly, went to the
bath-room she had used from childhood, dressed,
and wandered about the garden, drinking in the
sweet morning scents and sounds, and bathing
her weary eyes in the pure air. There she renewed
her vows, fortifying herself against the
troubles before her. Conflict and denial would

VOL. in. G

be her portion  the martyrdom of life at sea
and estrangement from what she loved best ;
but it is always the forlorn-hope out of which
possible victory may be wrung, that stirs to
its depth the ardour of the true soldier.

After breakfast she told her story to her
mother  told it with a transparent truthfulness
which few women could have exhibited, butin
which she was unconscious of the smallest
merit.

Mrs Prescott received it with more self-command
than Lucia had dared to hope. She did
not interrupt her by reproaches, or any outbreak
of consternation, nor did she drop the hand she
was holding. The news cut her to the heart ;
but how could she condemn one stricken under
the sense of her guilt, or point out where duty
had been transgressed and what it now demanded,
when Lucia's eager self-blame and good
resolutions for the future exceeded the most
rigorous demands ?

Also, that the trespass had been confined
within her own breast was a greater extenuation

of the fault in the eyes of the elder than
of the younger woman. Lucia's sin had been
neither open nor wilful, and she was bent on
giving no quarter to it.

God help you, dear, and soften your husband's
heart towards you ! " she said at last.
I fear he will be hard to win back."

Then she added : " I always knew Everard
Deane was a bad and dangerous man : had I
been bold to do my duty, these things would
not have happened."

An hour later Hugh Marriott's threatened
letter arrived. As her mother opened it Lucia
saw that the pages were closely written, and the
colour came into her face. Perhaps she had no
right to claim forbearance from him ; but for
his own sake as well as hers, she hoped he had
borne in mind that he was writing of a daughter
to her mother.

I will go away while you read it," she said ;
it will be better for both of us."

When she returned after what seemed to hera
reasonable interval, she found the letter folded,

and put back in its envelope, and her mother
leaning back in her chair, with cheeks paler
even than usual, and eyes red with weeping.

*' Mother," said Lucia approaching, and
kneeling at her feet, " I hardly dare to ask if
you still forgive me ? "

She took the passive hand in hers that was
lying on the lap, and raised her sweet pathetic
face. " Be kind to me," she urged, " or my
heart will break 1 "

Mrs Prescott opened her eyes and looked at
her, and her daughter saw, to her exquisite
relief, that the old tenderness of pity was
there.

*' My dear," she answered, " he is very severe,
but one can scarcely say that he is wrong. If
you have told me all the truth, he does not seem
clearly to understand ; it will be very hard, I
fear, to win his forgiveness. I think you had
better not read the letter."

I will do as you wish, but I know he intended
me to read it, and I shall understand
better how to act towards him."

This seemed undeniable, and Mrs Prescott
put the letter in her hand.

It was a sincere statement of the writer's
belief and frame of mind ; but the one was so
false and exaggerated, and the other so hard
and vindictive, that the result was difficult to
read without indignation, and impossible to accept
with submission. As Lucia followed line
after line, in which her infidelity was characterised
by terms due only to the grossest and most
wilful transgression, her heart burned within
her, and she asked herself if it would be possible
for her to endure this cruel yoke ?

She had doubted whether the circumstance
of the discovery of the pearls might not have
wrought a change in her husband's intentions for
the future, inducing him to insist upon a separation
; but she found this was not to be the case.

He went into full detail about the Hawthorn-done
estates, bringing against Deane the same
accusations he had used to his face, and reviling
him as the incarnation of evil ; but he also added
he was coming up to town himself almost immediately

; that he had every prospect of being
appointed to a good ship that was bound for
survey service in Australian waters ; and that
he was still resolved to take his wife with him,
in order that she might not be further tempted
above what she was able to bear.

He concluded by expressing this sorrow at
being the medium of a communication so painful
to a mother, and conjured her to look well
after his wife while under her care.

I think I should be justified in leaving the
man who can think and write of me like this'
said Lucia, " but that is not the point. My task
is to convince him that he judges me wrong,
and win him back to trust and love. I want to
redeem the past, not to throw our future into
this miserable gulf of bitterness and injustice ;
besides, I must remember it is my fault which
has made him so harsh and unforgiving."

Her mother looked at her gravely.

*' Is the fault yours alone ? " she asked.
Have you not a word of blame for  the
other man V

Lucia returned the gaze with a pained and
startled look.

*' I do not knoY," she said. " I never yet
have blamed him ; he has broken no marriage
vows, and spoiled no life but his own. No ; if
I speak the truth, as God knows it, I do not
blame him."

Mrs Prescott shook her head.

My poor child," she answered, with a sternness
she occasionally used, "your husband is
more right than I supposed ; sin has blinded
your conscience and your judgment. It is well
he is going to take you away."

Another incident occurred at this time which
it is necessary to mention.

The packet of Hugh Marriott's letters
which had been intercepted by Mr Prescott,
had been carefully preserved by him, tied together
and labelled according to their dates ;
after his daughter's marriage he had chanced
upon them one day, and handed them over to
his wife.

"Give them to Lucia," he said; "she is so

soft about her husband, she may even care to
read his old love-letters ! "

The idea occurred to Mrs Prescott's mind
that the present would be a very favourable
season for brinorino these letters under the
notice of the unhappy wife ; they would stir
tender memories, and their ardour and faith
would surely pierce and quicken the alienated
heart. Undoubtedly they would have done so
had their winning effect remained unqualified.
Lucia read them with distressed and tender
interest, recalling all the incidents of the time,
and how she had pined for the fond and
faithful assurances so cruelly withheld.

But the last she opened was the letter which
Hugh Marriott had written after seeing her and
Everard Deane in Kew Gardens, and which, as
stated before, was a grossly violent and unmanly
expression of feeling. Had she received it
when written she would scarcely have believed
it possible that it could have been penned by
her gallant and generous lover, as she thought
him ; but since that time she had seen enough

of harshness, that reached to cruelty, and violence
which sacrificed every restraint and consideration
to itself, to doubt the authenticity
of the letter.

No passionate burst of feeling escaped her as
she folded up the sheet, restored it to its cover,
and tied up the packet as before ; the sensation
she experienced was rather that of a mortal
sickness or faintness of heart.

Had she ever received that letter, she felt she
would never have married him, not so much
because he doubted and misjudged her, as because
all delicacy and self-restraint were lost in
the expression of his wrongs. When she surrendered
her love and her life into his hands
with such implicit confidence, he had already
given proof of his capacity to wound and outrage
every sensibility she possessed, only  she
did not know it. But if that knowledge had
come to her !

She closed her eyes, and leaned her head
wearily against the back of her chair ; it was
a moment of uttermost weakness and defeat.

All the incidents of the meeting in Kew
Gardens passed in vivid review before her memory
; the self-command of Everard Deane, even
at the very moment when he found he had been
shamefully deceived,  his forbearance and kindness
towards herself, repeated to the extreme
reach of personal sacrifice in the days and
months that followed. She recalled the terms
in which he had himself described that period,
even to the precise words in which his long-repressed
passion bad found vent ; as well as the
inflection of his voice, and the expression of the
face, each lineament of which was clear to her
mind's eye. And later still, only a few days
ago, the same voice had urged the same confession
with a more reckless ardour, it was true,
but still held within the bounds of tender consideration
for her own weakness. She began
to wonder what had given her strength to resist
him so effectually ; to believe that if ever
she met his eyes, or touched his hand again,
that powder  whatever it was  would desert
her, and her heart would cry out its burning

secret ; nay, more, she was conscious of the desire
that the chance might be given her to tell
him that she loved him, and that though she
would not yield her honour to their love, she
would willingly give up her life to end the
conflict.

He had spoken of being moved " by the mad
ambition to make her happy at all costs to
himself." He was right to call it madness; had
he been less magnanimous, both had been less
miserable.

Her mind seemed to have entirely escaped the
restraints in which she had hitherto held it ;
she went over every circumstance in her life in
which Everard had directly or indirectly borne
a part ; the stories that had reached her  not of
his munificence, for that was easy enough fora
rich man  but of his sympathetic kindness
to those in trouble of mind, body, or estate.
It was not to her only he had been good ! She
thought of the personal charm of his manner 
not, again, to her only, but the gracious sweetness
which was as free to all as the light and

warm til of heaven, and bound all hearts to him ;
of the quiet courage and patience with which
hours of sharp and solitary suffering were endured,
and were probably yet again to be
endured in the years that were to come.

Years that were to come ! Would life be
possible to bear if she knew of his sickness
and distress when the width of the earth
divided them ? or, without that aggravation
so potent over a tender woman's heart, was
not so cruel a separation almost worse than
death itself?

Everard ! " she whispered, stretching out
her arms into the empty air, " I love you.
You do not know it, and I know it all too
late, but I loved you as long as you have
loved me."

The spoken words broke up her reverie : her
arms dropped by her side, and she sighed profoundly.


I have spoken the truth," she said to herself,
*' though that truth is now my misery and
my shame. Everard was dearer to me than

Hugh, though I was blind and deaf, and had
no power to read my own heart right. It will
not help me to do my hard duty to try and
cheat my own soul ; let me know at least
against what power it is that I shall have to
ficrht ! "

CHAPTER XXXVII.

When a man has made up his mind to give up
everything that is claimed of him, without any
reservation at all, it becomes a very simple
business. The motives which at one time had
prompted Hugh Marriott to dispute the possession
of Hawthorndene had yielded now to
a contemptuous and angry impatience to wash
his hands of all connection with it.

The place had become hateful to him ; the
sight of Lucia's piano, work-table, and books, 
the countless small indications of her presence
that a delicate and fastidious woman leaves
behind her, provoked in his mind a bitterness
of which he was scarcely the master.

He had been the dupe of her sweetness, her
docility, her seeming innocence ; he had relied

with confidence upon the belief of her devotion
and fidelity, or rather, had never conceived the
idea of questioning them, and all the time she
was playing him false.

Also, he had been swindled and cajoled by
the lover she had chosen, and made, if not the
laughing-stock of society by his ridiculous advancement
to a position of which he was afterwards
to be deprived, at least the mark of its
insufferable condolence and pity. He had been
lifted up and struck down at Everard Deane's
will and pleasure ; this man had supplanted
him before marriage in the heart of the girl he
adored and trusted, while professing indifference
and goodwill, and had afterwards deliberately
set himself to compass her downfall. But
for his own chance interposition, he would no
doubt have gone on till the bitter end had been
reached. He objected to the bondage of conjugal
ties, but another man's wife was the
mistress he preferred.

Hugh gnashed his teeth in his miserable
solitude as these thoughts pressed upon him ;

he fed upon them till his hatred of Deane
became so vindictive that the idea of some
direct personal vengeance haunted him night
and day.

How sweet and pure was Lucia till his infected
breath soiled and corrupted her ! How
perfect might his happiness have been if the
course of their early loves had run smooth, and
this bad man never set eyes of desire upon his
one ewe lamb !

He could not waylay and murder him  that
is, he could not shoot him unawares, for his
own life would pay the penalty; and he was
scarcely prepared to satisfy his thirst for vengeance
at so tremendous a cost.

But the mitigated satisfaction of personal
chastisement was still open to him  Deane had
refused to grant him any other. Even the
world would condone the action of a man who
testified in the only way in his power his burning
sense of the insult that had been offered to
his wife, and his own wrongs would be a trifle
appeased by the shame and disgrace he inflicted.

Everard Deane, known to have been thrashed
by Hugh Marriott, because he made love to his
wife, could never again bear himself with the
same offensive ease and assurance as before ; it
would be a humiliation that even time would
not efface nor the cleverest ingenuity gainsay,
and one that would be felt to the quick by
the fastidious and pampered villain who had
merited it.

His mind dwelt upon the idea with morbid
concentration ; he began constantly to rehearse
the scene in his imagination, till his blood
warmed and his pulses throbbed with excitement.
He even selected a certain riding-whip,
at once tough and supple, as the best instrument
for his purpose, and carried it about with
him whenever he went off his own premises,
either on foot or horseback.

Whatever his business, his eyes were always
engaged in searching road, or field, or lane for
the figure he at once detested and desired. In
his intercourse with his friendly neighbours,
the casual references to Everard Deane almost

VOL. III. H

drove him into indecent self-betrayal ; he could
scarcely endure to hear the name mentioned.

The process in which Hugh was at the same
time engaged  namely, the complete surrender
of all that made up a position on which he
had set a high value, helped to stimulate his
rancour. On this score also, that of his own
social defeat, he had a debt to wipe out.

The desired opportunity came at last.

It was now the beginning of September,
a season Hugh Marriott had always greatly
enjoyed, for he was a keen sportsman and excellent
shot, and the Hawthorndene preserves
were well kept. But under present circumstances,
he disdained to have a gun fired on the
estate. He was returning from one of a series
of farewell visits to his home-farm, and was ina
mood of sour regret and heart-ache ; he had
with him a favourite pointer, and was indulging
in the very doubtful satisfaction of walking
through a turnip-field and trying to divert his
mind by seeing how many coveys of partridges
he and his dog might rise between them.

The field was skirted by a picturesque copse,
through which a little stream took its way, and
where a rustic seat had been placed by its late
owner, Lady Portisham, for the accommodation
of any pedestrian who wished to rest and enjoy
the pretty seclusion of the place. It was the
shortest cut to the house, and Hugh often returned
that way from his farm. As he leaped
over the gate that separated field from copse,
he saw what he never remembered to have seen
before, that the seat was occupied, and the next
glance told him it was by the man whom he
had been seeking so honos in vain.

CD O

The surprise was so overpowering in connection
with the passion and purpose that rose at
once to fever-point in his mind, that Hugh
leaned against the gate for a few moments to
recover his composure. He held his whip in
his hand, and his fingers closed upon it with
an eager straitened grasp : his enemy was so
absolutely in his power that he could afford
to wait and arrange his mode of attack. He
perceived at once that Everard had not heard

him ; the seat was at some distance from tHe
place where Hugh stood, and he saw, with the
contempt which a man of active habits invariably
entertains for the sedentary student, that
the other held a book in his hand, on which his
attention seemed profoundly fixed.

The morning was intensely close and sultry,
and the silence unbroken, until the dog at
Hugh's feet began moving in the long grass
and rustling some of the dead leaves which
were already beginning to fall.

Everard's ears were acute ; he detected the
sound, and looked towards the spot whence it
proceeded ; at the same moment Hugh came
forward.

Everard rose and put his book in his pocket ;
his first intention had been to meet Hugh halfway,
but there was something so menacing in
his aspect that he waited quietly till he came
up to him.

He had fully resolved, should any circumstance
bring him face to face with Hugh Mar-riot,
to make an effort to disarm his displeasure

against Lucia, by giving what explanations
were possible, and even for her sake to offer
some guarantees for his own forbearance in
the future ; but it was out of the question
to do this in view of the hate and fury in
Hugh's countenance.

Everard turned a little pale. He was no
coward, but he had a natural shrinking from
brutal violence either of speech or action ; he
kept a watchful eye upon Hugh as he strode
up to him, but waited for him to speak first.
Hugh did not keep him long in suspense.

'you will be surprised to hear me say weare
well met this morning, Mr Deane. I have
been on the look-out for such an opportunity
as this since  since I saw you last. No doubt
the circumstances of that meeting are as fresh
in your recollection as in mine, and Mrs Marriott
is not present now to serve you as a screen
or shelter. On that occasion you refused the
satisfaction I demanded, but it was never my
intention you should escape the punishment you
deserve. Will you take it now ? "

He stretched out his hand as if to seize the
other by the collar, and cut the air with his
whip.

Everard stepped back instinctively, but with
his eyes still fixed on Marriott's face, which was
working with passion. The situation, rapidly
considered on all sides, appeared to him as one
from which there was no honourable escape.
He could scarcely turn and flee.

It would be less brutal to shoot me," he
said, with quiet contempt ; " but if nothing
else will serve your purpose, strike on ! I
should have no chance in a struggle against
thews and sinews such as yours."

He folded his arms and waited. An oath
burst from Hugh's lips  was he to be balked
in his vengeance by the consummate effrontery
of the man, or restrained by the look of steadfast
scorn in his eyes ?

He spurred his shrinking manhood to the
outrage, and threw all the vigour of his arm
into the first stroke of the whip ; but before
it had descended a second time, there was a

sweeping tempestuous rush through the long
grass, a deep ominous howl, and the sudden
spring of a dog at the assailant's throat, partially
evaded by a quick movement on Marriott's
part.

For God's sake drop that whip," cried
Everard, " or you are lost beyond redemption !
Down, Victrix, down ! " he said, in a voice that
shook a little with agitation, and laying his
hand on Hugh's shoulder to persuade the
animal of their friendly relations.

The hound, which still held the collar of
Hugh's coat in her fangs, trembled with the
passion of repressed vengeance through every
nerve of her body ; but her master's voice was
paramount over instinct, or obedience was an
instinct stronger still. She relaxed her hold, and
slunk quivering to Deane's foot, her tongue protruding
from her open jaws, and her eyes fixed
on Marriott. She stirred ominously in response
to every movement he made. Everard sat
down on the bench, near which they were still
standing, and called off the dog to the same

distance, caressing and tranquillising it with
his hand.

Go," he said after a moment's pause of
hesitation, " I can scarcely secure your safety,
and  even such as you are  I should be sorry
to see Victrix avenge my quarrel."

Hugh set his teeth hard, stifling the rage
within him. While choosing words to vent
the madness of his defeat and disappointment,
he stooped involuntarily to pick up the whip
lying at his feet, but was compelled to the
bitter mortification of dropping it again at
Everard's quick word of command. Turning
round, he saw it was with the utmost difficulty
he had been able to maintain his hold upon the
blood-hound's collar ; the animal was watching
every movement of his enemy, and thirsting to
bury her fangs in his flesh.

You will have to retreat, Lieutenant Marriott,
and leave your trophies on the field. It
is a curious question to my mind how far your
brutality would have carried you had Victrix
not come to the rescue."

I should not have been long in reaching
the limits of your fortitude," answered Hugh,
with a sneer ; "but I would have stopped this
side of murder. I aimed to teach you a lesson,
the moral of which you should have been
unable to keep to yourself, but I was not prepared
to contend against a savage brute. Once
more, will you cross the Channel and fight after
what has occurred to-day'? or have you not had
provocation enough ? "

"No," replied Everard quietly, and still keeping
his restraining hand on the dog at his feet,
"I refuse once for all to satisfy your lust of vengeance
; even the lawful desire to punish your
brutal cowardice does not overcome my resolution
on the point." He stopped, then added :
There is something damaging in contact with
a man like you. I am free to own it cost
me an effort just now to call off Victrix from
her prey. You have given me new views of
human nature. God help those who lie at
your mercy ! "

He got up and walked slowly away, Victrix

following close at his heels. Hugh watched
them out of sight, every passion of his soul
stimulated and envenomed.

'when we next meet' he said to himself,
again stooping to recover his whip, " it shall
not be to part like this. He shall yet pay
his penalty."

CHAPTEE Xxxvii

This incident so abortive in itself, turned the
current of events in the lives of the two men
and the woman most intimately concerned.

Without it their history would have run on
other lines and reached a different conclusion.

When Everard Deane expressed to Lady
Hamilton his desire to retrieve the evil he
had done by any personal sacrifice, he was
thoroughly in earnest ; he thought it both possible
and desirable that a reconciliation should
be effected between husband and wife, because
such a reconciliation was the best way of promoting
Lucia's happiness.

But now all his views were reversed. To leave
her to Hugh Marriott was to abandon her to
irredeemable misery : granting that he stopped

short of personal outrage  and on this point
Everard was by no means assured  his temper
was such as would make the yoke he would impose
impossible to bear. If he were allowed to
take Lucia to sea with him and put her down
on some forlorn Australian station, it was only
a question of time how long she would live :
that was, how long the process of certain heartbreak
would be protracted.

His sense of the personal insult he had received
and the temper it had betrayed, was
keen almost to agony,  he quivered in every
nerve as he recalled the lash of Marriott's whip.
Henceforth the most wire-drawn code of honour
could demand no further terms to be kept between
them. No ; his scruples, his sacrifices,
his conflict were over : his love for Lucia was a
holy sentiment in spite of conventional ties, in
comparison with the jealous selfishness that did
duty for love in her husband's heart ; and the
future he could osier her was surely to be preferred
to the degrading slavery of a higher to a
lower nature. Hitherto he had stood too far

off  sued with bated breath  hesitated to force
her love and will ; now no restraints should
bind him. He would win her at any price.

He paced his room in a tumult of feeling
that went beyond his practised self-control. It
was almost the first time that the possibility of
possessing Lucia had been seriously contemplated
by him, and now he declared to himself that
this end should be accomplished. A woman
was by instinct a subtle deceiver ; it might be,
after all, that she loved him although she had
hitherto maintained her fidelity : in that case
he would win her secret from her by all the
wiles and resources of love known to him ; in
the other he would teach her the lesson, even
against her will, so that she could not resist
him.

Before the dinner-bell rang that day at
Hurstpoint, he had given Pietro orders to pack
his portmanteau and prepare for a journey by
the night-mail to town.

One heavy anxiety weighed upon his mind.
He would have given a great deal if he could

have managed to keep his movements a secret
from his father  rather, if he could have separated
his fate from his ; but that was impossible,
and he could not reconcile it to his conscience
to absent himself from home without explanation
or leave-taking.

As soon as the ladies had left the dinner-table
he began at once, without preface or
hesitation.

I am going to run up to town to-night fora
few days. I hope you will have no objection
to make ? "

You are your own master, Everard, and
to ask my assent after your arrangements are
made is an idle formality. Had you consulted
me on the subject, I should have expressed a
very decided opinion."

Will you not express it now ? it might
have the desired effect."

The old man looked at his son and shook his
head. The gradations of moral feeling are extremely
delicate, but each produces its appropriate
result, and there was something in the

expression of Everard's face, even in the tone of
his voice and turn of his manner, different from
what it had been of late. The difference was
on the wrong side of the account.

''I fear you are bound on a bad business,
Everard ; but I don't deceive myself by imagining
that my interference will do any good. You
are in pursuit of George Prescott's daughter, and
such intrigues turn out badly nowadays. Think
the matter over again  how it will look a year
hence, or less, and be warned for once ! "

I am past warning, but I don't deny your
conclusions."

1 have never been able to understand''
continued Mr Deane, angrily, " why you gave
this girl up, and have hankered after her ever
since ! Is it that nothing is worth having in
your eyes until it is out of your reach ? My
son," he added solemnly, " I have a presentiment
of coming evil if you carry out this scheme
of yours. Humour an old man's weakness, and
stay at home ! You disappoint me grievously,
Everard."

"Ay, and myself too ! but this time the devil
has entered into me beyond your power of exorcism.
I played for high stakes, and have lost ;
I was fool enough to say I would make this girl
happy in her own way, and could do without
what I craved for. I have blundered throughout
the game ; I have a mind now to shuffle
the cards, and try if my luck is on the turn."

He got up from the table, and coming round
to his father, held out his hand : he looked pale
and haggard, and his eyes had a wild light in
them.

I can scarcely ask you to bid me Godspeed,"
he said, 'but at least let us part
friends. I shall put up at the Langham, so
you will know where to write. I shall be glad
to hear from you " he stopped.

Mr Deane retained the delicate hand in his
large grasp, and looked into his face with an
expression that might have been stern but for
its profound sadness.

"It is in a sense a last farewell, Everard ;
you will never return again as you have been.

to your home or your duty. It would have
been better for both of us that you had never
come back at all than to cheat my hopes in this
way  the remembrance of the last two happy
years will only add to my disappointment.
What a mockery it all seems ! Was it for
such a miserable ending as this that you were
given back to my prayers, almost from the
jaws of the grave ? I appeal from this madness
to your better nature ; give up this frantic
journey, Everard  I command, I entreat
you!"

He rose as he spoke, for his son was standing,
and placing his hands on his shoulders, gazed
down into the gloomy, downcast face, with
knitted brows.

Peace never came of an illicit union yet,"
he went on. '' If one thing more than another
is calculated to drive a man like you to the edge
of madness, it will be the bitter disappointment
and remorse that will come of having another
man's wife for your mistress."

Everard drew a deep breath of sharp pro-vol.

III. I

traced endurance ; his eyes flashed for a moment,
then grew cold and dull again.

Have you done ? " he asked. *' You have
fulfilled your duty in warning me ; but I told
you I was devil-possessed to-day, and should
be deaf to a voice from heaven  indeed, to
be deaf to yours is the worst impiety of all.
I don't know what to say, or why you love
me ; I have never deserved a tithe of the goodwill
that has been shown me, but that only
serves to make my condemnation greater. I  I
cannot stay I "

He pressed the hand he held in both of his,
and turned abruptly from the room.

But he was not yet destined to escape in
peace. As he crossed the wide staircase-landing
to go to his own room, he was met by
Beatrix Frascati. She had been standing atone
of the windows which looked out into the
park, but turned immediately on hearing his
footsteps. It seemed to Everard's strained
patience as if she had been lying in wait for
him. She came timidly in his direction.

'*I have heard you are going away to-night, and
have been waiting here to say good-bye to you."

There was an accent of reproach in her voice,
and Everard's heart was very sore  his repressed
irritability intense.

*' Then let us say it, mia cava," he answered
with careful gentleness, " though I am apt to
avoid saying it when I can. Bin; I am not
going away for ever''

Her beautiful eyes distended, and the corners
of her mouth fell in the pathetic, childish fashion
peculiar to her.

If you were," she replied,  and then she
paused, and covered her face with her hands.
He saw she was blushing painfully.

And if I were ? " he repeated, his tone taking
again its accustomed caressing accent.

''I was going to say I should wish you had
never taken me out of my convent."

He looked at her budding loveliness from
head to foot, and then at the tender sensibility
expressed in the eyes that were gazing into his
own, and sighed.

'' Perhaps I should have done better to have
left you there, little one  I am of Hamlet's
way of thinking in the main. But since you
are one of us in this wicked world, take care
to remember all the good sisters taught you.
Don't let any one persuade you out of your
religion, dear: it is the best in the world 
for women's

will recollect all you say," she said gently,
but it sounds like a long farewell."

He took both her little hands in his and
kissed them, without adding any more words.
The girl watched him till the closed door of the
room he entered shut him out of her sight, then
flying np to the sanctity of her own dainty
chamber, threw herself on her knees by her bedside,
flinging her arms before her, and burying
her face in them ; and in this posture she wept
and prayed in a passion of feeling she scarcely
understood.

The day after Everard Deane's arrival in
town, he set himself to accomplish a meeting
with Lucia Marriott. He knew she was at her

father's house at Richmond, where he himself,
up to the time of her marriage, had always been
a welcome visitor. What was to prevent his
o'oino there to seek her ?

He had passed a restless night, revolving the
chances for and against the attainment of the
object he had now deliberately set himself, and
the best modes of action to be employed, but
without any hesitation or abatement of purpose.
One point was certain ; he could decide
on nothing till he had seen Lucia again, and
ascertained beyond all doubt the state of her
feelings towards him.

He decided to go to Richmond. This time
there was no interruption to be feared. Hugh
Marriott was in Hertfordshire, with the necessity
of remaining there some days longer.

He rode slowly through the still September air,
but was singularly dead to the sights and sounds
of external things. As he threaded the glades
of the park, he thought of the former occasions
on which he had gone that way, with his mind
full of delicious anticipation or of tender reminiscences,

to be so soon succeeded by the bitter
conflict of disappointment and renunciation.
Again he wondered what had induced him to
carry it so far, and poured the acid of his own
contempt upon the chivalrous instincts which
had moved him.

He was admitted at once, there being no
reason to the contrary, and was shown, as in
the old times, into the pretty morning-room
where he had first seen Lucia studying the
book of the play. Willis had received no orders
from his mistress in respect to Everard Deane :
for it had never occurred to her mind that
he would have the effrontery to follow her
daughter to her mother's house, and the servant
was aware he was high in favour with his
master. He told Everard that Mr Prescott was
out of town, but that he believed the ladies were
at home, and left him to make the necessary
inquiries.

Everard waited a long time during which his
impatience became almost uncontrollable, and
when the door opened at last, it only admitted

Willis again, who came to explain that Mrs
Prescott was out and Mrs Marriott engaged, but
that she would see Mr Deane if he could make
it convenient to wait a little longer.

Yes, he would wait ; his time was quite at
Mrs Marriott's command," and then he was
left alone again.

It will probably be thought that Lucia was
hesitating as to the expediency of granting an
interview to her lover, or fortifying herself
against him, but this was not exactly the case.
She had formed a deliberate desire to see him
once more, and to say to him all that it seemed
well to say before the irrevocable separation was
accomplished.

Whether she was wise in this may well be
doubted; it was certain her courage and constancy
were now to be put to such a test as
had never been applied to them before.

But the immediate cause of her delay was
that her eyes were red with weeping, and she
did not wish to appear before him with these
signs of distress to move his sympathies ; so

she was bathing her eyes and aching head with
careful solicitude. The cause of her tears was
a letter from her husband which she had just
received. He announced that he should be in
town on the following day, with the intention of
proceeding almost immediately to Portsmouth;
that his appointment to the expected command
had been already received ; and that a week after
his arrival would suffice to complete his arrangements
before sailing for Australia. This alone
would have been intelligence sufficiently painful,
Lucia not having understood that such
cruel despatch was contemplated; but it was
given not only with complete absence of any
kind of consideration in her regard, but with
marked and deliberate harshness. Also, Hugh
took occasion again to impress upon his wife,
that in making her the companion of his exile,
he was performing a painful but imperative duty,
which her own guilt and weakness imposed.

The perusal of such a letter was not the best
preparation for resisting the arguments of a
resolute and insidious lover. Also, she had not

the protection of her mother's presence, Mrs
Prescott being absent on a visit to a sick friend,
from which her return was not expected for
some hours.

Circumstances could scarcely have been more
favourable for the triumph of good over evil,
and Lucia was going down into the battle with
a very imperfect sense of the strength of her
adversary.

CHAPTER Xxxix.

Life seems often to repeat itself.

As Lucia, pale, tearful, and anxious, entered
the room where Everard Deane was waiting for
lier, the situation seemed almost precisely the
same as when, two years before, she had come
in to receive him after the incident in Kew
Gardens. His mind, too, was as deeply agitated
now as then, with the momentous difference
that he was no longer animated by the
purpose of fulfilling a hard duty.

He was standing looking out into the garden
as the door opened, but turned, and advanced
at once to meet her. His eagerness to read the
expression of her face so as to interpret the
unexpected favour of her meeting him was
intense ; but he did not suffer such eagerness to

appear. His manner was as gently courteous
and solicitous as in their former relations, but
no more ; he was tremblingly alive to the
necessity of not scaring her. The sight of
her pallor and her tears shook his composure
a little, and added fresh impetus to his resolution.
After the first greeting was over,
there was a short pause, which he broke by
saying 

We have been friends so long that I may
venture to ask what new trouble has overtaken
you ? There have been times in the past when
you have suffered me to help you  in a blundering
fashion enough, but I will do my best not
to blunder again. Will you tell me what has
happened ? "

His voice was liquid with that note of sympathetic
comprehension which is the most
alluring of human influences: he raised his
eyes and looked at her. if

Up to this moment Lucia had been standing.
As he met her glance in response to the question
he had asked her, he observed that her cheek

Event a little paler, and that she trembled slightly.
He pushed a chair towards her.

Will you not sit down ? " he said. " I had
no right to question you  I who have made you
suffer so much already! I am come to-day not
to add, I hope, to any troubles you may have to
bear, but to ask you if it may not be in my
power to lighten them. Lucia, will you deal
quite truly with me ? "

So far as is right, I think I will," she answered,
in tones so low he could scarcely catch
them.

Have I cost you much pain since we met
last ; and is your feeling for me that of loathing
and condemnation, for the folly and wickedness
of which I was guilty  as it may appear to your
innocent mind ? Are you going to cast me out
of your friendship as one unworthy ? Lucia,
you must not do that  I cannot live under your
displeasure."

I am not displeased," she answered, still in
the same low voice as if communing with her
own heart; " and I have no ripest to condemn

you. The love of one human creature for another
must surely be too precious a thing to reject
with anger or disdain, even though it must be
rejected, and ought not to have been offered.
And then I blame myself so much ! "

How ? " he asked.

** I should have understood before I was married
what I learnt too late afterwards  how
much you had sacrificed for me. I was so
blind, because I was entirely taken up with my
own troubles and interests "

Too late ! " he interrupted her ; '' what do
you mean by ' too late ' 1 "

He came nearer to her as he spoke, and she
could not fail to see how strong were the feelings
he was holding under difficult restraint, but
her courage did not fail her. She had set herself
a task she meant to carry out to the end. Instead
of faltering before his glance, she encountered
it firmly with her sweet and tender eyes.

You may, perhaps, have thought it strange
and unbecoming .in me to meet you this morning,
remembering all that has gone before, but

I have so much I want to say to you that I have
risked the appearance of doing wrong ; only you
must be good enough to hear me quietly. You
see how firm a trust I have in your honour and
forbearance when I come alone, quite alone, into
your presence like this ; but I cannot imagine
that such unhappiness and weakness as mine
could move you to any other feeling than the
wish to try and give me the help and comfort
that I need."

He turned away from her with a groan.

You have all the cruel provocations of your
sex, Lucia, but I will forbear a little longer."

I should not have felt justified in seeing
you to-day," she continued, " except it had been
to bid you good-bye. I mean, I should never
have dared to tell you the truth had there been
any possibility of our meeting afterwards. But
we are going to Australia next week  that is
the other side of the earth,"  with a little smile
" and I feel that before I could cleanse my
soul, and turn to a better life, I must make my
deathbed confession."

Her eyes were full of tears, but there was a
great restraint about her manner that seemed to
hold him under a spell of quiet.

"My husband is very bitter against me, as
you heard, and you thought that he reproached
me unjustly, and that I was bearing the punishment
of your fault. When, in his anger, he
sent me away from home, you thought again I
did not deserve such treatment, but  you were
mistaken ! Long before that day I had laid
my heart open to his condemnation : I had a
miserable shameful secret that I could not keep,
except from you  and now, even from you, I
do not desire to keep it."

Everard came forward and knelt at her feet ;
the face he lifted to hers was pale with rapture 
every line seemed touched with an aspect that
bordered on inspiration ; he looked as a devotee
might look at the shrine of a discovered deity.

You love me, Lucia, at last I  you love
me ? "

He clasped his arms about her waist, and
offered his lips to hers.

Seal your words," he said, in a voice perilous
with the strength and sweetness of his
passion. "You love me, Lucia!"

For a moment she hesitated ; gazing into his
face until she felt her own checked and disciplined
ardour running into heat and disorder
beneath his gaze. It was not possible to carry
renunciation  not for her so much as for himself
 to its extremest limits : it would be cruelty
and mockery to exact from him all that her pure
abstinence could have foregone. She laid her
hands lightly on his shoulders, and bending towards
him, suffered her lips to meet his ; but
when he would have taken her in his arms and
exhausted the sweetness he had scarcely tasted,
she uttered a low cry, and struggled to be free.

He released her at once, and looked at her
with grieved surprise.

What do you mean ? " he asked. '' You
said you loved me, Lucia ? "

I love you, Everard, but I am not free to
love you. I could not go away for ever, and
let you continue to think of me as one better

than yourself, when it is so far otherwise ; nor
could I go away without permitting myself the
sad comfort of seeing you once again, and bidding
you a last farewell. I kissed you," she
added, with dimming eyes, " as we kiss those
we shall see no more in this world."

He stood up and clasped his hands before his
eyes as if to shut out a sight that tempted him
beyond control.

'' You will drive me mad," he said. " I do
not understand ! You have come to me to tell
me that you love me  you have come to me to
dismiss me for ever ! But if you love me, you
are mine, and I will hold you, with or without
your own consent. Can you conceive I shall
let you go ? "

He came towards her, but contented himself
with drawing a chair near hers, and pouring
out his pleadings in her ears.

"Let me show you," he urged, "where our
true happiness lies  ay, and our duty too 
separated from the mists and prejudices of
opinion."

VOL. III. K

And then he went on to describe to her the
life that they would lead together  satisfied,
healed, ennobled bj their mutual love ; lifted
above the influence of the world's censure,
which would leave their blessedness unscathed.

Few men were better qualified to fortify the
arguments and support the sophistries which
help to prop a fool's paradise. And in this case
the advocate was himself a sincere believer in
the truth of his cause ; so that the strength of
his own convictions was hard to resist, and
harder still the appear to the proofs he had
given in the past of devotion and disinterestedness.


Lucia leant back in her chair and listened
with closed eyes, from which the tears fell
silently. She made no attempt to interrupt him.
Was it not the last time his voice would sound
in her ears ? and was it not also as well for his
own peace of mind, although he tortured hers,
that he should exhaust such arguments before
she answered him ?

'* I have thought of all this myself," she said,

when at length he paused ; *' and I do believe
what it is given to few women to believe, that
were I so unhappy as to cast in my lot with
yours, I should never hear a reproach from your
lips, or miss, while life lasted, that perfect kindness
which you show to all, but which as shown
to me I have felt as almost irresistible. But
such a life I could not lead. Perhaps I might
learn to bear the burden of my own shame, but
the thought that I had linked a heart and mind
like yours to daily association with dishonour
would kill me. There could never be an upward
look, an upward thought ; we should drag
each other down to a depth almost beyond the
mercy of God."

She spoke with an earnestness and solemnity
that he had never heard from her lips before,
and which distilled through his senses like ice
or frost.

He shivered a little, and stretching out his
hand, took hold of hers, lying passively in her
lap, as if to recover the bond between them.
She did not withhold it ; and just because her

dignity was so simple and confiding, he held it
in a light and almost hesitating grasp.

'' You talk like a holy child," he said ; " but
I cannot argue any more, I can only plead. I
plead your own words against you  that you
strengthen your purpose out of regard to my
welfare. Is it so \ And in the same breath
you tell me you will leave me to live my
desperate life alone ; you love me and you
abandon me ! Oh, my dear, let your pity and
goodness take another form ! I have none of
the elasticity of youth remaining, but am
bruised and shaken a good deal with the conflict
of life. You have the touch to heal, the
balm to apply, and I beseech you to fulfil your
office  not to pass by on the other side and
call it virtue and religion ! "

He stopped a moment, but she did not answer,
and he went on.

'' Don't believe that I have not struojorled
against this love of mine,  that I have not felt
in every nerve the sweetness and the holiness
of goodness  even that I have not protested and

rebelled against the power you were exercising
over me ! But it has all been in vain ; there is
nothing sacred to me but your love  no duty
possible unless the woman I adore will help me
to live my life ! "

He strained the hand he held against his lips
and breast, then, looking into her pale averted
face, he flung it from him.

Why have you played with me like this T'
he said, in accents that cut her to the heart.
Did I ask for the confession of your love  the
cruel womanly torture of showing me what you
refused to give ? You don't know what you
are doing ; you measure my love and despair
by the little shallow pang that makes your heartache."


Perhaps," she answered, '' I judged unwisely,
and should have kept my secret. My feeling
was, not to enter on the new life before me with
the burden of an unconfessed sin on my conscience
 that it was not honest to leave you
with such a mistaken idea of my goodness.
I have broken bonds which did not hold you,

and vows which you have never made. I
have spoiled the life of a good man who loved
me  whom I once loved  very dearly. And,
in the future, it follows justly that my punishment
will be the hardest to bear." She stopped
a little to steady her voice. " I wish," she
added, " I could bear yours too  the worst
thought of all is that I have made you suffer.
Everard, I will pray God day and night that
you may forget me ! "

Do ! " he answered, '' it will keep my memory
green in your heart. Am I cruel," he
added quickly," and hurt your tender conscience?
But this new life you talk of  I
do not understand. It is not a new life to do
your daily duty as Hugh Marriott's wife, is it ?
Are there possibilities in the future of which I
know nothing ? "

"You do not know perhaps that he has
got the command he desired, and that we sail
next week for Australia ? These are new and
very hard conditions, which seemed to excuse
my seeing you once more  the last time. I

was wrong, perhaps. I did not know you would
misunderstand ; T did not know that  that," 
she hesitated, then added with irresistible pathos,
"if you loved me, I thought you would have
helped me to do right."

*' Right ! " he repeated ; " the sharpest suffering
the greater merit ! Hearts bruised and
tortured must of necessity be an acceptable
sacrifice to duty ! How shall I endure it ? You
are resolved to sacrifice yourself to this man ;
to cut yourself off from me to whom you are
the one thing needful ; to throw yourself in the
dust at his feet who will spurn and trample

you "

"No, no'* she said eagerly. ''I will win
back his love."

You will try ? " he demanded, gazing at her
incredulously.

*' I will spend my life in trying, and, God
helping me, I will succeed."

And should you succeed, poor Lucia," he
said with concentrated bitterness, " what will
you gain ? Enough to comfort you for the

blight and ruin of my wretched life '? Have
you taken into account what I shall do with
the miserable remnant that you will leave me,
when all restraints, desires, and hopes are gone ?
Remember, I do not pray to God ; I don't accept
the insufferable as divinely appointed martyrdom,
nor am able to indemnify myself for the
mischief I have done by working out my own
salvation at any cost to others. Instead of this

holy mockery But no, I will not shock nor

threaten you, only " he approached her

again and held out his arms  '' you will not
come to me instead of him ? you choose this
phantom duty rather than my salvation ? "

His voice and gesture of appeal had a power
that seemed to shake her constancy to its foundations
; a terror seized her lest she should yield
in spite of herself, and served to give intensity
to her denial.

* Never !" she cried, shrinking from him; "it
would not be redemption but ruin ! Do not,
I beseech you, urge me any more ! If you
would leave me now, and forbear to make the

thought of this last meeting more painful, it
would be one more debt of gratitude I should
owe you. I am very tired."

To some men the evident symptoms of her
weariness and exhaustion would have been a
fresh inducement to persistence ; but to him, in
spite of the delirium of passion, no restraint
could have been more influential than this simple
confession of her weakness.

Yes," he said, *' I will do as you wish, and
go ; but this is not our farewell, Lucia. I shall
see you once again  it is in vain for you to
forbid it."

If you do not say farewell to me to-day, you
will never say it," was her answer, " for I Avill
not see you any more. Nor would you be so
cruel as to force yourself upon me again, and
expose me to my husband's just anger, and to
the grief of my dear mother. We will part now,
Everard."

She got up and approached him with a sad
composure that he did not choose to trouble by
atjy fresh protest on his part, watching her with

a forlorn perception that she was as one beyond
his influence, moving outside his sphere. " I
remember when we parted last in this same
room, that I prayed God to make you as happy
as you had made me, for you had given me back
my dear lover. I must change the words, but
not the spirit of that prayer. God bless you,
Everard, not as I will, but as He wills ! "

She leaned towards him and touched his forehead
with her lips, he making no sign beyond
the steadfast gaze of accepted but inexpressible
despair ; then she turned hurriedly and fled from
the room, leaving him standing there alone.

On the afternoon of the following day Captain
Marriott arrived at his father-in-law's house,
and a few hours later Mr Prescott returned,
bringing with him Mr and Mrs Lorimer, at
whose house he had been spending his holiday.
The motive which brought the family thus together
was the unexpected position of affairs as
regarded Hugh and Lucia, all being of one
opinion as to the scheme of carrying her off to
the antipodes, and uniting in the earnest desire
to keep her at home.

It had been Mr Prescott's intention to take a
very high tone with Marriott, as he had a confused
notion that he had been grossly deceived
by him in the matter of the Hawthorndene inheritance,
without which he would never have

been allowed to marry his daughter ; but the
tone of the young man was so imperious and
haughty, that he felt himself at an unexpected
disadvantage.

Hugh stated that his present social position
as commander of one of the best ships in H.M.'s
service, was greatly superior to that on which
his original engagement to Lucia Prescott had
been sanctioned; that he owed it only to his own
merits, and was happily independent of any outside
aid or hindrance. His absence from England
would probably be for a long term of years,
but his appointment included very favourable
conditions ; was it reasonable to suppose he
should leave his wife behind him for no better
reason than her susceptibility to sea-sickness
? Surely there could not be two opinions
as to the duty of a wife under such circumstances
1 Mutual companionship was the rudimentary
principle of the conjugal contract. Then
it was to be considered they had no children,
which rendered their mutual dependence greater.

This was the position he took in the home

circle, for he so far subordinated his passion to
his self-respect as to conceal the motive which
was more influential with him than any other.
He had relieved his mind of its bitter burden to
Lucia mother, but he did not desire that the
disclosure of his private affairs should be made
to any other member o the family. At the
same time he took care to call Lucia to bear
witness to the generosity of such forbearance.
He had come with the full purpose of taking her
with him to Portsmouth on the following day,
so as to relieve him of the necessity of returning
to town to fetch her ; but this arrangement
was so strenuously objected to by her friends,
that he found it necessary to yield the point.

Consider," said Helen, " that you have left
us but ten days to prepare her outfit and reconcile
ourselves to this dreadful separation I You
can surely spare her to us for the last week of
all ? It is a heart-breaking business, but we
will all do our duty, and try and keep up her
courage."

Yes' he answered bitterly, " it is unheard-of

tyranny for a husband to take his wife to sea
with him. Is Lucia supposed to have forsworn
both her affection and her duty? "

Oh, my dear Hugh, such a question implies
a total misapprehension of the present state of
social feeling. In the revised Prayer-book
obedience ' will be struck out of the marriage-service,
or rather we shall marry without going
to church at all. Matrimony means nothing
more than mutual adaptation. Philip does not
insist on dragging me across the herring-pond
whenever business or pleasure takes him that
way. Besides, it would be refined cruelty  a
penal chastisement  to take Lucia to Portsmouth
to pine in a hotel, while you are so immersed
in nautical business that you will scarcely
be able to speak to her from morning till night.
No, no, you must leave her here ! "

Hugh would have rejoiced to have overruled
Mrs Lorimer's objections, but he could not disregard
the wishes of his wife's parents, and
reluctantly consented that she should remain
at Richmond.

As soon as he found himself alone with Lucia
his manner changed ; he had behaved towards
her in public in such a way as not to provoke
observation,  the comparative coolness and sullenness
of his manner being attributed to the
natural infirmity of his temper under opposition.

He had summoned her up - stairs into his
dressing-room after dinner, under the natural
pretext of helping his arrangements for the next
day's journey, but really with quite another
intention.

'* My portmanteau is packed," he said ; "all
that was done before I left Hawthorndene, and
any way, I should not have asked such services
at your hands. I have sent for you for quite
another purpose  I have a question to ask."

Lucia turned sick and faint ; what ordeal was
before her 1 It had not occurred to her mind
that he would question her as to the occurrences
of the time of their separation. If he were
going to do this, would it be possible to confess
the truth, and risk the consequences of
his ancjer?

She sat down on a couch with her back to
the light, and breathed an instinctive prayer for
strength and guidance. Under any circumstances
she could not lie before God and her
own conscience.

Yes ; " she said, with the docility which appeared
to her as a duty, seeing that he seemed
to wait for an answer before he proceeded; " you
have some question to ask me 1 "

Everard Deane left Hurstpoint three days
ago for town ; I ask you if you have held any
communication with him ? "

There was a pause, during which the man s
flushed and angry face grew white and stern ;
in reality he had not believed that such had
been the case, making the inquiry more as a
means of moral torture than with the expectation
of having the possibility confirmed; but
the look of distress on Lucia's face was not to
be mistaken.

He suddenly seized her wrist with intentional
violence.

Speak ! " he demanded, beside himself with

rage ; and then stooping over her, he hissed in
her ear the most insufferable word that wife or
woman can endure.

Lucia shuddered slightly, but the * outrage
helped her to a measure of resistance.

** No," she said firmly, " I am not that ; and
if I hesitate to tell you the truth, it is not because
I have anything shameful to conceal, but
I dread your violence. Not for my own sake,
but think in whose house we are, and do not
shame me before those I love, and who still
love me ! "

Back to the point ! " he answered ; " and do
not venture to put me aside by puling phrases.
You have seen him?"

Yes."

Where ? in the presence of your mother ? "

Wait a moment," she said breathlessly ;
'' give me time, and I will tell you all. I saw
him here  in this house  and alone. My mother
was out ; he came without my knowing he was
coming, but I went to him deliberately. T
thought it better he should be told we were

VOL. in. L

going to leave Europe, and  have patience with
me, Hugh !  I desired to bid him good - bye.
We shall never meet any more."

He burst into a derisive laugh.

Never meet any more ! Was there then time
and opportunity enough for passion to exhaust
itself at last ? You * saw him alone  you went
to him deliberately  you desired to bid him
good-bye.' God in heaven, your effrontery is
matchless ! "

He turned from her, and paced the room,
then stopped again before her.

Why should I not strike you down at my
feet ? Are you entitled to any mercy at my
hands ? How long did your meeting last '?
What form did your adieux take ? Speak ! I
will know more."

It would be a thing impossible," she said,
raising her eyes to his inflamed countenance,
with desperate resolution, " to repeat what
words were spoken between us; but God, who
knows all things, knows I spoke as in His hearing,
and that I did not let a word escape me

that I could not justify before my conscience
and you. Mr Deane " she paused.

Ay, Mr Deane ! did he also speak under
divine restraints  "

His tone was of an intensity that conveyed
a greater idea of hatred than oaths and curses
would have done.

At least he accepted what I told him  that
I would never see him any more  that henceforth
the effort of my life would be penitence "
her voice dropped  " and, if you would suffer
it  atonement."

"Penitence!" he repeated harshly; "yes, we
repent when we suffer, and you have cut yourself
off from pity. Do not hope this last outrage
will move me to set you free  you shall
not only go to Australia with me, but it shall be
no fault of mine if we ever return to England.
I have no ties here, none anywhere ! " he added
passionately; "for though I will keep you always
close to my side, in order that you may not
shame me publicly, I am more divorced from
you in heart and purpose than many whom the

law has divided. As for atonement, none is
possible for wrongs like mine."

'' Perhaps not," she said, bowing her head on
her hands, 'but forgiveness is."

He looked at her sharply, and a glimmering
of compunction touched his spirit. Her attitude
and voice had an almost irresistible pathos ;
his fury was no longer fierce enough to meet
such meekness with sustained harshness.

'' You know my views on that point," he
answered more gently ; " forgiveness is impossible
if you mean by it a blotting out of my
memory offences such as yours. The time can
never come when I shall cease to think of you
as a guilty woman who has sullied her own life
and spoilt mine ; a broken mirror can't be pieced
again ! But it is not you that I hate ! "

His face worked as he spoke ; he set his teeth
hard.

As for the man whom I do  the man who
has robbed you of your goodness and spoilt our
once happy lives, no curses of mine are deep
enough to blast him. I have been his dupe and

tool throughout, and yet I have suffered him to
escape my vengeance. It may be, though, it is
not yet too late. I promise you, Lucia, I will
not leave England till we have met once more."

He turned from her as if he had taken some
instant resolution, and took up his hat.

My time is free to-night," he said, with a
curious quietness, '' and if he is in London, I
will find him. Have you any message for your
lover ? "

She saw he was resolved beyond any expostulation
of hers, or rather, that protest or appeal on
her part would only confirm his purpose. Inwardly,
she felt sick with apprehension, but she
answered quietly 

I have spoken my last words to Mr Deane.
I have nothing more to say."

He looked at her pale face, and smiled.

My revenge will be two-edged  what hurts
him hurts you ! You shall suffer where you are
most sensitive."

And he opened the door and went out.

Lucia continued to sit where he had left her

till the daylight waned, and it grew dark about
her. Her thought was, how close did punishment
follow on sin ! If any evil deed were done
that night which might plunge her young husband's
life in disgrace and misery, was it with
him the responsibility lay ? He had been faithful
and fond. Was it with her, who, though she
had stepped aside from the right path, had done
it with such bitter reluctance, and conquered
herself in spite of secret pain and yearning?
Then, did the burden of guilt rest only upon the
shoulders of the other man who had loved her
with so chivalrous a friendship, and sacrificed his
personal happiness to her supposed wellbeing?

No ; ten thousand times no ! or if it did,
what words could exhaust the pity of it that he
who was equal to so much had not been equal
to a little more ? that the renunciation he had
carried so far had not sufficed to close his lips
to the end in loyal silence 1

Had he never spoken, and she remained ignorant
of his denials and his pain, the seed of her
own love would not have germinated, and the

peaceful prosaic happiness lie had enjoyed with
Hugh would have run its natural course. She
would have lived in blessed unconsciousness
that there was another voice, touch, and personality
capable of quickening her being to a sense
of rapture and despair beyond her former knowledge
of herself.

But the root of the mischief went deeper
still. It came out of the duplicity of her father's
conduct, dio had refused fair-play to Hugh
and herself, and plotted, so dexterously as he
thought it, to make her a rich man's wife. Even
supposing that Everard Deane had noticed her
with favour, if she had been free to tell him at
first of her enoaoement, no harm would have
been done. He would have drawn back at
once, and thought no more of the simple girl
who had attracted him, and none of these miserable
complications would have arisen. Ah ! she
would not have sat shivering now in repressed
but terrible anxiety about his safety; for if
they met, to what length might not Hugh's
vengeance lead him '?

There was a knock at the door, and Helen
entered.

Lucia, are you here in the dark ? we are
waiting tea for you. Is anything wrong ? We
thought you were with Hugh."

Lucia stirred and roused herself. Her sister's
gay voice and light footsteps had a far-away
effect upon her mind ; it seemed as if a gulf
divided her from the time when she too was
careless and happy. But such misery must not
be confessed.

I am here on the couch in the window 
come and sit down a few minutes, dear. Hugh
has been with me, but is gone out, and  I have
a great many sad things to think of."

Mrs Lorimer groped her way successfully, and
sitting down by Lucia, passed her arms about
her, and drew her head down on her shoulder.

** It is cruel," she said, "to take you away,
you were always such a tender creature, Lucia;
but I suppose it is right you should go ? "

"It is quite right. I would not stay behind,
if Hugh were willing, only I think you

and Philip must promise to come and see me.
I shall be sick with longing for familiar faces ! "

My dear, there was a time when the wilderness
would have rejoiced and blossomed as the
rose, if only your sweet sailor-boy had been with
you. Heigh-ho I there is nothing like marriage
for destroying the romance of love."

Lucia felt this as a stab to her conscience.

It is not Hugh's fault," she answered in a
low tone, " if we are not so happy as we have
been. I  I have disappointed him a good deal.
Is it not very late ? I do not know the time.
Let us go down-stairs, dear  it is become quite
chilly."

Poor little sister ! is she afraid I am going to
ask difficult questions '? But I am not. I saw
which way the innocent heart inclined long
before you were married, child, and would have
warned you that there was trouble ahead, but it
would have done no good. It was plain to everyone
but yourselves that Everard Deane adored
you ; and more, that you thought him the most
interesting human creature you had ever met.

You have done nothing very wrong, dear  of
that I am quite sure ; but you are self-condemned,
and poor Hugh has good cause to be
jealous."

Lucia replied by suddenly throwing her arms
round her sister's neck, and bursting into sobs 
the sobs which convulse from long repression.

Helen, he is gone to-night to try and find
him, and avenge his quarrel. If mischief
happens "

Helen was a little startled, first by the fact
and all that it implied, but perhaps still more
by the passionate intensity that Lucia had betrayed.
It was to the latter she addressed
herself.

No serious mischief can happen, dear. They
are not armed with pistols or bowie-knives, and
hard words break no bones. Let us light the
candles, and bathe your eyes, and go downstairs
with me, or the father and my good Philip
will be asking no end of questions''

No, I cannot I I am too dreadfully anxious.
Not for him chiefly  I would not have you

think that ; but lest Hugh should do anything
rash or violent. Make some excuses for me,
please'

Helen passed her hand tenderly over her
sister's hair.

I will, and come to you again as soon as I
think I can be spared."

She had lighted the candles, and now was
able to see how wan and worn Lucia looked.
There was an expression, almost of despair, in the
lovely eyes, which seemed to be following her
movements mechanically.

Come, come, Lucia, this won't do," she exclaimed,
with affectionate impatience. " Hugh
will know how to take care of himself, and will
be too wise to get into mischief on the eve of
taking command of his ship. Mr Deane is nota
hot-headed boy, and has had a good deal of
practice, I daresay, in parrying this kind of
thing before. No harm will come of their
meeting."

She saw her comfort was all in vain.

Then, my dear," she added, with more tenderness,

"you must just 'dree your weird.' I
must go now and explain. Cheer up, darling,
and eat and drink what I shall send you.
Mother would tell you to say your prayers,
and strengthen your heart in that fashion, but
my experience is not worth having on the
point. You used, however, to be a pious little
thing ! "

Say my prayers ! " repeated Lucia to herself,
as the door closed on Helen. " I dare not !
God reads the heart, and would reject my hypocrisy.
Everard ! " clasping her hands before her
eyes  " is it in this fashion that you love me V

She flung herself on her knees by the couch
and buried her face in her hands.

Let us leave her to fight her battle alone.

The night was far advanced when she was
startled from the uneasy slumber into which she
had fallen by the sound of her husband's return.
She had not undressed, but had thrown herself
on the bed, overcome with restlessness and exhaustion.
She heard him speaking to Willis,
as she supposed, and strained her faculties to

gather some hint of hope from the tones of his
voice, but with very small result. Then the
door of her room opened, and he entered, holding
a candle in his hand, the rays of which
showed her how pale and worn he looked. He
would have gone straight to his dressing-room,
without appearing to observe her, but she sat
up on the bed, pushing back the masses of her
loosened hair, and made a gesture to claim his
attention.

He at least was safe ; terror for the other tied
her tongue.

He stopped at a little distance from her, and
frowned.

What have you to say *? " his voice was
hard and rough.

He saw she did not know how to put her
anxiety into words, and he came close up to her,
raising the candle to illuminate her face.

I am here  I am safe," he said ; " call back
your courage and your colour  you have nothing
to fear on my account."

' Nothing ! " she repeated, passing over his

cruel irony as a punishment she deserved ;
nothing 1 Then you have not met ? ''

The words dropped from her lips almost too
timidly to be heard.

For a moment he did not answer ; there was
acute suffering to him in her dilated eyes and
pallid face  the renewed conviction, which
almost maddened him, that no man's life was
so dear to her as Everard Deane's.

We have not met," he said, sternly. " I
have spent all these hours in tracking him from
place to place in vain, but I have challenged
him to meet me at Portsmouth, and my purpose
is only deferred and strengthened. One word
more to help your night's slumbers. I have
reconsidered my duty, and shall take you to
Portsmouth with me tomorrow."

CHAPTER XLI.

There is a certain old-fashioned inn at Portsmouth
which has preserved the characteristics
of half a century ago, in this age of push and
progress.

It stands well out of the turmoil of the seafaring
town, in a narrow street, which is made
a cul-de-sac by the peculiarity of its structure.
It is the favourite resort of the older and more
conservative officers of H.M.'s service, who continue
to find there the quiet routine, exact
attention, and fair prices which won for the
Golden Fleece its original distinction.

As a boy Hugh Marriott had been introduced
to this hostelry by Captain Frobisher, and had
always put up there since whenever circumstances
detained him in Portsmouth. It was

here that he brought his wife on the second day
following the incidents of the last chapter.

That one day he had been compelled to yield,
to the indignant disappointment of Lucia's
family, but he would do no more.

It was, in his state of mind, less than nothing
that they reproached him for his cruel exercise
of authority ; he had the justification of
his own conscience in keeping his erring wife
under his own eye. Ten days would probably
elapse before they should sail, which would
allow of any imperative preparations in the way
of outfit, though he intimated it was quite unnecessary
to make this the matter of importance
proposed by Lucia's friends. When his own
professional arrangements were complete, he
would let them know exactly the time fixed
for departure, and if they thought proper they
could then join them at Portsmouth, in order
to take a final farewell. He would not hear of
Helen going with them.

To all expostulations he answered curtly 

*' I have good reasons for what I am doing,

but I am not disposed to discuss them, only no
opposition will be of any use."

"And you do not rebel, Lucia?" asked Helen,
almost in tears ; to which the other replied with
assurances of absolute submission.

Indeed it was quite true, that in spite of the
sharp pain of separation, Lucia preferred to go
with her husband. She was haunted by the
dread of coming evil, as arising from any meeting
between him and Everard Deane, and felt
that the only alleviation left was to be Hugh's
daily and hourly companion, so as, if possible, to
avert the threatened danger.

The journey to Portsmouth was made under
the depressing influence of bad weather; the
ceaseless rain fell in torrents from mornings till
night. Hugh fulfilled with a scrupulous exactness
unknown to him before, the duties of travelling
companion, but he took care to make it
evident that he was performing a self-appointed
task, distinctly apart from inclination or personal
feeling. He marked this beyond mistake
by the fact that he never voluntarily addressed

VOL. Il M

his wife, as well as by the chilling tones of his
voice when he held speech to be necessary.

A sadder woman than Lucia Marriott never
leaned back against the cushions of a railway
carriage, and it was a sadness deepened almost
to despair by the reproaches of her conscience.
She and her husband had travelled so little
together since her marriage, that this long journey
could not but recall their wedding tour to
her mind ; and as she contrasted the Hugh of
that period  barely two years ago  with the
stern, hard, and silent man before her, her heart
was wrung with anguish.

What but her fault had changed him thus ?
Let it be said that he had received her confession
and contrition ungenerously, was she not
utterly condemned and humiliated to have
forced his magnanimity to so cruel a test ?
Was it part of a husband's prescribed duty to be
tolerant and tender in dealing with the bruised
heart and conscience of a wife who had forsaken
her first love ? or at least, was it for the
greater transgressor to condemn the less ?

If lie had been gentle and forgiving, how soon
should she have recovered the false steps she
had taken ! or, if not quite so soon, at least how-certain
would have been her final victory! But,
doubtless, she did not deserve to have the way
thus smoothed for her ; still the difficulty of the
task she had set herself should not, please God,
weaken her resolution. Never again should look
or word escape her contrary to her duty as his
wife, nor any severity on his part impair her
efforts to win back his love. She said to herself
that she should never hold herself to have
succeeded until heart and feeling were at one
with outward observance, and love as well as
honour and obedience had been reclaimed.
Would that be possible if he treated her thus ?
More, would that be possible when, try as hard
as she could against it, the memory of the other
man  his latest words and looks, the touch of
his hand, his every gesture and manifestation
seemed to crowd out all other impressions
from her mind ?

Was she, unworthy, responsible for the pain

and despair which it was forbidden her to alleviate
? What would he do with his life ? Alas !
he would think worse of women for her weakness.
And yet, thank heaven, it was a weakness
he had never fully gauged. God forbid
that he or any other human creature should
know the strength of the feeling: which was
piercing her heart with a desperate anguish
almost too sharp to bear !

He had spoken of the shallow pang of her
suffering in comparison with his ; how tenderly
she hoped and prayed that he might never understand
the full bitterness which had become
mixed With the current of her life !

When Hugh spoke to her she started like a
guilty thing, and was conscious of blushing
painfully under the harsh and cynical look he
fixed upon her. Her nerves were so overwrought
she could scarcely command her tears.

It was a relief to her when the journey was
accomplished, and she found herself within the
quiet enclosure of the Golden Fleece. The aspect
of the town as they drove through it had

been intensely depressing,  the distant booming
of the sea striking upon her ears with absolute
terror.

We will dine," said Hugh, "and then I
must go down to the harbour ; if it had been
fine I should have taken you with me, and introduced
you to my ship. It will be well for
you to see what suggestions you may have to
make for your own comfort. As it is, I suppose
I must leave you here alone."

I do not mind the weather," she said.

It may clear, in which case you shall go,"
he answered ; and then bidding her wait a
moment, he turned aside to the bureau of the
hotel, and asked if there were any letters for
him. Lucia saw that one was handed to him,
and also, from the indefinable expression of his
face as he thrust it into his pocket, that it was
the letter he had expected, and that the writer
was the man he hated, and whom he had challenged
to meet him there.

Her heart gave a convulsive throb. To question
him was not to be thought of. He would

not have satisfied her, and would have met her
anxiety with insult. But how was this suspense
to be endured ?

As they passed to their rooms he looked at
her for a moment with a stern defiant gaze,
which convinced her that he understood, and
resented her state of mind.

She made some hasty change in her dress as
she thought propriety demanded, and she was
scrupulous even in small points of observance,
and then she sat down to think deliberately as
to what was best to be done, until summoned
to dinner.

The meal was so formal and silent as to be
almost intolerable, but she compelled herself to
eat a little, and before it was over had reached
some sort of conclusion. Cost her what it
miojht, she would not suffer things to run their
course without some attempt at interference.

Hugh had gone to the window to take note
of the weather ; it was still raining heavily :
presently he turned away as if to leave the
room.

*'I am going out," he said ; " I shall not be
late, but it will be unnecessary for you to sit
up for me."

You must not go," she answered, with a
desperate effort, " until you have answered mea
question. Was the letter you received from
Mr Deane, and are you going to meet him ? "

And if I answer, yes ? "

*' Then some means must be taken to prevent
you carrying out your purpose ; what, I know
not, but I will do whatever occurs to me, whatever
is in my power. I do not understand the
object you have in view, but there must be no
life nor safety risked in this miserable business.
What revenge could you take which would not
ruin your career, and cover me with shame and
remorse ? Hugh, leave me a little hope for the
future ! "

I shall take care," he said, sardonically,
that I do not make myself seriously amenable
to the laws, or, if I do, it will be his interest
as much as mine to keep the matter quiet.
But you should consider that every word and

look of yours increases my grievance and adds
to his danger."

Ob," she answered, with passionate eagerness,
" I do not care to deny that I am anxious
for the safety of Everard Deane, but that
anxiety is small in comparison with the dreadful
fear that you should do something rash and
cruel that would drive me almost to despair, as
my fault. Hugh, I am at your mercy for any
punishment you think proper to inflict, and I
have broken more faith than he ! "

He turned and looked at her with a curious
composure.

"Yes," he said, 'that is true, and is my
charge against him. You were a good woman
till he disgraced you ; my life was worth living
till he crossed it, and now I don't value it at
a pin's price. I said just now I should take
care to keep within the laws,  I said wrong.
If I have a chance of shooting him dead I shall
probably take it and risk all consequences. I
belong to no one ; even to you I am no more
responsible. You have made it difficult to

slime you further, and, for myself, you have
left me no honour to lose."

*' What can I answer ? " she asked, desperately.
"We are pledged never to meet again
my life is at your feet, my will, my desire,
Hugh ! Take me out of England, and his name
shall never pass my lips again,  before God,
I will not think of him even ! But if you kill
him, you kill his father also. Spare him for the
sake of those who have done you no wrong ! "

He looked at her with the same aspect of
unusual and frigid self-command.

*' Poor miserable Lucia ! it is not concern for
my honour or safety which moves you, nor
compassion either, and things shall run their
course. I do not propose to shoot your lover
from behind a hedge, or under cover of darkness,
but I do propose "  and the light in his
eyes quickened as he spoke  " to force him,
under all risks of consequences, to face me
pistol in hand. Under our different relations
he may feel hesitation or scruple at taking my
life  I shall feel none. If I did, your looks and

tones would come back to me and help to nerve
my courage and steady my hand."

'' Spare me ! " she said, raising her hands to
her distracted head, " or I shall go mad. Have
I been so wicked a woman as to draw down
upon my head a curse like this? Your life
and his in peril through my fault ! But these
threats are meant for my torment you have no
pistols with you, and  he would not use them''

I have no pistols about my person," he
answered quietly, " because the time is not yet
come. To-night I go down to the harbour, as
I have told you before, and have neither expectation
nor desire to meet Everard Deane. Our
meeting is arranged for tomorrow."

Is that the truth ? " she gasped.

He took out of his pocket the letter he
had lately received, and held it open before
her eyes. She recognised the handwriting as
Deane's ; the words contained were few and
ran thus : 

I will meet you tomorrow at the time and
place appointed."

There was no signature, and the handwriting
was almost illegible from haste or carelessness,
or some other cause, unlike what she had often
marked and admired before.

Her heart ached as she looked at it, but
there was now a strong hope of averting
disaster.

''I will pray God," she said, solemnly, "to
change your heart before the morning comes."

He smiled, folded and replaced the letter,
and went out, and he did this without requiring
any pledges from his wife respecting her own
movements. Left alone, Lucia sat down to
think. The time for emotion was past, and for
action come ; the hours of the night were at
least to intervene before the frantic meeting,
which must never take place. If possible, she
must find out Everard and induce him to
forego his purpose ; but how was it possible ?
She did not know whether he were in Portsmouth
or on his way thither ; and if the
former, how was she to trace him in a strange
town 1 Desperation suggested resource ; she

manor the bell, and when the summons was
answered, made inquiries of the waiter respecting
the best hotels in Portsmouth.

"Their own was the best, but some gentlemen
preferred the Ship, and others the White
Hart."

Lucia said her husband was expecting a friend
who might already have arrived in the town,
but they were uncertain at what hotel he would
put up ; would the man call at those he had
mentioned and make inquiries ? She wrote the
name on a card, and gave it him with a steady
hand, begging him to use as much despatch as
possible.

Then another expedient occurred to her : she
would telegraph to old Mr Deane ; if she could
bring him to Portsmouth before morning  and
she judged that, should it be necessary, he
would not hesitate to take a special train  she
should save Hugh from a mortal sin, and others
from lifelong grief and remorse.

She had observed the post - oflSce as they
drove from the station, and decided to take

her message herself. She put on her bonnet and
cloak and went out.

The rain was still falling; the town looked
to her incredibly forlorn and dirty ; and the
roar of the incoming tide which reached her
ears, distant as the harbour was, made her
shudder in a vague instinctive way, for self
was scarcely conscious to her.

She had taken the precaution to be closely
veiled, and advanced to the counter with the
confidence arising from the assurance of not
being known ; but as soon as the form had been
presented to her, and she took the pen to write,
an unexpected difficulty presented itself Her
husband's name was well known ; she dared
not send her message with that attached toit.
After a moment's hesitation she wrote her
name as Lucia Prescott, orivino the address of
the Golden Fleece, and phrasing her message
thus : 

Your son is Id danger here ; lose not a
moment in coming to his help."

Then she hurried back to the hotel, feeling

like a hunted creature wounded almost to death,
and having put carefully aside her walking
things, waited in feverish anxiety for the return
of her messenger.

No success attended her effort. The man had
canvassed all the respectable hotels in Portsmouth,
but no such gentleman had been heard of.

Her one plank of salvation was the chance
of the father's intervention.

Late in the evening Hugh returned : he was
pale, weary, and taciturn, and went at once to
his bedroom, saying he had writing to do and
must not be interrupted. There was indeed a
solemn reticence of manner about him, which
Lucia would not have had the courage to
invade, even without the conviction that all
further appeal to him would be hopeless.

Her trust was now elsewhere.

She heard him lock his door, and felt a profound
satisfaction in the thought that it would
be scarcely possible for him to go out unknown
to her. So far Everard was safe.

For her own part, she said to herself, she had

no wish nor power to sleep, it would be for her
to watch and pray. And so through the early
hours of the night she did, with an intense
absorption that destroyed all consciousness of
fatigue or mental strain.

But at length nature gave way; she rose
exhausted from her knees, but with a desperate
hope growing in her heart. Surely the weight
of this terrible anxiety would be lifted before
the darkness of another night closed round her ?
In that case with what renewed hopefulness
would she go forth to contend against the personal
trial and difficulty which had grown
almost light in comparison !

She lay down on the bed in her clothes, with
the idea of still keeping her vigil, but gradually
her eyes closed, and she fell profoundly asleep.

An hour or two before, Everard Deane had
arrived by the night-mail at Portsmouth, and
driven to the Golden Fleece. He sat long over
the light supper he had ordered, but was now
gone to his room, separated from Lucia's only
by a wall of partition.

CHAPTER XLII.

The two men, unconsciously so near each other,
were similarly engaged for some time. They
were writing letters, and arranging, or at least
examining, the disorder of their minds. The
frantic challenge which the one had given in
defiance of reason, risk, and law, had been
accepted by the other, not with any direct purpose
of carrying it out to its fulfilment, but
partly as affording opportunity for personal
explanation on either side, as well as for the remote
chance of seeing Lucia again, even though
he should forbear to speak to her. Besides, to
refuse the meeting demanded, seemed like fear
of his enemy ; he would go and take his risk of
the issue.

Nor was the hope utterly dead in his heart

that, even at this eleventh hour and under the
discovery of her husband's persistent brutality,
Lucia might yet be saved from the cruel fate
that awaited her, and if not given to love and to
him, at least restored to her family and home.

His love for her dominated his whole being,
as had always been the case with the ruling
passions of his life. Consideration, prudence,
conscience, were equally silenced : there might
be positive danger to his life in Marriott's vindictive
purpose, or the likelihood of wounding
irreparably the fair fame of the woman he
adored, and the strong paternal heart that he
had so profoundly grieved ; but all this was as
nothing to the frail chance of looking upon her,
hearing her speak, saving her as he thought it.

He made no definite plans for the morrow
beyond the resolution that even Hugh's desperate
spite should not drag him into any collision
that went beyond custom and decency ; what
he should do to satisfy the young man's vengeance,
how answer or evade his questions or vindicate
the outrage he had himself received, he

VOL. III. N

did not care much to consider : let the day,
the hour, and the man decide that. #

Hugh Marriott could scarcely contemplate
murder, and, he repeated to himself, no pressure
should induce him to exchange pistol-shots
with him.

He had begun to write to his father ; it was
the first time since he had left home, but he
found himself unable to finish the letter ; compunction
and reminiscence were too much for
him. He pushed his papers on one side, and
folding his arms upon the table, bowed his face
upon them. The feeling in his mind was that
there was no more miserable wretch alive on
God's earth, nor perhaps one more guilty.

What good thing had been denied him of
those which make up a man's responsibility ;
and what account had he to render of his life ?
If the talents with which he had been endowed
had not been buried in the earth, at least they
had been put to shameful or inadequate uses.

Was any one human creature, wiser, happier,
better, because he had lived and suffered ? Of

what value were generous impulses and heroic
aspirations which always missed the mark and
never attained the goal of practice '? Was there
anything on earth more pitiable than the man
whose theories and desires were not only in
advance of his actions but even in contradiction
to them ?  who acknowledged what he forewent,
and reverenced what he betrayed %

And now his horizon was narrowed almost
to a point ; there was no longer affection, duty,
or work left to him powerful enough to counteract
the baleful influence of a beautiful and
gracious woman. Could he have had his way
with her he would have dragged her down into
the mire of his own passionate self-indulgence,
assuring her meanwhile that it would not soil
the crystal purity of her soul. He would have
triumphed in her degradation and called it
blessedness. Truly, she had been right to resist
him ! Again and again in his varied and eager
life had he tasted the fruit he coveted and found
it ashes on his lips; would it not have been the
same again? When the evil had been wrought

which seemed like rapture in the working, and
he had robbed her of her innocence and her
faith, what equivalents would he have to offer
her for the priceless treasures she had lost ?
The adored mistress could never be anything
but the dishonoured wife : would he, if he
could, so dishonour Lucia Prescott ?

Then he lifted up his head and smiled cynically
at his own mood of repentance. " Virtue
gets a hearing because the thing I covet is out
of reach ; but for all that, I think I will try
reparation and not defiance or persuasion tomorrow.
It is no great stretch of goodness to
help one who will not come at my call, in the
way she thinks it right to go."

He got up and began to pace the room, thinking
deeply.

Well, was his conclusion if it were possible
for words or acts of his to mend the evil he had
done, and those hearts which he had torn asunder
could be joined again, he would yet make the
effort. Yes, for her sake  the sweetest woman
he had ever known  he would cancel Hugh

Marriott's offences to her and to himself, even
the brutal outrage, the mark of which was yet
scarcely effaced from his flesh. And then she
should go on her long voyage, sad, but comforted,
and he would consent to yield her upto
duty and follow her only with his blessing
and his hopes ; and after that, what then ?

Would it be possible to shake off the languor
and indolence of years, and find out some
work for himself, putting into fact and practice
the poetry and dreams of a wasted youth ?
Perhaps.

The nioht was far advanced as he sat and
wrestled thus with the foes of his own nature,
but at length he grew weary. Sleep and he
had not met on friendly terms of late. He looked
at his watch ; it was three o'clock, and six had
been the hour fixed for meeting Hugh Marriott.
He decided not to undress, lest he should
oversleep himself and fail in his engagement, but
wrapping a travelling rug about him, stretched
himself on a couch that stood in a corner of his
room, and, after a restless interval, fell asleep.

CHAPTER Xlii

Everard's sleep was brief and disturbed by oppressive
dreams; he roused and turned continually
with a profound sense of discomfort, though
at the same time he seemed unable to shake off
the weight that lay upon him. He dozed again
for a few moments, then suddenly became fully
awake and started to his feet ; he was conscious
of having been startled out of his uneasy slumber
by some loud and unusual noise.

He had left his lamp burning on the table
and his watch upon it,  it was barely half an
hour since he had looked at it last.

He stood for a few minutes holding it in his
hands, listening intently for any sounds which
might break the dead hush of the night and

throw liolit on this own disturbance, and still
aware of a sensation of overpowering oppression ;
then suddenly the noise which he had heard
before was repeated. It was the swift crash
of some heavy falling body, and bore an ominous
significance to his now alert perceptions ;
he understood at once the physical sensations
of which he was conscious. The hotel was on
fire.

Everard put down the watch with a hand
that shook a little. He was a man of courage
and resource, but there is no calamity that
makes such demands upon human fortitude and
self-control as that by which he knew he was
now surrounded. He ! even his first instinctive
thought was not of himself; was not Lucia in
danger, and the house more or less full of guests
and servants ?

He looked rapidly towards the windows, but
unbroken darkness still reigned in that direction
; then he crossed the floor and opened the
door slowly with a careful hand.

What he had expected he saw and felt;

wreaths of smoke filled the passages, and fora
moment blinded his eyes, but he was able to
decide that the focus of the fire was still at a
considerable distance.

Advancing a little nearer to the staircase he
came suddenly, and to his great relief, upon the
landlord of the establishment ; the man had
hastily pulled a rough overcoat over his nightshirt,
thrust his feet into slippers, and rushed
into the thickest of the smoke, and was now
gazing at the scene before him with an expression
of stupefaction.

Everard seized' his arm and pointed to a little
window that opened upon the stables.

I see lights gleaming," he said quietly ;
your men are already on the alert, but it
may not have occurred to any of them to ride
ofi* for the engines. Open that window and
give your orders : in this hole our danger will
be greater before it is discovered outside."

The man looked at him vaguely, but without
making any movement in the direction indicated.
Everard dashed open the window

and shouted the necessary order with a clearness
and authority that produced instant effect.
He had the satisfaction of seeing two half-clad
men fling themselves upon barebacked horses
and rush out into the darkness.

Incidents which demand time to describe,
are almost instantaneous in action ; it was
barely five minutes since he had first become
aware of the catastrophe, and now as he stepped
back to the landlord's side he was looking upon
a scene of destruction, which gathered strength
and fury with every passing second.

The construction of the house was peculiar :
the basement was large and crowded with
offices, and the central hall large and circular;
from this a long flight of wide shallow stairs
ascended in an involved spiral sweep to the
first and second storeys of the house, in which
the principal bedrooms were situated.

The hollow focus of the fire burnt with intense
ardour, reducing to ashes with more or
less rapidity the mixed combustible substances
on which it was able to seize. The flames

skimmed the thickly matted pavement of the
hall, entered the large rooms on either side,
scorching the carpets as they ran, and wrapping
the window-draperies in a brief blaze of splendour,
the glass shivering and falling in the
scorching heat. The pictures fell from the
walls as the fire caught the cords by which they
were suspended, and fed its fury higher with
their heavily oiled surfaces and frames dried by
age to the condition of touchwood.

So far as the ground-floor of the house was
concerned there was not the vestige of a chance
of saving any fraction of property from the
flames.

Everard gazed for a few seconds, fascinated
by the horror of the spectacle, then turned
sharply on his companion.

There are no lives in peril below ? no
drudge or helper sleeping in the basement?"

None ; but I am a ruined man ! "

'' Oh, that is a question for tomorrow ! Look
behind and consider how much hangs upon
your coolness and courage : if these people see

you shaking with terror, we shall lose all control
over them."

Even as he spoke, the silence which had
hitherto reigned was broken ; the inmates of
the house had become aroused, and the place
was suddenly full of shrieks and clamour.
Terror approaching frenzy, and the mad desire
to save individual life at all costs, were reducing
men and women alike to helpless desperation ;
the doorways and passages were crowded with
figures half clad or shivering in their night-clothes,
rushing instinctively forward to look
at the fate that threatened them, and venting
their despair in prayers, or shrieks, or oaths,
according to sex and character.

Everard alone seemed capable of grasping the
possibilities of the situation ; his swift calculation
of chances convinced him that no immediate
danger threatened the occupants of the
bedchamber if they could only be induced to
keep within their doors, and prepare to make
their escape by the windows as soon as the fire-escapes
could arrive and be got into position.

As it was, they were fanning smoke into flame
by the current of air produced by their rapid
movements and the opening doors.

He turned and spoke to the group nearest to
him ;  an Indian officer on sick-leave who had
landed the day before, who was standing with
a fragile fainting woman by his side claiming
a support he was scarcely strong enough to
give, and a Hindu nurse with two terrified
children clutched in her strong arms. " There
is no immediate danger," he said, " and we
expect the engines every moment ; once get
them in position under your bedroom windows
and you are safe ; until then the safest plan is
to stay inside and keep the doors shut, and trust
those amongst us who have neither women nor
children to look after to do the best we can."

The fumes of smoke beat them back as he
spoke and forced his advice upon them ; he
closed the door scrupulously after them, casting
a look of agonised wistfulness upon the one
next his own, which had hitherto remained
closed in spite of the commotion.

Was Lucia within and enduring the matchless
anguish of terror ? For a moment love and
fear made him illogical  could smoke or flame
have reached her to her hurt already ? He
seized the handle of the door and shook it
violently.

It was opened instantly from within and he
stood face to face with Hugh Marriott. "You
know your danger  you are prepared ? " he
asked, scarcely noticing in the tension of his
feelings the aspect of the other. " For God's
sake, Marriott, tell me how she bears it, and
that you will save her life even at the risk of
your own ! "

Stand back ! " cried Hugh, resisting the
instinctive effort of Everard to enter the room,
" you have no business here 1 Save yourself
or others, if you like, but leave me and my wife
alone ! "

His voice rose as he spoke into the hoarse
note of uncontrollable passion, and at the same
moment the door of the inner chamber opened
and Lucia came towards them. At the first

glance that Everard ventured to cast at her
he saw that she was but j must startled from her
slumbers ; there was the lovely flush of sleep
on her cheek and its dreaminess still in her
frightened eyes. By a swift movement which
Hugh was not quick enough to resist, he forced
his way into the room and shut the door cautiously
behind him ; but it was too late.

Lucia's horrified eyes had caught sight of the
appalling scene beyond, and her ears were full
of the complex sounds of terror and destruction.
Up to that moment her husband, seeing she was
sleeping profoundly and already dressed, and
also having satisfied himself that no means of
escape were possible till the arrival of succour
at their own bedroom windows, had refrained
from awakening her, and kept his sickening
vigil alone ; and while so doing had become
fully aware of Deane's action in the matter.

Now he turned quickly round and faced her.

'' Yes," he said, answering the mute appeal
of her distended eyes and blanched cheeks,
the house is on fire, but we are safe here as

yet. The moment the fire-escape comes, all
danger is over. Yon will be brave, Lucia ? "

Everard saw she was trembling convulsively
from head to foot, so much so that she grasped
the back of a chair near her for support, and
that every tint of colour receded from her face.
Why did not the man who had the right take
her in his arms and soothe her agony of apprehension
? For him to refrain from doing so was
an imperious necessity, but the effort made him
sick and faint.

Hugh had crossed the room, and was leaning
out of the open window, shouting for help to
the few stragglers who were already gathering
in the courtyard below. The delay in the
arrival of the engines was driving to madness
the shivering inmates of the rooms beyond, and
exciting his own desperate fears.

Lucia turned her eyes slowly on Everard.

I am not brave," she murmured, " I am
horribly afraid."

Her gaze dwelt on his face with unconscious
solicitude ; if personal terror had filled her

mind for the first moment, it had already become
absorbed in an emotion profounder still.
The glazed eyes softened with tears, and she
added, in a voice so faint as to be scarcely
audible 

Hugh will take care of me ; save yourself 
for your father's sake I "

At the sound of her voice Hugh turned
fiercely round, but the mortal fear that was
creeping round his own heart deadened in a
measure his passion of hate and jealousy. He
contented himself with roughly taking possession
of his wife, and drawing her in
front of him into the wide embrasure of the
window.

At the same moment there was a shout from
the gathering crowd below ; the engines were
within sound, and in a few moments more they
had rattled into the courtyard, and succeeded
in getting their hose into play. Everard went
out, closing the door behind him ; he was powder-less
to help inside that room, but there was a
chance of coins; service outside it.

Through yawning doorways, and window-frames
already empty of glass  above the burning
house, and on a level with its basement
floors  the streams of water fell. The firemen
worked with a will quickened by the perception
of emergency, and were largely reinforced, or
perhaps obstructed, by the shouting tumultuous
crowd outside.

All Portsmouth was pouring towards the
Golden Fleece, the blaze of which reddened the
sky for miles around.

Everard, standing a little to leeward of smoke
and flame, watched for a few seconds the effect
of the persistent deluge, and then turned his
eyes away with a shudder ; such was the hold
the fire had gained that it fed rather than reduced
its fury. Salvation for all he began to
doubt was impossible ; the floor on which he
was standing, and on which the bedrooms for
the most part opened, was already hot under his
feet, and the flames threatened the passages.
Not a moment was to be lost in the efibrt of

VOL. III.

deliverance, and there was one life that must
be saved.

He entered the room near which he had been
standing, which was already crowded with half-dressed
figures in the most abject condition of
frenzied terror, bent upon giving what help was
in his power. The window was flung wide
open, a fire-escape had been put into position,
and he soon perceived that if order could be
established, every life might be saved. But
what was the value of the united lives of that
pale demoralised crowd in comparison with the
safety of the solitary woman, whose figure he
could distinguish dimly in the faintly breaking
dawn at the window beyond 1 He saw, with
a sensation of almost mortal sickness of heart,
that but one fire-escape was on the ground, to
which a single fireman had been told off", and
he had naturally turned his attention first to
the point were the many were clamouring for
succour. Everard could also distinguish above
other sounds the voice of Hugh Marriott shouting
for instant relief. But what availed protestor

execration in a crisis like that 1 The means
of succour were inadequate to the point of despair,
nor had he the power to divert them to
another channel, even if her dear life should bethe
sacrifice. What remained was to control his
personal excitement, and so guide and direct
the process of escape as to reduce it to the
shortest time possible, and set free the means of
deliverance for Lucia.

He advanced to the group at the window.

Only one can pass at once," he said ; " let us
form a queue, putting the women and children
first, and take our turn patiently. There is no
danger of any loss of life here except through
too much eagerness to be safe."

The fireman looked at him with prompt approval
; and under their united management
the scheme worked perfectly ; out of the fifteen
persons to be saved by this protracted process,
only two remained. By this time all were
aware of the roar of the flames in the passages
outside, cutting ofi" any other chance of
escape, and the room itself was filling fast

with smoke. Quiet and patient as Everard
had shown himself, with words of kind encouragement
for the half-fainting women and
little children, the anxiety that was gnawing
at his heart was fast growing beyond his power
of self-control, by the time the last trembling
figure had been helped into the cage. Then,
instead of following he drew back with a deep-drawn
breath of relief.

There is a woman in the room next to this,
he said ; ' shift the ladder at once, and save
her  there is not a moment to lose''

The fireman hesitated, but Everard made a
gesture of instant obedience.

Go ! I will follow ; there is yet time to get
from one room to another. Save her, and I
will make your fortune ! "

Was there yet time ? time to see the woman
he adored saved from a horrible death ? time to
secure the safety of his own life ?

The room, as we have said, was full of smoke,
which he felt well assured might burst into
flame as soon as he opened the door ; but if

certain instead of probable death had threatened
him he would still have made the attempt. His
predominant fear was lest her husband might
fail in judgment, tenderness, or self-sacrifice 
that some unforeseen difficulty might arise which
he alone could overcome  and that her life was
too precious to trust to hireling hands, however
kind or skilful.

Still he would take what personal precautions
were possible.

It was his own apartment in which the late
scene had been enacted, and so steady was his
nerve, even at this supreme moment, that he
observed the woollen rug he had used earlier in
the night lying in a heap on the floor. He
picked it up and enveloped his figure in it from
head to foot, leaving only his face uncovered,
and then throwing himself on hands and knees,
began to creep cautiously towards the door,
drawings into his choking lungs the lower and
purer stratum of air.

In this way, closely skirting the wainscot of
the passage, he found himself, a little scorched

but not materially hurt, at the door of Lucia's
apartment ; in another moment he had opened
it and entered, closing it again upon the deadly
enemy outside.

So thick was the atmosphere with smoke,
and so intense the absorption of the man and
woman at the open window, that he had neither
been seen nor heard till he stood within a few-paces
of them.

Then Marriott turned round with an imprecation
on his pale lips.

Is this your doing ? " he asked. " We are
lost now past redemption."

It required an effort of mind before Everard
could comprehend the situation, for the strain
on his faculties was beginning to tell. Then he
perceived that, instead of the fire-escape having
reached the woman whom he desired to save,
the fireman, either misunderstanding his directions,
or influenced by the sense of peril to a
greater number, had diverted the ladder beneath
the window of an adjacent apartment, where a
group of the servants of the house had gathered,

and were filling the air with their screams for
help. One of them standing in full view in the
glimmering light was gesticulating wildly, with
a child held aloft in her arms, which, in her
frenzy, she seemed likely to fling out on the
stones below. Perhaps it was this circumstance
which had induced the brave and tender-hearted
fellow to rush to her rescue ; or more possibly
still, he had supposed her the object of Everard's
solicitude. However that might be, his hope
was betrayed, and his personal sacrifice in vain,
unless some other way of deliverance could be
found.

The windows of the room were twenty feet
above the ground, and the atmosphere was now
too thick with sulphurous smoke to admit of
such expedients as tearing the bed-clothes into
strips, and using them as means of escape.
Moreover, a massive stone projection several
feet in width, which formed the ample windowsill,
offered a serious impediment to any such
attempts, and had already baffled the efforts
made by the crowd below to place a ladder in

such a position as to ensure safe means of
descent. But it was this very obstacle which
presented itself to Everard's mind as a forlorn
chance of salvation. Hugh was hanging out
of the window frenzied with disappointment and
despair, and shouting vain orders to the multitude
below, who were unable in the general din
to catch the words he said. Everard touched
his arm.

Induce her to step out on the window-ledge
and leap  it is the only chance ! "

He flung out as he spoke the blanket he still
held to the crowd below, who at once caught
the idea, and extended it with a hundred stalwart
arms, gesticulating and encouraging the
pale girl above.

She has not fainted 1 " he asked, bending
over her as he spoke with an instinctive gesture
of assistance.

Do not touch her ! " cried Hugh, fiercely.
I had almost as soon she died as that you
saved her."

He took her in his strong arms as he spoke.

and stepped up on the platform ; a feat of
muscular strength which even at such a moment
it pleased him to consider was quite beyond
the other to perform. For a few moments they
stood side by side in the dawning morning
light, he supporting her with his vigorous arms,
and their aspect was such as to excite the
enthusiasm of the crowd to madness. They
shook the extended blanket in frantic excitement,
and their inarticulate shouts rent the
air.

Lucia looked down and shuddered  her husband's
voice of urgent appeal failed to animate
her with the necessary courage.

"It is of no use  I cannot do it!" she
moaned ; and Hugh seeing that it was in vain,
and fearing that she might slip from his arm,
was constrained to place her within the room
again.

As he did so her eyes met those of Everard ;
his full of a veiled agony to which he would not
have given expression even if he might, and
hers dwelling a moment on his face with a

solicitude so. absolute and profound as to pass
beyond the narrow limits of tenderness. The
next she had turned to her husband.

"We need not all die," she said, seeming to
gather strength as she thought and spoke ; "go
first and save yourself, dear Hugh ! "

Again her glance rested upon Everard with
a look of appeal, as if she would have implored
his forgiveness for the action she was taking.
He answered the appeal promptly.

She is right," he said, with the same quietness
as he had shown throughout the night; " it
is the only thing left to be done. Leap ! and
you may be able to send help." He looked
behind him and shuddered ; here and there the
crests of the smoke-clouds were bursting into
flame, their hot breath already fanned their
cheeks and touched their clothes.

Lucia uttered a low cry, and sinking on her
knees covered her face with her hands. For a
moment Hugh hesitated; he glanced towards
the pure air outside  within they could scarcely
draw their labouring breath  calculated the

ease and certainty of his own deliverance and
his impotence to save the girl at his feet. Then
he stooped over her and gathered her into his
arms.

At least we will die together ! " he said.

But at this moment a mighty shout arose ;
the crowd surged and divided ; the fireman was
seen approaching guiding swiftly and carefully
the escape under the point of danger. Smoke
and flame formed now a lurid background to
the figures at the window who were all leaning
eagerly forward to escape the fetid and suffocating
atmosphere.

'' Thank God, thank God ! " cried Hugh, lifting
Lucia into the case with arms that trembled
with excitement.

To Everard's overwrought anxiety the business
seemed a protracted one, and it was with painful
effort that he compelled himself to stand by
and make no offer of assistance. "At least
I may wish you God speed," he said with a
forlorn smile, and as he spoke the fresh morning
air blew towards him the light folds of Lucia's

dress. He caught them in his hand and kissed
them with a tender reverence. The action was
so swift that it escaped Hugh's observation ;
but Lucia acknowledged it by a look of yearning
pity and love. The next moment the fireman
had made his swift descent and she at
least was saved.

Brief as the interval was before he rose
again, to the two men who stood awaiting
his return, scorched by the flames from which
there was no further retreat, and suffocated
with smoke, it included an incalculable period
of anguish. One thought filled the mind of
each, strong enough to conquer pain and
stupefaction, but only one expressed it.

Follow your wife," gasped Everard, " and
I will follow you ; there is no time for honourable
contention  go first, and save me if you
can ! " He staggered as he spoke and would
have fallen, but Hugh caught him by the arm.

Hold on by the window-frame and bear up
for two minutes longer  it is all uj) with you
otherwise ! Or no, I am scarcely brute enough

to leave you to perish  I can hold out better
than you." Even as he spoke the fireman's
head reappeared at the window. He was
scorched with the flames and blackened with
smoke, and had done deeds of unconscious
heroism that night.

'' The lady's husband next," he said in a tone
of authority, and Hugh stepped out upon the
ladder.

His face was pale as death, and he had a
sense of self-loathing at his heart, but life and
love were dear, and Everard had made a gesture
of resolute refusal.

For a few moments kneeling at the open
window, he watched with dimming eyes the
descent of his companion. His lungs began to
refuse their office in the suffocating air, but
still the indomitable and eager spirit which
animated him saved his mind from collapse.
His whole life seemed to pass before his inner
vision in a flash of miraculous perception.

He bowed his head upon the arms crossed
upon the window-sill.

Is this a foretaste of the fire that purges ? "
was the half-ironic question that rose in his
mind. 'god! I have no prayers to offer  if
Thou art I accept Thy will ; but for others "

His thought was of the father whose heart
would be broken, of the woman whose life he
had spoiled, and the instinct of aspiration was
stifled in the keen spasm of remorse.

The day by this time was fully breaking ina
tearful sky, showing distinctly to the crowd
below the figure of the man shrouded in incandescent
smoke. The excitement was intense,
and Hugh had scarcely leaped to the ground
before the hero of the night was already halfway
up the twenty feet of ascent. But rapid
as the action was, it was too slow ; the grasp
upon the window-sill on which alone the chance
of salvation lay had been already relaxed ; when
the stalwart fireman once more strode across
the window-ledge and stepped into the room,
it was a dead man he raised from the floor and
carried down into the fresh morning air below.

CHAPTEE XLIV.

Death comes in many forms, and strikes each
mind that contemplates it from a different point
of view.

Before many hours were over, the news of
the great fire at the Golden Fleece, and that
Everard Deane had lost his life in it  the only
actim of the catastrophe  had been flashed by
telegraph over the length and breadth of Britain.
No man or woman heard it, who had been friend
or acquaintance of the dead, without an emotion,
more or less profound, of pity and regret.

*' Ton my soul, a shocking thing ! " said Grattan,
putting down the paper which did not
reach him in his Highland solitude till the day
following the event. " Daresay he was helping
some poor devil or other whose life was not

worth saving. Never knew a pleasant fellow
all round than Deane ! "

And he returned to his interrupted breakfast,
and helped himself to another instalment of
game-pie.

A blow like this unnerves one," he added ;
'rit is necessary to keep's one's pecker up ! "

He was addressing Jack Templar, the two
men renting the Scotch moor together, a thing
no longer to be accomplished by men of their
position.

The latter was a good deal more moved than
Grattan, and was conscious of a stricture of the
throat and a moisture of the eyes which interfered
with prompt response. He had known
Everard more intimately, and the news of his
death affected him differently from his companion.
He left his breakfast unfinished, and
walked to the window.

' I should have felt it less had it been my
own brother," he said. " To know Deane was
to love him  I mean what I say ; other men
you like  are good friends with  but this man

laid his hand upon your heart. God help the
poor old father ! "

He took up the paper again and read the
details carefully through, reading between the
lines, as his knowledge of past circumstances
helped him to do.

"A woman at the bottom of it, of course,"
he said cynically ; but it was to himself and not
to his companion ; ' one wonders how she feels! "

How she feels ? " It was a question that
Lucia Marriott never put in the power of any
human being to answer. She did not swoon,
nor cry aloud, nor weep ; at least, if she did
weep, it was when no eye beheld her.

Hugh was standing by her side when the
fireman, spreading out the blanket on the damp
ground, laid his burden at their feet, with something
of a tender and reverent air.

The gentleman has swooned," he said in
doubtful accents, and touching Hugh's arm significantly
as he spoke ; and then perceiving from
the responsive crowd that there would be no
lack of due attention, he turned back to his

VOL. in. p

work, for there was hard work yet to be done
at the Golden Fleece.

Lucia took a step forward and fixed her gaze
upon him; as she gazed, every tint of colour
faded from her cheek till there was something
almost preternatural in her pallor, and her figure
grew rigid as stone, but not a sound escaped
her. Presently, when Hugh knelt down by the
dead man's side, to be succeeded by a doctor
who was a member of the crowd, and together
they raised his head, and felt for the pulses
which had ceased to beat, a convulsive shudder
shook her from head to foot.

"He is quite dead ! Who is it '? " asked the
man of science, rising, and speaking with an
unruffled composure.

Lucia summoned her husband to her side by
a gesture that was almost imperious.

"It is for you to do all that is necessary to
be done, and it must be done at once. Cover
him up from the common gaze  he could not
have endured that  and take him to some hotel.
That doctor had better go with you."

Hugh gazed at her in painful bewilderment ;
the large brown eyes were not bedewed by
tears, nor did the pale sensitive mouth quiver
as it was wont to do, whenever she was moved.
Her low voice was clear and cold.

'remember," she added, "whatever sacred
duties are due from the living to the dead are
paid by you to him ; don't leave him alone in
hireling hands even for one moment."

She had meant to say, ''He gave his life
for us," but her spirit failed. To have pronounced
the words would have broken down
her resolution.

"Do not think of me  I will follow;" and
reluctant as he was to leave her, he felt forced
to obey.

She maintained the same absolute composure
so long as there was any demand made upon
her resolution. When Hugh proposed to telegraph
to the unhappy father, she told him he
would soon be there, for she had summoned
him overnight, and proceeded to explain what
she had done with an impersonal, quiet exactness,

which struck him as painfully unnatural.


Who will tell him r asked Hugh.

"You will tell him," was the answer; '' who
else ?" but Hugh shook his head.

"I would almost as soon face death itself
as be the bearer of it to Deane's father  it
will kill him !"

Oh, that is a mistake," said Lucia ; " grief
does not kill, or at least it is long at its work.
But if you will not, then I will do it."

But it was not necessary. HI news flies fast,
and before the unhappy man had crossed the
threshold of the house in which his dead son
was lying, he had been made aware of his
bereavement. Marcus Deane was a strong man
both in body and mind, but that day a blow
was dealt him that shattered the foundation of
his vigour. The light and warmth and colour
of his life went out in the blast of that terrible
calamity.

He entered the death-chamber alone in spite
of friendly protest, and no human eye witnessed

the form his love and despair took. He
did not remain very long, but he was a changed
man from the hour of that brief vigiL He was
able to make arrangements, and to give his own
orders for the immediate removal of the body
to Hurstpoint, and during the few hours it was
necessary to remain in Portsmouth he kept the
secret of his misery unconfessed to any ear.

It was late in the evening of that day that
Hugh Marriott entered the room occupied by
his wife in the same hotel as where this parental
tragedy had been enacted. He had implored
her to lie down and rest after all the
cruel experiences of the last night and day, and
as a matter of obedience she had complied, but
no rest was possible to her beyond the rest of
forced physical inaction.

That her sufferings were intense was evident
from her whole aspect of rigid pallor, but she
had given no clue to the channel in which her
misery ran. Hugh watched her with restless
anxiety from time to time, as he went in and out
of her apartment, and felt inclined to urge her

to some expression of her feelings, whatever it
might cost him, for he dreaded the effects of
this unnatural self-restraint.

As for himself, he felt like a man walking in his
sleep, at a loss to trace the consequences of events,
and unable to analyse the state of his own mind.
Compunction which deepened to remorse, and an
aching pity in which all personal bitterness was
quenched, filled his heart as he took his share
in the awful duties death had devolved upon
him. He asked himself how he should have felt
if he had carried out his purpose, and it had
been his own hand which had killed him ? And
then he asked himself if murderous intention
fell much below the accomplished act ? And
again, if the desperate selfishness by which he
had preserved his own life did not touch the
borders of a crime 1 He could not resist the
conviction that both lives might have been saved
if he had constrained Everard to go first ; for
his strength of endurance had been less severely
taxed, and his natural vigour of resistance was
greater.

After all, had lie not slain Inn ?

So long' as a human heart beats in a man's
bosom the hand of death wipes out the record of
injuries. True, Everard Deane had sinned against
him, though not to the extent his vindictive jealousy
had at first supposed ; but in that cold,
clear medium through which he now looked, he
could see things in their true relation, and he
remembered with a groan, the generosity he had
misprized and the cruelty of which he had been
guilty.

The dead was passed beyond redemption of
error, but another remained whose tender heart
he had bruised, and whose penitence he had insulted.
Eetrieval here was possible ; at least
such poor retrieval  incomplete and tentative
at best  as alone is possible to blind, stumbling
humanity.

It was in this mood of mind that he drew
a chair to his wife's sofa and took her passive
hand in his. Her eyes were wide open with
a look of tearless pain in them which affected
him deeply, and her face was white and drawn.

Would it not be wise to try and move her
to tears ?

' Mr Deane has declined to see me, Lucia ;
have you any wish to speak to him ? "

She shook her head. " Alas it to be supposed
he could endure the sight of either of us ? I
would not dare to ask it ! "

He was silent for a few moments, revolving
the wisdom of the next expedient ; then he said
hurriedly and with a desperate effort, not looking
at her while he spoke 

"He  they  are going back to Hurstpoint
to-night ; would you like to see Everard Deane
again i

Her breast heaved, and her lips worked convulsively
; she withdrew her hand from his, and
turned away her head.

I  I am afraid," she said  " not of him,
not of him, but of myself! the sight would
kill me ! Oh God, oh God ! "  she covered
her face with her hands, and her whole
frame was shaken with tearless, convulsive
sobs.

Then with a strong effort she conquered
herself again.

** This is not what I meant  you will hate
me, Hugh ! "

Nay," he answered, " I hate myself; forgive
me, Lucia ! "

He knelt down by the couch, and took both
her hands in his ; his blue eyes were wet with
tears.

''I will comfort you," he said ; " I will try
hard to make you forget my past cruelty and
injustice. We will forgive each other, Lucia.
I have never ceased to love you, dear ; in time
you will love me back again."

He drew her arms about his neck and kissed
her.

"You break my heart," she answered.
Yesterday had you said those words I should
have blessed you  to-day, I have bought them
too dear ! You will not be angry ? You will
give me a little time ? I am the most miserable
woman on the face of God's earth ! "

I will give you all my life," he said sadly ;

and he got up and left her, thinking it the
kindest thing he could do.

He walked down to the harbour and went onboard
his ship, pacing the deck silently, and
revolving the events of the last twenty-four
hours, of the past and of the future. He said to
himself that it would still be better for his wife
to sail with him for Australia  it would be best
for both : but that he would so guard every
hour and circumstance of her life  he would
have such long patience with her grief and despondency
 exhibit such tenderness, consideration,
and self-denial  that he should recover his
lost hold of her gratitude, respect, and love.

It would be easier for her to forget, with the
sea between her and England 

The unplumbed, salt, estranging sea ; "

nor would it be possible for any woman, however
miserable or self - condemned, to mourn
for ever. What wounds could withstand the
healing process of persistent forbearance and
kindness'? "

But he would allow lier a little time for revival.
He would take her home to her friends
the next day, out of the horrible associations of
the place, and extend his furlough for a week or
two. Then she should join the ship at some
other port.

Hugh Marriott was eminently practical ; he
felt himself already creditably committed to the
process of restitution.

He carried out his programme exactly. He
left Portsmouth on the following day with Lucia,
and took her home to her mother, remaining
himself a few days to watch over her and see if
she recovered from the shock. All that fond
and anxious affection could suggest in the way
of comfort and sympathy was abundantly bestowed
upon her, but she kept the remote and
absorbed air which occasioned him such deep
anxiety. She was quietly grateful to parents
and sister, careful in the performance of any
duty that bore on her relations to her husband
even anxious for his comfort and approval ;
but it seemed to Hugh that she was living a

mere mechanical existence, out of which all
spontaneity had dropped.

Had he alienated her for ever by his harshness
and severity ? or was the memory of her
dead lover to stand between them as the man
himself had done ?

Neither he himself, nor her friends at home,
had been able to induce her to refer to any of
the incidents connected with the fire at the
Golden Fleece, though they had done their
best, thinking it would be salutary if this unnatural
reserve could be broken, and her horror
and distress find vent in words and tears.
There was something at once baffling and painful
in this rio;id and resolute reserve.

In his perplexity Hugh addressed himself to
Helen, though generally averse to exchanging
confidences with her.

'' Is Lucia equally reserved with you ? has
she never talked about the shocking details connected
with the ere \ never mentioned poor
Deane ? "

Never ! If the subject is alluded to she is

speechless, and gets up and goes out of the
room ; therefore  we do not allude to it ! "

But  you think she thinks of him '? "

He had asked the question with difficulty, and
Helen looked at him with a curious intentness
before answering.

I think he is seldom or never absent from
her thoughts. Wait a moment, and don't misunderstand
! She knows you brought him to
the place where he met his death, and that
therefore your hands are not clear of bloodguiltiness
; also, that he, even as it was, would
have had no difficulty in saving his life if he had
not been bent on saving hers first, and so she
takes up part of the burden of condemnation.
Then, I know, she is steeped in pity  no, it is
remorse rather  for the sorrow that has fallen
on Mr Deane's father."

But she might feel as much as this for one
who had been a stranger."

She might," returned Helen, with warmth,
'' but I have not said her feeling stops at this
point. Lucia's temper has always been such

that gratitude becomes a passion with her.
Everard Deane has crowned the self-denial and
devotion of his life by a death that looks like
martyrdom. He died, not only for her sake, but
for yours, who hated and ill-used him,  do you
suppose she does not feel this to the core of her
heart ? I don't know what relations subsisted
between them while he lived, but the circumstances
of his end are such as almost to drive a
sensitive, tenacious creature to despair. Tenderness,
reverence, remorse, will make his memory
almost a religion''

Hugh sighed impatiently.

Have you not forgiven him '? " asked 'Helen.
Does not the fact which I mentioned just now
wipe out his offences ? "

Not only that, but it has shown me mine ina
new light ; still death cannot change the character
of a man's life, or actually wipe out wrongdoing.
One may forgive or extenuate it, but
the facts remain, I suppose, for all eternity."

He paused, but Helen allowing the words to
pass without challenge, he added 

To-morrow I am going to Hurstpoint ; I feel
I should act like a coward if I were to leave
England without seeing Mr Deane."

Helen shivered a little. " I don't envy you
your errand  but perhaps you are right. For
the rest, Hugh, you must be very patient with
Lucia ; deserve her gratitude and she will pay
you back with love. Also  I would not talk
about the past."

No," he said ; " the salt seas shall wash that
out ! Trust me, Helen  I shall do my best to
reconcile her to life and to me."

The next morning he took an early train to
Stockdale with the intention of returning the
same day. We need scarcely indicate the bitter
memories with which his mind was full as he
passed along the familiar ways. He walked
from the station to the principal inn, and
ordered a fly to take him to Hurstpoint.

The landlord looked at him in evident surprise.


The house is shut up," he said ; " and they

say it will never be opened again in Mr Deane's
lifetime. He went away directly after the
funeral." He hesitated, then added, " It was
a terrible business, Captain Marriott."

Hugh nodded assent. " Can you tell me
where he is gone ? "

He went to town from here, but only to
stay there till the ladies could join him. I
believe they were going to some quiet little
place in the Isle of Wight that belongs to Mr
Deane, though he has never been in the habit
of living there. He will not stay long anywhere
 he is a broken man."

'' Are Sir Owen and Lady Hamilton at home? "

Hugh spoke abruptly, for he did not care to
betray his feelings ; and on getting an answer
in the affirmative, he decided to go there and
gather what information he could.

Lady Hamilton was at home and received
him at once, but it was evident to Huoh that
her friendly feeling on his behalf was a thing
of the past. Her manner was not only grave
but cold.

'' Your visit," she said, after the first formal
greetings, "has taken me quite by surprise 
I had almost said it was a shock. Excuse me.
Captain Marriott, but why are you here ? "

Hugh coloured painfully. " Am I so unwelcome
? "

And then he explained that the object of his
journey had been to see Mr Deane before he
left England, thinking it possible he might now
be able to hear those details respecting the
accident which no one could give but himself,
as well as to express his personal sympathy and
reset.

Is it, then, possible you have no knowledge
of the state of Mr Deane's feelings towards
you ? And not, I am compelled to say, of his
feelings alone, for all who know the circumstances
of the case share them more or less."

I am not sure I understand to what circumstances
you refer," said Hugh, sadly. "Neither
Everard Deane nor I have been without fault
in our several ways, but I am alive to bear the
odium and he has passed beyond blame. Am

VOL. in. Q

I held responsible for his death in this neighbourhood
? I could forgive his father the wrong,
but you, Lady Hamilton "

As for the share you took in that awful
event I know nothing. Captain Marriott, and I
do not presume to judge you. But after his
death, Mr Deane found a letter in his pocket
which explained his presence at Portsmouth,
and showed the state of your mind towards him.
All of us are willing to admit that it is a grave
fault to break the seventh commandment even inspirit,
and this is as far as his transgression
went ; but I cannot lose sight of the fact that the
sixth is equally binding upon the conscience, and
takes precedence of it in the divine category."

You are right," said Hugh, with a groan ;
'' I have said these things to myself."

"To be quite frank, the poor old father believes
that the man who cherished such a venomous
hate, and plotted against his life, took no
pains to save it when it was in peril; but, understand,
I forbear to express a personal opinion.
I know quite well that Everard's last thought

would be his own safety ; lie would have laid
down his life, not only for Lucia, but for any
human being in extremity. A temper like that
covers a multitude of sins, and so endears the
man to his friends that they are apt to be hasty
and unjust towards those who have hated him."

Hugh rose to depart.

*' I have not a word to say in my own defence
; only I still wish to hear how Mr Deane
bears up, if your ladyship thinks fit to relieve
my anxiety."

I could tell you nothing but what would
increase it. He is bowed to the dust, though
he tries to show a brave front to the world, and
is not likely long to survive his son. The girl
that Everard brought home with him is paying
off her debt with the devotion of a daughter 
it is only from her that the old man will bear
the mention of his name."

I ought never to have come amongst you,"
said Hugh. " Were it in my power to buy
back this precious life with my own, I would
gladly do it ! "

Lady Hamilton sighed. "You think so,
Captain Marriott, but the test can never be applied,
and we are all prone to judge of a man's
future by his past. Still, other precious lives
are left. I have not ventured to ask for Lucia :
poor soul, what she must have suffered ! Surely
you have been kind to her ? " -

I have tried," he said in a low tone, '' and
will never cease trying while life lasts ; but
sometimes I think her heart is broken. Have
I not my punishment ? "

She looked at him steadily. He was very
pale, and there was a humble, stricken look in
his face she had never seen there before, but her
heart did not soften towards him.

*' Doubtless ; let it bear fruit in the future !
I can send no message to Lucia such as you
ought to take to her ; once more, I entreat you
to be good to her."

Hugh went back to Richmond with a mind
disordered with anguish and remorse. He went
direct to his wife's room.

Lucia," he said, " how long do you wish to

remain here ?  that means, how soon will you
be willing to sail with me ? '*

She lifted her heavy eyes, and met the pain
and impatient distress in his.

Any day or hour that you please," she answered.
" I am ready  what is there to wait
for?"

Then let us go away from here tomorrow,
for life is not bearable to me in these home
scenes. I am a man without friends, and
whipped by the consequences of my sins as by
scorpions. Men speak to me, and women too,
as if the brand of Cain were on my forehead,
and I half believe it is ! Lucia, after all I will
not take you with me into the wilderness  I will
leave you with your mother ! "

He came towards her and knelt down before
her.

*' When I think of what I have made you
suffer  how I turned my back on your penitence
and your prayers  I give you leave to
cast off my yoke. Nor is that all I "  he stopped.
Let it pass," he continued, passionately ; *' a

man is not constrained to criminate himself, and
through it all I loved you in my poor fashion,
if only that could count. Death has canonised
the other man  forgive me, Lucia, if I ask you
what would your life have been had he been
saved instead of me 1 "

She covered her face with hier hands, and
drew herself away from him.

I  I dare not weigh such thoughts," she
replied, in a faint suppressed voice ; *' but it
would have been worse ! Then I should have
had no chance of reparation. Now, in the mercy
God, there is  or at least, I think, in time I may
learn to hope there is.'

She let her hands fall, and looked into his
face with an expression of heartrending appeal.

Do you understand what it is that crushes
me ? " she asked : " it is, that we are responsible
for his death. Your hate brought him to the
place, and he sacrificed his life out of love tome
I Are we strong enough to bear up under
this burden ? He would not have wished it to
destroy our lives."

Her lips quivered, and the glaze of tears
gathered over her weary eyes, which met his
without distrust.

I think, Hugh, if there is to be any peace
between us, I must tell you all the truth. I
know now that I blinded my conscience in his
regard. I loved him as he loved me, with all
my soul and with all my strength. I meant to
have gone away with you to do my duty, as I
called it, but I believe I should have failed.
He held my heart-strings in his hands ! "

He would have risen and turned away from
her, but she suddenly cast her arms about his
neck.

"I am telling you how I have sinned, but
words could not be found to say how I have suffered.
I don't mean the desperate pain of personal
bereavement only, but the remorse for the anguish
we have cost to the many who loved him,
the awful knowledge that we have been the
means of putting out a life like that  in such a
way ! "

She stopped a moment, then added eagerly 

'' Putting out !  it is not surely that ? I believe
his life and future are in the hands of
God, and  I am content to leave them there.
But you and I are still alive to repent and
redeem the past. At our age it would be a base
thing to give up trying to do right because we
have gone astray. Will you help me, Hugh, to
find out what our duty is, and to do it ? Begin
now by telling me you forgive me  here, on
this same spot, where you denounced me barely
two weeks ago \ "

He took her beautiful pale face between his
hands and kissed her lips with devout tenderness.


Love me once more," he said. " I forgive,
as I hope to be forgiven."

