Chapter I.

'' Florence, with thy Tuscan fields and hills,
Thy famous Amo, fed with all the rills,
Thou brightest star of star-bright Italy."

Bon into life ! who lists

May what is false hold dear,
And for himself makes mists

Through which to see less clear ;
The world is what it is for all oui dust and din."

M. Arnold.

The scene is Florence, the month May, and
the time some two hours after sunrise. Already
the city is astir, and the country people are
trooping in and T\dll soon be setting forth their
fragrant wares in the market-place. Eggs in
pyramids, of every shade of colour, from pure
white to softest brown and palest green ; curd-vol.

I. A

cheeses, round and smooth, and stacked like
cannon-balls, with little twigs of the still tender
chestnut-trees, fresh picked in the dewy-dawn,
thrust into the interstices.

The time for ripe fruits is not come yet ; the
gourds and pomegranates are hanging crude
and colourless on their parent stems, and the
neutral-tinted berries of the grape scarcely show
beneath the full spring leafage of the vines.
But colour is not wanting : tall arum lilies
stand in stately ranks, while masses of gladioli,
cyclamen, violets, and the bearded hyacinth are
lying about in heaps, soon to be divided by
swift fingers into posies, when they will overflow
the market-place and be exposed upon the
old grey basements of the city's palaces, to
tempt the eye of the English and American
stranger. Whilst the patient mules are being
unladen, and the baskets unpacked, the voices
of girls and women, with a sprinkling of men
amongst them, rise clear and resonant in the
delicious morning air ; if the joke be rough or
the speech sharp, it comes softened and rounded
in the mellow Tuscan patois; and a glance at

their lithe forms and bold and vivid faces
shows where Michel Angelo got his models
and Savonarola his eager followers.

But let us leave the market, and ascending:
the left bank of the river towards the Uffizi,
stand still for a moment and look around at
perhaps the fairest sight under heaven. Domes
and spires fill the smokeless air, which, of necessity,
are of carven stone ; but where else is stone
carved and shaped into leafage and loveliness
so delicate and ethereal ? Look at the finely
fretted parapet of Or San Michele, lifting its
sharp outlines above the dim tortuous streets
which enclose it ; while the huge church itself,
square - set like a fortress, ujorears its bulk
against the clouds with a mountainous majesty
which seems to make it more akin to nature
than to the work of man. And then by a little
change of position you will be able to catch a
glimpse of the Campanile of Giotto, more than
five centuries old, but looking to-day, as has
been charmingly said, " as fair and fresh in its
perfect grace as if angels had built it in the
night just past."

But detail and panegyric are out of place
where every church exhibits or encloses the
supreme efforts and triumphs of genius, to be
only outdone by the treasures stored in the
noble palaces themselves ; and the whole is
pitched in the midst of cypress-groves, olive-slopes,
and gardens flooded with sunshine and
alight with changeful colour, while the yellow
Arno rolls through the fertile valley and the
distant Apennines shut in the picture.

On the morning with which we have to doa
man has just pushed open the window of a
room in one of the irregular picturesque houses
on the Lung' Arno, and stepping out on the
balcony which projects over the full-flowing
stream below, leans heavily over the rail and
gazes out at the scene before him. He is intimately
acquainted with the city on which
his eyes rest, so as to be able to fill in from
memory every point where vision fails. He
can even recall the harmonious tints and
weather-stains of certain old frescoes on the
wall in a far-away street, or some grotesque
bas-relief on a crumbling lintel ; he can see the

dusky interior of some forge or trader's stall,
which he will never pass again, or that of some
stately church where the vast roof tapers up to
a shimmering point of light, and through the
issue of the half-open doors the baked pavement
of the piazza gleams white and dazzling
outside. At this very moment colour and light,
sunshine and warmth, steep the whole world
beyond his window : the pulse of life seems
almost audible to listening ears.

The senses of this man, Lewis Trevelyan, who
was gazing and listening, were almost preternaturally
acute, for protracted disease had worn
to tenuity the carnal elements of his body, and
wrought upon nerves and brain till the highest
point of tension and exasperation had been
reached. He was quite aware that almost to
the last the sands in his hour-glass were run,
and that probably he would never be able to
repeat the effort which had enabled him to
reach the outside balcony of his room. Even
now his strength was so far failing him as to
make it difficult for him to retain his grasp
upon the parapet ; and a pang of mixed fear and

humiliation had struck across his heart when he
became aware of an opening door and footsteps
in the room behind him, and the next momenta
hand was laid upon his shoulder, and a strong
arm caught and propped his staggering figure.

You here ! " he gasped, looking up into the
face bent anxiously over him  ' ' you here 1
What can have drawn you forth from St Suffice
? I never expected to see your face again."

Wait a moment till you have recovered
yourself a little, and I will explain."

It would not have been difficult for Philip
Methuen to have raised the sick man in his
arms and carried him back to the couch he had
quitted, but he refrained, from a quick perception
that such an action would have hurt the
pride of the other, and contented himself with
helping his painfully slow and difficult progress
back to his former place and position.

When he had arranged his pillows, and given
him a few drops of wine from a bottle of
Johannisberger which stood on a little table
close at hand, he drew a chair to the sofa and
sat down beside his friend.

He had brought in with him from the market
a bunch of roses and a fragrant sheaf of lilies
of the valley, which he had flung down in his
haste to help Trevelyan, and a little rough
terra-cotta pot full of ripe strawberries.

I see  you have not forgotten"  said Trevelyan,
who had rallied a little by this time ;
"but the child is not here. I have sent her
back again to Fiesole ; what could a dying man
do with her ? "

Then after a pause, during which the young-man
regarded him with grave compassionate
eyes  " You came in the nick of time to save
me from the death of a dog ; had I dropped on
those stones I should never have risen ao'ain.
Conceive my lying there in the eye of the
sun till old Assunta hed come in to discuss
my superfluous dinner, or perhaps Eichetti
himself, bent on repeating the plausible falsehoods
to which my ears had at last grown
deaf ! At last 1 it has been a long process,
Phdip."

Methuen's face was clouded and distressed,
but he seemed to find it hard to answer. The

other observed him with a keenness which weakness
seemed scarcely to obscure, and smiled as
if amused.

Come' he continued, ** say what is in your
heart if it will make it lighter. Repeat the old
formulas  my friendship will stand the strain.
I have found life a bad business  a hard
struggle, with the certainty of being vanquished
in the end. Is not that the gospel
according to Schopenhauer, and which I have
proved and practised? You believe in God
and a future life  in His goodness and management
of affairs. If there were one, I would
thank Him that He has given me courage
enough, in the thick of my miseries and disappointments,
to reject consolations to which
the whole universe gives the lie ! "

He spoke eagerly, in spite of pain and breathlessness
: his was a temperament which would
never grow cold till the hand of death quenched
its ardours. It seemed to Philip that he rather
desired to believe what he asserted than
believed it.

Are we able to pronounce on the whole

universe ? " he answered. " Is not doubt a shade
better than despair ? "

Again the kind cynical smile played round
Trevelyan's pale lips.

*' I know you have the courage of your
opinions, Methuen, and only spare me controversy
and exhortation out of pity for my
condition. But the time is gone by for that.
I never hoped to have the chance of talking
about my affairs to you again, and must make
the best of it. But first, what has happened ?
How comes it that that tawny poll of yours is
not yet disfigured by the tonsure ? If you had
come back a full-blown priest, I am not sure
I should have refused to make my confession,
and received the sacred wafer at your hands.
It would have done me no harm, and given you
an innocent satisfaction."

All that is postponed. I have consented, if
not to give up my vocation, at least to consider
about giving it up."

Trevelyan stared at him in blank astonishment.


I thought nothing more could surprise me.

but this does. Come, Methuen, I see the
matter goes hard with you, but there need be
no hesitation in making confidences to a dying
man. Has your faith got a shock ? No ; it was
too inveterate for fact or reason to shake it.
Has the Abbe de Seve made some requisition
beyond even your fanaticism to meet, or the
world-wise archbishop himself opposed your
singular predilection for martyrdom amongst
the unsavoury savages of the Core ? Any way,
it is a satisfaction I never bargained for. May
I wish you joy ? "

As you like ; only bear in mind I have
received the hardest blow fate could well have
dealt me  that the deliberate plan of my life is
upset. Try and understand what it is to have
been on the point of consecration to a work you
believed the best on earth, and to find yourself
suddenly pulled back and forced to face the
other way  a way you dislike and contemn."

'' Ah, I begin to see daylight ! Some stroke
of good fortune has occurred to you, and your
mother, like a sensible woman as she is, has put
her veto on the priesthood."

You are right in a way. My cousin is dead
on the very eve of his wedding-day, and my

uncle writes to urge  to command me to "

he hesitated.

To raise up seed unto your cousin ! Is it
part of the compact to take the widowed bride,
or will a free choice be allowed you? In
that case, I shall put in a claim for my little
gipsy. Forgive me, Philip, but I shall go
down to the grave better content that you are
compelled to play a man's part in life. Priests
don't count as men."

Methuen smiled.

I should have supposed a disciple of Schopenhauer
would have deplored the probability of
adding to the unredeemed sum of human misery,
but there is but one logical faith. At least you
now understand how the case stands with me,
and we can talk of other things. You are much
weaker, Trevelyan, than I expected to find you.
Tell me anything you wish that it is in my
power to do. I start for England to-day to be
in time for poor Mark's funeral."

Then you must come back," was the eager

rejoinder. " I have not a single friend in Florence,
nor outside of it, for that matter. I look
to you, Philip, to see me put under ground, with
decency at least, and to wind up my affairs.
There is about a couple of hundreds lying at
the bank here to my credit, which will be
enough for such meagre funeral rites as I desire,
and for the few debts I leave behind. Should
there be any surplus, well  that will be my
daughter s fortune ! " He spoke with concentrated
bitterness, and added  " Advise me what
I am to do with the pauper ! "

You have positively no relations who would
be her natural guardians ? "

Yes. I have a sister married to a parson in
Sir Giles Methuen's own parish ; but they are
poor, and she hates me. I am talking against
my strength, but must explain  if I can. Mine
was not a good youth, Philip, and my early
follies helped to ruin her prospects. Her dowry
was swallowed up in the payment of debts it
would have been a shame to have left unpaid.
Noblesse oblige, and we were an honourable
family, though a very impoverished one.

Through this the man of her choice threw hero



over, and she has always visited his sins, as
well as my own, on my head, in spite of my
endeavour to convince her that it was a stroke
of good luck that she found him out this side
of matrimony. She says also that I Ijroke my
father's heart. She would turn my miserable
little girl out of doors."

There was an awkward pause, then Trevelyan
spoke again.

I have thought of your mother, Philip. Ah,
I see ; that, too, is a forlorn-hope ! Let it be
as if I had not spoken. The little minx has the
sift of alienation goodwill."

"It is not that," said the other quickly;
but my mother has no love for children. 1
often think she barely tolerates her son. But
if your sister is married to the dcar of Kensington,
my task is easy. I will go to her before
I see you again. I cannot believe that it will
be difficult to arrange matters."

'' That means, you will offer to pay her handsomely
for the girl's board, lodging, and education
; but I would not trust her even then.

Moreover, it strikes me you are reckoning without
your host. I know your yearly income,
my dear fellow,  what the mother disburses,
pardon me, and on what the son subsists, charities
inclusive. No doubt the old baronet will
increase your allowance, now you are become
heir-presumptive, but only on condition that
you show yourself accommodating. It will not
be wise or well for you to burden yourself with
the charge of a young woman on first starting
in life. You are now, remember, one of the
laity."

' A young woman ! " repeated Methuen,
smiling.

*' That is what it is her misfortune to become,
unless we could both go under ground together,
which would be the best solution of the difficulty.
I would not own to any one but you
how" anxious I am about the girl's future, with
her promise of beauty, her strong will and
vehement temper." He sighed impatiently.
'' I wish she had never been born ! How can
I die in peace, leaving that miserable little
waif afloat on life's current ? "

Methuen got up and looked at his watch.

It grieves me to say I must go, but a week
hence Ave will talk this matter over ao'ain. You
may rest assured that I will see your sister, and
bring back good news to you."

He held the frail hand of the sick man
closely but gently grasped, and looked down
at him with an expression of such compassionate
sympathy as to bring the tears to his
eyes.

You must live till I come back," he added,
by God's grace or force of will. I will write
to you at every chance till I stand here by
your side again. Adclio, a riverderci :"'

As he went out Trevelyan turned his face to
the wall and groaned.

Never more ! " he said to himself, " nevermore
! I have looked my last upon the one
face I care to see."

CHAPTER ir.

A life of nothings, nothing worth,
From that first nothing ere his birth
To that last nothing under earth ! "

The Two Voices.

It was a late spring in England. Cutting east
winds had prevailed through the whole of May,
and at the end of the month there came a frost
so severe as to nip to the core the well expanded
blossoms of the Dorset apple-orchards,
and with them the hopes of a profitable harvest.
"What could God Almighty mean by sending
such a cruel night of weather ? " asked one
honest farmer of another as they stood beneath
the blackened branches ; and gardeners surveyed,
with equal despair, the scorched and
shrivelled appearance of their wall-fruit trees,
which yesterday had been alive with promise.

The very woods seemed to suspend development;
the oak and beech still showed their
gaunt grey boughs but thinly clad T\ith tender
leafage ; and the ebon buds of the ash were
locked hard and close in the ungenial air.
Here and there the wild cherry and crab
gleamed white or pink against the dim and
dusky pines ; and the pale stars of the persistent
primrose still covered the banks amongst
the mossy roots of hazels, through which the
ferns where thrusting their russet scrolls. But
the tender blue of the forget-me-not, and the
full amethyst of the hyacinth, delayed their
blossoming, and the spotted cowslip refused to
open in the hard and frost-bound meadows.

Methuen Place, the seat of one of the oldest
families in the county, but at the same time
of a family whose annals were unknown to
fame, stood in a hollow facing the vide upland
sweep of its magnificent park, and served
as half-way house between the substantial
borough of Crawford on the one side, and
the county town of Trichester on the other.
It was a low picturesque pile of massive grey

VOL. I. B

stone, bearing the weather-stains and minute
moss-growths of generations upon its hoary
front, and with the deep angles of its solid
walls and the arch of its ponderous entrance-gates
covered with the lustrous green of magnolias
and myrtles.

But in the late afternoon of the day when
Philip Methuen first saw it, its aspect was
singularly forlorn and depressing. He had
driven in a hack-fly from the station at Tri-chester,
and was chilled to the bone by his
long journey through the biting air, as well
as by a sense of discomfiture at the seeming
absence of all welcome or expectation of his
coming.

In reply to his inquiry as to whether there
were any servant or carriage waiting for him
from Methuen Place, the station-master had answered
in the negative, with a certain dry significance
which somehow brought the colour
into his cheek ; and the man whose vehicle he
had chosen, addressing the rubicund driver of
the " Antelope " railway 'bus, just on the point
of departure with its scanty freight, said, with

a wink of intense significance, as lie took this
seat on tke box and picked ups the reins 

If the gen'elman snowed Sir Giles's greys as
well as you and I do, Bill, he might have saved
himself the trouble of asking the question."

He was quite prepared under encouragement
to have given Philip the most minute
information respecting his uncle's establishment,
habits, and reputation, but that did
not suit the young man's mood or temper,
although he was not able to defend himself
from the damaging impression instinctively
received. As they entered the park and approached
the house, he perceived that every
blind was down, giving a blank and dismal
effect to the whole facade. The flower-beds
were empty of flowers, the soil lying under
heaps of garden compost, and the lawns, under
the scorching east winds, looked brown and
impoverished. Not a gleam of colour or suggestion
of warmth, natural or human, met his
eyes, nor did there seem any stir of life about
the premises  not even the bark of a dog was
to be heard. But then it was to be remembered

the house contained the dead heir and
the dead hopes of its owner.

The driver had made his way up the broad
shallow stone steps which led to the principal
entrance, and had knocked heavily at the door,
muttering, "It was allers desp'rate hard to
rouse 'em."

He was going to repeat the summons, when
Philip jumped out to stop him ; the sound
seemed like sacrilege on that gloomy portal.

We will wait a minute," he said ; " perhaps
you don't know there is a death in the house ? "

The man grinned. " Don't knows that Mark
Methuen is dead!" he answered; 'all the
county knows that well enough, and knows,
too, that the old man and his son hated each
other like poison. No one would ever have
taken him for a gentleman, whichever way up
you tried it. He was a rum un," he added,
reflectively, " he was ! "

At this moment the door was suddenly
thrown open, and Philip stepped for the first
time over the threshold of his ancestral home.

From a boy he had listened to the querulous

embittered complaints of his mother at her banishment
from all share of the family distinction
and privileges, and the shameful injustice accruing,
not so much to younger sons as to vounorer
sons' wives. Her conception of the glories of
Methuen Place, and of her brother - in - law's
social importance, were probably exaggerated ;
but still this was the house where generation
had succeeded generation, and where his own
father had first drawn the breath of life.

Words would be inadequate to describe the
strength of the yearning with which the boy,
mocked and misunderstood by his surviving
parent, had regarded his father's memory; and
the prospect of so soon seeing one so closely
allied to him in blood as Sir Giles Methuen
caused him a profound secret agitation.

There was something of this indicated in the
tone in which he inquired after his uncle of the
staid elderly woman who had advanced to meet
him as he entered the house ; and it may have
had the effect of causing some softening of exo

o

pression on her part, combined as it was with
that easy graciousness of accost which is all but

invariably wanting in the manners of young
Englishmen to their inferiors, and a smile the
sweetness of which would have redeemed the
ugliest face, and was even the crowning charm
of his.

"Sir Giles keeps his room strictly since 
since what has happened," she said; "but he
gave orders, if you arrived before dark, that you
were to be shown up-stairs to him at once. I
will take you to your room, sir, and come back
for you as soon as I have given him notice. I
daresay you would much rather have dressed
and dined first ; but Sir Giles is not one to
think much of these things, Mr Methuen."

Neither do I. I shall be quite ready when
you come for me."

He followed her up the broad shallow oak
staircase  almost as black as ebony with age
and friction, and the massy balustrade of which
was carved at its junction and terminal points
with elaborate grotesqueness  across a wide
corridor, set with numerous windows on the one
side, commanding a view of the park, and which
were faced by doors on the other.

There was an effect of old-world decaying
luxury in the worn carpet which covered the
floor, the finely harmonised colours and fabric
of which proclaimed the work of some Eastern
loom  in the heavy tapestried draperies at the
windows, and the old velvet-padded seats below.
The family coat of arms, \\T.th the traditional
badge of its rank, were emblazoned in the
upper lights of each, and dim portraits of long
deceased ancestors filled up the panels of the
wall.

The bed-chamber into which he was shown
was on the same scale of ancient, ponderous
dignity. Bed, couches, and windows were hung
or covered with superb old tapestry, and the
black oak floor displayed the same costly
though decaying covering as the corridor
outside. There were carved chairs and presses
in the apartment which a modern aesthete would
have estimated at half a king's ransom; and
the high mantel, curiously niche and carved,
would incontinently have been removed by him
to one of the reception-rooms of the house.
The woman, who had introduced herself to

Philip as Mrs Gibson, the housekeeper of the
establishment, attended him upstairs with a
mixed air of solicitude and formality. On
entering the room she indicated to him certain
arrangements for his comfort, which
seemed to prove her undisputed control over
the household, and left him with a broad hint
to be quick at his toilet, as "Sir Giles was
wellnigh worn out with trouble, and never
very patient at the best of times."

The young man's preparations were so rapid
that he was standing waiting before the window
which overlooked the principal gardens, observing
the dreary effect of a pretty Italian fountain,
the basin of which was dry and moss-grown,
and the conch of the water-god a receptacle
for drifting leaves, when the expected
summons came, and a few moments more saw
him ushered into his uncle's presence. The
room was a small study, lined with books from
floor to ceiling, but otherwise somewhat barely
furnished. A huge easy-chair was placed near
one of the windows with its back to the door,
and the figure of the man sitting in it was so

frail and bowed as to be quite invisible to anyone
entering the room.

Mrs Gibson having opened the door and pronounced
the name of the visitor, had instantly
retreated, closing it carefully behind her.

Philip hesitated a moment, then he saw a
thin white hand, with long supple fingers, grasp
the table which stood close to the chair, and
Sir Giles Methuen, raising himself with evident
difficulty, faced round and confronted his
nephew.

The figure was insignificant, as we have said,
and the delicately featured face was prematurely
worn and old ; but the eyes which shone under
the thick grey brows retained their fire and
penetration, and there was nothing senile in
the hard expression of the firm thin lips.

There was neither affection nor even benevolence
in his scrutiny, it was simply an investigation
; and after a few moments he sank back
again into his chair with a sort of stifled groan,
whether produced by bodily or mental distress
seemed doubtful.

The young man, though certainly not encouraged

to do so, came forward, and after his
foreign fashion took his uncle's hand and put it
to his lips.

I am come," he said, " because you commanded
me to come. You cannot be more
grieved for the cause than I am."

Sir Giles shivered a little as if cold, and continued
to gaze at him intently.

There is not a line of your figure nor a feature
of your face which recalls my brother," he
said, * which is to your advantage unquestionably,
for the Methuenss were never a handsome
race. No doubt you are like the woman he
married." A sneer sat on his lips as he spoke.
I think I can trust my memory sufficiently to
be sure upon the point ; but your voice, Philip
Methuen, would be enough to convince me of
your identity. Say something else."

Shall I say how sorry I am to find you so
weak and ill ? "

Also so old and unprepossessing ? Yet

hardly that ! When was the failure of the man in

possession otherwise than welcome to the heir ? "

Philip smiled. " That is only from the

lips outward; you do not really believe your
brother's son is capable of such a feeling. Also
you must be aware that I have planned my
life on very different lines. I want nothing
that you can give me. Even now I am come
out of respect due to the head of my family,
more to listen to what your wishes are, than
with the purpose of yielding to them. That
will be a question for debate."

Sir Giles's keen glance quickened.

'Pon my soul, nephew, you lose no time intaking
the initiative ! I think we sill waive
the discussion of your future till the natural
heir, lying up-stairs, is buried. It would have
been more seemly if you had begun by offering
me your condolences, instead of assuring me of
your obstinacy and independence. Have you
lost sight of the fact that I am a father bereaved
of his only son ? "

Philip looked at him. There was no suggestion
of tenderness or pain in the expression of
the eyes that met his, or in the sharp ring of
the metallic voice. He felt ashamed for the
man who seemed to repudiate the first instincts

of humanity, and a pang of pity for the dead,
who, though cut off in the flower of his youth,
left no regrets behind him.

"It is just because I have not lost sight of
that," he answered, " that I have no condolence
to offer. I am afraid to touch a wound so deep
and so recent."

A dark reluctant flush came over the old man's
face.

*' What can you know ? " he said, in a dull,
suppressed voice. " But I am prepared to tell
you that your consideration is overstrained. It
is true I have lost my only son, but it is not
true that I am bereaved. I am shocked, shaken,
thrown out of gear with the future, when I
thought time and I had settled our accounts.
But the feeling at bottom is this,  that an
anxiety which has corroded my life is removed ;
that I shall once more hold up my shamed head
and look the world in the face ; that the burden
of degradation and hopeless misery which
was imposed by the man who is dead, has unexpectedly
slipped off my shoulders. You are
scandalised ? "

There was an intensity of restrained emotion
in Sir Giles's look and speech which overcame
the instinctive repulsion with which Philip
listened to him.

"At least," he said, "it is an immunity
dearly purchased, and while life lasted there
was hope of amendment and pardon."

"There was none," interrupted Sir Giles,
harshly  " none other than that thorns should
bring forth grapes, or corruption incorruption.
His has been no ordinary career of youthful
profligacy  the mere wasting of his substance
with harlots  but a thorough identification
with the lowest and basest forms of ill-living.
There was not one spark of generous fire
in his blood ; not one sound spot in his soul
to redeem the general leprosy. I groaned
daily under the fear that he would carry our
name into the felon's dock ; and I deliberately
thank God that his power to inflict torment
has been cut short. I slept last night better
than I have slept since he was a child, incapable
of doing wrong because incapable of free
action."

Then, with a quick change of tone and glance,
he added 

It may be, nephew, that your virtue has
the same security  a predestined priest is still
under authority."

I have no reason to think myself different
from other men. I am quite prepared to grant
that my life has been so carefully guarded that
no merit attaches to my obedience. More than
that, the time can never come for me when I
shall cease to think myself under authority."

So far good : tomorrow I shall put your
docility to the test. Now go down-stairs and
have some dinner ; and I hope the necessity of
dining alone won't spoil your appetite. I have
long ceased to play the host. For the rest, we
will not meet again till tomorrow's ceremony 
it will be a very brief one. The church is only
a stone's-throw from the house, and the vault
was opened for its prey days ago. The coffin
will be borne by the servants of the house. A
few friends will attend for decency's sake. You
and I, as nearest of kin, will be chief mourners,
Philip."

The young man inclined this head, then said,
with some hesitation, "I do not know the English
customs, but if it were possible for me to see
my cousin, I should like to do so."

It is not possible,  the coffin was nailed
down forty-eight hours after death. You know
that he died in the hunting-field ? by a sort of
irony of fate, the only field where he ever distinguished
himself. A sharp flint cut the sensitive
hoof of his horse ; the animal plunged suddenly
and threw him over his head. "When they
picked him up he was quite dead  his neck
was broken."

God rest his soul ! " was Philip's instinctive
response.

Sir Giles looked at him sharply, then his
face twitched and softened.

The furnace will need to be heated seven
times hotter before his purgation is attained ;
but if you hold that prayers of yours or others
may help the process, do not balk your charity !
They shall take you to the chapel after you
have dined. We will say good night now."

He waved his hand, and dismissed him.

CHAPTER III.

 Naught is more honourable to a knight,
Nor better doth beseem brave chivalry,
Than to defend the feeble in their right,
And wrong redress in such as wend awry."

Spenser.

As Philip passed out of the corridor, Mrs Gibson
came forward to meet him. It looked as if
she had been waiting for him.

I will show you the way down-stairs, sir,"
she said. " Dinner is laid in the breakfast-room,
and you must be sorely in need of something
to eat. It is my duty to look after you
to-night."

She preceded him as she spoke, and opened
the door of an apartment where a large fire was
blazing in the wide chimney : the incandescent
mass of glowing coal had just been replenished,
producing that union of intense heat and exhilarating

flame which is an Englishman's ideal of
comfort. In its cheery influence a small round
table was set, with all the accessories of fine
linen, translucent glass, and highly burnished
silver, which he also holds to be indispensable
for decent existence, but which struck young
Methuen's eyes as elaborate and unnecessary.
Almost immediately on his appearance the old
butler of the house entered and deposited on
the table a small silver tureen, from which an
exquisite aroma issued, of the singular virtue
of which I am bound to confess that Philip was
too little of an epicure to form an adequate
estimate.

'' Sir Giles desired me to ask what wine you
preferred, mr Methuen ? " said the man, with an
air in which deference and patronage were curiously
balanced.

I have no choice, for I never drink any,"
was the answer, which was received in solemn
undemonstrative silence, but with secret astonishment
and displeasure. A Methuen who did
not appreciate the traditional glories of the
ancestral cellars was unworthy of his birthright.

VOL. I. C

Also he observed, as he rigidly fulfilled the
functions of his office, that the young man was
an indifferent and unappreciative eater, upon
whom the delicacies of the cuisine which the
fastidiousness of Sir Giles had wrought to a
point of perfection not often found in remote
country houses, were signally thrown away.
He evidently ate because he was hungry, and
he was moderate to the point of provocation.
In fact, it was a positive relief to Philip
when the formal and elaborate little dinner was
brought to an end. Neither the excitement of
his introduction to his uncle, nor the distraction
of interests in which he had become so suddenly
involved, sufficed to banish from his mind for
many consecutive minutes the eager pallid face
and desperate hopelessness of poor Lewis Trevelyan,
and the pledge which he had himself
given  a pledge he was already considering how
best to fulfil. He was quite resolved that nothing
should keep him at Methuen Place beyond the
day of the funeral, and had calculated that by
travelling day and night he might reach Florence
early on the Saturday morning; but in

that case lie must see the vicar's wife, if possible,
this same evening  tomorrow would probably
be beyond his control. But a good many louis
still stretched between him and any reasonable
time for going to bed ; and, unconventional as
the season was for a visit to a stranger, the
nature of his business and the hard pressure of
circumstances would surely be sufficient excuse.
He rang the bell, and it was answered, as he
had hoped, by Mrs Gibson.

I am going out," he said, " if you will be
good enough to direct me to the vicarage at
Kensington, and will explain to Sir Giles, if
he should make any inquiries after me, that
I had important business to transact there.
Otherwise it will not be necessary to mention
my absence."

A cloud of disapprobation darkened her face.

The vicar is not at home, sir," she answered,
and the house is two good miles from Methuen
Place. Sir Giles and Mr Sylvestre do not visit,
and it would vex him very much that you
should go there. Excuse the liberty I take,
Mr Methuen,. but to our notions it would not

seem proper that you should be paying visits
before the funeral, and a little odd too, seeing
we all understood that you were a stranger in
these parts. Besides "

She stopped short, then added, with a dull
flush of colour rising in her sallow cheek, and
encouraged by a second glance at Philip, " Besides,
we did all hope that you would please
the master, and this would be going contrary
to him at once."

*' I am very sorry, but this business of mine
which takes me to the vicarage is not a matter
of choice. I shall be quite prepared to tell
Sir Giles all about it if he should care to listen.
To-night is the only opportunity I should have ;
and it is not the vicar but Mrs Sylvestre I
want to see. Is she likely to be at home at
this hour ? Do you know her ? I should be
glad if you would speak to me frankly."

Mrs Gibson drew up her tall spare form with
an air of dignity impugned.

Living in Kensington for the last forty
years as I have done, it's a need-be that I
should know her, though few and far between

are the words we have exchanged with each
other. She knows every man, woman, and
child in the parish, and she's more vicar than
the vicar himself. She is a masterful woman,
Mr Methuen, with a hard cold eye and a heart
to match. Not a bad sort altogether, I daresay,
but a woman whom love never comes near.
She has three nice little girls ; and I believe she
and the little governess they keep work very
hard at their education, but they don't look
happy, poor things ! Another thing where she
has hurt and angered the master is, that she
is dead against all Catholics ;  she has even
talked to Sir Giles himself, and he is too much
of a gentleman to be rude to her. There are
plenty of charities connected with this parish,
but she takes care no one outside her own
church gets the benefit of them. She is terribly
hard on Dissenters and Papists, as she
call us. If you want really to know what
Mrs Sylvestre is, I could tell you some sad

stories "

"Not now," said Philip, "or I shall have
no courage left to go and see her, and nothing

else remains to be done. Please send me some
stable-boy or helper as guide to the house, as
I cannot spare the time to lose my way."

It was nearly eight o'clock when Philip found
himself on the road to Kensington. Had the
season been a normal one, and the daylight
served, he would have enjoyed as fair a sample
of Dorset landscape, as he walked between the
hedgerows which bounded his path, as he could
possibly have desired. Beyond, on the right
hand and on the left, stretched corn or pasture
lands, almost to the verge of the horizon, save
where the monotony was broken by a clump of
farm-buildings, or some apple-orchard, shimmering,
phantom-like, in the semi-darkness ; or
again, by a gleam of the not far-distant sea, and
of a broken line of lofty hills, the crests of two
of which served as landmarks to home-coming
vessels.

The straggling village when reached surprised
Philip, both in regard to its extent and its
unsightliness ; and even a hasty glance served
to discover unmistakable indications of squalid
poverty and degradation, which seemed to him

strangely incongruous in such close connection
with the parsonages and country-seats of rural
England.

The boy who had come with him as guide
pointed out a picturesque ivy-covered house, enclosed
by a high wall overgrown with greenery.

"This's the vicarage," he said, touched his
hat, and retired.

Hastily turning round, Philip had time to perceive
that the boy did not return on his steps
as he had heard Mrs Gibson charge him to do,
but disappeared within the portal of a cheery-looking
tavern, the swinorino; sideboard of which
announced it to be the " Methuen Arms."

Doubtless other causes than a landlord's
negligence and a priest's apathy went to swell
the sum total of Kensington immorality.

The entrance-door to the vicarage was low
and wide, and roofed by a heavily timbered,
old-fashioned portico ; within its shelter stood,
in ugly green - wire stands, some evergreen
shrubs and flowering plants. A curious heavy
bell-rope hung outside the lintel, and seemed
to solicit an appeal. Philip rang it more than

once, in spite of a fair exercise of patience,
before the door was opened, and even then the
in aid-servant barred his entrance rather than
invited it.

To his inquiries whether Mrs Sylvestre were
at home, she answered with evident reluctance
in the affirmative, but begged to know what his
business might be, before allowing him to advance
farther than the hall. Philip took out a
card and wrote a few explanatory words upon
it, doubting very much whether they would
be legible, as there was no light beyond that
supplied by the now moon-illumined twilight ;
the lamp which hung from the lobby ceiling
not being utilised.

He stood for some time, with increasing
anxiety as to the lateness of the hour, and
the seeming impropriety of his absence at
such a time from his uncle's house, when
suddenly a rush of voices reached his ears.
Down the dim staircase came the sound of a
child's voice, weeping bitterly, and protesting
feebly through its sobs; the high clear notes
of an angry woman's shrill but restrained

treble, and the low rich baritone of a young
man's organ.

I assure you, Mrs Sylvestre, the fault is
mine, entirely mine ! and yet I had not the
least idea we were eating forbidden fruit, Dolly
and I. Please don't scold her any more  I
repeat I led her into mischief."

Then came a tender wail : " Indeed, indeed,
mamma  " interrupted by a voice of judicial
severity

Scold is a word scarcely to be applied to a
mother's distressed and reasonable displeasure.
I never scold, ]vir Earle ! Go to your room,
Dorothy, and we will renew the subject tomorrow,
when you will have slept upon your
disobedience, and be better prepared to admit
the justice of your punishment."

Then came another burst of distress, which,
in its intensity, almost brought Philip to the
foot of the stairs.

'' Oh please, mamma, forgive me to-night 
do forgive me to - night ! I shan't sleep a
wink ! "

At this crisis, the servant had evidently

ventured to approach with his own card, for
Mrs Sylvestre turned sharply round upon her.

What is it, Janet ? Don't you know better
than "

And then a sudden silence fell. Philip heard
the child's retreating footsteps back to her room,
a whispered word from the masculine voice,
and the next moment a young man had precipitated
himself down the few shallow stairs,
and would have come into collision with him
had he not avoided the sudden charge by a
swift movement of retreat.

'' Who the devil are you ? " cried the voice,
with an accent of intense irritation, due rather
to the recent incident than the present surprise.

I beg ten thousand pardons ! " he hastened
to add, having now set light to the hall-lamp
from a box of matches he produced
from his pocket, and discovered his mistake.
I thought no one could stand on that hall-mat
but one of the Kensington paupers,  a
gentleman is so rare a visitor here that Janet,
as you see, has no experience to fall back upon.
Do let me repair her mistake, and take you into

a sitting-room. Perhaps you don't know the
vicar is away from home at present ? "

It was not often that Adrian Earle roused
himself to so much active intervention on behalf
of a stranger, or that his languid tones
assumed so much charitable vivacity ; but the
meagre glimmer of the hall - lamp fell direct
upon Philip Methuen's person, and he received
at that moment the impression which abode
with him more or less through all the years of
their subsequent intercourse. It was not f.o
much the attraction of beauty of feature or
perfection of physical development that touched
him, though few were more susceptible to external
influences of the kind, but something in
the expression and general aspect that won his
immediate recognition and regard. At least,
he had never seen one of his own age and sex
who moved him so strongly.

Love at first sight is an accepted possibility,
but may not friendship also be as swift and
tender in its inception ? When the " soul of
Jonathan was knit with the soul of David,"
speech had not even passed between them.

There is no deeper and no diviner mystery in
being than the sense of spiritual kinship which
suddenly stirs and quickens in two human
souls, brought perhaps for the first time together,
and ignorant of the past record of
each.

I am Adrian Earle," he said, and held out
his hand. " Will you tell me your name ? "
But before the other could answer, Mrs Sylvestre
came forward and broke the colloquy.

I have the pleasure of bidding you goodnight,
Mr Earle," she said ; and then, addressing
the stranger in a tone of freezing distance,
as if afraid of some burst of familiarity on his
part  " If you are really Mr Philip Methuen,
will you be good enough to follow me''

A few moments more and they were seated
opposite each other in a fireless room ; but
Philip was conscious of a momentary slackening
of interest in his embassy, and that his
attention was fixed upon the closing house-door
and retreating steps upon the gravel.

When he had recovered himself, he found
that Mrs Sylvestre sat awaiting his communication

with a demeanour so deliberately expressionless
as to tax the courage of any advocate.

He half doubted, as he looked at her, if any
fate might not be happier for Anna Trevelyan
than an asylum with her aunt. Contact, he
perceived, would mean conflict.

I understand from your card," said Mrs
Sylvestre, referring to it, and breaking the
awkward silence from some instinct of courtesy,
that I have the honour of a dsit from Mr
Philip Methuen, and that he excuses the unusual
hour he has chosen on the plea of business
of pressing importance. I own I am at
a loss to understand how any matter that concerns
him can concern me. If you are the
bearer of compliments or concessions from Sir
Giles Methuen, my husband is not at home to
reply to them."

*'No," said Philip, quietly ; "my message is
to you only, and it is from your brother, Lewis
Trevelyan."

He had calculated upon her insensibility to
emotion, and was startled by the sudden change
of colour and aspect.

Forgive my abruptness, but my time is so
short that it must plead my excuse. I have
the honour to call Mr Trevelyan my friend, and
I left him last Monday in a condition so near
death that it is a question whether I shall find
him alive on my return, even if I succeed in
getting back to Florence , by Saturday. One
duty which has brought me to Kensington is,
as you probably know, to attend my cousin's
funeral ; but I should have come without that
call."

He paused and looked at her, as if his own
sincere and kindly sympathy would evoke hers.

"You are waiting for me to ask sou why
you would have come, and I do ask you.
What is the connection between your friendship
for Lewis Trevelyan and your visit tome
? Has he made no provision for his funeral
expenses ? Does he clinch the dishonour of a
life by this last appeal to a sister's charity ? "

Her cheeks burned with a crimson spot of
colour, and her large prominent blue eyes scintillated
with passion ; but it was passion held
well under control. Philip met her gaze with

one of equal steadiness, until she flinched a
little under the stern displeasure of his face.

** Words like yours," he said, "are such as
we regret on our deathbed ; and they should
close this interview, Mrs Sylvestre, if it were
a time to consult personal feeling. But I do not
lose sight of the fact that you have suffered
deeply through your brother, and that the
better feelings of the heart are often belied
by hasty words. If you could see him as I
saw him last, I think you would blot out his
transgressions against you, and consent to relieve
his mind of the cruel anxiety he feels on
behalf of his daughter Anna. I am come hereto
ask you if you will take her home when her
father is dead ? "

A curious expression which baffled him came
over her face.

I like your courage and your directness,"
she said. '' One more inmate in a poor parson's
family to feed, clothe, and educate is of course
a matter of small consideration to an inexperienced
young man like yourself. Am I to
believe that Lewis Trevelyan sanctioned this

appeal? that, after having robbed me of fortune
and happiness, he has the effrontery to ask
me to make a daily sacrifice for the benefit of
his orphan ? I decline absolutely."

He was reluctant ; but I overruled his reluctance.
I thought the very wrongs of which
you complain might have disposed you the
more readily to do your duty, as having the
greater virtue in the sight of God. I had the
notion that good women welcomed sacrifice,
especially those who have endured the discipline
of motherhood; at least I thought you could
not turn your back on your brother's child. I
still think so."

' Every word you utter," she answered, with
concentrated bitterness, "is an offence. Put
your orphan into some of your charitable
asylums abroad ! You may gauge the depth
of my repugnance, when I tell you I should
feel no compunction at knowing she was to be
brought up in a creed which to my mind means
perdition. What you say shows me you also
are ' a holy Eoman ' ; but your argument has no
weight with me. Has my brother joined your

communion ? It makes gracious provision for
reprobates and sinners such as he."

'' You have pronounced its highest encomium,
madam," said Philip, with a smile ; " but I
regret to say he has not, nor has his daughter
Anna been educated as a Catholic. To be
honest, her education, both religious and secular,
has been greatly neglected, and her character is
such that the charge of her would not be a liojht
one. Mr Trevelyan is not without friends or
resources, and arrangements would be made
to guarantee the guardians of his child 200
a-year."

That is a fact you should have mentioned
first. If I report this conversation to my husband,
he will advise me to turn my maternal

discipline to account and sacrifice myself ! "

The sneer was so heartless that it very much
qualified Philip's satisfaction in the success of
his mission. At the same time he recognised
the possibility that sirs Sylvestre was not so
bad as she chose to appear ; that there would bethe
decent restraints of social opinion and the
probable kindness of other members of the

VOL. L D

family working in Anna's behalf. He recalled
with satisfaction Dorothy's pleading voice, and
the terms of familiar intercourse on which
Adrian Earle appeared to be with the household.
Any way, nothing more was in his
power.

I understood you to say that the payment
you mentioned would be guaranteed to the
guardians of the child ? I am not in the least
ashamed to own that what I refused to do as a
matter of duty or charity, I am prepared to do
on the score of advantage to my family."

Philip's brows contracted a little.

The money shall be paid half-yearly through
an old-established bank in Paris. If you have
any further suggestions to make, they shall
receive due consideration." He rose to take
leave. " I dare not stay any longer," he added.
Am I to understand you will receive Anna ? "
He looked round the colourless room and into
the office of its mistress. " Bear with one word
more, Mrs Sylvestre. You do not love this
girl  and, I will allow, you have no reason todo
so  but you accept the charge of her fora

fair pecuniary equivalent. You will be just
to Anna Trevelyan, you who resent so strongly
the injustice you have endured from her
father ? "

Mrs Sylvestre smiled.

I will be just to Anna Trevelyan, according
to my lights, Mr Methuen ; but my point of
view is not the same as yours. How old is she ?
Describe her ! "

She is fifteen, well-grown and healthy, intelligent
but very ignorant, having lived a wild
life in the home of an Italian ]Peasant, her foster-mother,
when her father's health prevented him
from having her with him."

She can read and write, I presume, and
speak her father's language ? Is she a beauty ? "

The time is not yet come to decide the
point, and I am no judge. She can certainly
read and write."

There was a pause, during which Philip was
conscious of a searching examination.

You are at St Sulpice, educating for the
priesthood, and have obtained leave of absence
for your cousin's funeral ? "

 ILLiitUlJi
LlBRARYi

That is so," he answered, " and there is
nothing more to say about me. I have the
honour to wish you good night."

She returned his bow without extending her
hand, and he found his way to the house-door
unattended.

CHAPTER IV.

Shall-we with temper spoiled,
Health sapped by living ill,
And judgment all embroiled
By sadness and self-drill,
Shall we judge what for man is not true bliss or is ? "

M. Arnold.

Mrs Gibson met trim as lie re-entered his
uncle's house.

"Sir Giles has asked for you, Mr Methuen,
and I was obliged to say you were gone out,
sir, and where. He was terribly put out. I
am afraid he will get no sleep to-night. It is
a bad beginning ! "

Shall I go to him ? I can put all right
with a word."

'' No ; he gave orders he was to be told
when you came in, but that he did not wish
to see you. He asked if you had been to
the chapel."

"I am ready to go there at once, if you will
show me the way. I suppose," he added, with
some hesitation, " that the watch has been duly
kept ? "

'the servants have relieved each other," she
answered, " and the Sisters of the Good Shepherd
at Trichester have attended as they could,
but they are few, and their duties are heavy.
Father Francis came a few hours ago, and has
undertaken to stay till morning."

They crossed the full length of the house, and
descended a short flight of stone steps, which
led to the small isolated structure which had
been fitted up and consecrated as a chapel more
than two hundred years ago. It was now seldom
used except as a mortuary. Giles Methuen
had never been devout, and a priest had long
ceased to form part of his domestic establishment.
They entered the chapel together : it
was heavily draped with velvet hangings, which
had grown old in the service of the family. All
light was excluded but that which was supplied
by the huge wax-tapers burning on the
bare neglected altar, and at the head and

foot of the coffin, wliicli was covered by a voluminous
velvet pall, with tarnished fringe of
bullion, and the arms of the house emblazoned
in gold.

A man knelt at the foot of the coffin, supporting
the weight of his body against it. He
did not stir as they entered ; Philip perceived
at a glance that he was profoundly asleep.

He had dismissed Mrs Gibson on the threshold,
and as soon as the door had closed upon
her, he went up and surveyed the figure. His
feeling was that of indignant reprobation as
towards a sentinel found sleeping at the post of
duty, but his anger softened as he saw the grey
hairs, frail figure, and worn face of the defaulter.

Doubtless the spirit was willing, but the
flesh is weak," he said to himself, "and I am
here to supply his lack of service."

He looked down at the length and breadth
of the coffin, which testified to the fine physical
development of the dead, and recalled the
terrible words spoken by the unloving father
that day.

Death in the bloom and prime of life always

seems an anachronism or a penalty, especially
when the blow has fallen without warning.
But to have met such a fate unlamented  to
be consigned without reluctance to the grave 
was a moral ignominy against which the young
man's sensitive soul cried out.

He drew his breviary out of his pocket, and
knelt down to commence his night's vigil with
a religious fervour which amounted almost to
passion.

Even death was no barrier between the guilty
soul and the mercy of its Judge, so long as the
prayers of saints and priests intervened : only
he, alas 1 was but half-way to the divine privileges
of the priesthood.

The next day the blinds were drawn up, and
the windows thrown open at Methuen Place,
admitting the keen spring air and reluctant
sunshine. In the household arrangements there
seemed a certain eagerness to wipe out all
traces of the dead man who had just been laid
to rest among his ancestors.

The bed-chamber he had occupied when alive

was already in the hands of the housemaids,
Mrs Gibson herself superintending their work,
and placing carefully under lock and key, or
otherwise hiding from sight, all the personal
belonorinors of Mark Methuen.

These were of a kind which justified such
haste. First came scores of female photographs,
many of which bore the autograph of
presentation upon them, ranging from the modified
offence of vapidity or effrontery through
the complete circle of provocative indecency.

Betting manuals and French novels of the
lowest kind were the only literature which lay
ready to hand on the shelves and available surfaces
of the room; while there was something
curious in the accumulation of cigar - cases,
pocket-books, and receptacles for cards, letters,
fusees, and so forth  most of which were more
costly and ornate than a man is accustomed to
buy for himself. Possibly there was a link of
connection between them and the originals of
some of the photographs : they may have represented
the return for wasted health, wealth,
and character.

Sir Giles Methuen had borne his part during
the funeral service with great dignity and composure.
If the tender grief of the bereaved
father were lacking, there was a far more poignant
anguish in the consciousness that such
grief was impossible. Every phrase of religious
submission or aspiration  the devout formulas
which imply mental distress and suggest consolation,
the condolences offered by friends
(thoroughly acquainted with the facts of the
case) with the conventional air of pity and
sympathy  were each and all a separate stab
to the sensitive heart of the proud old man.
He excused himself from the luncheon which
was served on their return from the chapel,
but not before he had presented Philip to them
as his nephew and heir, and begged that they
would look upon him as his representative at
the table.

As soon as he had left the room, the mental
atmosphere brightened  the air of decorous depression
and gravity disappeared, and a general
sense of relief restored each man to his natural
character. Condolences were exchanged for

congratulations, and bumpers filled and emptied
to Philip Methuen's good fortune.

**Tlie king is dead! Long live the king!"
cried Sir Walter Earle, a baronet whose ancestors
had fought beside Harold at Hastings, and
whose honour had been kept up, until the present
generation, by a race of warriors. " But
how is it we are welcoming; him for the first
time to-day ? "

The tone and glance conveyed a compliment.
He was a much-travelled man of the world, to
whom life and society had been both a career
and a success, and his practised eye saw in
Philip welcome marks of distinction and individuality.


"Come," he added, 'you must pledge us in
return. eye have left all our regrets in the
Methuen vault, and are prepared to be on the
best of terms with the new heir."

Philip hesitated ; then said, as he touched
his glass with his lips 

"I hope you won't discredit my gratitude
because I acknowledge your kindness in water.
I never expected to find myself in this position,

and have had no training for it. But  did my
uncle never speak of me to any of his friends ?
Do you know nothing about me ? "

Beyond the fact that a nephew existed, we
knew very little," replied Sir Walter, smiling.
*' The truth is, that I was your father's friend
in the old times, and ventured to resent the
treatment he received from his brother at his
marriage  naturally he has not made me his
confidant."

My father's friend I " repeated Philip, his
whole face alight with sensibility. " If at
some future time you will talk to me about
him, I shall be more grateful than words can
express."

The sooner the better, my dear fellow. You
speak with his voice, which is another claim
upon my goodwill. But where have you been
in hiding all these years? Yours are not the
manners of Oxford or Cambridge, and yet it
is evident your mother has done her duty in
your education."

I was six years in England, after my father's
death, under the charge of one of his old college

friends. Since that time I have been at
the Seminary of St Nicholas in Paris, then
some years at Issy, and the last five at St
Suffice."

At St Sulpice ! I thought that was only
an institution for priests ? "

"And my destination is the priesthood."

There was a general movement of amused
astonishment.

One man remarked, caressing his well-trained
moustache, and gazing at Philip as if he had
been some lusus natiirce 

It seems almost as odd in these days fora
man to talk seriously of going in for the
priesthood, as it would for her Majesty to
announce her intention of touching for the
minor's evil ! "

o

"It seems?" repeated Philip, quietly  "that
is from your point of T.ew. To me and many
others it would be hard to find a point of resemblance
between an act of ludicrous assumption
and the solemn choice of a profession."

But," interposed Sir Walter, bent upon forestalling
a rejoinder, "at least we are all well

pleased that, since poor Mark has died, he died
in time to prevent your putting the seal on
your vocation. They may look elsewhere for
recruits. Nature never intended that head of
yours for the tonsure. We will show you the
other side of the shield ! "

Philip, anxious to divert attention from himself,
allowed the remark to pass unchallenged,
and, after a little more general conversation, the
guests rose to take leave.

Sir Walter Earle shook him cordially by the
hand.

Come and see me as soon as you can. Weare
a mixed household at Earlescourt, but not
without points of interest. My eldest son is
about your own age, and at once my pride and
my despair; my youngest  but it is hardly
worth while to disclose my skeletons myself.
One word more. I have been speculating how
you and your uncle will get on together. It
will be a new thing for Sir Giles to have a young
man of your sort to deal with ; take care that
you don't both make serious mistakes."

The question of how they would get on together

was very soon to be decided, as Philip
received a summons from this uncle as soon as
the latter had learnt that he was alone.

Sir Giles Methuen was sitting in the same
place as on the preceding day, and looked, if
possible, still more frail and broken doTi. He
signified to Philip to take a chair opposite to
him, and sat examining him in silence for several
minutes. Then he said 

I suppose it is your foreign education which
has deprived you of the national grace of radii'
raise honte. Few young men in your position
would stand investigation as you do. You do
not even change colour or look uncomfortable.
Ah, I am glad to see you have the grace to
blush a little ! "

"If I do not look uncomfortable, I have
more self-command than 1 thought, for I feel
profoundly uncomfortable. I have so much
to say that I know it will displease you to
hear."

Sir Giles frowned impatiently.

I never knew any one more anxious to force
a quarrel than yourself. However, I insist upon

the right my age and position give me to have
the first word. Before you tell me your intentions,
Philip Methuen, I will lay before you my
wishes."

He stopped a little as if to arrange his
thoughts, then went on 

I am, as you see, a disappointed, broken-down
old man. I look seventy, but am, in fact,
ten years younger, and inclined, even at this
date, to retrieve my life. I have always considered
myself more keen - sighted and acute
than other men, and no man has blundered
more. I have a warm heart, though no doubt
you think otherwise ; and I have suffered in all
the relations of life. My wife died when a girl ;
of my son I need speak no more. My brother,
whom I loved tenderly, turned against me,
sacrificing me and all natural interests for the
sake of a selfish frivolous woman, who only
married him under a mistaken notion of the
contingent advantages. He paid his penalty,
of course ; but I do not forget that she who
spoiled his life is your mother, and that it will
ill become me to abuse her to her son. As her

son, yon probably know more of her capacity to
make a man miserable than I do, or even than
your father did, who laid down the burden after
some seven years' experience of it."

I am at least under the deepest obligations
to my mother, who has carried out my father s
wishes and my own in the most honourable
manner."

"Ah," said Sir Giles, "is that so? Your
father, as you probably know, inherited from
our mother an income of 500 a-year  300 of
which he left to his wife for her free use and
maintenance, and the remaining; 200 to his
son, to be spent on his education until he attained
his twenty-third year, and to be at his
own disposal afterwards. I conclude he destined
you for the priesthood, that you might escape
the rock on which he foundered. It was odd
his scheme was willingly accepted by you ; things
don't often turn out like that. I presume you
are acquainted with these particulars, and that
you refer to them when you speak of your
mother's honourable fulfilment of her engagements
? "

VOL. I.  E

*just SO. I have known the terms of my
father's will for many years, and they have, I
repeat, been faithfully carried out. No boy
could have received a more careful or unbroken
education. The expenses of it must have often
exceeded the stipulated sum, and hampered my
mother ; indeed she has sometimes complained
on this point."

'she has? I am not surprised," returned
Sir Giles, with his keen glance following with
amused interest every change of expression in
his nephew's face. " You see she chose to live
in Florence while you were in England or in
Paris, and travelling expenses count. Also, as
you grew up, your demands became a little
exorbitant. You must not only at Issy engagea
professor of Hebrew for your own special edification,
but you must learn music, fencing,
etching (I believe that was the precise hobby)
of professors who came out from Paris to teach
you. I own it is a little difficult to harmonise
this devotion to worldly pursuits with professed
renouncement of the world, and with the declared
intention of carrying the acquired gifts

and graces as proofs of your vocation as a missionary
into the Core. But what is the matter,
nephew ? Have you any fault to find vrith. the
accuracy of my statement ? "

Philip had turned very pale ; his practised
self-control was being put to a hard test.

I entreat you," he said, "if you have things
to tell me that I do not know, to tell me them
plainly, and not in this . vein of banter and
mockery."

There was such a look of pain in the expression
of his face, that it touched Sir Giles more
than he chose to admit. It was evident that
the young man had believed in his mother.

I am anxious not to be misunderstood," he
returned in the same tone as before, unwilling,
from long habit, to give his natural sensibility
way. " No doubt you gauged your own requirements
correctly ; and at least the result is
satisfactory. The money has not been throT\'n
away. You are a very accomplished and presentable
young fellow, and excellently well
drilled, not for the vocation you have chosen,
but for that of diplomacy, to which I have good

means of introducing you. You shall win the
triumphs I have missed."

' We will, if you please, leave all that for the
present. I must press for an explanation of
what you have just now said."

He got up as he spoke in his agitation, and

then sat down again, vexed that he betrayed

himself so much. But the blow he had just

received struck deep.

Sir Giles watched him a few moments in silence.

In one word, Philip, I mean this. / have

defrayed all the charges of your education upto

the present hour, and if they have not run

on the lines I have just now traced, well, I refer

you for the explanation to Mrs Methuen. Ladies

are accomplished casuists, and she no doubt felt

justified in mulcting her husband's elder brother

to cover her own personal extravagances. I

believe her salon is quite a fashionable rallying-point

in Florence.'

Philip turned away from his uncle's relentless
scrutiny. There was a look almost of desperation
in his face.

*' What shall I do ? " he asked. " How can I

find the means of restitution ? It is in my
heart to say I will never forgive her."

Don't say it, nephew. Surely more patience
and humility should be the outcome of your
spiritual discipline. You will shake my confidence
in the Abbe de Seve ! As for restitution,
I am going to lay claim to that. Fill the place
that has been always empty,  be a son to my
old age, and I will reckon your mother's frauds
washed out. Refuse if you are so minded ; but
you will discover that it will cost both of us
dear."

It was evident that the young man was unable
to answer immediately. After a long pause,
which Sir Giles made no attempt to interrupt,
he said 

"With your leave I will go away for a
while; I find I am unable to recover myself;
I may say what I shall be sorry for."

Very likely, but that will only be a bond of
union between us. My dear boy, I wil not let
you go away  I had no idea this would have
hit you so hard. I thought you knew your
mother  more or less."

Knew his mother ! He recalled the claim
she had always made upon his gratitude, on
the ground of the education she had sacrificed
so much to secure, and how he had met those
claims. She had always resisted his modest
appeals for an addition to the meagre sum
she allowed him for pocket-money, which the
ardour of his charity rather than any wish for
self-indulgence made so cruelly inadequate, and
had also curtailed his necessary expenses within
so strict a limit as to leave no margin for self-denial,
even to his enthusiasm. Circumstances
recurred to his memory when he had besought
her help with passionate insistence in some of
the crises of his life, and had invariably been
repulsed and reproached on plea of the poverty
he taxed so heavily.

Not that he much regretted these past
deprivations,  all that went for little : what
did count was, that he had a mother whom he
could not honour. Sir Giles had spoken of
YiQii: frauds  it was an inclusive term for shameful
acts of selfish dishonesty and imposture;
but to have his filial reverence thus torn up by

the roots seemed, in the first moments of bitterness,
to make all life barren and unprofitable.

"Let us wind up this subject, once and for
all," resumed Sir Giles. " Your mother has not
deceived me, for I took means against her
doing so. Wherever you have been, nephew
Philip, I have had a correspondent at headquarters
who kept me closely informed of your
goings-on. I know what money you have had
to spend, and how you spent it. I know perfectly
that a Hebrew professor has been on the
staff at Issy and St Sulpice ever since the days
of good M. Older. I know, outside of your
professional training, that you took lessons of
a poor broken-down violinist, and how you
earned the money to pay for them. I know
that my good friend, Monseigneur d'Enghien
himself, provided a fencing - master for those
of the pupils destined for missionary enterprise,
on the sensible theory that the soldiers
of the Church militant should not be worse
disciplined than their secular brothers disarms.
I know  but I will spare your feelings.
I must add, however, that the studies

in etching were too heavy a draught upon my
credulity."

He stopped, and looked again with mixed
anxiety and amusement into the other's face.

"I see you have the implacable temper of
your race  you will not forgive the woman
who betrays you. But console yourself with
the knowledge that your mother never drew
out of my purse more than I had made up my
mind to part with. When your father died,
I set apart a yearly sum for your benefit ; and
I may as well add, for further disguise is
unnecessary, that without strict supervision
my intentions would have been frustrated.
Your mother resented the outlay on your
education, though she had not to find the
funds, and would have saved out of it if she
had been allowed the chance. For the rest,
I suffered her to stint and pinch you, regarding
it as a salutary discipline for an
elect priest and missionary. Now all that is
changed."

'' Are these facts known to any one else ? "

To a certain extent to our family solicitor,

who made your father's will, and knows its
provisions have not been fulfilled."

And can I not make good my legal claim to
200 a-year under the provisions of that will ? "

Undoubtedly you can, as well as to the
3000, more or less, which Mrs Methuen has
appropriated to her own purposes ; but you
will have neither need nor inclination to do
either. Let Madam keep the poor income,
which, even at its best, is too small for her requirements.
I will take care to give you an
allowance at least equal to what you forego."

It will not be the same thing. I have a
right to the one, the other will be an act of
grace, and I shall not feel free to spend the
money as I like."

'' You will be absolutely free to do so,"
returned Sir Giles, with a slightly irritated
manner; "but may I ask if, on making your
escape from the immaculate restraints of St
Sulpice, you have already found a channel for
the immediate disbursement of 200 a-year ? "

Philip looked up, quick to detect the change
of tone.

Pray forgive my bad manners," he said
eagerly. "I have forgotten in my distress to
acknowledge the extreme kindness and forbearance
you have shown both to my mother and
me. But, as to the money,  I confess I should
greatly prefer to have my own. 300 a-year
ought to be enough for my mother's needs."

Needs, yes ; but wants is another thing."

It will be well for her to restrict her wants
to her necessities."

Sir Giles's eyes flashed with amusement.

"You are like all the rest of the saints,
nephew, bent upon inflicting penal chastisement
upon the sinners ; but you ask for more
than the poor lady can perform. At the same
time, I gather that the 200 a-year you bargain
for is only to be an instalment of your
own expenditure ? "

"You have every right to twit me, and I
have put myself in a position I ought not. I
will tell you all I can. I want this money
to meet a claim to which I have pledged my
credit, without sufficient consideration, I confess,
but I relied at its being absolutely at my own

disposal ; and, any way, it is pledged beyond
recall. I had calculated that my technical education
being complete, I could pay for my residence
at St Sulpice by my services ; or to be
more candid, I am afraid, under extreme pressure
of circumstances, I had not properly considered
the consequences of being penniless.
That state of things is not quite unknown in
the college, and can be endured. Moreover,
if I am sent to the Core, there will be no
more question of personal expense : there is a
fund to meet all such charges."

And it does not hurt your pride to stand informa
jpawperis like this ? "

If it did, I should take it all as part of the
day's work. You will understand, Sir Giles,
that my heart is set upon the work in question
 that I have ordered my life and schooled
my mind for this object. I am fit for no
other, and no other has worth or purpose
enough in it to give it value in my eyes. I
have neither capacity nor inclination for politics,
and should fail for certain, causing you
more vexation and disappointment than going

back to my old calling will do. A week ago
you never proposed to know me."

A week ago I had a son. I put my veto
on the priesthood with whatever authority may
lie with the head of the house, and out of regard
to the interests of the race. If you prove
stubborn, the name of Methuen dies with

you."

"And if I should not prove stubborn, what
guarantee is there that I may not be as unfortunate
in my son as yourself? Why should
you try and coerce me to a course of conduct
which you have found fruitful of nothing but
bitterness and dissatisfaction? As a priest or
missionary, I am able to reconcile life and effort
with duty ; but I should find it hard to do that
as a man of leisure and society, playing at the
meagre game of diplomacy in its lower rounds,
or as a reluctant husband constitutionally averse
to the narrow selfishness of domestic life, and
doing my part ill in it."

"My dear fellow," answered Sir Giles, tapping
him affectionately on the arm, "you shall go
back to St Sulpice, and lay this question before

our good Archbishop for his decision. To argue
with a fanatic is wasted breath, otherwise I
would remind you that the vapours of the
cloister so hang about you that you cannot
see clearly in the open air. You think yourself
ice because you have never been near the fire.
Simply, you do not know yourself. You have
been taught to believe that duty and sacrifice
have only one groove to run in. I tell you, if
you want the widest field for their exercise, step
outside your mystic circle into the world at
large ; and since you seem to have been born
with a singular taste for martyrdom, there are
large possibilities that you may win your palm
and crown in those domestic relations of which
you speak so contemptuously. Further still, I
can find you savages in Skefiington who will
almost compete in degradation with the yellow
barbarians of the Core, and who will receive
your efforts in their behalf with even superior
brutality."

Philip smiled. " I should be poaching upon
Mr Sylvestre's manor, and should be warned
off" at once. I gratefully accept, however,

your permission to refer my decision to the
Archbishop."

And you pledge yourself to abide by it ? "
interrupted Sir Giles, sharply.

Yes : for it will then become a simple question
of obedience ; but it grieves me to think of
your disappointment. He will not release me."

"In that case I will set you a lesson in
philosophy, and console myself, should you be
this side of the Pacific, by receiving my viaticum
at no other hands."

He made a gesture of weariness, as though
the interview had been too long for him, and
Philip rose at once to go. After a little hesitation,
he said 

'before I leave you, I want your permission
to go back to town to-night. I must, if possible,
be in Florence by Saturday morning."

'explain the necessity. Scarcely to bully
your mother?"

Philip had the gift of lucidity. In five
minutes he had put the facts without comment
before Sir Giles,  that he had undertaken
to be the ambassador of his dying friend

to Mrs Sylvestre, and was deeply anxious to
take back to him the good news of his success.

"And that woman has consented to give her
niece a hove ! Has she any fortune ? "

"Barely enough to provide the equivalent
which it is only fair for Mrs Sylvestre to
require."

Sir Giles pondered. " It is a curious coincidence,
but I suppose you are not deceiving
me. Go, if you will, and make haste to return.
You will, of course, take Paris on your homeward
way, and will bring back to me Monseigneur's
dictum, whether good or bad." He held
out his hand to dismiss him. ' ' It will not be
necessary to see me again. I am over-tired. I
shall send you a cheque for your travelling expenses,
on the understanding that I will have
neither thanks nor repudiation."

CHAPTEK y.

We leave behind,
As chartered by some unknown powers
We stem across the sea of life by night 
The joys that were not for our use designed ;
The friends to whom we had no natural right ;
The homes that were not destined to be ours."

M. Arnold.

The interiors of the old houses on the Lung' Arno
are picturesque enough when flooded with sunshine
and warmth, and every window open to
the magical scene outside. But at night, when
darkness has wiped out the external world,
and shut the inmates within the four walls of
the dim, resonant, chilly apartments, without
glow of fire or flame of familiar gas, no scene
can well be more depressing.

In Florence, too, as in England, the weather
had assumed suddenly a wintry chill, and ice-laden
winds from the Apennines had swept

down the valley of the Arno, which a week or
two before had blossomed and expanded under
the breath of summer.

Wrapt in an old cloak, and shivering under
the insufficient blankets which covered him,
Lewis Trevelyan was lying on the comfortless
couch on which he now passed both nights and
days. By his side was a little table, on which
stood a plate of strawberries and a basin of
polenta ; but the chilled food had thickened
round the spoon, and the fruit had lost colour
and freshness. The large grate, where a fire
would have been so welcome, was filled with
cypress boughs ; and down the wide chimney
the wind had so unobstructed a course as absolutely
to make the sprays rustle.

A small oil-lamp was almost lost in the gloom
of the big chamber, and barely sufficed to show
the three occupants it held. One was the sick
man, as we have said, another his daughter
Anna, who was kneeling on a footstool at his
side, with her long thin arms clasped about
him, and her head pillowed on his breast, butin
such a position as to enable her to see his

VOL. I. F

face. Beneath his coverings he held one of the
girl's hands in a close grasp pressed against his
side.

Her posture, the weight of her body, lithe
and slim as she was, and the stringency of her
embrace, were absolutely painful to his physical
sensations ; but he had no wish for relief  rather
he would have liked to make the union so close
between them, that the chill of death creeping
over his own heart should be able to find the
strong pulses of hers, that so they might have
gone down to the grave together. Her warm
fragrant breath, the intensity of her gaze, the
passion of her embrace, the sharp curves of her
girlish figure, had each a distinct stab of anguish
for the man who was gazing blankly into her
uncertain future.

Anna had only been fetched from the country
late that afternoon by the Sister of Mercy,
who was still in attendance upon them, and
who, having found her earnest osiers of priestly
assistance repulsed, and her own timid ministrations
rejected, had withdrawn far enough
away not to disturb the privacy of father and

child, and watched the scene in helpless sympathy.
They had been talking together, and
he had told her of the possibility of having a
home in England, and even had tried to make
the prospect attractive in spite of his own
misgivings, but he was now too exhausted for
speech, and silence had lasted for some time.

The old Italian doctor had left instructions
for his lips to be continually moistened with
wine or milk ; and the only sound which broke
the stillness of the scene was the occasional
movement of the good Sister, intent on the fulfilment
of this duty.

Trevelyan submitted to it patiently ; his
anxiety to keep life in his veins and his brain
clear until the day dawned, and with it the
faint chance of Philip Methuen's arrival, was so
intense as almost to bar the entrance of " the
fell sergeant Death." It was upon this single
point that his soul seemed to hang :  on the
very threshold of the dim hereafter (he would
have objected to the phrase of "the unseen
world ") he did not seem to have either
power or will to cast a fear or a hope in

advance. He had speculated about religion,
and surrendered his cradle-faith after a good
deal of mental suffering and conflict ; but now,
with the end in view, and the solution of
lingering doubt so close as to be measured
by minutes rather than hours, his spiritual
paralysis was complete.

Would Methuen come in time to relieve the
tension of his anxiety ? was the one thought
under which every other yearning was buried.
Life was over : it had been a lost game, not
worth the passionate playing ; but miserable ashe
was, he left a child behind him endowed
with the same faculties of pain and pleasure,
and hopelessly entered for the race doomed
before starting for defeat. Cheerless as he considered
life's outlook to be, it would be some
mitigation of his misery to see once more
Philip Methuen's friendly face, hear the result of
his mission, and any way pass on the future of
the friendless girl into his hands.

As the night wore on, and the struggle for
breath became more desperate, Anna had yielded
to the necessity of changing her position in order

that the dying man might be raised higher on
his pillows. He lay with his eyes fixed in
the direction of the windows, watching for the
first streak of dawn to reveal their glimmering
squares, and straining his dulled senses to catch
any sound of arrival.

Soon after daylight a cruel stroke of disappointment
fell upon him. He heard footsteps
upon the threshold of the house, and old Assunta's
voice in garrulous greeting and surprise.
A gleam of joy lighted up his sunken eyes, and
an instinctive " Thank God ! " sprang to his lips.
The next moment the old doctor, Eichetti, had
tapped at the chamber door, and entered.

Eh ! whom have we here ? " he asked, glancing
down at Anna, who was crouching; beside
the sofa, holding her father's hand in both hers,
and looking ghostlike in the dim dawn, with her
pallid face, distended eyes, and masses of chestnut
hair floating over her shoulders. It was
only his form of greeting, for he knew the girl
well enough. " I am come early, good sister,"
he went on, addressing the silent nurse, " for I
knew I should be wanted."

He went closer to the couch, and shook his
head ominously as he met the look of wan
despair in Trevelyan's glazing eyes.

What does he want ? " he asked, testily.
Fetch a priest, good sister ; nay, send Assunta,
and take away the child  this is no sight
for her ! "

But neither his own strength nor hers would
have sufficed to have loosened the convulsive
embrace with which the girl had again flung
her arms about her father, receiving as she did
so his last strangled sigh upon her lips, and unconscious
that her own wild cry of terror had
added a keener pang to the ineffable stroke of
dissolution.

A few hours after Philip Methuen arrived.
He was profoundly grieved to find himself too
late ; but his grief was almost purely of an impersonal
kind.

Lewis Trevelyan, sick and friendless in the
city of his adoption, had first seen Philip in his
mother s salon, and had been strongly attracted
towards him. The former was, or fancied he
was, but lightly considered by Mrs Methuen

and her circle of intimates, having in excess the
tenacious sensibility which comes from the sense
of social declension. He fancied that they all
knew his history, more or less  the shifts and
economies of his daily life, the isolation and
dreariness of his surroundings, and appraised
him accordingly. But the sickness, languor, and
poverty which repelled others seemed to serve as
points of attraction to the grave and noble-looking
youth who, he said to himself, might have
served as model for the St George of Donatello.
Philip had visited him at every opportunity 
had laboured for his spiritual enlightenment
with a simple directness and ardour which were
not to be baffled by Trevelyan's cynicism and
indifference ; but his efforts had not stopped
here. He had been prompt to fulfil any service
for him, even those of a humble and distasteful
kind, with so much zeal and tenderness,
that Trevelyan accepted them, though often
with pain and reluctance, as proofs of personal
attachment, when they were in reality deliberate
acts of religion.

His kindness to Anna had been in its way

even greater than his kindness to her father,
and had been rendered with that winning grace
which appeared to those brought under its influence
to be the result of their own merit or
charm, but was, in fact, as much a matter of intention
and training as a natural and spontaneous
gift.

Neither Eichetti nor the gentle old Sister had
been able to prevail on Anna to leave her dead
father s couch, or even restrain her passionate
caresses and lamentations, still less, to take the
food of which she stood in need. The old doctor,
indeed, " who had little finesse or facility
with womankind," welcomed Philip's arrival
with effusion. He relieved him of all sorts of
responsibilities, which Eichetti had felt reluctant
either to accept or refuse. Methuen was able
to tell him decisively that the place of interment
must be the Protestant cemetery, and to
set his mind at rest on the subject of the necessary
funds. These points settled, Eichetti,
with a comparatively light heart, undertook
the somewhat vexatious arrangements connected
with the funeral. Moreover, one of

Philip's first actions had been to press upon the
physician what he considered a most munificent
recognition of his long professional services, with
the assurance of the deep sense of their value
which Trevelyan had entertained, and that the
sum he asked him to accept was not beyond,
but below his merits. In answer to the old
man's generous reluctance to deprive the little
orphan of so much money, Philip assured him
that her interests were fully secured,  that she
had influential friends in England, who would at
once take charge of her, and that there was full
provision to meet all other claims.

To Anna's bitter disappointment and distress,
he had not, in his first pre-occupation, taken so
much notice of her as she had expected. He
had, indeed, spoken a few kind words, and
gently insisted on her leaving her father's side
and taking the cup of chocolate and morsel of
bread which old Assunta had brought up for
her; but this done, he had whispered to the
Sister that it would be well to take her into
another room and constrain her to lie down
and rest.

Anna's will had hitherto ruled all those who
had the care of her, and she never hesitated fora
moment to resist with violence the gentlewoman's
attempt to take her hand and lead
her away, and then to rush once more to the
side of the dismal couch and fling herself
upon the body with renewed kisses and tears.

I will lie here till they take him from me,"
she sobbed ; " why are you so cruel as to want
to part us ? " And then she burst out with
a piteous childish wail  " What shall I do ?
what shall I do ? There is no one left who
loves me ! "

Philip went up to her, and lifting her up in
his strong arms, he pressed her white tearstained
face against his breast.

I gave my word to your father, Anna, that
I would be your friend as long as I lived  let
that comfort you a little ! " He stooped over
her and kissed her forehead. '' My child," he
said, " I love you dearly. I used to think you
loved me too a little."

He could not, as he well knew, have soothed
the passionate heart more effectually. She clung

to him vdih her arms locked round his neck,
and showered kisses upon his face with almost
convulsive ardour. For a few moments he let
her have her way, then gently unclasping her
hands led her back again to the Sister.

Take her away now," he said ; "for my
sake she will do as we wish."

Anna went away submissively and lay down
on the bed as desired, and suffered the kind
Sister to cover her up warm and put her pillows
into place; but when she would have kissed her,
she turned away her head with a sharp movement
of repulse. She tried to shut out the
daylight with her hands clasped over her eyes
to shut out recollection and pain as well.
There was only one way to do it : "I love you
dearly," she repeated to herself, " I love you
dearly. Ah, Philip, I will love you for ever ! "

Lewis Trevelyan was buried the next day. It
was a civil funeral, for he had enjoined methuen
that no religious rites should be held over his
body, and such engagements are sacred. But as
the young man stood by that unhonoured grave,
looking through the blinding sunshine on the

dusty roads which now encircle the once beautiful
little Protestant cemetery, lie took a stern
satisfaction in the thought of the austerities by
which he would seek to atone for this act of
loyalty to his friend and disloyalty to his church.

Eichetti, looking at his stern face, contented
himself with a significant shrug and lifting of
the eyebrows : in his estimate, all such matters
were equal. His sympathies were with Trevelyan,
and his sense of young Methuen's bondage
to an effete superstition gave unconsciously
an air of easy familiarity to his manner when he
bade him good-bye.

Philip's next duty was to find some escort for
Anna. There were nearly always visitors, either
English or American, on the wing, who might
consent to take charge of her. For the present,
he had asked the good Sister to take the child
back with her to her convent, and to provide her
with a suitable outfit, giving her money for the
purpose. He also smilingly suggested that if
she could make use of the time by introducing
into Anna's mind the idea of duty and submission
to those in authority, it would be an

acceptable and beneficent work. The money
thus spent in Trevelyan's behalf was part of Sir
Giles's munificent gift to himself ; for his examination
of his late friend's papers soon showed
him that the outstanding claims where more, and
the balance at his bankers less, than stated.
When everything had been settled, and old
Assunta's fidelity recognised by a liberal gift,
there was little more than thirty pounds left for
poor Anna's inheritance, in spite of his own
supplementary grants.

It occurred to Philip that he would deposit
this sum for her benefit in the English Postoffice
Savings Bank, so that she might have
the little fund to fall back upon in case of some
sudden emergency, and could please herself
with the sense of importance and independence
the arrangement would give.

He deferred the more important transaction
of the yearly payment to Mrs Sylvestre till he
found himself in Paris, where he proposed to
avail himself of the bankers employed by the
College. He had still some anxiety on this
point. In the prospect of his becoming a priest,

he had decided to transfer his annuity under
his father's will to Anna, taking his uncle into
his confidence, and engaging his interest in her
behalf. For the present he had still enough
money left to send the first half-yearly instalment,
which should be the first thing done on
reaching Paris.

He gave but little consideration to the alternative
of his position, not feeling any doubt
that the appointed umpire on the question, the
good Archbishop of Paris, would confirm his
vocation. He had now been more than a week
in Florence, and had not yet seen his mother,
having left this painful duty to the last. If it
had not been that he hoped she could help him
to find a travelling-companion for Anna, he
doubted whether, on this occasion, he should
have visited her at all.

Chapter YI.

I must be cruel only to be kind ;
Thus bad begins, and worse remains behind."

Hamlet.

"She cannot love,
Xor take no shape nor project of affection.
She is so self-endeared. "

Shakespeare.

Mrs Methuen occupied a portion of one of
the charming modern villas which are built
on the hillside just beyond the city, amidst
the dull verdure of the cypress groves. A
picturesque garden shut in the house, but
the rooms had no local individuality about
them ; they were prettily furnished, but after
the taste of London or Paris. As Philip entered
the salon, his mother was in the act of
coming through the open window from the
garden into the room. She held a bunch of
yellow roses in her hand, and was dressed

with her usual careful elaboration in an effective
dark crimson gown. She was a tall, and
still a beautiful woman, generally considered
like her son ; and in respect to feature and
physique this was true, only to render, to
an acute observer, the radical difference of
aspect and expression the more striking.

Her colour changed as she recognised her
visitor, and she betrayed her agitation by dropping
some of the flowers she held.

Is it you ? " she said coldly. " It was like
your usual civility not to warn me of your
return. What is the meaning of it? Have
you quarrelled with Sir Giles already ? "

Philip came forward, picked up the flowers
which she had let fall, and in giving them
again into her hand, raised it to his lips. But
the movement was a mechanical one, he laid no
kiss upon it.

I have been more than a week in Florence,
busy about Lewis Trevelyan's affairs, who, you
may probably know, is dead ; but I have leave
of absence from my uncle. I am come now
not only to pay you my respects, but to ask

you if you know of any one going to England
who will take charge of his daughter. She is
to be adopted by an aunt."

I don't know of any one," she answered
impatiently; "people don't leave Florence,
but come to it at this season of the year.
And what have you to do with the child ?
Good heavens ! " she added, as a new thought
struck her, and starting back as she spoke,
of what did the man die ? You surely have
not forgotten how nervous and susceptible I
am on all points connected with illness ; it's
as likely as not it was of some infectious
disease ! "

*' Trevelyan died of slow decline. There is
no danger," said Philip. He looked away from
her as he spoke, lest his face should express
too strongly the indignation he felt. He was
perfectly aware that her selfishness was so
absolute that she would scarcely have given
herself the trouble to tax her memory or consult
an acquaintance on the subject in which
he was interested. He had long since fathomed
the shallows of her nature, but until now he

VOL. L G

had considered there was the one redeeming trait
of fidelity to her obligations as wife and mother.
She had never loved him,  more, she had been
the goad and oppressor of his childhood; but
he had said to himself, with a pathetic determination
to keep some rag of filial feeling, that
she was honest and conscientious, and therefore
entitled to his respect. It was one of the
heaviest blows he had yet sustained, to find that
not even this consolation was left to him.

Mrs Methuen looked at him suspiciously.
Whatever were her moral deficiencies, there
was no bluntness of her faculty of observation,
and she saw a change in her son's bearing
towards her.

What is wrong with you ? " she demanded
again. "You have been all this time in Florence,
and have found no opportunity to come
and see your mother ! Considering that you
are a slave to duty, is it not a little odd that
you should have left me up to this moment
without news of your uncle's reception? I
have looked for a letter in vain."

I admit I ought to have written  under

ordinary circumstances ; but I have been deeply
engaged. As for my uncle, he has treated me
with the greatest kindness and liberality, but no
conclusion has been reached about the future."

No conclusion ! I don't understand. You
are his heir, I presume ? That is a conclusion
already reached without your help or his.
Are you to live with him ? What provision
does he propose ? Why do you put me to
the annoyance of asking questions it is your
business to anticipate ? Under any circumstances,
now that I fill the place of the dowager
of the family, it will be necessary to
increase my miserable income."

She laughed softly, and glanced towards a
mirror.

Whenever," answered Philip, " I find myself
in possession of Sir Giles's title and fortune, I
will not fail to do justice to my mother; but I
hope and believe that day is far distant. As
long as he lives, I shall never ask him for anything
on your account,  he knows your requirements
better than I do. You have deceived me,
but not him."

Deceived ! " she repeated angrily ; but a
glance at her son's face told her that a show
of indignant feeling would be thrown away.
"Has the old man been blabbing," she asked
insolently, " of the innocent shifts to which
my poverty and your necessities drove me ?
I consider that the little help he gave me
was my due, or rather a very meagre portion
of my due ; and you are very much mistaken
if you think I am going to cry 2eccavi
because you choose to look upon me as a
sinner ! After all, it is a world of pities that
you should not go into orders,  you would
have played the part to admiration ! "

Then you will not be displeased to hear
that such is still my intention, and that I amon
my way to St Sulpice at this moment, with
Sir Giles's consent."

But in fact such an event would have been
the destruction of all her plans and hopes.
Her ultimate intention was to remove her
residence to London (probably to Sir Giles
Methuen's long disused house in South Audley
Street), and to establish a lien on his property

commensurate with her position as mother of
the heir. But this could scarcely be carried
out if her son became a priest.

An angry spot burned on her cheeks, and
the light of her eyes gathered and kindled.
She looked at Philip with an expression
in which rage and contempt were equally
mixed.

You are a fool," she exclaimed, " as you
always were, and as your father was before
you ! But you make a mistake if you think
I shall suffer myself to be made the sacrifice
of your folly. There are ways and means that
your simplicity doesn't suspect, to bar your
way to the priesthood. I will see Monseigneur
myself; I have met him more than once in
society, and I know he is a man of the world,
and will hear reason. I will make a personal
appeal to Sir Giles. You shall not throw away
your chances ! "

Here her voice shook a little, and tears of
mortification softened her eyes. The thought
had occurred to her that she might be going too
far. If her son were to be in the future the fountainhead

of pecuniary supplies, it was impolitic
to alienate his goodwill ; and there was a hardness
of manner in his bearing towards her which
was quite new, and decidedly disagreeable. She
liked her own way, and was prepared to get it,
regardless of what she trampled down, or stood
upon in the process ; but it was disagreeable to
her to be on bad terms with those allied to her.
Therefore she added, in a more conciliatory
tone 

You must see that you are doing me a
grievous wrong 1 "

"The fact of my becoming a priest," he answered,
" will not invalidate my inheritance ;
and if I live to succeed, I will make you whatever
allowance the family solicitors think right.
I am come to-day to discuss a painful subject.
From a very early age you made me acquainted
with the terms of my father's will, and led me to
believe that you had always carried them out at
considerable sacrifice to yourself. I know now
that such has not been the case. Let that
pass  a son cannot accuse a mother ; but for
the future I claim what belongs to me, and I

have arranged that my share shall be paid to
my credit into the bank."

Mrs Methuen's face grew almost lidd as she
listened to him. A feeling of active hate
sprang up in her heart as the quiet deliberate
tones fell upon her ears ; and she glanced at
the beautiful face, cold and resolute as if it
had been cut out of stone. Then, taking; refugee
in the last resource to which a woman turns
when she finds herself detected and without
excuse 

You insult me ! " she said, with a sob.
"Whatever I have done has been done with
Sir Giles Methuen's approval. As the head of
the family, he volunteered to help me in the
way you resent, and sanctioned my taking the
benefit of his help. It has always been understood
between us that as long as I lived I should
continue to receive the full amount left by your
father for you and me. At the best it is beggary.
Your taking the step you threaten is
nothing but a vindictive wish to punish me for
the restraints and grievances of your childhood.
I could wish now they had been greater ! "

It was certainly to the credit of Philip's self-command
that he checked the retort which rose
to his lips, but he had schooled himself against
any expression of personal feeling. He was,
however, equally determined on carrying his
point.

"Even my uncle," he answered, "has no
power to alter the provisions of my father's
will ; and the trustees under it, who are, as you
know, the solicitors for the Methuen estates,
have already written to me on the subject,
and asked for instructions as to the future. I
have already answered their letter. When I
received it I had no idea of your feeling in the
matter, or that you would be a loser by my
taking my own. I imagined that sum had
been spent by you upon my education from

a child."

And that I had subsisted all these years

on 300 a - year ? " she asked with a sneer.

But if you do this thing you shall never

see my face again ! "

He turned a little pale. "Do not say that.

I am constrained to do as I say, because it is

the only way in which I can carry out an engagement
I have made. It is scarcely necessary
to tell you that I would not do it for my
own personal benefit."

"I am to understand, then, that you rob
your mother with a view to enriching some
beggar, or making spiritual capital out of it in
some besotted form of almsgiving ? "

I have no explanation to give," was his
answer. "I am of age, and the money is at
my own disposal. One thing I can promise 
in no future strait or exigence will I ever ask
you for help."

"You would certainly ask in vain," she said,
with a little laugh. But she felt daunted by
the severity of his self-control, and to hide
her discomfiture, added quickly  " All this
time you tell me nothing. I insist upon
knowing how things stand between you and
Sir Giles. Is it your obstinacy about the
priesthood which has led to his washing his
hands of you ? "

Philip gave her a succinct account of his
reception by his uncle, and the few circumstances

of his visit, and also of the permission
he had obtained from him to refer the final decision
to the Archbishop of Paris, Monseigneur
d'Enghien.

A peculiar expression crossed his mother's
face as she listened.

"I think I begin to understand," she said,
*' and am a trifle relieved. Sir Giles and the
Archbishop are old friends, I know. I was
afraid you had broken with your uncle. Under
any circumstances, he is pretty certain to make
you a handsome allowance  and yet you extort
your pound of flesh ! "

"If he should, I am prepared to give you
back as much as I claim, or even more, if circumstances
justify it. In that case you will
forgive me, mother ? "

Does it matter ? " she asked. *' I have
never been a fond mother, I own, and it is
the glory of saints and priests to hold natural
ties cheap. That is why I am almost inclined
to allow that you have a vocation. No, Philip,"
answering the expression of his grave wistful
gaze, "my maternal susceptibilities will never

answer to your demands. Still, I am not unwilling
to order your room to be got ready."

It will not be necessary : I leave Florence
this evening. To-morrow night I sleep once
more under the roof of St Sulpice."

He got up to take leave.

"You cannot help me in regard to Anna
Trevelyan ? "

Not in the least ! Put a label round her
neck, if a girl of her age can't find her way
alone, and don't bring ridicule and trouble on
your head by mixing yourself up in other
people's affairs. Words fail to express my
contempt for the Quixote of society ! Let the
aunt you mentioned fetch her or send for her.
She is a disagreeable, ill-bred little monkey.
Her father was once mistaken enough to bring
her here."

True ; that was a mistake," he said, with a
smile.

There was nothing more to say, and yet he
lingered. His heart was full in view of the
near crisis of his life, and he could not resist
the instinctive desire to try and win some touch

of sympathy from his mother  because she
was his mother  and no failure of hers could
break that inexpressible tie.

I must go," he repeated, " and it is uncertain
when we shall meet again. Mother,
wish me success ! "

"With all my heart," she answered, "but
not after your reading of the word. We shall
meet again sooner than you expect."

CHAPTER VII.

When I look back upon my former race,
Seasons I see at which the Inward Ray
More brightly burned or guided some new way;
Truth in its wealthier scene and nobler space
Given for my eye to range, and feet to trace ;
And next I mark, 'twas trial did convey.
Or grief, or pain, or strange eventful day,
To my tormented soul such larger grace."

J, H. Newmax.

It would be difficult and perhaps incongruous
to describe the feelings with which Philip
Methuen found himself once more \\dthin the
walls of St Sulpice.

In these days, when faith in God has become
a condescension, and the desire to save the
souls of men a proof of deficient culture or
narrow brain, the implicit belief and ardent
devotion with which he took his part in the
high religious festival which fell on the day following
his arrival, would excite rather ridicule
than sympathy.

During the years in which he had been a.
pupil in the seminary, the supreme government
lay in the hands of one who regarded the
character of its founder with profound veneration,
and went nearer to restore the old order,
and infuse the same spirit of consecration to
the religious life, than had been done for generations
past.

The Abbe de Seve held the belief that to
know God experimentally, and then to live for
no other object but to bring God and man
together in living communion, was the highest
condition of being that could be reached. He
said to his pupils that this was the priestly
function, and that to be worthy of it no
discipline was too severe ; that it demanded a
faculty of self-sacrifice practically without limit,
and that therefore every form of selfishness and
love of pleasure or ease were mortal enemies, to
be overcome at all costs. The Church in her
tender wisdom stooped to indicate the ways and
means best calculated to develop the growth
of the spiritual life in the stubborn and sterile
hearts of her sons.

To fast and pray, until nature faints under
demands too heavy for the body to sustain, 
to forego the so-called innocent enjoyments of
youth in order to serve in loathsome hospitals,
or fulfil some prescribed function from which
natural pride and fastidiousness recoil,  to
refrain from what is desired and accept the
unacceptable,  were the appointed training for
this warfare, and even then the victory was
uncertain.

Such teaching is repudiated by the spirit of
this age ; but may not one be allowed to ask
whether Reason herself can deny that it is right,
and wise also, to sacrifice a lower for a higher
good, and that the faculty of postponing the
present pleasure to the future gain is allowed,
even by advanced philosophers, to be one of
the prerogatives of humanity ?

Granting that a man believe in God, as God
was interpreted by Christ, and accept the obligations
of His service, and the incentive of His
supreme example, extravagances and fanaticism
so-called fall into place.

In all human relations, the highest test of

devotion is held to be the sacrifice of personal
interest and personal pleasure, and it follows
logically that the devout Catholic should esteem
the endurance of pain, shame, or contradiction,
as proofs of his reasonable service.

No prize worth the gaining has ever been
won by languid hearts or hands ; and if likeness
to God is only to be attained by the denial
of those tendencies which hamper and slacken
our progress, nothing remains but to follow the
metaphorical injunction, and cut off the right
hand or pluck out the right eye, at any cost to
our lower nature.

At least such was the view of life and duty
which young Methuen had accepted, and which
rendered him indifferent to the worldly advantages
offered him, and eager to follow the vocation
not only of priest but of missionary.

On the second day of his return, which was
that fixed for the momentous interview with
the Archbishop, he had risen before daybreak
and gone into the chapel for purposes of private
devotion ; as he entered, he was surprised and
a little confounded to see the Abbe de Seve

prostrate before one of the side altars. As
Philip hesitated a moment whether to advance
or retire, he rose and came towards him.

"We are urged by the same necessity," he
said, with a grave smile, laying his hand on
the head of the lounge man, who had knelt to
receive the formal benediction. " My prayers
have been for you, my son."

"That I may be faithful to the calling on
which my heart is set ? "

The Abbe looked at his kindling eyes, and
his brows contracted a little.

"It is not for the disciple to choose the
work his Master would have him to do," he
answered, a little coldly.

Do I presume to choose ? " said Philip,
humbly. " I think no task can be set me that
I should not be willing to perform  as best I
can.

That remains to be proved. Perhaps the
hardest task of all is to be passed over without
work set or duty prescribed,  that of being
denied the indulgence of your own will, when
you believe that will to be in conformity with

VOL. I. H

the Divine will. Go to your prayers, my son,
but do not presume to indicate to the Supreme
Wisdom the channels in which His grace shall
flow."

Philip had become very pale, but he attempted
neither question nor reply. His submissive
respect broke down the Abbe's intended
reserve.

"I stand condemned in my own eyes," he
said, with a smile of great sweetness. " Of
the family under this roof, Philip Methuen,
you have been to me the Joseph ; and where
the sin of inordinate regard exists, the Divine
Wisdom is apt to remove the stumbling-block
out of one's path. It is for my chastisement,
doubtless, that my son is to be sold into
Egypt."

"Is it to be so ? Accept my grateful thanks
for giving me warning, and for all the goodness
of which I am unworthy."

He spoke in a low tone, and with no outward
signs of agitation, but they were practised eyes
which watched him. What could the Ahh6 say
to heal this wounded spirit ? ,

As long as we both live, I am your father
and this is your home. I believe the work
you may be called to do in the world outside
may exceed in hardship and difficulty anything
that would have fallen to your lot as priest or
missionary even. I know your present repugnance
to it, and the heroic youthful dreams
which are to be disappointed. I know it,
Philip. The probe is never applied except
where the flesh is sensitive, and there is no
harder word in Holy Scripture than this, ' To
obey is better than sacrifice'"

A few hours later Philip was informed that,
instead of coming to St Sulpice to confer with
the neophyte, the Archbishop desired him to
wait upon him at his own residence ; and therein
an informal way, he told the young man
that, after careful consideration of the matter,
he had reached the conclusion that his sphere
of duty lay outside the Church. He pointed
out in impressive phrases how, in these faithless
and degenerate days, more might be done,
even for the best interests of religion, by those
who had the courage to live the divine life in

the thick of an indifferent and scoffing world,
than in the close ranks of the clerical army.

He also reminded Philip of the claims his uncle
had upon his duty, and of the social obligations
which lay upon him, and which were recognised
by the Church herself, to perpetuate a family
which maintained the true faith in the midst
of an inimical nation.

*' Not," he added, dropping the tone of the
ecclesiastic for the man of the world, "that it
is necessary to make a religious duty of a foregone
conclusion. Love is as much a law of
nature as is growth, and, without flattery, you
are entitled to expect the best that it can give.
Tell my good friend Sir Giles Methuen, that I
shall hold myself at his disposal at any time to
pronounce the nuptial benediction."

And so the matter terminated.

On his return to St Sulpice, a letter was
handed to Philip from his uncle, to the effect
that he was to remain in Paris, at the seminary
if he preferred, until Sir Giles joined him, as he
proposed to give himself a holiday.

Chapter VIII.

"After April, vrhen May follows
And the white-throat builds, and all the swallows !
Hark, where my blossomed pear-tree in the hedge
Leans to the field, and scatters on the clover
Blossoms and dew-drops  at the bent spray's edge 
That's the wise thrush : he sings each song twice over.
Lest you should think he never could recapture
The first fine careless rapture."

E. Browsing.

The village of Kensington, situated in one of
the most charming and fertile of English valleys,
and surrounded by some of the loveliest
scenery in Dorset, was in itself unsightly and
unpicturesque. It stretched its devious way
five miles in extent, and according to its proportions,
included as much poverty and dce as
could be found in the slums of any great city.

The present-day philanthropists might have
culled from its swarming hovels examples of
shameless degradation that would at least have

equalled in realistic ofFensiveness anything that
the capital could have supplied ; and indeed Mr
Sylvestre had been known to say that his experiences
as a London curate had been outdone
by Kensington immorality. There was indeed
a certain sluggish bovine element about it which
distinguished it from the more aggressive forms
which vice assumes in crowded centres, but perhaps
this made it rather less than more amenable
to reformation ; and there was also the
redeeming physical fact that pure air and freshwater
circulated round the miserable dilapidated
cottages, which disgraced landlord and
tenant alike.

Board schools (whatever their advantages)
had not yet reached Kensington,  not because
it was so well served otherwise in this department,
but that the inhabitants, headed by their
vicar, strenuously resisted the innovation, and
had succeeded, by statistics framed with a certain
robust imaginativeness concerning the existing
means of education, in conveying the belief that
it was.

Mr Sylvestre, to whom a quiet life was the

supreme end of existence, naturally found it a
matter of importance to be on good terms with
the wealthy farmers of the district, and this
could certainly not be the case if he had fulfilled
his duty in forcing to school the little shockheaded
lads who guided the plough in the
heavy furrows, trudged alongside the ponderous
waggons under the eye and whip of their carter-fathers,
or scared the clamorous rooks from the
seed-fields in the piercing cold of the early spring
mornings. And still greater would have been
the opposition of the parents themselves  the
terrors of Schedule B were as yet undreamt of
in this Arcadia.

Mr Sylvestre's predecessor had been a very
old man, who had held the living for close upon
fifty years, during the chief part of which he
had been the best fox-hunting parson in a
county distinguished for such professional hybrids,
and had only reluctantly relinquished the
saddle when his power to keep his seat failed
him. His clerical functions had been restricted
to morning service on Sundays, when he always
preached an excellent sermon, selected from

some classic theologian on his book-shelves, and
read prayers again in the afternoon. He visited
the schools once a-week, when he invariably
commended the diligence of the master, patted
the heads of the elder scholars, and presented
sugar-plums to the infants. He had a fine
person and genial manners, and was by no
means unacceptable to parishioners and neighbours.
He kept a curate, not of the advanced
type, as may be concluded, but a worthy dull
man, who married, buried, and baptised for
him, went occasionally to take the sacrament to
some dying bed when sent for, and catechised
the children in the schools.

No finer field for missionary enterprise could
have been found than the village of Skefiington,
if the right man had been chosen for the work ;
but the Eev. Herbert Sylvestre was singularly
destitute of the spirit of a reformer. Some
improvements were inevitably introduced : the
pretty old-fashioned Norman church, which had
been rigorously closed from Sunday to Sunday,
was now thoroughly cleaned and furbished,
the neglected churchyard levelled, mown, and

planted. The schoolmaster was dismissed, and
one a little more in harmony with modern requirements
engaged and carefully overlooked.
The new vicar thought education his strong
point. Sunday-schools were established and
pretty well served by the ladies of the college,
who found such work an element of interest,
with the zest of competition, in their sluggish
lives, and also a means of entree to the vicarage.

Social life could scarcely have been on a lower
plane than at Skefi&ngton. The wealthy farmers
of the neighbourhood exchanged civilities,  that
is, their womenkind visited each other, to play
tennis and partake of high tea. Dinners were
an unknoTL ceremonial : the men chiefly entertained
each other at the two rival hotels at
Crawford and Trichester, where the bi-weekly
market-feasts were spread.

There was a little nest of rather superior
houses gathered round the vicarage, which were
occupied by a mixed and rather anomalous class.
One was the hereditary property of a single
lady, in advanced but vigorous middle life, and
who served under Mr Sylvestre as honorary

curate, and helped his wife in the management
of the new coal and clothing clubs she had
established; another had been bought by a
retired draper from the county town, whose
family consisted of himself and his handsome
dashing daughter ; and the most charming cottage
of all was rented by a young man and his
wife, of the name of Mitchell, of apparent education
and good manners, but whose antecedents
were a little difficult to trace. He declared
that he had been induced to take possession of
the " delightful shanty " because of the facilities
afforded by its numerous outhouses and sheds
for the rearing of prize poultry, which was Mr
Mitchell's hobby, or rather one of them, as he
was equally devoted to the rearing of wire-haired
fox-terriers, and made of both an exceedingly
remunerative pursuit.

There was an uncomfortable want of assimilation
between these families and the neighbouring
farmers, as also between both classes and the
vicarage,  Mrs Sylvestre being accustomed to
draw a hard-and-fast line between herself and
her inferiors.

Within the five miles area there were only
two gentlemen's houses  that of Methuen
Place, which we know, and which was almost
out of account as a factor in the social result,
owing; to the religious faith of its owners. 
a faith held with almost passionate tenacity
throughout the long period of political disability
and oppression. It probably arose from
this sense of isolation that so many of the men
of the family had been students and scholars,
living much abroad, and contracting many
foreign ties of regard.

O CD

Sir Giles Methuen himself in his younger
days had spent a great part of his time in Paris,
where he had made, amongst others, the ecclesiastical
friendship which had stood him in such
good stead at the present crisis. The death
of his young wife in childbirth, failing health,
and the ever augmenting disappointment in
his son, had aged him prematurely, and sapped
his zest for life. Now, he promised himself
to live again in his nephew.

The other house was of greater distinction,
and belonged to the Sir Walter Earle of whom

we have already spoken. But Earlescourt was
situated more than five miles from Kensington,
and, with the exception of Methuen Place, the
inhabitants were held to be on a different social
plane, precluding intimacy with a family which
took foremost rank as one of the oldest and
richest baronetcies of the kingdom. The only
exception was owing to the allowed eccentricity
of the eldest boy, Adrian, who sometimes paid
visits to the vicarage in favour of little Dorothy
Sylvestre, with whom he had made a chance
acquaintanceship during a picnic held in his
father's woods, and had conceived so strong
a liking for the child as to give proof of it
by taking her occasional presents of books,
or toys, or fruit. It was on one of these
occasions that he had come into contact with
Philip Methuen.

Such was the general position of affairs on
the day when Anna Trevelyan was to make
her first acquaintance with English rural life.
Philip Methuen had succeeded with some difficulty
in finding an escort for her, and had
written to Mrs Sylvestre requesting that, on the

date named, she would be good enough to send a
suitable person to meet her niece at the Charing
Cross Hotel, and convey her to Kensington
Vicarage.

Mrs Sylvestre resented this arrangement as a
very unnecessary expense, and an act of impertinent
dictation on his part ; but as she had
received by the same post her first half-yearly
payment, she thought it better to comply. It
was a singular fact that, whenever the question
of absence from home arose between the vicar
and his wife, it was always decided that he
could be much better spared than she. And
perhaps it was as well, as far as Anna's comfort
went, that it was her uncle rather than her
aunt who fetched her home.

But the hour and minute did arrive when she
stood in Mrs Sylvestre's presence, in the colourless
room which had witnessed the interview
which decided her fate, and was confronted by
the cold gaze of the kinswoman who hated her
for her father's sake before the feeling of personal
antagonism was aroused by the first sight
of herself.

Come here and speak to me, Anna, and I
will introduce you to your cousins." The voice
was cold and unsympathetic ; Anna was weary,
excited, and confused by the unfamiliar aspect
of everything around her. The three little
girls stood together in a shy group without
speaking, but gazing at her intently.

She was dressed in a straight black frock,
which added to her height and her pallor ; and
from under her wide-brimmed straw hat masses
of somewhat dishevelled chestnut hair fell below
her waist ; the fine dark eyes looked out before
her with an expression at once proud and forlorn.
It was all she could do to keep the tears
out of them, and her mouth firm and set.

The child is tired, my dear," interposed the
vicar ; " let Dolly take her up-stairs, and give
us some tea as soon as possible. We are here
sooner than you expected."

Mrs Sylvestre's only reply was to repeat her
command  " Come here, Anna, I want to speak
to you."

Anna moved slowly towards her. Her gait
had an ease and dignity which came perhaps

from the free life she had led, united to an
admirable physical development  perhaps from
the unconscious influence of the great works of
art amidst which she had grown up from infancy.
Not a point was lost on the woman who
watched her.

"Will you kiss me?" she asked, when the
girl had come close up to her, but making no
advance on her own part, and with an expression
in the prominent blue eyes which might
have choked the readiest springs of feeling.

Anna's springs of feeling were not ready.
There was a lump in her throat which warned
her not to trust her voice to speech.

Her aunt stooped towards her and pressed a
light kiss upon her forehead ; then, as if to compensate
herself for this sacrifice to duty, she
said, as she touched the rich masses of her magnificent
hair 

This will never do, Anna ! We must get
rid of this encumbrance at the first opportunity ;
no wonder your head aches and you look so
pale."

Anna started, and instinctively grasped as

much of her floating chevelure as her slim
fingers could hold.

Cut off my hair, do you mean ! "

There was an accent in her voice that quickened
the pulses of Mrs Sylvestre's heart ;  it
meant defiance and conflict.

"Cut it shorter," she replied, quietly. "Look
at your cousins ! their hair is pretty and neat,
as well as fashionable ; yours would want a lady's-maid
to keep it in order, which, it is quite
obvious, you have never had, nor am I able
to give you. But we will talk of this another
time. Dorothy, take your cousin up-stairs."

Dorothy came timidly forward, and held out
a childish dimpled hand, with a shy smile ;
but Anna made no response.

"Follow Dorothy up-stairs, Anna," said Mrs
Sylvestre, sharply, "and make haste down
again. Tea will be ready directly."

Anna obeyed with evident reluctance.

The bedroom into which her cousin took her
was a bare meagre chamber, with two narrow
white beds in it, scrupulously neat and spotless,
and just as many toilet accessories as necessity

required. But the floor was covered with fresh
India matting  there was a large curtailed
window, but it presented the charm of a deep
window-seat, and commanded a fine view of the
valley and distant hills.

Anna looked about her, crossed the floor, and
sitting down in the window, pulled ofi" her hat
and gloves, and then, with an odd sort of deliberation,
bowed her face upon her hands and
sobbed aloud.

Dorothy was greatly distressed. She had
been early taught that it was disgraceful to cry,
and she was very much afraid of the stranger.
She crept up to Anna's side, and laid a timid
hand on her arm to attract her notice.

Don't cry, please," she urged ; " your eyes
will be red, and mamma will be vexed. I wish
we were not all strange to you, Anna, but you
will soon get used to us, and we do have nice
times in the garden when lessons are done.
Look down at the lilacs and laburnum trees.
Adrian Eaiie said you would perhaps never
have seen any."

Dorothy's voice was like the cooing of a

VOL. I. I

wood-pigeon. Anna lifted up her tear-stained
face, and looked instinctively in the direction
indicated.

The delicate perfume of the flowering shrubs
scented the evening air, and the golden laburnum
chains fascinated her eyes. Then a blackbird
suddenly broke the sylvan stillness with
the clear melody of his delightful whistle, and
a thrush stirred in a thick blossoming thorn-tree,
and responded or outlined him with his
finer notes. Lewesden and Piston stood out
in the blue distance, well defined against the
gorgeous sunset sky, and the whole wealth of
the typical English landscape lay between them
and the vicarage garden.

Dorothy, whom sympathy rendered acute,
pressed affectionately against her cousin's side.

"It is very pretty, isn't it ? " she . said,
though it is not like Florence."

Anna's breast heaved. She turned away from
the window, and shut her eyes to hide the
burning tears which the movement only caused
to flow over her cheeks. With her hands clasped
together tightly in her lap, and her graceful

head bowed with the weight of her ardent
anguish, she looked like some youthful saint
anticipating her martyrdom.

There was a knock at the door, and the governess
announced that tea was ready.

I will not come down," said Anna ; " send
me something to eat up here."

Eat in your bedroom ! " said Dorothy, surprised
; " we are never allowed to do that."

Then I will do without eating. I will not
go down-stairs  I like this place best."

But when Mrs Sylvestre heard Dorothy's
report, she rose from behind her tea-urn, in
spite of a smothered protest from her husband,
and going into Anna's room, took the girl by
the hand in her cool strong grasp and constrained
her to rise from her seat.

"Tea is ready," she said, "and you need
refreshment. Come with me, Anna ; no one
stays away from meals unless they are ill."

Anna yielded, and her aunt felt somewhat
mollified towards her, as having herself scored
the first victory.

CHAPTER IX.

'* I think we are too ready with complaint
In this fair world of God's."

E. B. Browning.

The next few weeks passed with less friction
than might have been expected. The novelty of
her surroundings could not but occupy Anna's
mind to a degree which prevented perpetual
brooding over her dead father and lost freedom.
Then she was kept hard at her lessons. The
young governess, who had now lived with
Mrs Sylvestre more than two years, was a
zealous and conscientious girl, who had well
profited by the advanced instruction she had
received, and on whom the intelligence and
progress of her little pupils reflected infinite
credit.

Anna was not long in perceiving that her

own ignorance simply astounded her cousins.
What did it matter that she spoke Italian with
greater fluency than her native language, and
could repeat whole pages of the ' Divine Commedia'
by heart, when she could not write a
decent letter in either tongue ? She sketched
with a power and ease that almost startled her
new companions ; but she had scarcely heard of
the multiplication table ; and her spelling was
guided by the purest phonetic instincts. Of
music she knew absolutely nothing, while able
to reproduce by ear any melody she heard once
played, and to sing with a voice as pure and
true as the birds of the air. History, except
as regarded Romanist and Florentine legends,
was a fountain whose seal had never been
broken,  she was absolutely ignorant of her
OT\Ti ignorance. Of the whole circle of human
knowledge and possible attainment, she had
scarcely touched a single point.

All this was pretty much what Mrs Sylvestre
had expected, and for which she had prepared
Miss Sewell ; but the latter at least was not
prepared for the profound indifference, almost

contempt, for learning which Anna Trevelyan
showed.

The drudgery of arithmetic, the mental discipline
which grammar exacts  even the details
of geographical science  were a profound weariness
to the girl, who had never yet known what
it was to do the thing she was not inclined
to do.

Of what use is it ? " she asked. '' I do not
care about it all. I know enough to make life

pleasant, if only " And then she stopped

short.

*'If only?" repeated Mr Sylvestre, with a
sneer. It was this lady's habit to be continually
in and out of her children's schoolroom.

Anna looked up defiantly ; the flush had dried
the tears from her eyes.

If only I had some one I cared for," she
added, boldly. "None of you seem to mind
about that ; but I think it is the only thing
that matters ! "

Dorothy, who was sitting next her, managed
to slip her little palm into her hand. Anna
looked at her with a kind of superb tolerance.

You are a dear little thing," she said ; " but
I don't mean that sort of feeling. I mean the
love one has for those older and better than
we are, when we know we should make them
happier by growing better and wiser ourselves."

My dear Anna," said Miss Sewell, smiling,
you would make my heart dance with joy
if you would only learn your lessons better ;
and, I am sure, your aunt will say the same."

**No, she will not," replied Mrs Sylvestre,
drily. "Anna must do her duty under other
incentives. If, for instance, she will not take
the trouble to master that chapter of Collier,
which I see still open before her, she must
spend the evening over it instead of going out
for a walk with the rest."

As she passed out of the room, she stopped
beside her niece for a moment and lifted the
heavy tresses from her neck. "I am still of
opinion this hair ought to be cut ofiP," she
remarked ; " you would learn much better
without it. I shall consult our doctor on the
subject."

As the door closed upon her, Anna shut the

venerable volume open before her which she
had been making some effort to study.

I hate her," she said, *' and she hates me.

I will not learn my lesson ! As for my hair

not a finger shall be laid upon it ! "

She burst suddenly into passionate crying, as
was her custom ; but it was neither wounded
pride nor alarmed vanity which made her weep,
but the remembrance of the last touch of her
father's hand upon the glories of her head, and
his tender admiration of them.

Lessons were just over, so Miss Sewell hastily
dismissed the children to the garden, hoping
Anna's rash words had escaped them, and then
sat down by the girl.

I do not for a moment suppose that it is a
point your aunt will carry against your consent,
so don't cry about it. What, dear," remarking
the prompt curve of her flexible lip, " am I making
some mistake ? Then I beg your pardon ;
only you must not say you won't look at that
poor book any more  you could master it in

half an hour if you chose And if you

don't choose, there will be no walk for you tonight

in Methuen Park. See, what a sunset
we shall have, and the wild strawberries are
ripe!"

A rapt look came over Anna's face which
puzzled Miss Sewell extremely. She knew very
little about Anna's past life, Mrs Sylvestre not
approving of raising the best of governesses to
the position of a confidant.

*' Dolly told me her mother never let them
walk in the Park, however hard they begged."

That is when Sir Giles is at home," said
Miss Sewell, smiling. " Mrs Sylvestre does not
like to encroach on other people's privacy. He
has been staying in Paris, with his nephew,
almost ever since the funeral. They are expected
home tomorrow."

Anna made a movement of eager speech, then
closed her lips ; and a flush passed over the fine
pallor of her skin, which seemed like a transfiguration.


I will go," she said. " You are right when
you say I can learn my lesson if I choose."

An hour later Miss Sewell and her pupils
passed through the vicarage gates on their way

to Methuen Park. It was a two miles' walk, as
we know ; but the season was at the prime of its
summer glories, and the children, eager to makeup
for the long day's close confinement by free
exercise of voice and limb, ran and leapt and
laughed with perpetual divergences into the
teeming hedgerows in pursuit of flowers and
ferns, dropped almost as soon as gathered.
All at least except Anna, who, having learnt
her distasteful task, was now walking at Miss
Sewell's side, with pale cheeks and gleaming
eyes  signs of some deep inward excitement.

Just as they had reached the gate which
divided the park from the public road, a young
man stepped forward and opened it from the
inner side. The children looked shyly at him ;
Miss Sewell thanked him, with a smile, and he,
with a careless courteous recognition, singled out
Dorothy alone for the honour of his greeting.

' Well met ! " he said. '' I was deadly tired
of myself and my book." He glanced towards
a near tree, where an open volume was lying on
the grass, and a horse quietly grazing with its
bridle fastened by a stake to the ground. " I

am delighted to meet a friend. May I join you,
Miss Sewell ? "

If you like to do so ; but the children are
going to pick strawberries, and Dolly always
knows best where to find them. I am afraid
you won't care for that."

I would much rather stay with Mr Earle, if
he will let me," said Dolly, anxiously ; but this
Miss Sewell overruled. She knew the children
would be expected to produce proofs of their
industry, and also that Mrs Sylvestre looked
very coolly upon the odd friendship between
her little daughter and Sir Walter Earle's heir :
had he extended it to the family it would have
been another matter.

'' Eun on with the little ones, Dorothy, and
come back when you have filled your baskets."
And Dorothy, with a wistful look at the young
man, who only replied to it by a careless smile,
was compelled to obey.

Adrian meanwhile dropped to Miss Sewell's
side, and cast a swift inquiring look towards
Anna. He was very much struck by the tall,
pale, picturesque-looking girl, whose air and

expression seemed involuntarily to convey the
idea of aloofness and isolation. It was not to
be supposed that he was in ignorance of the
small politics of the locality ; and falling back
on the gossip which had reached him, he came
to a right conclusion about Anna's identity.

Will you not introduce me to Mrs Sylvestre's
niece ? " he asked.

His smile was so sweet, and manner so soft,
that Anna, abstracted as she was, turned her
eyes fully upon him.

My name is Anna Trevelyan," she said,
while poor Miss Sewell was hesitating to find
a way of escape out of her difficulty,  " you
can tell me yours."

This girl, without a penny, spoke and looked
like some young captive princess. Adrian was
still more amused and interested. He stooped
to pick a particularly fine globe of clover which
caught his eye in the grass, and on recovering
the erect position, managed to bring himself
to Anna's side.

I am Adrian Earle," he said ; " but you will
never have heard of me ! Indeed very few

people have. I live a harmless, quiet life, something
like a toad in a hollow tree. It is seldom
I go so far afield as I have done to-day."
Then, glancing at Miss Sewell, he added, ' I
felt a little surprise at recognising your party,
and thought you must all be playing truant ;
how is it the veto is removed which makes
Methuen Park forbidden ground ? "

'' That is only when Sir Giles is at home :
I thought you knew our domestic code pretty
well by this time, Mr Earle ? "

"It is precisely because I know it so well,"
began Adrian, when, to his astonishment, he
felt a sudden stealthy grip on his arm from
Anna's thin but vigorous fingers, and meeting
her eyes, read in them a mute passionate
entreaty, which arrested the words on his
tongue.

Can we see the house yet ? " she asked in
an eager whisper. " I am so anxious to see the
house 1" And it seemed to him as if she wished
to press forward, and leave ]\Iiss Sewell behind.
Both curiosity and good feeling impelled him to
humour her : there was a look of purpose in

her face which meant more than any childish
whim.

They were well within the precincts of the
Park by this time, which showed a prospect
the young Florentine had never seen before.
But Anna had no eyes for the wide stretch of
vivid elastic turf, or for the gigantic boughs
and massive shade of the majestic elm-trees,
which were the pride of the county, as well
as of the family.

The shimmer and sound of the lovely little
stream which brawled at their feet, and was
diverted into fountains and fish-pools in the
gardens of the house, were equally disregarded
by her,  all her faculties seeming to be concentrated
on the discovery of the dwelling.

We are close upon it," said Adrian, kindly,
though it lies too low to get a view of it where
we stand. A few steps higher, and you will be
able to see it."

He offered his hand to help her up the slight
ascent, for in her eagerness she had stumbled
and slipped, and in another moment Anna saw
the venerable grey-stone mansion lying at her

feet, its old-fashioned gardens now dappled and
gay with summer flowers, and the pretty Italian
fountain, with its gold and silver fish in the
cool basin below, leaping in the sunset light.
She stood gazing at the charming picture with
a breathless interest which completely puzzled
her companion.

Do you like it so much ? " he asked, smiling.
It is a nice place enough in its way, and in
better order just now than I ever saw it before ;
but that must strike you as a very small way
after your Florentine palaces, Miss Trevelyan ? "

Anna made an impatient movement, as if
what he was saying was quite beside the point ;
and at the same moment Miss Sewell was
called away by a sudden contention which
reached her ears from her little pupils in the
distance.

Anna drew a breath of relief. " Oh, how glad
I am she is gone ! You don't understand, of
course, but I will explain. / hnoio they are
there  came home yesterday  and I was dreadfully
afraid Miss Sewell would find it out. If
she had, she would have turned back, and gone

home again, or at least another way. You very
nearly spoilt all ! "

*' Very nearly, indeed," he answered, " as I
had not the faintest idea there was anything

to spoil ; but " he hesitated from a feeling

of reluctance to question closely this pale
strange girl, who was giving her confidence to
a stranger. He contented himself with adding
  " Can I help you in any way ? "

' Show me how to get down to the house,"
she answered. " But I see ! that narrow road
winds down to the little bridge, and leads into
the courtyard ; but where is the entrance-gate ?
I see no portico."

"The chief entrance is on the other side 
we cannot see it where we stand ; but may I
venture to ask you a question ? "

She nodded impatiently, still keeping her
strained attention on the house below.

Are not you Mrs Sylvestre's niece and ward?
and do you not know she would be very much
annoyed if you were to go inside the walls of
Methuen Place? What do you want there?
I ask you again, can I help you in any way ? "

AVhat do I want ? " she repeated, turning
upon him a look so wild and forlorn as to be
almost startling. " I want Philip Methuen ! I
want to tell him I cannot live with my aunt,
and he must take me away. I am more miserable
than I am able to say  miserable all day,
miserable all the long nights through, when I
lie awake wishing I were dead. I mean what I
say. I wish, I wish I were lying in the warm
earth, close to my father's side, in dear old
Florence ! That ends all  he used to say so 
but  " with a fierce strangled sob  " I am
alive ! and I cannot go on living; as I am.
Philip will help me."

Adrian felt a pang of keenest sympathy.
His knowledge of Mrs Sylvestre, and Anna's
free betrayal of her own passionate nature,
made the situation quite clear to him : she
must have known Methuen abroad. But he
could not let this wild self-willed girl commit
an absolute breach of propriety, and one for
which she would probably be severely punished.

"It is very hard," he said ; " but you do not
quite know how stiff* and formal our English

VOL. I. K

ways are, and as there are no ladies at Methuen
Place, it would be thought strange for you to
call there alone. Besides, I am afraid it will
only make matters worse between you and your
aunt if you appeal against her authority to
strangers."

Strangers ! " repeated Anna, with a smile
full of passionate meaning. " I am not afraid
of Mrs Sylvestre, or if I were, Philip will take
care she does not hurt me. Every day I have
questioned the servant about his coming home,
and made her promise to tell me the truth.
Without the hope of seeing him, do you think
I would have endured my prison life at the
vicarage ? Now he is come and I am safe 
Philip!"

She spoke the name with an accent so tender
and caressing as to call up a smile to the young
man's lips. Was she child or woman ? It was
difficult to pronounce exactly about her age,
she looked so different from other girls, and 
how beautiful she was !

But all this was for further consideration ;
the next thing to be done was to summon Miss

Sewell and prevent the impending catastrophe.
He looked round to see how far off she was, and
at the same moment one of the long windows
of the dining-room of the house was thrown
open, and two gentlemen stepped out upon the
terrace. Quick as thought Anna recognised
one of them as Philip, and scarcely less swift
was her obedience to the overmastering impulse
which prompted her to rush to his side.

Before Adrian could guess her intention, or
prevent it, her flying feet had carried her too
far for pursuit, if pursuit had been desirable.
He watched her with mixed amusement and
concern. So swift and sure were her movements,
that the downward path was traversed,
and the rustic bridge crossed, almost as fast as
his eye could follow her. At this point she
was close upon the courtyard of the house, and
opposite the principal entrance.

Anna glanced up at the firmly closed and
stately portal, and then perceived that beyond
the paved enclosure only a low stone parapet
divided the flower-garden, on which she had
been looking down, from the park boundary.

In another moment she had sprung lightly
over the barrier before the astonished eyes of
Sir Giles Methuen, had rushed, flushed and
panting, to Philip's side, and, perhaps because
too breathless for words, had caught his hand
in both hers and covered it with kisses.

After the first shock of surprise, Sir Giles
formed a fair guess of the situation, and
watched his nephew with an intense inward
sense of amusement.

There are perhaps few things which titillate
more agreeably the cynic's sense of humour,
than to see a grave man placed in a ridiculous
position ; and there was an obvious incongruity
between the reticence of Philip's character and
demeanour, and the unrestrained ardour with
which this beautiful girl had all but flung herself
on his breast, and was still pouring forth
words of rapturous greeting in the caressing
diminutives of her native Tuscan. Indeed her
speech was too rapid and colloquial for the old
baronet to follow, very much to his disappointment
; and he was equally baffled by his
nephew's prompt and fluent response.

Philip, catching the mocking expression of
his uncle's face, had felt for a moment embarrassed,
but it only served to increase the
air of tender respect with which he took Anna's
eager hands in his, and, in response to the
piteous expectancy of her face, stooped and
kissed her forehead. Then leading her up to
his uncle, he introduced her to him as Lewis
Trevelyan's daughter, and his own little sister
by adoption.

Sir Giles received her with a delightful old-fashioned
courtesy. He made her sit down
and rest in a comfortably padded old garden
seat close to the fountain, and sent Philip
back into the dining-room for a cushion for
her feet and a plate of peaches. He encouraged
her to talk to him freely about the matter
of which her heart was full ; and though
a sense of gentlemanly duty prevented any
expression of his personal antipathy to Mrs
Sylvestre, it was evident to Anna that he
was greatly in sympathy with the spirit which
animated her passionate complaints.

On the other hand, Philip, having heard all

that the girl had to say, and judged it impartially,
came to the conclusion that there
was very insufficient ground for suspecting
Mrs Sylvestre of actual injustice or cruelty,
and did his best to mitigate her sense of
injury. He saw clearly that, as they were
respectively situated, the vicarage at Kensington
was the best asylum for Anna ; and he
knew her undisciplined nature well enough
to be quite sure that even judicious restraint
would be resented as a wrong.

He maintained this view with so much firmness,
that Anna's indignation was soon diverted
towards himself, and she interrupted her appeals
to the more impressionable Sir Giles,
with violent reproaches for his son's cruelty
and faithlessness.

At this point the difficulty of the situation
was increased by a servant announcing a visit
from poor Miss Sewell, who had seen no other
way out of her serious dilemma than braving
the lion in his den, and reclaiming her pupil
at the hands of the terrible old baronet
himself.

Sir Giles, on receiving her name, rose and
went to her immediately, and in five minutes'
gracious intercourse had wiped off the accumulated
aspersions and prejudices of years. Her
prayer was that Sir Giles would so exercise his
authority as to constrain Anna to return home
with her at once : the other children she had
been obliged to leave in the park under Mr
Earle's kind protection.

''Oh no ; ten thousand thanks ! but they
must not be fetched into the house." It
was very late abbacy, and she was frightened
at the probable consequences of Anna's
behaviour.

That the girl must go back to her aunt's
house that night. Sir Giles allowed to be necessary,
whatever future arrangements might
be made; and he conducted Miss Sewell into
the garden, that she might resume her control
over her pupil.

As they approached, they saw that Anna
was still sitting in her chair, weeping bitterly,
with her face hidden in her hands, and that
Philip, who had probably exhausted both argument

and entreaty, was standing at some
little distance from her in evidently perplexed,
if not displeased, silence.

Sir Giles smiled to see how his face brightened
at Miss Sewell's approach. " I think,"
he said, introducing her, " T have brought you
a friend in need."

Philip looked at her for a moment with penetrating
attention.

Tell me," he asked, '' the truth about Anna
so far as you can without being disloyal to
Mrs Sylvestre. In one word, is it necessary
for her welfare and happiness that her friends
should take her away ? "

Miss Sewell answered with a courageous
frankness which astonished herself, but which
Philip's look and manner evoked.

Mrs Sylvestre was cold, even severe, but
her niece was difficult to control or win ;
and, on the other hand, the children where
affectionate and lovable, her uncle very kind
to her, and she herself deeply anxious to win
the girl's love and confidence. She doubted
if Anna would be better off elsewhere."

Anna had raised her head at Miss Sewell's
approach, and had listened to what passed with
a scornful and resentful air.

"Thank you, I am quite satisfied," Philip
had answered ; and then he turned towards
Anna, picked up the little black silk handkerchief
she had thrown off" in her excitement,
which had been tied round her throat, and
held out his hand to raise her from her seat.

*come," he said gently, but with an unmistakable
air of authority, "we must not keep
Miss Sewell waiting."

Anna rose slowly, and looked defiantly into
his steady eyes.

*' You send me back to prison and to misery,
while you yourself have everything that heart
can wish ! My aunt will punish me as if 1 were
a child when I get back. Do you know how
she will punish me ? She will cut ofi" my
hair ! "

The inflection of the voice, the gesture with
which she grasped her heavy tresses, had that
touch of exaggeration which mixes something
of the comic with the tragic element of a situation,

and in so doing aids rather than destroys
its pathos.

There was not a gleam of amusement in
Philip's face.

'At least," he answered, "I will not send
you back alone, but go with you ; and we will
both see Mrs Sylvestre, and make her understand
that, under any circumstances, her displeasure
must never take that form. I think
I shall be able to persuade her that it was
the most natural thing in the world that you
should come and see your old friend; and I will
do my best to get leave to pay you a visit now
and then. I had made up my mind to go and
see you tomorrow."

*' And you will not come now ? Oh, Philip,
must you punish me too ? "

I will come if allowed. The sooner we go
and ask the better. Are you ready, Miss Sewell
? " And then in a lower tone to Sir Giles,
I have taken your permission for granted. I
could scarcely leave Anna to bear the brunt of
her aunt's displeasure alone."

"It seems you are likely to meet Adrian
Earle in the park, playing nursery-maid to Mrs
Sylvestre's brood. Send him down to me. He
is always amusing, and I will keep him till you
return. It is as well you and he should befriends."


CHAPTER X.

The truth is, youth
I want, who am old and know too much ;
I'd catch youth : lend me sight and touch !
Drop heart's blood when life's wheels grate dry ! "

K. Browning.

When does life redeem its promises ?

Sir Giles Methuen had said to himself over
and over again, that were relief possible from
the miserable anxieties which had racked his
peace and made the future formidable, he should
be restored to health both of body and mind.
Under his sharp and cynical temper he had
a warm heart, which had received a good many
severe shocks in his passage through life, and
now in this halcyon season, so unexpectedly
granted, he was quite prepared to receive his
nephew with almost paternal regard.

It must, however, at the same time be

allowed that lie was not only affectionate but
exacting, with a morbid tendency to doubt his
own capacity for being loved. He was fully
prepared to adopt Philip as a son, but was
the young man disposed to look upon him asa
father ? Was there not, under the surface of
his considerate kindness and obedience, a current
of determination and independence which
fretted his sense of security?

To go back a little. When Sir Giles had
joined Philip in Paris, he had been quite prepared
to encounter even passionate protests
and reproaches for the part he had played, and
was not so much relieved as baffled by his
nephew's studious avoidance of all controversy.

His dutiful attentions to himself, and the
apparent absence of temper or resentment, did
not deceive his acute observation, and at last
he rushed into the subject.

They had taken the train to Fontainebleau,
and were sitting under the shade of some of
the prodigious oaks in that most picturesque
of forests, watching the decline of the midsummer
sun, when Sir Giles said suddenly 

Apropos of nothing, Philip, I would much
rather you made a clean breast of your feelings
in regard to our good Archbishop's decision 
that is, I should like to know exactly how much
you were vexed and disappointed. I remember
how sure you felt of the result, and am willing
to own that you accept your hard fate better
than I expected'

That is just it. I do accept it, so to my
mind there is nothing more to be said."

He looked straight before him, as if watching
the delicious play of light and shade in the
sylvan alleys which stretched on all sides of
them, but resolutely avoiding the old man's
wistful gaze.

So I shall never be bothered by complaint
or regret in the future? or perhaps
you are already persuaded there is nothing to
regret ? "

Philip was silent for several minutes. His
gaze was still fixed, but it was easy to see the
concentration was inward rather than outward;
while the deepening curves of the subtle but
finely moulded lips, and of the lines of the

sharply defined brows, testified that apathy
at least had nothing to do with his composure.


Don't you remember," he answered at last,
"how freely I expressed myself on this subject
when there was yet a chance of influencing
your mind? My opinions, my feelings if you
like, are precisely the same now as they were
then, but no good can come of talking about
them. I said I would yield implicit obedience to
the decision reached by Monseigneur d'Enghien,
not knowing that it was a foregone conclusion.
Excuse my saying I look upon this as having
been a trap set for my inexperience, but the
unwary must suffer for their unwariness."

"Commend me to a saint for a special gift
of provocation ! " cried Sir Giles, testily. " You
would give me to understand that, though you
bear no malice, this little transaction at starting
will be an effectual barrier between us ! I
was fool enough to think that you and I might
have stood in some measure in the relation of
father and son, outside the range of pounds,
shillings, and acres."

'' No father shall be able to reckon more
surely upon a son's duty."

"Duty? Ay, I might have known all natural
spontaneity would be kneaded into that
nauseous stuff with you I I decline the tribute
of your duty ! Duty I can get by paying for
it, and I won't accept it at your hands. I see
I have still a crook in my lot, the only difference
being that the twist is in the reverse
direction. Come, it is time to be going."

He stood up impatiently as he spoke, poking
the ground viciously with his stick.

It will be quite as well," he added, bitterly,
that you and I should not live always together.
Your confounded coolness aggravates my temper,
and I put myself at a disadvantage with
a youngster. Am I to understand that you
will take your quiet revenge by throwing away
the splendid chances I am able to offer you ? "

Understand nothing but that your way is
mine for the future."

So far good," answered Sir Giles, a little
mollified ; ' but I may as well warn you. No
Methuen for many generations past has been a

happy or successful man. It may be you will
spoil your life somehow, like the rest of us."

Very likely. I am not at all sanguine about
the future."

But I am ! " responded Sir Giles with illogical
asperity. " To-morrow night  you have
not forgotten, I suppose ?  we are to meet
Lord Sainsbury at the Embassy, and my heart
is fixed on his offering you the post of his
private secretary. If he should, it is understood
between us that you accept it. It is the
finest possible opening for a political career,
which I am bent on your following. You will
not disappoint me, Philip ? "

If I do," was the answer, " it wil be my
misfortune, not my fault."

Once more, good. You are prepared to try,
and the first step is to please the great man 
I think he has every disposition to be pleased.
1 need not caution you against putting yourself
too forward : wait to have your opinions elicited,
and receive his as if they were final. If you
are quite of another mind, it is not absolutely
necessary that you should let the fact appear.

VOL. I. L

Time and society will make wonderful changes
in your present beliefs."

"But on some very fundamental points I
find Lord Sainsbury's beliefs and mine are
identical."

"Eh? You are already acquainted with his
opinions ? "

I have taken up Hansard the last few
mornings and have been looking over his
speeches. If he should only like me half as
well as I like him  that is, if his words are
to be trusted "

Come, this really looks healthy 1 He is a
fine fellow, though a bit of a bigot; but you
are of the right stuff of which disciples are
made. You would never take the initiative,
Philip, but docility is a far more serviceable
quality. I consider the first step gained
already."

Sir Giles was radiant, and still more elated
when, at the close of the next day's momentous
entertainment, the good - natured ambassador
made opportunity to tell him before he left
that Lord Sainsbury was much taken by Philip,

and that he was sure of the appointment if he
would make up his mind to accept it.

In short, Sir Giles," he concluded, " your
nephew strikes us both as specially trained to
suit Lord Sainsbury's purpose. He has not
only the necessary acquirements to a degree
few young men of his age possess, but I can
see he has the rare gift of obeying orders.
Then, again, he has the looks and manners
which are indispensable to a man of Sainsbury's
fastidiousness. Tell him from me his
career is already made, only  he must marry
the right woman ! "

*rit will not be necessary for him to do that
just at present. He was, as I told you, brought
up for the priesthood, and the notion of marriage
is disagreeable to him."

The ambassador raised his eyebrows a little.

*that goes for what it is worth! At all
events, don't let him fall in love with the wrong
one." And they shook hands and parted.

Chapter XL

How the world is made for each of us !
How all we perceive and know in it
Tends to some moment's product thus,
When a soul declares itself  to wit,
By its fruit, the thing it does ! "

R. Browning.

Sir Giles began to take heart of grace again.
The nephew whom he had feared might be
recalcitrant was amenable enough so far as outward
submission went. He had consented to
forego what he considered his vocation, and to
adopt a profession for which he had professed
a positive repugnance. Let sleeping dogs lie !
Was it of any great account if, at the bottom
of his heart, lay the same inclinations and aversions
still ?

They came home to Methuen Place under the
arrangement that Philip was to consider himself
his own master until Parliament met again in

the spring, the present session having nearly
run its course. Lord Sainsbury, who knew all
the family circumstances, had been reluctant
to deprive the old man at once of his nephew's
society, and had also suggested that the interval
might be well spent by him in the study of
English politics and constitutional history, 
subjects which had been undeniably neglected
in the young man's education.

Philip Methuen, to whom stringent mental
occupation was a necessity as well as a duty,
followed this advice so sedulously, that Sir
Giles began to look about for salutary diversions
for him.

There were Adrian Earle and the Earlescourt
circle at command, but the young man himself
was so uncertain and crotchet, that he
placed very little reliance on this resource,
and was agreeably disappointed when he found
that he and his equally difficult nephew seemed
to get on very well together. Sir Giles would
have said there was scarcely a sympathy in
common between the learned young recluse of
Issy and St Sulpice and the indolent eccentric

Englishman who had. just finished his terms at
Brazenose, where, to the vexation of friends
who knew his powers, he had barely secured
his degree, refusing to attempt to win the
honours which were certainly within his easy
reach.

Their friendship, however, prospered so far,
that Adrian was constantly at Methuen Place ;
and on the return of Sir Walter Earle from
town with other members of his family, Philip
accepted a fortnight's invitation to Earlescourt,
Sir Giles consenting to break his habits of seclusion
and join the party for the last two days
of his visit.

By that time," he said to his nephew, " you
and Honour Aylmer will probably be sworn
friends. She is a fine girl, and every one likes
her ; moreover, you will see her to advantage
as mistress of the house,  poor Miss Earle being
kept in town through the illness of some very
dear relative. Of course you know that Miss
Aylmer is an heiress in her own right, with
lacs of rupees for her portion,  her father having
been the governor of some obscure but prolific

Indian province. Also you know she is engaged
to marry Adrian Earle as soon as she is of age.
Of course he has talked to you about her ? "

He has told me about as much as you have
just now said."

There is another member of the family who
will not probably make friends with you so
easily  he is a miserable creature ! I often
pity Sir Walter Earle. It is a terrible trial to
be the father of deformity, be it physical or
moral."

"And what of the miserable creature's otl
share of the trial ? Is not that sharper still ? "

I never took kindly to idiots or cripples,"
returned Sir Giles sharply, " and when they are
spiteful and ill-conditioned, I consider myself
excused from pitying them even."

Philip Methuen's acquaintance with the member
of Sir Walter Earle's family thus characterised
by his uncle, took place sooner than he
expected.

On the day of his arrival, Sir Walter and
Honour Aylmer were not at home to receive
him, for no particular hour had been fixed, and

the servant who admitted him, labouring under
some mistake, said that Mr Earle was in his
brother's room, and had desired that if Mr
Methuen came he should be asked to join them
there.

Having taken him to the door of the apartment,
the man knocked and retired; and Philip,
in answer to a shrill " Come in ! " opened it and
entered. It was a chilly day in early August,
but the temperature of the room was that of a
hothouse, and lying on a pile of cushions, in the
full focus of the blazing hearth, with his head
receiving the direct rays of the fire, lay the
blighted cadet of the house, the deformed
cripple, Oliver Earle. The deformity was not
apparent as he lay with a covering over his
limbs ; but the sharp features and eager wistful
expression of the boy, who was seventeen but
looked younger, told the unmistakable tale of
lifelong and unaccepted suffering. His position
was such that he faced the door, and, on
seeing a stranger enter, he uttered a sudden
cry like a hurt animal, and drew the silken
coverlet up to his eyes.

Go away ! " he almost shrieked. " You
have made some mistake. Go away this moment
! How dare you stare at me ? "

His eyes blazed as he spoke : one might have
thought he was some .couchant creature about
to spring on the intruder.

Philip closed the door softly behind him, and
advanced a little farther into the room.

"It is true' he said, "I have made a mistake.
I expected to find Adrian Earle here,
but I believe you are his brother. If so, why
don't you give me the welcome I have missed
from him ? "

He looked down at him quietly, without
curiosity and without pity, and his voice had
an inflection which could scarcely fail to touch
the sensitive ear and heart.

Let me stay," he added ; *' every one else is
out, and I am quite a stranger."

Oliver remained silent, looking hard at him,
then said moodily, " Stay if you like," and
turned, though the effort was painful, on his
other side, so as to have his back to the newcomer.


Philip surveyed the roora. "You are lodged
like a prince," he said. 'have I your leave to
examine the things lying about ? " There was
an inarticulate sound for answer.

It was a large apartment, with a bay-window
so deep and wide that the recess formed a little
chamber of itself, and the broad seat below,
from which a delightful view of the pleasure-grounds
could be gained, was stuffed and
padded so as to form a luxurious couch. All
the other couches and seats which stood about
the room seemed each to have been made with
some special adaptation to an invalid's comfort,
and had that variety of little tables inconvenient
neighbourhood, which is one of the
happiest departures of modern taste. Bookcases
full of costly volumes, and cabinets fresh
from the hands of Eeisener and G-outhiere, and
stuffed with curiosities from all parts of the
world, looked to superb advantage against a
wall hung with modern tapestry that might
almost have vied with the products of Indian
looms in quaintness of design and harmony of
colour. The draperies of the windows, and the

wide curtain which hung before the door, as well
as the covers of chairs and sofas, were of the
same fabric, duly subordinated in tint and pattern
; and refinement was added to luxury by
the water - colour pictures on the dividing
panels of the wall, and by the fantastic jardin
full of sweet-smelling flowers and exotic
ferns.

Philip deliberately inspected the drawings
and elaborate bric--brac on all sides, partly
T\T.th an interest which came from lifelong
acquaintance with art under all its forms, and
partly in order to reassure the shrinking and
unfriendly little figure moving restlessly beneath
its covering;.

There was a half-done painting on an easel
in one comer, with all the artist's litter strewn
about, as if the work had been suddenly interrupted
; and one of Collard's small grand pianos
stood open, with a book of Chopin's waltzes on
the desk. On a table, larger and more serviceable
than the rest, was heaped a pile of lesson-books,
amongst which he distinguished a beautiful
copy of the ' Iliad,' and another of the

'Divine Commedia the margin of which was
covered with pencil-notes.

He took up the latter instinctively, saying,
with a smile, " It is pleasant to recognise old
friends ; " and then, as he stood, began to read
the words aloud at which the book stood
open : 

Li ruscelletti, che de' verdi coll
Del Casein distention guise in Arno,
Faced i lor canal e freddi e molli."

The boy listened intently, then said moodily,
"Honour does not read like that."

Then so much the worse for Honour ! " said
a fresh young voice ; and Miss Aylmer, still in
her riding-habit, and with her soft felt hat
shading her sweet face, stood smiling in the
issue of the open door, the heavy curtain of
which she upheld with her raised arm, making
a charming picture. Philip dropped the book
in his movement of surprise ; he had not heard
the door open.

I am afraid you have not been well treated,
Mr Methuen," she added, coming forward with
the free firm step and graceful bearing which

are distinguishing: characteristics of the wellborn,
fine-naturel English girl. " Sir Walter
did not expect you so soon, and Adrian set out
to meet you hours ago, and must have missed
you, as we warned him he would. I am so glad
Oliver has been friendly ! "

Her voice took a sweeter tone as she pronounced
the name, and the animation of her
face softened when she looked at him.

I have not been friendly ! He had no business
to come in here, but I don't mind so much
now. Make haste and take off your things ; I
thought 3'ou were never coming home ! "

She promised and left the room, reflecting
that though the stranger had shown neither
awkwardness nor embarrassment, he had scarcely
spoken, and repeating to herself, with a touch
of humour on her lips as she recalled Oliver's
objection to the perfect enunciation 

Li ruscelletti, lie de' verdi coll."

Shall we look at her for a moment as she stands
in her thick white gown before the glass, waiting
while her maid ties the soft myrtle-coloured

sash round a waist slim with the bewitching
slimness of girlhood, but exhibiting the curves
of nature, not the false roundness of the
milliner's ideal ? She is tall for a woman  too
tall, her female friends are apt to say ; but this
defect, if it be one, can well be borne when
allied to perfect symmetry and the elasticity
of vigorous health, and sustained by the port
almost of a goddess. Many faces might be
more strictly beautiful, perhaps, but her complexion
was touched with the finest tints a
brunette can desire. Truth and honour sat on
her brows ; humour and sweetness in charming
wedlock lurked in the corners and moulded the
lines of the beautiful lips ; and never did a less
selfish and more loyal heart beat than that
which throbbed in Honour Aylmer's bosom,
and lighted the tender passion of her face.

When she came back to Oliver's room  and
leaning over the boy to resettle his pillows,
showed in every look and tone an almost
maternal kindness  Philip Methuen watched
her with a close observation of which he was
scarcely himself conscious.

She seemed to him the verification of some
vague ideal which, until he saw her, he did not
know he had ever conceived.

"I have been talking to Philip Methuen a
little' said Oliver, with that sjice of spitefulness
which comes of such experiences as his,
and he does not like Chopin at all, and thinks
your picture badly done."

Oh ! " exclaimed Honour, almost with an
accent of pain. " I daresay such a critic as
Mr Methuen may think my picture bad; but
Chopin ! "

Philip looked at her and smiled Sith that
impersonal air which gave at once an individuality
and a distinction to his manners, as the
absence of eagerness and self-assertion invariably
do.

"That I do not like Chopin is quite true,
Miss Aylmer ; but you will scarcely believe that
I had the impertinence to condemn your
painting ? "

But you said," shrilled Oliver, lifting him-see
a little on one elbow in order to look into
his face,  " you said  what was it you said ? 

that the composition was contradictory. Ina
good picture, of course, the composition is
not contradictory ! "

Honour blushed a little. " I am afraid that
I must agree with Oliver, that you meant that
it was bad, if that was what you said; but I
am quite prepared to prove that I think your
criticism worth listening to."

She turned and went towards the easel,
Philip following her.

It was a landscape, representing sunrise over
some eastern clime, and although unfinished,
was, so far as it went, a more than commonly
good specimen of amateur work.

I flattered myself it was clever," said
Honour with a sigh.

It is clever," replied Philip ; " and when you
draw from nature your work must be very good
indeed."

And how do you know this is not drawn
from nature ? Many girls have travelled in
Africa."

Then if you have. Miss Aylmer, you must
have painted this after your return. To speak

like a pedant, the fauna and flora are not in
keeping  not possible, in fact. Such trees do
not grow side by side, and those animals,
spirited as they are, do not live in the same
latitudes."

"Ah, that comes from drawing in blind confidence
upon an ill-educated fancy ! I see you
have not the least idea of the subject of my
picture  it is the Happy Valley of Tassels 
and I took infinite pains to gather together in
one every notion which Oliver or I could evolve
of Abyssinian glory and beauty."

Those are the ventures which only amateurs
have the courage to make ; but the talent which
is a little astray here is quite enough to fit
you for the legitimate exercise of art to a
degree few of your age  I need not speak of
sex  could hope to reach. You have a great

gift."

"Never was the amende honorable more
generously made ! "

You are mistaken in saying that  I am so
little a man of the world, that I always mean
what I say."

VOL. I. M

They were interrupted by a fretful voice from
the rug.

There, there ! that sort of talk worries me
dreadfully. I want you to play something,
Honour. I am all wrong to-day. I should
like what he dislikes."

"You will not mind?" she asked, smiling.
And sitting down at once to the piano, began
to play one of Chopin's most subtle and intricate
waltzes with admirable expression and
skill, Oliver following every phrase with eager
nervous fingers.

While she was playing, Adrian opened the
door and came in. He looked pale and tired,
but his face brightened on seeing Philip. At
the same time he made a sign to keep silence,
and sinking down on the couch nearest to him,
was presently as much absorbed as his brother
in the music.

As Honour rose and turned round to speak
to him, he said 

Don't ask me any questions, you know my
abhorrence of the note interrogative ! I have
missed my man, and tired myself to death, but

I am all right now. Sit down and go on again,
you seem to play better than ever, and do
credit to the lessons in town. "When Chopin is
rendered by such fingers as yours, I am in
heaven ! "

"Then it must certainly be the heaven of
Mahomet," said Philip.

"What!" cried Adrian, "is there an Index
Expurgatorius for musicians as well as writers ?
What is wrong with Chopin ? "

"To my mind he is of the earth earthy,
weaving his spells out of the lower elements of
human nature, and therefore false to the end
and aim of true art."

"Ah," returned Adrian with his delicate
smile, "you are too much in advance of us!
So far as Chopin goes, we three are in the first
stage of innocence, unable to discern the evil
from the good. There are subtleties of intuition
imbibed at St Sulpice which leave Oxford
far behind."

Philip coloured. "You must not believe
that all I say and do is derived from St Sulpice ;
nor that it is a cloister, as you seem to imagine.

Besides, I have gone occasionally into society,
both in Paris and Florence."

We have no difficulty in believing that ;
and you deceive yourself prodigiously, my good
fellow, if you fancy that your personality is
strongly suggestive of the cloister. You are
an enigma which Honour and Oliver will help
me to solve. By the way, I am so glad you
have got over your first introduction to my
brother."

'' I am afraid that it arose from a mistake,
and that he has not forgiven me."

It was a mistake," said the boy ; ' but I am
not sorry now. I think I shall be able to get
on with you  you did not stab me with your
pity. And you told Honour her picture was
wrong."

And that is a claim upon your gratitude
when Miss Aylmer is so good to you ! "

"It is a claim upon my confidence ; everyone
else tells her she is perfect."

*' And so she is," said Adrian, looking at her
tenderly. " I should have to reflect all night
to discover a fault in Honour."

At that moment the girl's name was called
in the hearty ringing voice of the master
of the house. She rose eagerly to obey the
summons.

As she passed Adrian, she whispered, " Spare
me to Mr Methuen ! He may be of Oliver's
temper, and hate what is overpraised."

When she was gone, Adrian rose and stretched
himself wearily.

I am over-tired," he explained. "Why does
a man walk who has a horse in the stable ? I
expected to meet you half-way or nearer, and
positively got as far as Kensington. Then it
occurred to me to call at the vicarage, where I
had the good luck to find Mrs Sylvestre out,
and the children swinging in the orchard."

And you stayed to swing them ? "

Pardon me. That would be an effort quite
out of my line. They swung one another, and
I walked about under the trees with Anna
Trevelyan. Tell me, if you don't mind, all
about her  in regard to yourself."

'' There is very little to tell," said Philip
coldly. " I was the friend of her father, and

have known her from a child. Mr Trevelyan
was Mrs Sylvestre's brother."

But she talks about you as if you had been
the good genius of the family, and her own
peculiar God Almighty. There is nothing like
you in heaven or earth."

Philip coloured with vexation. "Why did
you encourage her to talk at random ? The
explanation is, she is ardent and impressionable,
and has few friends." Then another thought
struck him. " I think you are often at the
vicarage, where my visits are almost forbidden,
and I am deeply anxious about Anna. It
has occurred to me, since I have seen Miss
Aylmer, what a help and safeguard her notice
and friendship would be. Could it be managed
? Would there be difficulty or objection
on any side ? "

Adrian's face lighted up.
"There would be Mrs Sylvestre's standing
objection to anything that made life pleasant,
but we will try and get over that. It is an
excellent idea ! Honour will be sure to take
kindly to such a singular girl, and I have a

constitutional, inclusive passion for beautiful
children, though I see you scarcely reckon Anna
Trevelyan under that head. We will brace
her with Dorothy, and persuade Mrs Sylvestre
to let them both come to Earlescourt together.
Then we will introduce her to Oliver."

*' You will introduce no girl to me," said the
boy doggedly. " And now, please, both of you
go away. I am weary to death of lying here,
and want to get back to my couch. Don't
wait ! I have my stick close beside me. I hate
to be helped or watched."

Chapter XII.

' How sweet I roamed from field to field,
And tasted all the summer's pride,
Till I the Prince of Love beheld,
Who in the sunny beams did glide.

With sweet May-dews my wings were wet,
And Phffibus fired my vocal rage ;
He caught me in his silken net
And shut me in his golden cage."

Blake.

The fortnight which Philip Methuen was to
spend at Earlescourt lengthened itself to a
month. There was not a member of the charming
household who did not find some special
attraction in the grave, gifted, unselfish young
fellow, who, in his turn, felt himself surrounded
by an atmosphere so healthy and genial as to
be in itself a new sensation.

Sir Walter Earle, himself one of the members
for the county and an ardent partisan, discussed
politics with him at every convenient opportunity,

with a view, as he said, of impressing
on the blank paper of his mind the proper ideas
and opinions for his future guidance, also undertaking
at the same time to direct the channels
into which his historical researches should flow.

So strong were the baronet's personal convictions,
that he did not stop to doubt whether
the principles he enunciated and maintained so
vigorously, were received with due submission
by the pupil whose intelligence was so prompt,
and whose patience was so invincible.

Philip had been trained to silence and docility
; but they erred greatly who supposed
that he was prepared to sacrifice any portion,
however small, of his individual judgment and
freedom. Religion might have demanded such
sacrifices, and from her recognised and austere
demands there was nothing he would have
wished to hold back ; but his path had been
diverted, and as regarded society and the world
at large, he reserved to himself perfect liberty of
thought and action. Only until his knowledge
was riper, or the necessity for some decision
arose, there was no need to talk about himself.

Adrian in this turn availed himself of his
new friend's rare capacity for quiet sympathetic
listening.

I can tell you my complaint," he said to
him, " in very few words. I was either born
without the faculty of enjoyment, or I lost it
when I grew too old for almond-toffy. There is
nothing under the sun I care about. I have no
call to work for money or position  they will
come in due time without my earning them. I
think college honours not worth winning, and
politics a bore, besides being more or less a dirty
game. I never carry a gun, it is too much fag ;
and I don't care to see the high-flyers spin and
fall. I have had some hot schoolboy friendships
; but when you have walked over a
fellow's mind, that kind of thing grows tame ;
and I shall always be afraid to marry, lest the
same thing should happen with my wife."

Philip coloured. '* It is a breach of honour to
say that when I know who your wife is to be ! "

Adrian raised his eyebrows. 'ris it ? You
are too squeamish, though I should be loath to
fail in any point of observance to the dearest

girl in the world. Heigh-ho ! I wish my life
had not been cut out for me ! I shall be driven
to look to Anna Trevelyan for a diversion.
Dolly is a dear little bit of soft stuff, with a
pretty taste in fairy tales ; but a measure of
resistance is indispensable."

But I thought you were a passionate
reader ? "

I have been, but am one no longer. I took
my youthful fevers so severely that they weakened
my system. I was a drivelling idiot over
Byron  not his poetry, but the man and his
life : his *' cry stormily sweet, his Titan agony,"
reached the marrow of my bones. I would
have made a pilgrimage  ay, with peas in my
shoes  to any person or place where I could
have learnt something more about him than I
knew  and I knew every line which has ever
been written about him. Have you any sympathy
with a craze of that kind ? "

I can quite understand it ; but have you
walked over the length and breadth of Byron's
mind ? "

You are mocking, I perceive ; but none the

less I answer * Yes ' boldly, and will add that of
almost every other English poet also, except, of
course. Browning, who has still left me some
hard nuts to crack. But  on second thoughts

we will have no more huts Let us go and

look up Honour  no doubt she is shut in with
Oliver  and persuade her to go with us to Kensington
and make friends with Mrs Sylvestre."

Philip made no objection, and they found
her, as Adrian expected, playing her usual part
in the boy's room. She held a book in her
hand, from which she had been reading aloud.
Oliver protested angrily against his brother's
interruption.

She is reading ' Sohrab and Justum,' " he
cried, " and we have just got to the fight, and
must go on. Adrian, I hate you ! Who cares
for that trumpery girl, Anna Trevelyan ; and I
don't want Honour to go away half the day.
We are going to make a picture out of the
story ! "

Honour laughed and blushed. " I wish you
would not betray all our little secrets, Oliver ;
Mr Methuen will think me more presumptuous
than ever."

Philip had taken up the open book she had
put down, and his attention was so fixed upon
the page that he did not hear her.

Oliver looked at him with a pleased smile on
his eager face.

You like it ! you like it ! " he cried, in his
shrill tones ; "I see you do. Very well ; let
Adrian and Honour go, and you shall read tome."


He spoke like some Eastern despot appointing
his grand vizier.

Who wrote ' Sohrab and Justum,' Miss
Aylmer ? " asked Philip. " I know you read
Homer  this is Homeric ! "

He read a few lines aloud. The fire of an
intense enthusiasm lighted up his face as he
spoke. The girl with her keen artist's perceptions
thrilled a little.

It is fine," said Adrian, simply, as if his
words set the seal ; "I don't think even Tennyson
at his best has gone beyond the power and
pathos of the death-scene."

Philip was still reading. He carried the book
to the window, and stood absorbed for a little
time. As he put it down, he said 

Tennyson, did you say ? No doubt you
know Tennyson much better than I, but at
least no page of his which tells a story has
come under my eyes comparable to this. This
is large, heroic, simple, like Nature or Fate.
Tennyson elaborates with the craft of a virtuoso.
Let me take your place. Miss Aylmer, after
luncheon. It will be a pleasure to me to read
this all through and over again, and it is perfect
weather for a long walk. You look pale."

Oliver is a selfish little brute," said Adrian,
languidly, " and must learn to do with less of
Honour. It is an infamy ! I declare you are
looking quite fagged. Walking is out of the
question  we will ride together."

You and I ? " asked Honour. " Oliver is
not selfish  he won't mind being left alone for
an hour or two, and Mr Methuen at least should
get the benefit of the weather he thinks so perfect.
I know he and Sir Walter were shut up
for hours in the library this morning."

My father never knows how time passes
when he is riding his political hobby, but I
guess that Methuen does. We want you to call

on Mrs Sylvestre, Honour, and make a conquest
of her goodwill. Both Philip and I think to
know you would do Anna Trevelyan a world of
good, so we are to persuade her aunt to let her
come and see us, and bring sweet little Dolly in
her train. You will be quite willing ? "

I shall be quite willing ; but one word from
]mr Methuen himself would surely go further
than all you or I could say  wouldn't it ? ''

She looked a little wistfully at Philip, who
had taken up his book again.

'' On the contrary, my interference would
lead to a summary refusal. sirs Sylvestre is
a selfish worldly woman, who will be quick to
see the advantages of her daughter and niece
being on visiting terms at Earlescourt. I see
them too, so clearly, on other grounds, that I
am bold enough, as poor Anna's friend, to beg
you to make her the osier of your friendship. I
can think of nothing so likely to help her as to
know you, Miss Aylmer."

He spoke so simply that Honour took herself
to task because she felt her cheek flush and
heart beat ; but she inwardly resolved that no

powers of persuasion with which she might be
gifted should lie dormant that afternoon.

Afternoon visitors were not numerous at
Kensington Vicarage, so that Mrs Sylvestre felt
a little disconcerted when Janet brought her
Honour's card. Although the rack would not
have forced the admission from her lips, she
was profoundly flattered by the attention.

Adrian Earle counted for nothing when he
came in his meaningless way to see Dolly,
bringing; her books which she would have
been better without reading, or presents much
too costly for a little girl. But a visit from
Miss Aylmer, a young lady of fortune in
her own right, and the future mistress of
Earlescourt also, whose name was as a sweet
odour through the whole district  this did
count. Her notice would be worth having for
her girls.

It was not often that Mrs Sylvestre, scrupulously
neat in her person, kept a guest waiting ;
but on the day in question, in keeping with
the usual contrariety of things, she was still
wearing her morning gown, having planned topick

strawberries for preserving, in the cool of
the evening, with her children and governess ;
and consequently Adrian and Honour had not
only full time to exhaust the poor resources
of the colourless room, but to grow a little
impatient before she entered.

Adrian was astonished and amused at Mrs
Sylvestre's pleasant accost. He would have said
it was not in her power to be so gracious ; but
when he glanced at Honour's sweet face and
noble winning air, he allowed that it was simply
impossible for any one to resist her.

Honour was explaining. that, ever since Adrian
had made Dolly's acquaintance, she had been
anxious to know her too, thinking if Oliver
could be induced to make friends with her, it
would do him so much good.

There is nothing we all deplore more," she
said, 'than his nervous dread of strangers, and
the influence of a sweet little girl like Dolly
might be of inestimable advantage. Will you
be good enough to let us try?"

Dolly is very shy," was the answer, " and
would be more afraid of Mr Oliver than he of her."

VOL. I. N

At this moment the door was abruptly
opened, and Anna entered, holding a book in
her hand.

I know it ! " she said sullenly. " Miss Sewell
said I was to bring it to you."

She advanced scarcely within the threshold
of the door, and spoke without lifting her eyes,
so that a moment or two elapsed before she
discovered that Mrs Sylvestre was not alone.

Whatever irritation that lady felt at so ill-timed
an interruption, she restrained the manifestation
of the feeling, conscious that she could
not do otherwise in face of Adrian's courteous
recognition (which he took care should not be
too friendly), and Miss Aylmer's kind desire to
be made known to the stranger. Almost before
she was aware to what she was committing
herself, she had yielded to Honour's gentle
pressure, and had consented that Anna should
bear Dolly company for a few days' visit at
Earlescourt. She was probably the less reluctant
because Anna's indifference was obvious ;
her notice of Adrian and his companion was of
the slightest,  her whole air and manner showing

what her aunt characterised as "insufferable
effrontery."

She was summarily dismissed to summon the
more gentle Dolly, with the intimation that she
herself need not return.

"My niece, Miss Aylmer, has been a source
of profound anxiety ever since I undertook the
charge of her, but she is more unmanageable
than ever since I found it my duty to put
a stop to her intercourse with young Mr
Methuen."

Although anticipating the nature of the answer,
Honour asked simply  " "Was it really a
duty?"

To preserve her from becoming a pervert
to Romanism ? My dear Miss Aylmer, we are
absolutely responsible for the souls we have in
our keeping ; and consider also my position in
the parish ! If a young person under the
vicar's guardianship turned Papist, it would bean
indelible disgrace to the family."

But had you reason to think Mr Methuen
would have used his influence in that way ? "

Mrs Sylvestre smiled significantly. " He

could not help himself! Did a Jesuit priest
ever forego the chance of making a pervert, or
of denying the intention of so doing, when it
suited his purpose ? "

Adrian could scarcely contain his patience,
even under the eager touch of Honour's restraining
hand, who welcomed the entrance of
Dolly as a fortunate diversion. To the young
man's affectionate inquiry if she would not like
to come and see him at home, Dolly answered
with a deep blush, and an anxious reference to
her mother's face, " That there was nothing in
the world she would like so much."

So with this auspicious issue of her embassy,
Honour rose, saying that she herself would
drive over to fetch the children tomorrow.

CHAPTER XIII.

What are we set on earth for ? Say, to toil ;
Nor seek to leave thy tending of the vines
For all the heat o' the day. . . .
God did anoint thee with His odorous oil
To wrestle, not to reign. "

E. B. Beowxi>-g.

There are certain crises in our lives when we
pause and find ourselves astray  off the track
we had striven to keep  face to face with the
things we have feared and hated  cut away
from the hopes and possible chances which would
have made us good men or happy women. And
then we look round eagerly 'for the fetish on
which to vent our despair : we will not arraign
Providence, for we have relinquished that belief,
nor Fate, for it is pagan ; but we pour forth
the acid of our self-contempt on the short-lightness
of human prescience, the weakness which
is mastered by the relentless force of circumstance.

Had we but known ! " is a wail eloquent
with human defeat.

As Honour Aylmer's charming little pony-phaeton
bowled down the avenue of over-arching
beeches on its homeward way to cheery
Earlescourt, in the riotous glamour of the
August sunshine, her own generous heart all
aglow with interest and sympathy for the pale,
large - eyed, silent girl who sat beside her,
how little she guessed that she was weaving
with her own hands the warp and woof of her
untoward destiny, and introducing into the
harmony of her life the note of discord that
was to jangle all its sweetness.

As they drew up before the fine facade of the
house, Honour saw with what grave scrutiny
Anna appeared to take note of it, and at the
same moment Adrian ran down the stately
flight of steps which led to the entrance-hall, to
assist them out of the carriage.

My sweet little Dolly, you look like Titania
herself in that white frock. Welcome to Earless
! We are going to have a good time
together. Miss Trevelyan, I see you are taking

the measure of my ancestral home ?
Does it please you almost as well as Methuen
Place?"

It is bigger," said Anna coldly. She looked
eagerly about her with a wistful expression in
her eyes, almost piteous in its intensity. Adrian
felt a movement of annoyance.

"Shall I show you the gardens before we
go into the house ? Do you think. Honour, we
may make a raid on the peaches ? I want
the children to have sweet recollections of
Earlescourt ? "

He met Anna's direct level glance, touched
with an expression of careless scorn. She
walked past him and entered the house with
Honour, while Adrian, bound by his promise,
led Dorothy off in the direction of the
hothouses.

As the two girls crossed the hall, Honour,
moved by a sudden impulse, stood still for a
moment and kissed Anna.

I want you to be very happy here," she
said ; " to forget the troubles you have at home,
or, better still, to tell me all about them. I

want you to be fond of me, Anna. I have no
very dear girl friend."

Don't ! " cried Anna, in a sharp voice of
pain. '' I can bear anything better than kindness
 it kills me ! "

She threw up her head with a defiant movement,
trying to conquer the sobs that rose in
her throat, and Honour thought she had never
seen misery more intense than gleamed in the
dark depths of her eyes.

I am not good," the girl went on. " It is
no pleasure to me to see other people happy ;
they always seem to me to have stolen my
share. A place like this, full of all that heart
can wish  beautiful things, kind people who
love one another  makes me feel dreadfully
how empty and cruel the world is for me. Why
am I so poor and you so rich ? Why was the
little I wanted taken away, and you have got
everything  everything? What good will a
few days' rest do me, when I must go back into
slavery ? Do you understand ? "

I think I do," said Honour gravely ; " but
we must talk all this over another time, and

it shall not be our fault if Earlescourt in the
future shall not be able to brighten Kensington.
Come, I will take you up-stairs to your room
myself, and we will have some tea together.
We do not dine till eight."

"Will Philip Methuen be here by that
time ? "

Honour coloured. " I did not know you
knew he was here, and am not quite sure it
is right for you to meet under Mrs Sylvestre's
objections."

I always know where he is," was Anna's
answer; "and if I had not found him here, I
should have gone to his own house to see him."
Then after a pause, she added  leaning back
against the balusters and looking intently at
Honour  " It is of no use for any one to try to
separate me from Philip Methuen. He is my
one friend till I die, or he. He made me what
I am,  I mean, I should even be worse than I
am had it not been for him. When he first
came to see us, seven years ago, I could neither
read nor write. He taught me from the first
miserable beginnings, and persuaded my father

to go on teaching me when he went away. My
father always seemed to think it did not matter
how ignorant a woman was. I did not mind a
bit either, but no child ever worked harder in
its blundering way than I : and Philip said I
had great talents, and got on wonderfully fast.
I have not great talents," said the girl solemnly ;
he is mistaken there, but I would have cut off
my right hand to please him."

She moved forward as she said the last words,
and followed Honour into the room.

It seems strange all this is for me," she
went on, looking round upon its dainty elegance
with discriminating eyes ; " but it is not such
things that I crave after  not pretty clothes
even," glancing at Honour.

She sat down in a low chair and leaned her
head on her hand.

But my sweet Anna," cried Honour, kneeling
down beside her, ** be reasonable ! Even
were your aunt different, even did you live here,
you could not be always with your friend Philip.
It is hard upon women that such friendships
never seem practicable for them. Besides, he

is not going to stop here in the country with
womenkind and the growing crops  he is to bea
great man in the great world of London."

But I shall see him to-night ? "

Yes ; we expect him back in time for dinner.
He is spending the day with his uncle, and
after dinner, if you like, no one shall speak to
him but you."

It was almost the first experience Aima had
had of the amenities of social life. The routine,
completeness, and ease of the domestic arrangements
struck her as unexampled luxury ; and
the ordinary appointments of the rooms and service
produced the effect upon her mind of an
Arabian Night's entertainment.

Philip only came into the drawing-room just
as the gong sounded for dinner; and as the
good-natured Sir Walter had already taken the
beautiful young stranger upon his arm, she was
obliged to content herself with a word and a
smile.

Her host placed her by his side at dinner;
but Anna took no part in the talk that went
on around her, and which was indeed almost

a strange language to her. The easy flow of
speech, the bright remark and prompt rejoinder,
the pleasant give-and-take of familiar social
intercourse, were all unknown conditions to her.
She smiled scornfully when she observed how
merrily little Dolly was chatting with her gracious
patron Adrian Earle. When he turned
his attention to her, Anna had nothing to say
to him, piquing his' interest by her genuine
indifference to his attractions, and perhaps also
by the undisguised interest with which she
seemed to hang on Methuen's most casual remarks.
She ate little, and spoke less, contenting
herself with gazing at each speaker by turn,
with the steadfast mournful look which gave
such a tragic air to her face.

When the girls were come into the drawing-room.
Honour felt a certain relief on finding
that Anna was able to interest herself in a
superb volume of photographs, illustrative of
Eoman and Florentine art and antiquities. She
even invited Dorothy to look over them with
her, promptly identifying everything that had
come under her own observation, and making

an occasional remark, which showed there had
at least been careful culture in this direction.

Oh, I have been in and out of these galleries
from a child with my dear father," she
said, in answer to Honour ; "he used to say
they were the only nursery I had ever had. I
could always draw," she added with a smile,
'' though I found it hard work to learn to
write."

She turned to the illustrations of Or San
Michele, and found the St George of Donatello.

My father always said that Philip Methuen
might have served for that model. I have
drawn Philip's portrait scores and scores of
times, but he is changed."

For the better ? " asked Honour, smiling:.

Anna shook her head decisively, and at the
same moment Philip himself came in.

I have got leave of absence early this evening.
Miss Aylmer ; I hope I am not come too
soon, but I wanted a long talk sith Anna. Xo,
please, don't think it necessary to go away  I
want you to help me."

Whenever Philip looked at Honour Aylmer,

there was always an indefinable change in his
expression  an added gentleness  a shade of
instinctive reverence, of which he was himself
profoundly unconscious. Also, his eyes always
lingered on her face a moment longer than
necessity required : it was to him so exquisitely
sweet a face, and he was anxious to observe if
there were signs of weariness or depression in
it. He knew how exacting were Oliver's demands,
and how constant was her response to
them.

*' I must go home tomorrow," he went onto
explain, still addressing Honour. " Lord
Sainsbury is to arrive on a two days' visit,
and you know I am his servant at command.
He has, it appears, some important communication
to make, and Sir Giles is ill at ease. He
fears some flaw in the indentures "

Which would be rather matter for rejoicing
with you ? "

No ; I did not mean to imply that. My
interests are now identical with my uncle's."

He paused ; there was a look in the girl's
eyes which plainly said that if he cared to goon

and speak of the profound disappointment
of his life, her interest and sympathy were
waiting on his words. It is not true he felt
no inclination to yield to the temptation, but
at least it was conquered as soon as admitted.

No," he repeated more firmly ; " I have
entirely accepted Sir Giles's views. sly chief
anxiety is lest I should disappoint him ; but
the disappointment shall not come from any
lack of effort on my part."

Then he became aware that Anna Trevelyan
was watching him with a look of angry impatience
: all this was outside her stringent
claims on his time and notice. AVith a slight
inward feeling of annoyance, he drew a chair
to her side and sat down.

"Dolly and I," said Honour, rising, "are
going to venture to bid Oliver good night,"
and she led the child out of the room with
her, and the two strangely assorted friends
were alone together.

Philip turned and looked at Anna's lowering
face with a quickening sense of displeasure ;
then to qualify it came the prompt thought

of her miserable up-bringing and forlorn con 
edition, and he put his hand upon her bowed
head with a caressing touch and smile.

Come, Anna," he said, " this is one of the
golden opportunities of life ! I should have
come to see you at the vicarage ; but this is
far better. When I am hard at work in London,
I shall comfort myself with thinking that
you have a powerful friend in Miss Aylmer,
and that Earlescourt weill make even Kensington
endurable."

She was silent, having shaken off his touch
by a quick movement, and now sat with head
erect and scornful eyes averted.

"What is wrong?" he asked, coldly. "Do
you not appreciate the good fortune which has
fallen to your share ? "

" How can I answer you ? " she broke out,
passionately, as if the words forced themselves
against her will. " I don't know how to express
what I feel, but you are not the Philip
Methuen of old times. You are cold as a
stone. You are careless of my feelings, of my
rights, of your own promises even. What did

you tell me that dreadful day in Florence ?
That you would be my friend as long as I
lived  that you loved me dearly ! Do you
think that young lady vho has just gone away
has any reason to believe that you love me
dearly?"

Philip felt equally perplexed and distressed.
He had a deep-rooted intention of fulfilling his
pledges of friendship to poor Lewis Trevelyan's
child; but he began to doubt whether, under
the influence of excited sympathy, he had not
expressed himself too strongly in the past, to
which she clung so tenaciously. He had not
meant more than that he loved her as he loved
everything that appealed to his compassion,
and exercised his impulse to heal and bless.
Also, words which well befitted his lips as priest
on the verge of consecration, bore a different
significance under his changed conditions. He
recalled with uneasiness Adrian's careless comments
on their relations. Anyway, he was fully
conscious that there was no response in his
heart to the ardent challenge of her looks and
reproaches.

VOL. I. o

"Tell me," he said, "what you expected or
wished me to do, and where my affection has
failed. I never cease to think about you with
the solicitude a brother feels for a dear sister."

As she remained obstinately silent, he went
on again.

"There is a good deal of resemblance in our
situations, Anna. Suppose we look at them
from the same point of view. We have both
been torn up from our roots and transplanted
to this far-away corner of England. Life comes
to us with a new face, and demands a new line
of duty. There will be no peace for either of
us, unless we consent to submit to this and
make the best of it. I have made up my mind
to do the day's work forced upon me, without
a glance before or behind. Can't you do the
same ? You profess to love me ; what we really
love, we obey and imitate. I shall look for
acts, not words."

"There is a difference," she said, doggedly;
and you are either cheating yourself, or trying
to cheat me, when you talk like that. All
your changes are for the better, and you know

and feel that they are ; all mine are for the
worse."

Philip turned a little pale, as his habit was
when moved.

"That is an insult, little Anna," he said,
though your mind is not fine enough to perceive
it. Let that pass, for I only want to talk
to you about yourself. I do not agree that your
old life was better than your present life ; but
even if it had been, you could not have gone
on King it. You will outgrow your regrets
for the fond, ignorant old nurse and the wild
life at the Fiesole farm  even for the dear
father who can never come back. New interests,
new hopes and larger thoughts, will come
to you if you will open your mind to receive
them. I know your aunt is austere ; but there
are your cousins, and uncle, and your good governess
to love, and in the future Miss Aylmer
will be your friend."

And suppose I do not want Honour Aylmer
for a friend ? and, much as I hate Kensington
Vicarage, I should prefer to stay therefor
ever rather than come ao;ain to fine,

beautiful Earlescourt ! " Her voice shook with
passion.

In that case," he answered, coldly, " I should
think you both blind and thankless, and that I
have been mistaken in believing that you had
a generous heart at bottom."

"At bottom!" she cried. "What do you
mean ? At the bottom of what was my generous
heart to be found ? "

Philip looked steadily into the girl's pale
defiant face. Her eyes scintillated with anger,
her delicate nostrils quivered and dilated.

It will be better for you to hear the truth.
At the bottom of that selfish perverseness which
has cost your father many hours of bitter anxiety,
and makes me almost despair of you at
times."

Anna recoiled as if she had been struck.

Mother of God," she ejaculated, " hear him !
You are cruel ; you have given me a blow. I
hate you, Philip ! "

She was beside herself with rage and pain ;
the more so, perhaps, that he made no sign,
but remained quite still and unmoved. Then

suddenly seizing his hand, which was hanging
close to her touch, she bowed her mouth upon
it, and set her small square teeth in the flesh.
The next moment the paroxysm of fury was
spent, and she sank to the floor at his feet, a
miserable heap of penitence and shame.

Philip caught her up from the ground v-ith
a feeling of intolerable pain ; but it needed all
his strength to prevent her falling again into
the same posture of self-abasement. He was
forced to seat her beside him, and pass his
strong arm round her palpitating body. Her
head drooped so low on her breast, that her
face was concealed by the falling masses of her
hair; but he felt the heaving of her sobs, and
the hot rain of her tears, on the hands which
supported her. Words failed her : but no words
could have given expression to her humiliation.

Anna," he said, gently, " forgive yourself !
I think nothing of it. It is only one proof
more that you are still a child. It is an old
trick not quite cured ; and you were right 
I was cruel ! "

He passed his hand caressingly over her head

as he spoke. He saw she could not speak ; but
he went on, trying to weld the iron while it was
hot.

I was cruel," he repeated, ** and perhaps
I was unjust. Prove it to me, Anna; make
me proud of my friend and sister in the
future ! "

You are still cruel," she murmured ; " your
kindness kills me. Give me something hard todo!"


She had ventured to look up  he met her
eyes with a slight smile.

I will," he answered ; " but you must not
think I speak to vex you. What am I to say
to a girl who tells me, as you did when we
last met, that God, religion, and duty are
words which have no meaning to her mind ?
Poor child, I can scarcely blame you, and I
will help you if I can. Take some human
example of goodness, and try and live up toit
 it will lead you one step nearer the divine.
Do you follow me, Anna ? A sweeter, less
selfish woman than Honour Aylmer never drew
the breath of life : if you want to be loved 

to be something better than happy  use your
utmost best to grow like her."

Undoubtedly Philip Methuen's zeal was
greater than his discretion ; every word that
he spoke was a fresh provocation to the girl
who was listening to him. She actually
shivered with the intensity of her repudiation
; humiliation and shame were forgotten.
She looked up keenly into his face, and
said 

"It is a good thing you did not become a
priest  you will be able to marry this sweet
young lady."

He started a little, and the colour rushed
into his face.

The insolent words cut deep. Although he
did not know it, his whole soul was steeped
in reverent tenderness for the girl whose gracious
nature he had been studying through
the long days of familiar intercourse the last
month had afforded. But the suggestion thus
coarsely thrust upon him seemed at once a
treason and an outrage. A new feeling of repulsion
from the speaker vaguely stirred in

his breast, and he involuntarily moved farther
away.

'' You speak like a child," he said, " of things
you do not understand ; but it will be better
for you to know that Miss Aylmer is to marry
Mr Earle."

He would have added something more, but to
his unexpected relief an interruption was made
by the entrance of Sir Walter and Adrian from
the dining-room. The first inquiry of the
former was for Honour ; the latter sat down
by Anna's side, and looked curiously into her
face.

Excuse me," he said, " I am naturally impertinent,
but I think you and Methuen have
been quarrelling."

You are right," she answered, promptly,
'' but it has been all my fault."

Her eyes, still red with her bitter tears,
sparkled ; her lips parted with an enchanting
smile ; her beauty seemed suddenly to have
thrown off its veil. The words Philip had just
spoken permeated her blood like wine : hope,
undefined indeed, but pliant and vigorous, was

born in lier soul. It was no childish ardour
that touched the expression of her face as she
looked towards Philip. With no hindrance
between them, what should prevent the realisation
of the dream of her life ?  to live under
the same roof; to begin and end the day together;
to clasp hands and kiss each other at
meeting and parting ; to read out of the same
book, and eat at the same table ; to walk side
by side through life, none daring to divide
them. This was what she wanted, but could
scarcely tell him that it was, and all that fell
short of it was misery and despair.

adrian, fetch Honour out of Oliver's room,"
interrupted Sir Walter ; " there is a great deal
too much of this indulgence. You make the boy
worse than he would be."

*' Let me go ! " said Philip, vrith. a certain
eagerness very unusual to him ; '* it is the
hours before bed-time he feels to hang heaviest,"
and he had left the room before Sir Walter's
impatient objections had reached his ears.

He paused for a moment at the foot of the
staircase, and raised his clasped hands to his

head. He was twenty-four years old, and this
was the first moment that any touch of the
perturbation of passion had stirred the depths
of his soul. He stood there for several minutes
quite motionless outwardly, but conscious of
the flow and movement of inward forces, latent
until the words of Anna had quickened the life
within them. Scarcely out of his cloister, and
love had come to him already ! To him, whose
existence almost from infancy had been a protracted
act of consecration, and who had been
prepared to accept the denials and attentions
of the priesthood, with the superb confidence
and humility of those who know their strength
to be God-derived and therefore invincible.
His feeling, in that moment of intense self-concentration,
was that he had fallen from the
cool serene heights where the human soul communes
with the heavens above, into the unwholesome
and heated vortex of worldly strife
and passion. It was as if a knife had been
laid to the very roots of his honour and pride,
and cut them down at a blow.

Further, for whom had he thus fallen ? Fora

girl whom lie knew to be the pledged wife of
another man, before his eyes had even seen her.
But was this feeling that possessed him love ?
Love was said to be urgent, aggressive, imperious
; pressing down every obstacle between
itself and the possession of the thing beloved ;
ready to barter and forego on the right hand
and on the left, if only the supreme object were
attained.

But he, he thought, could go through life unsatisfied
yet content, so long as the sweet serenity
of Honour's life was untroubled. The strongest
wish of his soul was, not to be happy, but
to see her happy, so that the joy and tender
radiance of her natural temper might be undimmed
by disappointment, or any spiritual
turmoil. And this was to be accomplished, not
by him  ah, God, no !  but by sweet-tempered,
affectionate Adrian Earle, who had been the
first to hold out the hand of friendship to himself.
So let it be !

Then came another turn of thought. Standing
there in the cool stillness of the moonlit
hall, with the delicious rustle of leaves softly

stealing through the wide open doors, and
the divine calm of a summer night brooding
over the lovely outside world, it followed,
almost of necessity, that reason and duty
should make themselves heard. Also there
was the acute sense of spiritual outrage to
help him now. But in the future ? Chance
would throw them often together; she would
approach him with the same winning friendliness
she had shown him all along. He seemed
to see the eager outstretched hand, the arch
smile on the lovely lips, and the tender light
in her eyes waiting to meet the answering
glance in his. She would question him about
his doings, quick to comprehend every point of
his position, quicker still to sympathise with
difficulties and regrets that no one seemed able
to understand or suspect but herself, and yet he
had told her nothing ! Adrian, too, would talk
to him incessantly about her, insisting on her
sweetness and her charms  consulting him
about their united plans, asking advice here,
proposing alternative arrangements there  discussing
their approaching marriage, where they

should travel, where live, what gifts he should
offer.

Should he be equal to the task which in
this hour of clear insight he had implicitly
accepted, and never permit his secret to escape
his rigid control ? Worse : would there be no
moments of perilous weakness, in which he
should cease to care to do so ? when courage
and honour failed under the divine smile of the
sweet blue eyes, and his soul rushed to his
lips?

He heard Oliver's door open and shut, and
the rustle of a woman's gown : she was coming
down-stairs and a meeting was unavoidable.
He changed his posture, rallied his self-command,
and waited for her at the foot of the
staircase.

I have been sent to call you," he said.
*' Sir Walter wants some songs, and I have
lingered shamefully on my errand. I have
stood here thinking the hall enchanted, and
regretting that I am going away tomorrow."

To-morrow ? I suppose you must go away
tomorrow ? But what will Oliver do vdih-

out you ? You have spoilt him for all of

us."

I am going to him now to bid him goodbye,
for I shall be gone before he is up tomorrow.
I am glad he has made friends with

me."

Honour looked at him with the words she
was going to say unspoken on her lips. A ray
of moonlight fell direct upon him, and, though
it may seem a rash statement to make of
a young Englishman in evening dress, she
thought Anna Trevelyan was every way right
in comparing him with the St George of
Donatello.

It was not so much the beauty of the face,
nor the strength and grace of the figure, buta
certain noble self - controlled dignity which
seemed to suggest the idea of the youthful
Christian warrior. A line from Spenser flashed
across her memory : 

Right faithful, true he was, in deed and word :
But of his cheer did seem too solemn sad."

If it is really your last evening," she said, 

and I am glad to see you seem to regret it, 
let us go back to Oliver's room together for an
hour. Anna has told me that you are a great
musician, which you have kept a profound
secret, and Oliver, that you have sung to him
when you and he were alone. I will not repeat
what they say about it, for it would vex
you ; but I ask if you have dealt kindly with
your friend, knowing my passion for music ?
Let me hear you before you go away ! "

I think I would rather not, though I would
do much to give you pleasure. I am not at all
at home in drawing-room music. What I sang
to Oliver were echoes of the churches  chants,
and hymns, and spiritual songs. I should have
to unmake myself before I could sing to please
a fashionable audience."

I will not urge the point," she answered ;
I see I am not judged worthy. But Lord
Sainsbury is a fanatic in music  he will discover
your gifts, and overcome your scruples. My
aunt, whom I am sorry to say you do not yet
know, is sometimes at his town house ; she and
his sister are great friends. You see what delightful

chances of meeting there will be for all
of us in the future ! Besides, there is a long
stretch of time between this and February, and
Methuen Place always spends Christmas at
Earlescourt."

She smiled, and was going to pass him on her
way to the drawing-room, when he interrupted
her intention.

If you will allow me. Miss Aylmer, I will
bid you good-bye now, for I have half promised
my uncle to be with him by breakfast-time, and
shall start too early to see you again. I thought
yesterday I had been careless of his comfort
in staying here so long, but the charm of this
house was so new to me, I fell into the snare.
You have all shown me a kindness I can never
repay."

She held out her hand at once with no shadow
upon the brightness of her face.

I am glad we are your first friends, and
have won you," she said ; " for when you go into
the great world you will soon have so many, we
should have stood no chance."

She looked back and waved her hand as she

entered the stream of light from the open door
of the drawing-room, seeing that he still stood
watching her, and then she shut the warmth
and sparkle in Tith her, and Philip went slowly
up-stairs to Oliver's room.

VOL. 1.

CHAPTER XIV.

This castle hath a pleasant seat ; the air
Nimbly and sweetly recommends itself
Unto our gentle senses."

Macbeth.

It was eight o'clock in the evening of the next
day, and the three great windows of the diningroom
at Methuen Place stood wide open to the
terrace and lawns, and the splash and tinkle
of the fountain, the waters of which gleamed
crimson and gold in the intense sunset glow.
A small oval table was laid for dinner for
three, with exquisite precision  the finest of
damask, the choicest of the seldom-used treasures
of plate, had been produced and furbished
for the occasion of Lord Sainsbury's visit, which
was one of exceeding anxiety to the old servants
of the family. The menu of that evening's
repast had been studied and elaborated for days

in the spacious sunlit kitchen of the house, for
it was felt that the social credit of the establishment
was at stake. Every flaw and omission
would be promptly detected by the great man
accustomed to feast at kings' tables, and would
be scored to their own master's disadvantage.

The guest at this hour was already arrived,
fetched from the station in the old brougham
by the superannuated greys, which had been
so contemptuously reported upon to Philip on
the first day of his arrival at Trichester, and
which occasioned great searchings of heart to
the old coachman himself, who had known them
through every stage of their* existence. Even
Sir Giles had shaken his head dubiously as he
saw them brought round to the front, with as
much dash and effect as their advanced acre
admitted.

Undoubtedly Sainsbury will think it a sorry
turn out ! A smart pair from the ' Antelope '
would have been better, but it is too late now.
Bennett will do his best to nurse them on
the way in, but don't make any excuses,
Philip."

Philip was going to the station to meet their
guest.

It would never have occurred to me to do
so. So long as we give him of our best, a guest
is well served ; but my impression is that Lord
Sainsbury is less exacting than you imagine."

Assuredly had the chariot of the sun been
awaiting him, the great man could not have
appeared more perfectly satisfied. He had
nothing with him but a small portmanteau,
which Philip himself took from him as he pulled
it from under the seat of the railway carriage.
A whisper had got abroad amongst the little
crowd at the railway station who Sir Giles
Methuen's guest was, and his tall spare figure
and marked countenance were recognised by a
few amongst them, and swift as light the information
flew. Some hats were lifted, a faint
cheer raised, and while these marks of recognition
were graciously acknowledged by their
object, Philip observed the flush of annoyance
that came over the pale weary-looking face.

*' This way," he whispered; " if we go through
the station we shall be close upon the carriage ; "

and in a few moments more Lord Sainsbury was
leaning back against the well-padded though
moth-eaten cushions, with a look of intense relief
upon his face.

'' Visit a country, Methuen, for a fox-hunter!"
he said, looking out upon the glorious expanse
of downs which swelled to the horizon on either
hand, as soon as they were well clear of the
precincts of the town. " Do you appreciate
your privileges, or has your foreign training
smothered the national instincts ? "

In a very great measure, I fear. I can ride,
but not to hounds. I have not a spark of enthusiasm
in that direction ; but I hope a taste
for fox-hunting is not considered by Lord Sainsbury
a necessary part of a young man's equipment
? "

I have always thought myself," returned
the other, stretching himself more at his ease,
that the life of a country squire is the most
enviable under the sun, granting that one had
no ambition beyond it."

Philip smiled.

Ah ! I see you are already putting me down

as a speaker of platitudes ; but in official life weare
all speakers of platitudes. There is no more
useful accomplishment for a man to possess than
the being able to utter some axiom with an
air of engaging originality." Then, suddenly
changing his tone, he asked abruptly, *you
are still in the same mind in my behalf, Mr
Methuen ? "

"Yes."

''I warned you at the Embassy  in jest it
may have appeared to you, but it was done
in all sincerity  that I was a man hard to
please and difficult to live with, and I wish
to repeat the warning. If a political career
be your object, I can help you materially, no
doubt, and I am disposed to do so ; but you
will have to buy the benefit dear. I never
spare myself nor my subordinates. I expect
people who work under my orders to be able
to coerce the flesh to the spirit, and I am completely
intolerant of sickness, feebleness, and
fatigue. Simply, the matter in hand must
be got through in due course  I accept no
excuses."

It is difficult to pledge one's self absolutely
to unlimited requirements, but all the strength
01 body and mind I possess I am prepared to
place at your service."

Not, I hope, with any expectation of ready
and affectionate recognition ? I never praise
any man, and I thank very few. I am given
to understand that you are a devout Catholic ? "

So much so that, were not your faith the
same, I should not now have the honour of listening
to Lord Sainsbury's conditions of service."

Lord Sainsbury looked at him keenly, and
Philip met the protracted gaze modestly, it
is true, as became his age and position, but
with perfect firmness. A slight smile touched
his companion's thin lips.

"On that point we shall probably not quarrel,"
he answered ; ** but it strikes me you have
preserved an unusual faculty of independence
after some twelve years' training in the Abbe
Older's seminaries. That is a matter of no consequence
to me, except under chances of mental
collision. Should such chances occur, it goes
without saying that my will is absolute."

Philip made no reply.

You reserve the point, Mr Methuen ? " asked
Lord Sainsbury, sharply.

*only under circumstances which are never
likely to occur  a question of duty to a higher
authority than yours."

"I think," was the answer, "you may rest
satisfied on that point. My notions of duty
to Queen, church, or country, to my own
honour or the honour of another man, are
possibly on as high a level as Mr Philip
Methuen's. I can even conceive of the possibility
of a difference of opinion between us,
when the supreme right might not lie with
him ! "

The tone was trenchant, and there was a
flash in the steel blue eyes which gave a full
illustration of his own recent warning. It
was perhaps the influence of his severe training
to obedience, or the natural generosity of
his temper, that the only feeling excited in
Philip's mind by this spurt of indignation
was one of compunction and regret.

I beg your pardon," he said, simply ; " I

see I have been guilty of an impertinence
without intending it. I meant no more than
that there are occasions when no man can
judge what he ought to do but himself."

The apology was coldly received, and for
the rest of the way conversation flagged ; but
as the carriage turned in at the park gates,
Lord Sainsbury uttered an exclamation of
pleasure.

"What a pleasaunce ! " he exclaimed. " Herein
fact, stand Tennyson's 'immemorial elms.'
We Sainsbury s  mere mushroom - growths of
the present century  have nothing to show
like this. On the strength of Methuen Park,
Philip, I am disposed to forgive you,  you
may well hold your head higher than I."

He repeated these compliments with still
greater suavity to Sir Giles himself, who stood
waiting to receive him on the threshold of his
door, and won the heart of every member of
the household by some word of recognition,
or gracious expression of delight in his surroundings.


From the ancient Banksia rose-tree which

grew close up to his clamber-window, to the
fine old plate which had been buried under the
floor of the stables during the wars of the
Parliament (which story Sir Giles was never
reluctant to tell), not a point was too insignificant
to catch and claim his notice.

By the time the successful dinner was over,
and the exquisite home-grown dessert placed on
the table, which had been wheeled close to the
wide issue of the open window, Sir Giles's slight
anxieties were all allayed, and he was conscious
of the profound satisfaction of the man whose
hospitality to an honoured guest has been a
quiet but complete success.

Lord Sainsbury leaned back in his chair with
an intense enjoyment of the charm of the situation.
The moon was at the full, and her unclouded
light not only revealed the outline of
every flower and tree, subduing each diverse
tint to lustrous silver, but paled the flame of
the lamps and candles inside the apartment,
producing effects of weird picturesqueness.

It seems strange," he said, " that a man
with such a paradise as this in possession and

prospect should want to fight his way through
the thorny world outside ! Were I in your
nephew's place, Sir Giles, I should select some
Eve to share it with me, and sit down with her
under the ancestral fig-tree till summoned to
the paradise above ! "

Philip prefers to earn his heavenly reward,
and has no taste whatever for the dolce far
nieiite; also you forget, my dear lord, that it
is only to the weary that rest seems desirable.
Still, there is a young man, a near neighbour of
ours. Sir Walter Earle's eldest son, who has
marked out for himself precisely the programme
you describe. He is engaged to be married to
the most delightful girl in Dorset."

"Ah !" said Lord Sainsbury, languidly, "my
sister knows the family, and is anxious to press
me into the train of the young lady's admirers
somehow opportunity failed last season. By
the way, do you know Miss Aylmer, Mr
Methuen ? " he asked, with sudden abruptness,
and facing round full on Philip.

I have spent the last month at Earlescourt
in daily intercourse with her, and I think my

uncle might have safely challenged, not Dorset
only, but all England to find her equal."

The light was not good enough to observe
his face so closely as his interrogator desired,
but at least the readiness of reply and quiet
level tone might be supposed calculated to disarm
suspicion. Nevertheless, Lord Sainsbury
smiled slightly to himself with an increased
satisfaction in his own acuteness.

I think," he said, after a little pause, " that
the time is come to explain to you. Sir Giles,
why I ventured to offer myself as your guest.
I attributed it to the desire to discuss more
fully with you the details of your nephew's
appointment  and that, in brief, is my motive.
The fact is, that circumstances have changed so
materially since we last met, that I preferred to
state them in person."

Sir Giles bowed a little stiffly. Had the great
man changed his mind ?

Do not for a moment suppose," the other
resumed, quick to observe the impression produced,
" that I wish to go back from my engagement.
I may add that the little I have

seen of Mr Methuen to-day has considerably
increased my personal desire for closer relations
; but the bargain stood for London. If
the venue is changed to Calcutta, I am not so
unreasonable as to expect it to hold good."

There was a brief shock of surprise ; then Sir
Giles exclaimed, with rather forced heartiness,
"Is it to be so ? I congratulate you with all
my heart. The Government, then, have at
length discovered "

The Government have discovered nothing
at all ; but have been forced to accept the resignation
of another faithful, ill-used public
servant, who has worn out health and strength
of body, brain and conscience, at the post of
highest difficulty and responsibility. He is
only waiting for his successor to go out before
he comes home to die."

I withdraw my congratulations. If toughness
of constitution and nerve are essential
qualifications for the post, your decision is suicidal
: 3'ou will scarcely obtain the consent of
your friends."

I have not yet consulted them ; this communication

is confidential, on account of your
personal interest in the matter. Creaking gates
hang long ; and there are some temperaments
seemingly feeble which have a certain faculty
of resilience that stands in as good stead as
thews and sinews. But the question before
us now is not whether I am fit for Governor-general
of India, but whether you can part with
your nephew."

Sir Giles passed his hand nervously over his
eyes.

There is no need for decision at present,"
Lord Sainsbury hastened to add. " I simply
put the matter before you for consideration,
unless Mr Methuen has already pronounced
against the scheme in his own mind."

I have not done that," said Philip ; " but I
do not feel free to express any personal inclination.
I think I can engage to give you an
answer in the morning."

** Precisely; we will dismiss the matter till
then."

Lord Sainsbury retired early under plea of
fatigue ; in reality, he perceived that Sir Giles

Methuen was restless and preoccupied, in spite
of his courtly old-fashioned efforts to hide the
fact  evidently on the tenter-hooks of anxiety
to ascertain his nephew's mind on this new departure,
or to express his own.

As soon as he was gone. Sir Giles turned
sharply upon Philip.

You have already made up your mind in
this matter ? It is a formality to consult me ? "

There was the accusation of wounded affection
in the tone and in the keen flash of the
eyes.

I have made up my mind subject to your
approval. It is enough for you to speak the
word, and I remain."

Ah, I thought as much ! This is the consecrated
youth, without ambition or capacity
for diplomacy, who requires divine sanctions
and religious aims before he sets out on a
career ! My memory is good, nephew. Yet
you are prepared, I see, to throw over every
consideration of gratitude and duty, and embrace
the first chance of distinction which
comes in your way."

Where is the reason in arguing with the
unreasonable ? Philip naturally held his
tongue.

Sir Giles pushed away his chair and took a
turn to the other end of the room.

'' Is what I say unworthy of notice ? At
least you must plead guilty to having possessed
a very imperfect notion of your own
character ? "

'' Yes," said Philip, in a low tone, and with
a dreary smile on his lips, " I plead guilty to
that."

Sir Giles was slightly appeased. He came
back to his nephew s side.

You like this man Sainsbury ? "
''I do."

'rand the notion of exile from England and
me?"

'' I like the notion of hard work and routine
duty. I accepted Lord Sainsbury's offer, in the
first place, at your command, and thought you
would agree that it would look like cowardice
or breach of faith to break an engagement because
the conditions were a little changed. I

was influenced by the knowledge I had of your
own chivalrous sense of honour."

Also by the complete ignoring of any regret
I might feel in parting with the nephew pledged
to fulfil the part of a son ? "

I frankly own I did not much consider that.
You have known me so short a time  just three
months  I could scarcely suppose such a feeling
would be stronger than the decided wishes you
have expressed about my future. But, I repeat,
it only remains for you to command me to throw
up Lord Sainsbury's offer. Can I say more ? "

Sir Giles took another turn in the room.

"And how long, nephew Philip," he asked,
drily, " do you require before you commit yourself
to the weakness of affectionate reo-ard ?
Three months have been long enough for me to
discover that I liked you ; what period of time,
I repeat, would it take to reconcile you to my
shortcomings and peculiarities ? "

"Enough!" said Philip, getting up, "the
matter is decided. I stay here ! I am a bad
hand at protestations ; but I will give you the
most convincing proof that I love you. On

VOL. L Q

second thoughts, three months seem to me long
enough to form attachments which will last as
long as life lasts."

He went up to the place where Sir Giles was
standing with his back against the ponderous
oak sideboard, and his grey eyes alight with
irritation and sensibility combined, and taking
the old man's hand, kissed it with the charming
foreign action which sat so naturally upon him.

Understand me 1 I will never leave you
without your own consent. I will find some
home work to do."

Sir Giles looked at him intently for a
moment.

Good ! " he answered. " So let it stand !
And now to bed. God bless you, Philip ! "

The next morning was spent by Sir Giles
and his guest in a visit of inspection to the
home farm. Lord Sainsbury saying that he
wished to absorb as many rural sights and
sounds and fragrant breaths of cattle, as the
forty-eight hours would allow.

Philip was not invited to join them, nor
indeed had he much inclination.

He had spent a great part of the night in
thinking again over his position, which he stigmatised
as one of shameful dereliction  in love
with another man's plighted wife !

That was the way he chose to consider it,
pouring condemnation and contempt on his own
weakness.

Of course it was a weakness that should be
conquered at any cost  torn up by the roots,
cast into the oven and consumed. But the
process that might have been possible with half
the world between them, and time and brain
taxed by hard and unfamiliar work on foreign
ground, would be  not impossible  but terribly
severe in the constant contact of society, and
the far more trying intercourse of close domestic
friendship.

He had said this to himself before, when the
first shock of discovery had startled him ; but
he seemed to feel it the more keenly because
the chance of escape had been offered him, and
he was constrained to reject it. Besides, one
may resolve to conquer in this sort of conflict,
and discover in the end that the victory is outside

human nature. He could not fail to consider
that the tender, reverential passion which
he felt for Honour Aylmer was based on much
stronger foundations than the love which is
born of the exquisite curves of a woman's form,
of the soft languors of rose-red yielding lips,
and of drooping love-lighted eyes.

If he loved her because of her sweet intelligence
and goodness, how could he cease to love
her so long as these qualities endured ? It
seemed to him as if some superhuman hand
had touched the sealed fountains of his manhood,
and bidden the living waters flow to
vivify and strengthen every faculty he possessed.
This love, which must be stifled, was, after alla
form of worship  a phase of his ingrained
religiousness ;  for what he adored was the
beauty of self-sacrifice  the supreme virtue
without which neither man nor woman would
have pleased him. It was the total absence
of this faculty in Anna Trevelyan which was
changing his early tenderness into a sentiment
almost approaching repulsion.

Well, there would have been no danger to

others, and perhaps only a salutary pain for
himself, if he had cherished this holy passion in
the silent depths of his heart, and delivered up
utterly all the rest of himself to Lord Sainsbury's
demands. Sitting immersed in official
business under his chiefs strenuous influence, in
the far-away palace on the Hooghly, with the
monotonous beat of the punta overhead, and
a heathen city around him, he would have had
short time for the indulgence of a personal
sorrow.

For all that, the decision of last nicest was
binding; suffer what he might, his first duty
was to the generous kinsman who had accepted
him as a son.

He spent a solitary day. His uncle and Lord
Sainsbury did not return to luncheon, but sent
him a message that they had taken a sudden
resolution to call upon Sir Walter Earle, a circumstance,
illogical as it may appear, that by
no means added to Philip's tranquillity.

He spent an hour in wandering vaguely about
the gardens, speculating upon the impression
that Honour would make on Lord Sainsbury,

and going over in his own mind the whole
circle of her gifts and graces, with that inherent
capacity for self-torment which a hopeless
lover possesses.

At length, heartily ashamed of himself, he
returned to the house, and taking up his books
of systematised study, read and wrote with
forced perseverance till the shades of evening
began to fall.

Then, with a sensation of almost physical
pain gnawing at his heart, none the more tolerable
because he tried to ignore or deny it, he
pushed aside books and papers, and sitting down
to an old piano the library contained, allowed
himself the relief of uttering through this finer
medium the feelings to which no other expression
must be given.

The music to which he was most accustomed
served his purpose. The well-known " miserere"
and chants which touch the hearts of
careless thousands of English and American
strangers who throng the vast area of St Peter's
at Christmas and Waterside, were familiar to
him ; and there is a certain movement of Bach's

'' De Profundity "  which seems to include the
whole diapason of human necessity and aspiration.


So well did it respond to the mood of the
singer, that when the last notes had died under
his fingers, he instinctively went back and repeated
the whole marvellous passage again. Ashe
brought it a second time to a conclusion, he
was startled by a deep sigh of satisfaction from
the recesses of a distant chair, and Lord Sainsbury,
rising up from it, came towards him in the
deepening twilight.

He looked deeply moved.

*' Good heavens, Methuen ! " he said, " what
power helps you to sing like that ? You might
have the sins and sorrows of a world upon your
soul, with faith and courage enough to lay down
all the burden at the feet of God ! St Sulpice
must have a far wider range of experience than
I imagined. But what is the matter ? You are
displeased ? "

Pardon me. Lord Sainsbury, I think I have
every right to be displeased. I believed that I
was alone."

His eyes flashed, and his face was white with
indignation. His feeling was that a stranger
had come in by stealth and read his naked soul.
Lord Sainsbury laid his hand kindly on his
shoulder.

"Hear reason," he said. "As I came into
the house I heard the sound of a piano, which
I could no more resist, when touched as you
touched it, than steel can resist the magnet.
I was too far off* to distinguish your voice at
first. It was no fault of mine that you were
so engrossed as not to hear me open the door.
I simply availed myself of a privilege I had
no idea you would begrudge me. I bless the
powers who endowed you with such a voice,
and the teachers who have had the training of
it ! Please God, Methuen, you shall be the
David to my Saul ! "

I do not understand."

Sir Giles did not mean to take you at your
word last night  there is a touch of almost
feminine inconsistency and sensibility about
the old man. He desired to see you willing
to stay, that it might be in his power to bid

you go. I am very pleased you have decided
to cast in your lot with mine."

The rest of the evening was taken up in discussions
of the now accepted event. Sir Giles
stipulated for not more than two years' absence,
and constant correspondence.

"You will then come home for good and
marry," he said. " You will marry the wife
that I shall have spent the interval in choosing
for you. Lord Sainsbury will come home
too. The power of resilience he speaks of will
have become flaccid by that time, and change
will be imperative."

The last words Lord Sainsbury said to Philip
the next morning, as they walked up and down
the platform at Trichester waiting for the up-train,
were, " Sir Giles thinks I am not going to
start for the next month or two, and I had not
the heart to undeceive him. But I have received
my marching orders already. We shall
sail in ten days' time. You will get your summons
by to-morrow's post. Bring your uncle
up to town with you  looking after your
outfit will divert his mind. Good-bye ! "

Chapter XV.

To great and small thing love alike can reach,
And cares for each as all, and all as each.
The rose aye wears the silent thorn at heart,
And never yet might pain for love depart. "

Trench.

There are periods of time when a month, even
a day, may include the issues of a lifetime ;
and again, in the experience of most of us,
long periods occur when the wheels of existence
drag slowly and heavily, with little seeming
advance upon the onward track.

Honour Aylmer was nineteen years old when
Philip Methuen went to India, and her life had
been as uneventful as that of most girls of
her position, who are too carefully guarded for
much variety of incident. Too young to remember
her parents, her mother's devoted
friend, Miss Earle, had accepted and fulfilled
the charge of her with such tender fidelity

that the girl scarcely missed what she had
lost. When Sir Walter Earle's wife died, and
Miss Earle was invited by her brother to assume
the control of his household, she made ita
condition that she might bring her adopted
daughter with her, and that henceforth Earless
should be considered her home.

It was a happy day for all concerned when
the lovely little girl appeared amongst them.
Adrian was at that time twelve years of age,
being four years older than Honour, and the
younger boy, deformed and crippled from his
birth, was a puny suffering child of three.
From that time to the present she had been
the playfellow, nurse, and teacher of the one,
and the fellow-student and hon camarade of
the other, who threw off his mental indolence
for the first time when he found how closely
the limpid-minded, keen-witted little girl trod
upon his footsteps. For the most part the two
studied together under the same masters until
Adrian went to Brazenose  for the boy, unfortunately
for himself, was held to be too delicate
for a public school ; and even when he had

entered upon his Oxford curriculum, Honour
did her best to keep pace with him, so far as
home teaching allowed. She was one of those
girls, becoming increasingly uncommon, for
whom study, family affection, and home interests
sufficed; she did not continually demand,
as essentials of existence, new books,
fresh scenes, and a succession of pleasures. Asa
matter of social routine, she was carefully
prepared to play her part in society, and was
taken up to town in due course to make her
curtsey to her Sovereign ; and after that event
she and Miss Earle spent a month or two in
the height of the season at the fine old family
house in Arlington Street, while Sir Walter
devoted himself to his political duties, and
Adrian was their ready attendant at theatres,
galleries, and concert-rooms. As Honour was
herself a very clever artist and musician, these
things drew her with a resistless magnetism, as
did also the opportunities she enjoyed of the
higher forms of social intercourse which Sir
Walter Earle's position naturally provided for
her.

But she always returned to Earlescourt with
satisfied content, to pursue her favourite studies
sith a zest which made of the last point gained
the starting-place for new attainments, and with
her love and sympathy and patience towards
poor young Oliver, animated by absence to
greater devotion. It was indeed well for her
that Miss Earle was always on watchful guard
to prevent her carrying her ardour too far on
both these lines, and to insist on as much open-air
exercise and neighbourly intercourse as
seemed good for body and mind.

It had been a matter of private arrangement
between brother and sister, that Honour and
Adrian should marry if their childish affection
could be trained into a feeling of mutual regard,
both perceiving that the indolent and
self-indulgent young man could have no better
incentive or safeguard in life than the serene
and generous steadfastness of the girl who had
walked by his side from childhood. At the
time they had made Philip Methuen's acquaintance,
this scheme was pretty well known and
accepted by the outside world ; and without any

definite explanation or engagement, the young
people had tacitly acquiesced in it themselves ;
the one being fully persuaded that a sweeter,
more loyal creature never drew the breath of
life ; and the other, that no woman could ever
have Adrian's welfare so near her heart as she
herself. Besides, it would please Oliver.

During the long winter which succeeded
Philip's departure, Anna Trevelyan lived much
at Earlescourt, and ultimately spent weeks
there together at a time, being associated by
Honour in her own lessons in music and painting.
She even gained the entry to Oliver's
chamber, and would amuse him by the hour
together with rapid and spirited caricatures of
every person with whom she had come into
contact, or even only casually seen ; or by passionate
descriptions of Florence and its treasures
of art, and her own wild life in her early
past.

She had, too, a certain gift of improvisation
which fascinated the boy. It was not worth
very much intellectually, but when a strikingly
beautiful girl recites with passionate feeling,

in an imperfectly understood language, verses
or rhetorical apostrophes out of her own head,
the listener is not often disposed to be critical.
Anna at such times looked magnificent ; and
the audience was not limited to Oliver, Adrian
being constantly in attendance. He also
amused himself by teaching her to ride and
shoot at a target, accomplishments which she
readily acquired and delighted to exercise. It
was true that, in his delicate languid way, he
often made fun of her and aroused her scornful
anger; but she pleased him as much, and
excited him more, in these moods than in her
quieter ones.

It was a new thing to him to be in constant
intercourse with a girl who was always offering
him fresh surprises, and upon whose reception
of friendly advances it was impossible to
calculate.

Honour, in her turn, found Anna's society
stimulating, and was so deeply anxious for her
welfare and improvement, that she was sometimes
at a loss to understand the motive which
influenced her. Anna was acutely perceptive

and made rapid progress in any study which
it suited her to pursue ; but there was no
breadth nor depth in her intellect, not a touch
of the humility and veneration without which
there is no true discipleship. Also there was
in her nature a radical and persistent selfishness,
which forbade the hope of any really fair
structure being raised on so mean and narrow a
foundation.

Oliver Earle, with his keen susceptibility,
soon discovered this flaw of character.

*why do you like Anna Trevelyan, Honour
? " he asked one day. " Sometimes I hate
her, or should hate her, only she is so splendid
to look at."

His eyes dwelt wistfully on Honour's face.

Don't mind my saying that," he added.
Hers is a haute du diable, as I heard Adrian
telling her the other day; yours  how shall I
put it ? Come close and kiss me, dear ! "

She did as he asked, and he saw, what was
very unusual, that there were tears in her
eyes.

Yours," he continued, pressing her hand

against his cheek, "is more like that of Givers
Guardian Angel, as Broaching puts it.
You are one of the ' Birds of God'"

The feeling of sadness which was associated
with Anna in Honour's mind was of so subtle
a character as to be difficult to explain. It
was no longer because the girl complained of
misery or oppression in her aunt's family, for
either she had learnt a measure of conformity
or the rule of harshness was relaxed.
One circumstance alone made a great difference
: there was no longer any difficulty in
getting her to learn. She was now arid of
knowledge such as women of society are conventionally
supposed to possess. Then her intimacy
with the Earlescourt family counted
for much. Mrs Sylvestre was too diplomatic
to put it in the power of her niece to pour
forth reasonable complaints in her passionate
way to the sympathising household, nor was
she blind to the contingent advantages which
accrued to her own children. But Honour was
conscious that, with all this intellectual and
material improvement, there remained a want

VOL. I. R

in the girl of that finer sense and breath of
aspiration which were necessary to fit her 
for what ? For that development which Philip
Methuen expected.

Anna Trevelyan was one of the few to whom
he wrote, at long intervals, and these letters she
was in the habit of showing to Honour Aylmer,
as conferring a certain distinction, and establishing
that link of connection between them
to which she tenaciously clung. The letters
themselves had no strong personal interest except
as minute and careful replies to her own.

His clear - sightedness and fidelity in all
matters relating to the faults and errors which
Anna freely exposed in her correspondence,
sometimes made Honour smile with an odd
feeling of relief from some latent anxiety, and
excited a burst of indignant disappointment in
Anna.

In my eyes he has no faults," she said on
one occasion. 'why does he not look in the
same light at me ? "

For the rest, there were intelligent observations
on the scenes and circumstances by which

he was siirroiinded, as recorded by a superior
mind for the instnictioii and amusement of an
inferior ; but of personal or of political details
there were none. The fact was, he felt bound
to answer the frequent letters he received, and
equally bound to moderate the extravagant and
erroneous impression of the closeness of their
relations, which he perceived with anxiety
Anna cherished.

These letters formed a curious contrast to
those which Philip Methuen wrote by every
mail to his uncle, and in which he did his best
to daguerreotype his daily life for the satisfaction
and amusement of the latter. There was
scarcely an interest or an event, personal, social,
or political, which was not transcribed for the
benefit and interest of this exacting but affectionate
kinsman. He showed him how he
lived and what he was, with a vivid fidelity
which certainly helped to bridge over the distance
between them ; only reserving that innermost
circle of experience which no wise man or
woman discloses to any human ken.

And so the uneventful months flowed on till

the two years of his absence had been accomplished
and the third begun.

During this protracted period the subject of
Adrian's and Honour's marriage had been often
renewed, but the event, though still regarded in
the light of a foregone conclusion, was invariably
postponed under some plea or another.

Naturally it was Honour who raised the difficulties,
but an ardent lover would soon have
disposed of them. Adrian had never been that :
his father said with a sneer, born of profound
if concealed disappointment, that his temperament
was too tepid for any great passion ; but
the girl who had known him from a boy, and
whose insight was quickened both by her intellect
and affection, was of a different opinion.

It was the growth of a strong, if not a great
passion which was coming between them. She
saw the increasing fascination which Anna
Trevelyan, to whom each month seemed to
bring a finer development of her superb beauty,
exercised over him. Adrian had long ceased to
rally and reprove, and contented himself now
with a close watchful observation. Honour had

studied his face as he sat listening to Anna's
improvisations, and drawn inevitable conclusions.


During the third season after Methuen's
departure, Anna had been invited to accompany
the Earles to town, and had taken a
passionate delight in all the pleasures she could
grasp first and greatest being the admiration
she herself everywhere excited.

It was a subject of indignant mortification
to Miss Earle to see how entirely the loveliness
of her own beloved ward was eclipsed by the
defiant beauty and audacious unconventionality
of the girl who never seemed to recognise the
goodness which had been heaped upon her, or
the almost divine patience with which her provocations
were endured. It was on this occasion
that Adrian, who had often absented himself
from his father's town-house during the season,
kept his fashionable terms with the greatest
assiduity.

He was at Honour's side, as companion and
convoy perpetually, not only at daylight gatherings
and exhibitions, but in the ball-rooms

hitherto abhorred and shunned. But Honour
at least made no mistakes. It can never be
otherwise than painful for a woman to feel
herself to be superseded in the favour of the
man who once loved her ; but she had the
courage to recognise and accept the truth before
any one else guessed it.

Anna was Honour's unfailing companion on all
these occasions, and the latter saw clearly that
while Adrian's loyalty constrained him to devote
to her the attentions which were her undeniable
right, it was on the looks and words of the
other, in spite, or it might have been because of,
her almost insolent indifference, that his observance
hung. Also she had watched him,
after he had scrupulously fulfilled his functions
of her partner at some dance, seek Anna's
side with a solicitude his eyes never betrayed
to her, and perceived that their routine dances
were the price he paid for the rapture of a waltz
with the woman he loved.

He grew taciturn, irritable, and uncertain,
and threw the blame of his temper on his health,
which had never been robust, and talked of a

journey round the world. Then Honour Afterthought
the time to speak was come.

"What good would travel do you, Adrian,"
she asked, on one of the rare occasions when
they were alone together, " if you left behind
the thing you wanted, and took with you
the burden which I see is wearing out your
strength ? "

He turned very pale. " What do you mean ? "
he answered. " I will never give you cause to
reproach me, Honour." There was that eager
tone of self-justification in his voice, which is
only another form of inward dissatisfaction.

"Happily," she answered, with an eflbrt,
which, however, she did not allow to appear,
there will be as little cause as inclination for
reproach. We love each other very dearly,
Adrian  as fondest brother and sister love
but we are both beginning to find out that
something beyond that is wanted for those who
are to spend life together. We will set each
other free, and change nothing ! "

She could see the colour come back into his
face and the light quicken in his eyes, and

involuntarily a little stab smote lier. Her love
was perhaps deeper than she described; anyway,
it gives a pang to a woman's heart to see
that a man adds to his happiness when he lets
her go.

Is that the truth ? " he asked, " or gracious
falsehood to reconcile me to my accusing conscience
? "

He looked earnestly into the sweet face which
met his anxious inquiring gaze so steadfastly,
and then caught her hand in an effusion of
gratitude.

Honour, you have been my good angel
since the day your little feet first crossed our
door  do not cast me off now ! I thank God
I read in your dear eyes that it is not in my
power to hurt you much ; and yet am I not
caitiff and poltroon to rejoice that you have
not found me worth loving? What has led
you to the belief that  that we have both
deceived ourselves ? "

He questioned her with so eager a solicitude,
and with eyes so weary and sad, that had the
facts been otherwise her pity as well as her

pride would have withheld the admission. She
smiled, but there was a little sorrow and regret
tempering the smile.

I think I was never at any time sure how
much I loved you, Adrian, or whether the love
I had was of the proper complexion for a wife ;
but when of late I have watched the expression
of your face, and heard the tone of your voice
when you looked at or spoke to Anna Trevelyan
 forgive me, yours is an open secret ! 
I felt no manner of doubt that you at least
were no lover of mine, and  the discovery will
not break my heart."

"And in not being so I condemn myself," he
answered : " those who have walked T\'ith angels
should at least know how to worship. In revenge,
no one knows better than I that Anna
Trevelyan is of another sort, yet  I shall waste
my life in trpng to win her ! "

And she must be very hard to win if she
resists you  as lover," said Honour, smiling.
Hitherto you have not been free to try ; "
and she rose and left him.

The fact of the rupture of the family engagement

was declared at once, at Adrian's own
request. He was anxious to meet and overcome
the disappointment and displeasure lie
knew it would excite,  also to win his father's
consent to his choice. Sir Walter Earle, though
bitterly annoyed at this fresh failure of his
hopes in respect to his son, surprised him by
a readier acquiescence than he had ventured to
expect, to Miss Earle's indignant amazement,
whose own sense of injury, not to say outrage,
was intense. Anna preferred to Honour ! But
the wary baronet, who had enjoyed a long experience
of the sex, yielded the point simply
because he felt convinced his son had small
chance of success. Se had watched Anna Trevelyan
closely, and was morally certain that it
-vas not given to the delicate and fastidious
Adrian to conquer that young lady's arrogance
and scorn.

Love of my bonds partook, that I might be
In turn partaker of its liberty.
Oh, merchant at heaven's mart for heavenly ware I
Love is the only coin that passes there."

Tbe>-ch.

Such was the situation of affairs when Philip
Methuen returned to England after an absence
of almost three years.

Sir Giles, after his departure, fell back into
the old habits of seclusion and reserve, which
were aggravated by the knowledge he had obtained
from an eminent physician, before leaving
London, that a malady which had long
tormented his comfort, without being seriously
regarded, had developed into an incurable and
mortal disease.

This fact became known to !Mrs Methuen in
her Florentine villa, and at once suggested to
her the propriety of offering herself as nurse

and companion to the friendless old man  a
scheme which she would assuredly have carried
out, in spite of his opposition, had not death, in
its most sudden and appalling form, stepped
between them. She died from the effects of a
carriage accident, after a few days' severe suffering,
during which she lay taciturn and ,
and waited on by no friend
nearer or dearer than the old physician Eichetti,
and her maid, who was only withheld from
deserting her mistress by a sense of shame and
some hope of reward.

What a grievous pity," said Eichetti to her
an hour or two before she passed away, " that
the good son is not here to comfort and sustain
my lady ! "

Yes," she answered ; '* I daresay he would
have been almost as kind to me as to that poor
creature, Lewis Trevelyan. I hope he will not
think so ill of his mother, doctor, as to spend
all the little she leaves him in masses for her
soul ! Give him that message from me if you
ever meet."

And this message, sent by Eichetti to Sir

Giles Methuen, was duly transmitted to Philip,
and added another pang to the sharp and
mournful memories which, without break or
alleviation, were associated with his experiences
as a son. It was one note the less of recall to
his native land.

Meantime, there was something pathetic in
the courage which enabled the failing old
baronet to submit to the protracted absence
which he felt so keenly, in order not to interrupt
a career which was fulfilling the long-delayed
hopes and ambition of his life.

Lord Sainsbury had alleged himself to be a
man chary of praise and recognition, and doubtless
it was the result of a wide and penetrating
acquaintance with human nature, which led him
to accept the best of any man's service as a
matter of routine duty. Thus he made no exception
in favour of the young man towards whom
he felt secretly a strong inclination. But he
was none the less a man of generous sensibility,
and appreciating to the full the sacrifice Sir
Giles had made in parting with his nephew, he
rewarded it in a way he knew would please him

best. Amidst the heavy pressure of public
affairs he managed to find time to write him
an occasional letter, in which he expressed,
with an ardour which would have astonished
his best friends, his sense of Philip's intelligence
and devotion to whatever work he had in hand.

As time passed, opportunities occurred in
connection with a case of suspected treachery
in one of the native princes, for the display of
faculties of a much higher and more serviceable
kind than those with which he had at first
credited the young man. Methuen developed
not only a patient sagacity in threading the
mazes of oriental intrigue, but a subtlety of
intuition and resource, which promised to place
him in the first rank of diplomatists. These
gifts, as Lord Sainsbury pointed out to Sir
Giles, in conjunction with the (perhaps still
rarer) qualities of absolute fidelity and trustworthiness,
and the natural charm of manner
and person, were surely not intended to be
hidden under a bushel, and formed an adequate
plea for longer detention of his services.

Then, when the renewed term had expired,

an attack of fever, followed by a tedious convalescence,
exhausted the Viceroy's strength,
and formed an all but irresistible claim upon
Philip's gratitude and regard. It was in his
power, OTving to their intimate relations, to do
more for his chief than any other man could
have done, and in meeting the appeal, so to
increase the affection with which Lord Sainsbury
regarded him as to render the reluctance
to part with him still more difficult to overcome.

Owing to these circumstances, it was not
until Sir Giles Methuen's rapidly failing strength
led to serious anxiety among his friends, that he
took the step of insisting upon his nephew's
return, in terms sufficiently peremptory to
secure his object. But as soon as this was done,
his impatience and restlessness became painfully
acute. Philip was coming home overland from
Brindisi, having some commissions to execute
for Lord Sainsbury in Paris, and this fact was
a source of intense irritation to the old man's
exhausted patience. It was the last straw
which broke the back of his endurance.

It was the height of the London season, and

the Earlescourt family were established in town,
with Anna Trevelyan as their guest, as before
stated. No direct correspondence with Philip
Methuen had been kept up by any member of
it, all the knowledge they had of his Indian
experiences being derived from his letters to
Anna, or from those which Sir Giles, in the
pride of his heart, occasionally showed to Sir
Walter Earle, and which never failed to exasperate
the sense of bitter disappointment which
the latter felt in regard to his eldest son. Adrian,
however, made it his business to ascertain
from Sir Giles the time when Philip was expected
to arrive in London, and went to Charing
Cross to meet him, animated partly by the
desire to renew their old relations, partly with
the idea of allaying by a short process certain
anxieties which sat heavily upon him. The recognition
between the two men was instantaneous.
Adrian himself scarcely looked a day
older than when they parted ; and though Methuen
was considerably more altered, his personality
was of a kind which rendered him easily
distinguishable.

As he stood for a few moments on the platform
giving brief but incisive instructions about
his baoorao;e, which was of considerable amount,
the other watched him with something of the
critical satisfaction he had felt when his eyes
had first fallen upon him in the dim lobby of
the vicarage house at Kensington. A good
many other feelings combined to qualify this
feeling, however. When one man admits the
physical superiority of another, it is not so
much on the ground of personal impression as
from an instinctive perception of the effect he
is calculated to produce on others  notably of
the opposite sex.

Adrian, as a lover, acknowledged at once that
Anna Trevelyan, always infatuated on the point,
would think Philip handsomer than ever ; and,
as a son, was equally confident that Sir "Walter
Earle would find in his manner and bearings,
indications of all those qualities the absence of
which he deplored in himself. Such convictions
were not of a kind to add warmth to his
greetings, and he had an uneasy sense that his
cordiality was half-hearted and constrained.

VOL. L S

Philip, however, did not appear to discover
any deficiency ; he looked at Adrian with just
the same expression of animated pleasure that
the sensitive self-consciousness of the other had
always found so acceptable, and inquired after
every member of the family with an affectionate
interest which seemed to prove that he had
brought back with him precisely the same regard
which he took away.

But we can talk as we drive to the station.
Jump in, Adrian  there is not a moment to
lose."

'the station ! My dear fellow, do you suppose
for a moment that you are going anywhere
but home with me ? I should not dare to show
my face in Arlington Street without you. Besides,
what man in his senses passes through
London in June, after a three years' absence,
without giving himself plenary indulgence?"

Philip's answer was a glance at the railway
clock, and the exhibition of a sovereign before
the responsive eyes of the cabman.

If I catch my train at Waterloo this is
yours ; you have barely eight minutes to

earn it." Then turning to Adrian as the
cab dashed out of the station, he said, " I
am more grieved than I can say to refuse your
imitation, but I have timed my journey to
catch the do'vm. express, and have no option
in the matter."

No option ! What difference can four or
five hours make to your uncle, who has managed
to exist without you all these years ? 'My
father will take it as a personal offence, or if
he do not, the ladies of the house certainly vnH.
As for me, I look upon it as little short of an
insult ! "

"Who are the ladies of the house?" said
Philip, smiling. "Your aunt, whom I have
never seen, and Miss Aylmer, who would sacrifice
any personal wish to ease the anxiety of
another ? You do not quite understand  I
have been delayed more than a week in Paris,
which has vexed my uncle considerably,  that
I could not help, but I will not lose a single
hour this side of the channel. You sill explain
this at home ? "

"Any way, it is a sorry home-coming! I

wish you joy of your return to Methuen Place.
Sir Giles will suffer no outsider's foot to cross
the threshold; and his temper, I am told, is
simply unbearable."

I am not afraid."

Adrian looked at him with his smile of gentle
derision.

*' Of course not I You are a man-tamer by
profession  witness your success with Lord
Sainsbury ! My dear Methuen, I have not
properly congratulated you. You come back
crowned with the distinction of having won
the good word of a great man who was never
known to praise a little one in his life ! ' The
thanks of the nation are due '  you see we read
the papers ! "

We are too near Waterloo, Adrian, for me
to undertake the defence of Lord Sainsbury 
the most magnanimous and least understood of
men. Come a few stations down the line with
me  I have fifty things to say."

Good ! we will take turns at cross-examination.
I am only too thankful to have the disposal
of a couple of hours taken off my hands."

A few minutes later saw their places secured,
and Philip leaned lack in the carriage with
the sense of relief which comes from a danger
escaped ; also with a sense of fatigue arising
from his unbroken journey from Paris. The
latter, however, did not appear.

"Tell me now," he said, looking across at
Adrian, " all about yourselves. I remember
every dog that crossed my path at Earlescourt !
The four weeks I spent there were the happiest
weeks in my life  I am half inclined to say it
was the only happy month in my life, for I
have never had a similar experience. Do things
still go on there in the same way ? "

So much so that if you walked into Oliver's
room tomorrow, you would think you had only
left it yesterday. Honour Aylmer and I, you
also perceive, still stand in the same relation as
when you went away ; " he looked at his companion
curiously as he spoke.

The same ? I do not C[uite understand.
You mean that you are not yet married ? "

He spoke with a self-command so perfect
that it scarcely cost him an effort. During the

three arduous years he had spent in India he
had succeeded, not indeed in conquering his
love  Honour Aylmer would always be to him
the most beloved woman on the face of God's
earth  but at least in eliminating from it the
selfish element. The highest happiness for her
would be the highest happiness for him, though
he had no share in the making of it. If at
times the doubt forced itself upon his mind
that there was not strength enough in Adrian
Earle's nature to meet all the requirements of
hers, he put it resolutely from him. "Who had
the power to measure another man's worth, or
to decide what qualifications were necessary to a
woman's satisfaction ? She would meet all the
duties of life with a heart and temper adequate
to their perfect fulfilment, and that was simply
his own business  on harder lines.

To transmute into the fine gold of willing
self-renunciation every baser ingredient of his
love, so as to attain wider reaches of sympathy
and patience, and clearer perceptions of what
wounds and heals, was not precisely a task he
deliberately set himself  for such results do

not come by system or calculation  but an
end naturally reached by a man who subjected
every faculty and inclination to the law of
duty.

Fresh from such training as this, he was
perfectly able to bear without flinching Adrian's
direct mention of his relations nth Honour ;
but his next remark tried Methuen's fortitude
much more severely.

When I say the same," Adrian continued,
I mean our relations are in fact unchanged.
We are very fond of each other still, as brother
and sister, and we never cared for each other
in any other way. Our engagement is broken
off by mutual consent, and each of us has a
lighter heart in consequence."

Philip had no answer at command. The
reaction in his scourged and disciplined mind
was so great  like that of a man hopelessly
blind, opening his eyes suddenly on a sun-lighted
landscape  that the keen rapture was
scarcely to be distinguished from pain. His
former submission had been absolute, but he
was quite as capable as other men of rejoicing

that the ordeal for which he had braced his
courage was not after all to be exacted.

I am so taken by surprise," he said at last
Adrian's cynical look supplying the stimulus
he wanted  *that I cannot decide what I ought
to say on the subject; at least I  I earnestly
hope that Miss Aylmer is well ? "

Adrian laughed. "You could scarcely hopeless
! She is perfectly well, and as sweet and
fair as when you saw her last  she could not be
more so ! But  you do not ask about Anna
Trevelyan, Methuen ?  that strikes me as odd."

Anna has continually kept me informed of
her affairs, and I have even received some
official communications from Mrs Sylvestre.
I am at a loss to express my sense of the
kindness your family have shown her  it is
an obligation which can only be felt and acknowledged,
but never repaid."

"May I ask why you appropriate the obligation?
I am not going on farther than
"Weybridge, but before we part I want to be
satisfied on a certain point : is there any kind
of engagement between you and Anna Trevelyan

which would prevent any other man
trying to do his best to win her?"

"There is no engagement of any kind between
us."

Philip spoke almost sternly, and there was an
air of solicitude in the look with which he met
Adrian's animated glance, which caused the
latter the most intense irritation.

"Have you any word of disparagement to
utter of the girl whom you have befriended
from a child, and who repays your services with
the most disproportionate gratitude ? Do you
find some difficulty in Wishing me success with
the woman I love ? "

"I find no difficulty, my dear Adrian, in
wishing you success in any scheme which you
think will make for your happiness, but I do
not hesitate to say I deeply regret that you
should look for it in this direction."

You mean that  I have no chance ? " hiding
under a sneer his secret anxiety.

I mean nothing of the kind. It would be
hard to think of you as failing with any woman
whom you wished to please. I simply mean

that  Anna Trevelyan is not worthy of you,
and that you will find out that she is not worthy
of you should she ever become your wife. I say
this with pain and reluctance, but I should be
false to our friendship if I left it unsaid."

Understand  you must never dare to say
it again ! "

Adrian spoke with his face white with
anger, and his voice and manner were almost
menacing.

Once is enough," answered Philip, quietly ;
"no threat is wanted to ensure my silence in
the future." He stopped, as the train at this
point slackened speed, and the other rose with
passionate precipitation.

Do you really get out here ? and  do you
refuse to shake hands ? "

"Not if you will withdraw what you have
just now said ; otherwise  you and I cease to
be friends ! "

On that point you can only speak for
yourself. I shall never cease to be your friend,
but I cannot retract words deliberately spoken."

Adrian opened the door and jumped out : an

express train cuts short controversies as well as
courtesies. He was very angry, with the chivalrous
anger of a knight whose lady has been
traduced, and towards whom it consequently
behoves to augment his own reverence and devotion.
He said to himself, with the sort of
feminine petulance which at times marked his
conduct, that not many hours should pass before
he put his fate to the touch, and his future in
the hands of the girl whom Philip Methuen
pronounced unworthy of him.

End OF THE First VOLUME.

Printed BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD All) 30KS.

3 0112 052945760

w



H

I 

;-v;%

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/storyofphilipmet02need

THE

Story OF PHILIP METHUEN

In bulk, doth make man better be ;

Or standing like an oak three hundred year,

To fall a log at last, dry, bald, and sere.

In small proportions we just beauties see,

And in short measures Life may perfect be."

Ben Jonson.

STORY OF PHILIP Methuen

BY

MES J. H. Needed

AUTHOR OF ' JULIAN KARSLAKE's SECRET,
1 LUCIA, HUGH. AND ANOTHER '

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXVI

Miss
v.2-

THE STOEY OF PHILIP METHUEN.

CHAPTER XVII.

All men do err, because that men they be ;
And men with beauty blinded cannot see."

Peele.
"Sin of self-love possessed all mine eye,
And all my soul, and all my every part ;
And for this sin there is no remedy,
It is so grounded inward in my heart."

Shakespeare's Sonnets.

Adrian's temper was by no means mollified
on his return home by the reception given
to his news of Methuen's summary departure.
Sir Walter Earle, who had a considerable
share of curiosity to satisfy as well as goodwill
to express, felt himself decidedly aggrieved ;
Miss Earle, who had a deep-rooted dislike to
paragons, and a generous resentment against

VOL. II. a

the allowed superiority of this paragon in particular,
characterised his conduct as ostentatious
and affected; and the two girls, Honour and
Anna, were each in their way profoundly disappointed.


Honour felt a secret shame and pain that she
had looked forward with such strong interest to
again meeting a man who had proved his own
indifference to the memories of the past ; and
Anna complained bitterly, as was her wont, and
with the manner assumed by those who consider
themselves robbed of their rights.

Infatuated as Adrian Earle was, interpreting
her moods and manifestations with an ingenious
self-delusion, at which Love himself must have
laughed, he could not persuade himself, as his
anger cooled, to risk the overthrow of all his
hopes while Anna barely showed him civility.

This girl was precisely of the nature to hold
cheap what was pressed on her acceptance ; and
the more patient and obvious was any man's
devotion, the more scornful and negligent
would her behaviour become.

The one justification of the heartlessness of

her conduct was to be found in the singular
and engrossing passion (for no other word
would fitly describe the nature of her regard)
which she felt for Philip Methuen. All the
little there was of good in her went to the
making of it :  the inexpressible bond of early
association, and of an imaginative and neglected
child's gratitude for great and unaccustomed
kindness, as shown not only to herself, but to
the dear, never-to-be-forgotten father. It might
be said she owed to Methuen every good gift
in life she had received, from the time when
she had learnt her letters at his knees to the
present hour which saw her, equally through his
efforts, fitted to take her stand in society as
any man's equal. It was he who induced Mrs
Sylvestre to receive her, and had engaged
Honour Aylmer's serviceable kindness in her
behalf. To him she acknowledged she owed her
first glimpses of moral and spiritual truth,
though they were of very little abstract importance
in her reckoning except as opening channels
for more frequent and intimate association.
In the past she had been the recipient only ;

in the future she was to equalise their relations
by the gift of herself.

She had grown up from childhood with the
impression that he belonged to her, having
pledged himself to lifelong affection and devotion
to her interests ; her father had died leaning
on these assurances, and there was only one
way of fulfilling them. There was so much of
hot Italian blood in her veins, that even if the
conviction of his indifference had been brought
home to her mind, she would still have been
prepared to insist on her rights and overwhelm
his reluctance. As the case stood, she considered
beauty the master - element of love ;
and had not kind nature made her, Anna Trevelyan,
too beautiful for any man to resist ?

On the plane of physical perfection, she
allowed Philip Methuen to be her equal. As a
very young girl, she distinctly remembered her
father's observations on this point : he would
often express a thorough contempt for Philip's
devout piety and exaggerated unselfishness ; but
on the theme of his personal strength and
beauty, he would dilate with the uncompromising

zeal of a passionate artist steeped in
materialism. Can we blame her that, regarding
her father as a being of a higher order than
herself  it was a grain of saving salt in her
character  she imbibed such notions with the
tenacity of her age, and ever afterwards, more
or less, graduated her estimates by them ?

If any one, knowing the secrets of her heart,
and she was discreet enough to be secret, 
had expostulated with Anna Trevelyan on the
unworthiness and indelicacy of her position,
she would have laughed such scruples to scorn.
What was life but the brief term of human
existence, into which the wise and the fortunate
press all that they can of personal gratification ?

Her happiness rested on one basis  union
with the man she loved, and no conventional
difficulties or ethical scruples should prevent
her turning to her own advantage every chance
and circumstance in her favour.

That he had passed through London without
coming to see her, and being subjected to the
influences of her perfected beauty,  for no one
knew better than Anna herself what the last

three years had done for her,  was a provocation
hard to bear, the only consolation being
that Honour Aylmer had been equally powerless
to attract him. She had the glaring indelicacy
to question Adrian Earle closely in respect to
the changes and improvements which time had
wrought in Methuen's personal appearance, and
he the almost inconceivable blindness to attribute
such eagerness to the innocent ardour of
her childish friendship. To be sure, he might
be excused for thinking that the delicate and
subtle passion he recognised as love could never
take so bold a front.

Perhaps it is hardly necessary to say that
the women of the Earlescourt family were not
equally blind to Anna Trevelyan's shortcomings.
Miss Earle entertained a robust and uncompromising
dislike to the beautiful defiant
girl who accepted favours as her right, and
repudiated the obligation of gratitude. The
delicate generosity of all the rest of the family
was in opposition to her, or she would certainly
have shut the door of intimacy against Anna
Trevelyan long before the infatuation of her

nephew served her as a weapon of offence in
her indignant controversies with her brother.

Sir Walter Earle had implicit faith in his
own theory that it was best to give a red-hot
lover his head, and that no one but Anna herself
would be able to cure Adrian of his folly.
He was so convinced that his son had no chance
of success with the girl, as to consider himself
able to act the part of indulgent parent with
perfect safety.

To Honour Aylmer's mind, the character of
her so-called friend was not so much matter for
repulsion or condemnation as of a sort of divine
pity and regret. That a girl so splendidly
endowed should lack, as she well knew she
lacked, every quality of the soul which makes
for righteousness  all the finer instincts and
desires which lift humanity out of the brutal
element incorporate with it  seemed infinitely
more pitiable than any physical deformity or
deficiency could have been. It pierced her
tender heart that the sweet and sensitive
Adrian should lavish his love on a girl who was
as indifferent to his homage as any Buddhist

idol to its Hindu worshipper; and she was
cruelly divided between the wish that he might
get the desire of his heart, and the conviction
that his success would be the worst thing which
could happen to him.

On the other hand, to associate the idea of
Philip Methuen with Anna was, if possible, still
more repugnant to her feelings. So absolute
was the incongruity, that it would be, morally,
like binding the living to the dead ; but here
she consoled herself with the belief that no
such catastrophe was to be apprehended. He
was strong enough to take care of himself.

A few days after Philip's return to Kensington,
he wrote to Sir Walter Earle apologising
for his apparent neglect of his kindness, and
stating that he had found his uncle so much
worse than he had expected, that it would befor
the present quite impossible to leave him ;
consequently, he had been obliged to dismiss
the hope of making his explanation in person.

This letter decided Anna Trevelyan to cut
short her visit to her friends and return home
at once to the vicarage. Her desire, or rather

her determination, to see Philip Methuen at
once, and place their relations on a more certain
and recognised basis, was growing to an
intolerable height ; and since there was now
no chance of meeting him in town, she had
no longer a wish to remain there. The difficulties
of her position seemed rather to stimulate
than restrain her purpose.

It was obvious to Anna that, when she declared
her intentions, the Earle family expressed
no more reluctance at the prospect of her departure
than kindness and courtesy demanded
a circumstance that, in her passionate and
unreasonable mind, went far to wipe out the
long record of services received.

On the evening before her departure, it
happened that Adrian, coming in early after a
weary afternoon, spent by stress of social necessity
at Lord's, found Anna alone in the drawing-room.


She was sitting indolently reclining amidst
the many cushions of a low couch, with that
air  half-weary, half-scornful  which was characteristic
of her. She held an open book between

her fingers ; but she seldom read consecutively,
and needlework was never seen in
her hands except under Mrs Sylvestre's compulsion.
Her attire struck Adrian's fastidious eye
as in exquisite keeping with her beauty. She
wore a dark crimson gown, the soft fabric of
which, unbroken by flounce or frill, fell in
straight, statuesque folds to her feet, defining
the noble lines and curves of her perfect
form.

She raised her eyes as Adrian entered, and
dropped them again immediately without speaking.
He was looking worn and wan, and there
was an intense repressed irritability in his manner.
His face lightened, however, at the sight
of her.

Alone, Anna!"

You see I am alone. Miss Earle and Honour
are at Lady Sister's concert. I saw the
card of invitation.  My name was not mentioned,
but yours was. Why are you not
there ? "

I was going, but I have changed my mind.
What is Lady Sister's concert to me in comparison

with this room with you in it ? Anna,
what am I to say to you ? I have held my
peace till the fire burns. If I speak too soon,
I cannot help it ; but  be kind to me ! "

He pulled a chair close to her sofa, and sat
down. He was jaded in body and mind and
intoxicated by her beauty. One of her arms,
bare to the elbow, was carelessly thrown over
the padded side of the couch, and looked lustrous
as the evening light fell upon it. Adrian
stooped suddenly and pressed his lips upon the
soft warm flesh, in an eager, burning kiss.

I love you ! I love you ! I love you ! " he
repeated, with passionate iteration. " Anna, I
say again  be kind to me ! "

The girl sprang up from her seat with as
vehement a movement of angry recoil as if
some noisome creature had touched her. She
rubbed her handkerchief with almost savage
energy on the spot his lips had pressed, and
looked at him with her eyes dilating and her
delicate nostrils quivering, under her sense of
outrage.

How dare you insult me like that ? Have

I ever wanted your love, or tried to please you
as other girls do ? Has there ever been a look,
or word, or touch of mine that could encourage
you to expect anything from me ? You know
there has not !  that if behaviour could kill
love, yours by this time should have no life in
it ! It is what I have tried for  to appear so
hateful, that you should cease to care for me ! "

The passion of her repudiation stung his manhood
to a measure of self-assertion.

And why have you done this ? " he asked,
straightening his figure and meeting her flashing
eyes without wavering. " Why has my love
no value to you ? What right have you, above
other women, to reject it with anger and
scorn? What I offer you is the best a man
has to give."

"That does not matter, when the gift is
unacceptable ! I do not mean to hurt or insult
you more than another. I hold every
man's love cheap, simply because I do not
want it."

She paused a minute, as if searching for
reasons, then added quickly 

Besides, I am quite sure you would never
persuade your family and friends to give mea
welcome."

A sudden flicker of hope sprang up in his
heart, and his face brightened.

I have my father's full permission to win
you, if I can."

It is very good of Sir Walter Earle to give
you leave," she answered, scornfully ; " but I
shall not put his magnanimity to the test,  and
you must quite clearly understand that I mean
every word I have just now spoken, and that
this subject must never be mentioned between
us again. Shall I tell you what you had better
do ?  make up your quarrel with Honour Aylmer
no other woman will ever suit you half so
well."

Ah ! " he answered ; " that comes either of
your ignorance of what love is, or of the insolence
of your youth and beauty. Honour Aylmer
is a better woman than you, and almost as handsome
; but it is you  you only  that I want,
Anna "  he came a little nearer to her, moved
by the instinct of appeal  " there is nothing

your heart can desire that it will not be in my
power to give you. You shall order our lives
as you like  on any lines, in any lands  only I
must have your love ! "

Have you, then, some love-philtre at command
? n was her answer. " You bribe high,
Mr Earle ; but you may have read as well as I,
that love is not to be bought, nor will it come
at word of command. What am I to say to
you ? If you could give me all the kingdoms
of the earth, as well as Earlescourt, I would not
marry you ! "

His face flushed with pain and anger. " It
will not be necessary to say much more ; there
is a limit even to my subserviency ; you leave
me no loophole for self-deception. I will give
it up, Anna, but  you shall tell me for
whom ! "

The colour faded out of his face, and a light
came into his eyes which she had never seen
there before, and which fascinated her gaze  his
voice even had taken a tone of harshness quite
foreign to its habitual sweetness. " For whose
sake," he added, incisively, " do you treat me

with this insufferable arrogance ? Is it for
Philip Methuen's ? "

He caught her hand as he spoke, not from
any motive of endearment, but as if to make
sure that she should stand and abide his question
; and he searched her face with a hard
scrutiny which it was difficult for even her to
encounter without flinching.

A flame of colour suddenly dyed the pure
pallor of her skin, but the very consciousness
of her involuntary weakness was a challenge
to her courage. She met Adrian's peremptory,
relentless gaze with a superb movement of
defiance.

Yes," she answered, giving to each word
she spoke a metallic clearness of utterance ;
you have guessed right, though you had no
right to guess  it is for Philip Methuen's
sake."

An indefinable expression came over Adrian's
face ; he dropped her hand and turned a little
aside. Love and hate, pity and revenge  passions
hitherto unknown to his experience 
divided his heart between them. No sweet

reasonableness governed his love for Anna
Trevelyan : he loved her because her beauty,
audacity, and brilliant gifts stirred the languid
pulses of his soul ; and such love is not scrupulous
as to the means of satisfaction.

Why should he not help himself in his defeat
to the weapons Methuen had inadvertently put
into his hands ? Why ? Because the bias of
character, and the instincts of a gentleman, do
not yield to the first assaults of temptation, even
of a temptation so potent as his.

It was a question I had no right to ask,"
he said, after a pause ; " but your answer is
conclusive. I have done, Anna."

She felt for him more under this new aspect
of restraint and forbearance  felt, by instinct,
that a deeper depth had been stirred than she
had suspected. She went up to him and touched
his arm with her hand.

Do not hate me for what I have said ! I
should not like to think of you in the future as
unhappy, when things will be so different with
me. But  you don't take things very much to
heart."

He smiled a little, and put her hand gently
to his lips.

I have done with protestations, Anna. Buta
time may come in your life when you may
stand in need of comfort  if it should, send
for me ! I shall always love you as I love you
now."

He opened the door noiselessly after his
fashion, and went out.

VOL. II. K

CHAPTER XVIII.

' Rarely, rarely comest thou,
Spirit of delight ;
Wherefore hast thou left me now
Many a day and night ? "

Shelley.

"The persons whose tempers are most distinguished for bigotry are
those which have drunk most sparingly, if at all, of the water of life."

On the afternoon of the following clay, Anna
Trevelyan stepped out on the platform of Tri-chester
station and looked eagerly about her.
The scene had become very familiar to her :
it was now nearly four years since she had
seen it first, and she had outgrown or overcome
much of the childish misery of those
days. Life lay before her, touched with a
radiance almost as warm and as penetrating as
the midsummer sun over her head. Only at
this precise moment a shade was certainly
thrown across her path, and was reflected in
the angry gloom of her face.

The station-master, who was well acquainted
with her, and w T with her intimacy with the Earless
family, came forward civilly to speak to
her.

"Miss Sylvestre is waiting outside in the
pony-carriage, Miss Trevelyan ; there is a cart
for your luggage."

Is there no one else ? " asked Anna. " I
will wait a few minutes."

The man hesitated. " Shall I speak to Miss
Sylvestre ? " he asked. "It is Miss Dorothy
Sylvestre."

A frown of impatience contracted the girl's
forehead ; she was suffering from intense mental
strain.

I will speak to her myself," she answered ;
and going outside the station, where Dorothy
sat patiently waiting in the little low-hacked
basket-carriage, which always moved Anna's
contempt, she stooped over her and kissed
her quickly, as if anxious to meet, almost to
anticipate, her greetings. " I am glad it is
you, Dolly, but I am not quite ready. Will
you mind waiting a few minutes ? "

I don't mind waiting a bit ; only mamma
said we were to make haste home, so as not
to keep them waiting for tea." Then her
innocent blue eyes wandered admiringly over
her cousin's person. " How beautiful you look,
Anna, and what a lovely gown ! Wasn't it a
pity to travel in it ? "

Anna's clouded eyes were traversing the
highroad which led in the direction of Kensington
so far as they were able to follow it,
but neither pedestrian nor vehicle were in sight.
The passengers by the late train were rapidly
dispersing, the driver of the railway omnibus
being the last to move off, putting his whip to
lys hat as he passed the Kensington ladies.

The little lad who had driven the light cart
which fulfilled so many functions in the modest
Sylvestre household, had helped the porter to
deposit Anna's boxes and wraps in it, and now
stood waiting for the word of command. Anna
gave it at last with the haughty unsympathetic
air which was characteristic of her, and after a
further interval of moody watchfulness, at last
took her place beside Dorothy.

Put the thing in motion ! " she said ; "we
shall scarcely get home before dark."

Dolly obeyed, with a half-shy glance at her
cousin.

Are you vexed about coming home ? " she
asked. " I am afraid mamma is not pleased.
Do you mind telling me why you did not stay
longer ? "

Because I discovered it was time to come
home, if I did not mean to wear out my welcome.
By the way  wonders will never cease !
I see the pony has got a new collar."

Yes," cried Dorothy, brightening, " I was
sure you would notice it. Doesn't he look nice ? "

One degree less abject than usual," said
Anna, ungraciously. "Do you know, Dolly,
I would positively prefer to walk the eight
miles' distance than drive in such a miserable
little rattle-trap as this ! I feel the same contempt
for myself as every one else feels who
looks at us. It is as incongruous as it would
be to see a beggar or a pauper lolling in one of
the Earle's fine carriages."

It is an incongruity you will have to put

up with, or else return to the friends you have
left," returned her cousin with some spirit ;
but at the same moment Anna suddenly
snatched the reins from her hands.

Not that way," she said, harshly ; " we will
drive through the Park."

If we do," replied Dolly  knowing from
previous experience that opposition would be
useless  " it will be only fair for you to take
the blame on yourself. Mamma is sure to question
us, and it will be a bad beginning for your
return home."

I can bear it," said Anna ; but even as she
spoke her voice fell a little, and the tears of
her bitter disappointment gathered in her eyes.
No further appeal was wanted.

"Keep the reins," said Dolly, softly, "while
I open the gate."

Anna accepted the arrangement as a matter
of course.

Drive slowly," she said, as Dolly resumed
her place beside her, " and stop a minute when
we are in sio-ht of the house. We shall be at
the vicarage only too soon."

Papa says the gardens never used to be
kept in such exquisite order," remarked Dolly,
flicking off the flies from her pony's neck as he
stood panting at his ease on the crest of the
little hill which commanded a view of Methuen
Place ; " but to me it never looks a bit changed.
When Mr Methuen came home a week or two
ago from India, after three years' absence, I
wonder if he saw any difference ? "

Have you seen him ? " asked Anna, sharply,
searching the front of the house and the terrace
on which the rooms opened, with a scrutiny
from which not even a sparrow would have
been able to escape.

No one has seen him, I believe, but Mr
Oliver. Poor Sir Giles is dangerously ill, and
worse since Mr Methuen came home. Doesn't it
seem a pity ! They say he never leaves his uncle."

Anna turned very pale. " Dangerously ill !
do you mean he will not get any better? I
notice the fountain is not playing."

"It is too near Sir Giles's window, and he
cannot bear the sound of the water," explained
Dolly. " Dr Farquhar told mamma."

Drive on, Dolly, and make haste home :
there is nothing to wait for."

The village and vicarage-house of Kensington
look as little changed for the four years during
which Anna had known it, as the old grey
mansion-house of the Methuenss. The ivy had
climbed a little higher up the square church
tower, and the myrtle-tree which covered the
side-walls of the parsonage had increased the
bulk of its stem and taken a deeper tone upon
its lustrous twigs. The gnarled branches of the
old apple-trees in the orchard had given themselves
another twist, and the moss and lichen
were thicker upon them ; but the garden itself,
with its small circular grass-plat and trim borders,
was as stiff and unattractive as ever. The
blossoming shrubs in which Anna delighted,
and which relieved it from absolute ugliness,
had flowered and faded early in the forward
spring, and had nothing now to show her but
their dull foliage ; and Mrs Sylvestre's gaunt
geraniums and ill-grown fuchsias Still stood in
their ugly wire receptacles under the porch,
precisely as they had done on the night when

Philip Methuen made his first appeal on behalf
of her niece.

As Anna got out of the pony-carriage and
went into the house, she had an impatient weary
impression of the unchanged conditions of her
life, and of the time having arrived when they
were become unbearable.

Mrs Sylvestre rose from her seat and took
a few steps to meet her across the floor of her
drawing-room, meagre and colourless as ever. It
seemed to the girl that no change whatever had
passed over the pale keen face, with its prominent
blue eyes, thin lips, and high narrow forehead,
over which the skin seemed too tightly
drawn to admit of lines or wrinkles, since the
miserable day when she had first seen it. Also,
oddly enough, her first words were almost
identical with those she had spoken on that
occasion.

Make haste and take off your things, Anna ;
your uncle is come in, and tea has been waiting
for some time."

Anna paused, then asked in a clear firm
voice 

Are there any letters for me ? " and met
Mrs Sylvestre's cold gaze of surprise with the
defiant composure which that lady was wont to
characterise as effrontery.

As there is only one family with whom you
correspond, and you have just left their roof,
for reasons still to be explained, I am at a loss
to understand from whom you could expect a
letter."

Does that mean there are no letters forme
? " repeated Anna.

There are no letters for you," replied her
aunt, sternly, and surveying her with growing
dissatisfaction, not only because her inquiry was
a suspicious one, and would need to be investigated,
but also because she could not blind herself
to the fact that not a month passed over
the girl's head without adding something to the
perfection of a beauty she could neither deny
nor forgive.

Anna went slowly up-stairs and sat down
in the window-seat of her bedroom, as she had
done on the first day of her arrival ; and if she
did not bow her head on her hands and weep, it

was only because she had gained a little since
then in self-control. She was quite miserable
enough.

Dolly had already put away her hat and
jacket, and was smoothing her fair hair before
the glass. How meagre and despicable looked
all the appointments of the room, in Anna's
angry sight !

Anna, dear," said her cousin, timidly, " won't
you get ready for tea ? "

Anna dashed off her hat, and unwound from
her stately throat the magnificent scarf of black
Spanish lace, which made the only difference
between her indoor and outdoor toilet : it w T as
one of Honour's frequent and little-considered
gifts. Then she suddenly clasped her hands
before her eyes as if to shut out the sight of
external things.

I don't think I can bear it ! " she cried, ina
low inward voice, charged with the passionate
irritability from which she was suffering.

Even the gentle spirit of Dolly rebelled a little.

Bear what ? " she asked. " "What I and
Lucy and Mary bear all the year round ? What

did you expect to find when you came home ?
You know how things always go on. I can't
understand why you didn't stay longer with the
Earles  it is so odd to leave London in June ! "

The words recalled Anna to a sense of discretion
: if she were to carry out the vague purpose
she had in view, she must be careful to
keep her own counsel.

It was by no means impossible for her to playa
part when she recognised the necessity of doing
so, and for the rest of the evening she did her
best to behave in such a way as should serve to
disarm her aunt's already excited suspicions and
win her young cousin's goodwill. She lavished
upon the latter trinkets and dainty accessories
of dress which had cost her nothing, and to
which she was constitutionally indifferent :
endured Mrs Sylvestre's cross-examination respecting
the London menage of the Earlescourt
family, and her uncle's prosy inquiries as to the
business of the " House," on which subject he
seemed to expect Anna's information to be
authoritative, on the strength of her occasional
presence in the Ladies' Gallery.

It is almost unnecessary to' say that the
scheme which this ardent and self-willed girl
was planning was the gaining of an interview
with Philip Methuen ; but the difficulties which
beset it baffled her ingenuity.

It happened that at this time Dr Farquhar,
the chief medical practitioner of Trichester, and
Sir Giles's daily attendant, was also visiting her
youngest cousin Mary for some temporary ailment
; and as Mrs Sylvestre's repugnance to the
faith of the master of Methuen Place did not go
far enough to destroy her interest in his condition
and affairs, Anna had the limited satisfaction
of hearing something that helped to
guide her conclusions.

Dr Farquhar was a short, stout, red-faced
man, whose general appearance suggested the
idea of a well-to-do country farmer rather than
of a professional man of some considerable distinction
; but no acute observer who had read
the signs of the close well-cut mouth, of the
grey eyes deep set in their sockets, and keen
and clear with the vigilance of an intelligence
which never seemed to slumber or sleep, and of

the huge forehead with its equal development of
the reflective and perceptive faculties (to borrow
the helpful phrases of an obsolete science),
would have agreed with the popular judgment.
It may also have been strengthened by the
fact that Dr Farquhar's manners were a little
harsh and abrupt, lacking entirely the deliberate
courtesy and bland solicitude which are so
influential an element of success with the average
patient. His relations with the Sylvestre
household were by no means intimate, and he
was very chary of communicating any information
respecting his professional experiences.
He, however, allowed that the condition of Sir
Giles Methuen, he being the great man of the
neighbourhood, might excite a little legitimate
curiosity.

In this way Mrs Sylvestre learnt that the
old baronet was supposed to be gradually sinking,
and that his nephew was in constant attendance
upon him ; and these facts, when they
reached Anna's ears, seemed to close the door
of hope against her. Even she could not entertain
the idea of forcing her way into Methuen

Place under such circumstances. Also, she was
keenly aware of the necessity of concealing the
depth of interest she took in the matter; she
seldom saw Dr Farquhar herself, and if she
had seen him, she durst not betray herself by
direct inquiry. And so the weary fruitless
weeks past on.

To add to her anxiety, the Earle family returned
in due course to Earlescourt  or at least
Miss Earle and Honour returned. Sir Walter
had gone direct to his Scotch shooting-box as
soon as Parliament rose ; and Adrian, it was
said, had accompanied him,  at any rate, he
was not at Earlescourt.

Anna w T as in constant apprehension of Mrs
Sylvestre becoming aware of her changed relations
with her former friends, for she knew by
instinct the facts would excite her violent displeasure
and disappointment ; and this anxiety
led to rather more propriety of behaviour
towards her aunt, which was not without its
effect on the general tranquillity.

The year had now w r born on to the middle
of August, nearly two months since Philip

Methuen had returned from India, and still
they had never met. Anna would have thought
such a thing impossible at the time when she
first returned to Kensington ; but fate, she said
to herself, was against her. The long strain,
however, was telling, if not upon her health,
which was of too vigorous a type to yield
readily under mental pressure, upon her looks ;
and she was conscious that her cheek was
thinner and paler, and her eyes had lost something
of their brightness.

It happened that Dr Farquhar made the same
observation on one of the rare occasions when
Anna was in the room during his professional
call. He was taking leave of his little patient,
more in the character of friend than physician,
and consequently Mrs Sylvestre had not thought
it necessary to dismiss her niece as usual.

I hope you won't accuse me of wanting to
fill Miss Mary's vacant place, Mrs Sylvestre, if
I venture to remark that this young lady is not
looking well," he said with a pleasant smile,
glancing towards Anna, who was standing languidly
leaning against the open window.

Mrs Sylvestre turned sharply round and
looked at her.

My niece enjoys excellent health, Dr Farquhar.
She is in the habit of boasting she
never had a headache in her life ! There is
nothing the matter with you, Anna, I believe ? "

The tone was so hard and confident that it
would have needed some courage to contradict
her belief, and Anna's energies were at a low
ebb. Also, she hated the idea of being considered
sick or ill.

Nothing," she replied, " except the heat ; "
and then she added, with sudden resolution 

Poor old Sir Giles Methuen must find this
weather hard to bear."

For once Mrs Sylvestre was willing to follow
her niece's lead ; she thought it was Anna's way
of turning the doctor's attention from herself,
and was prepared to commend her discretion.

An old man's blood runs colder in his veins
than yours, my dear young lady ; I don't think
Sir Giles Methuen suffers much from the heat."

Is that unfortunate young man still in attendance
upon him ? " asked Mrs Sylvestre, in

VOL. II. c

the harsh grating tone which she instinctively
adopted when touching upon the Methuen
theme. " Why does not his uncle provide himself
with a professional nurse ?  is it selfishness
or economy ? "

Excuse me, Mrs Sylvestre, I don't quite
catch your meaning. In what way is Mr
Methuen, with his splendid prospects and 
such as he is  to be considered unfortunate ? "

I allude to the lamentable circumstances
of his education. Perhaps you may not be
aware  it does not of course fall within your
function  that he is more, far more, deeply
dyed in superstition than the old baronet himself
? The gifts of fortune or of nature, you
will allow, Dr Farquhar, will scarcely compensate
for this."

I have no opinion on such points ; they
do not, as you say, come within my function ;
but if it is the province of superstition to turnout
such men as Philip Methuen, my experience
inclines me to the wish that it were a little more
generally influential."

I am astonished, doctor, to hear you express

yourself so lightly ! I do not deny that there
are points of attraction in Sir Giles Methuen's
nephew ; but if such is the case under the influence
of a demoralising and soul-crushing religion,
what might not such a young man have
become if he had enjoyed the privilege of being
brought up in the true faith ? "

"That is a question neither of us can answer,
Mrs Sylvestre," said the doctor, smiling a little
impatiently. " But you seemed anxious on the
score of his comfort. I assure you he is in excellent
health and condition  takes sufficient
exercise, sees his friends at Earleswood occasionally,
and duly goes to church."

To church ! to Mass, do you mean ? But
I understood he never left his uncle's room."

Then, my dear madam, you must have
understood that we had all taken leave of our
senses. Sir Giles, I cannot help telling you,
behaves more like a saint than a sinner, and
would be the last to exact injurious devotion
from his heir ; on the contrary, their mutual
consideration and affection, perfectly simple and
unostentatious, is a lesson to all of us. As for

the professional nurse you appear to consider
necessary, the poor old baronet is so reduced,
a child almost might lift him ; and I assure
you neither his servant, housekeeper, nor Mr
Methuen himself, would allow any stranger to
touch him. Pray set your mind at ease ; the
sick-room is quite sufficiently manned."

Mrs Sylvestre was silent for a moment, and
she did not observe that Dr Farquhar's eyes
were closely observing Anna's downcast face
and the nervous movement of her fingers,
which she was clasping and unclasping in suppressed
excitement.

Were you aware," she resumed, with some
hesitation, "that the vicar called a little while
ago at Methuen Place, and was denied admission
to the sick-room ? "

You must blame me for that ! Nurses are
bound to obey orders, and mine are decisive
against visitors. But I believe your husband
had no reason to complain of his reception  he
saw Mr Methuen and took no offence."

Mrs Sylvestre shook her head.

"Extreme forbearance is my husband's weak

point. But the responsibility of cutting off
that old man from perhaps his last chance of
spiritual enlightenment, was too serious to be
incurred for the sake of any mere physical
advantage."

She made another little pause ; but Dr Farquhar
had no mind to take up the challenge.
Anna, who was tongue-tied for fear of self-betrayal,
felt an emotion of positive gratitude
towards her aunt when she asked presently, as
if still brooding over the melancholy condition
of her neighbours 

You said the young man went to church.
Do you mean, to that deplorable little barn
at Crawford  in Carshalton Street, I think 
which is dignified by its worshippers with the
name of a chapel ? "

"The same; though if you were acquainted
with the inside as well as the out, you might
correct your estimate. You will be pleased to
hear he takes his constitutional every morning,
rain or shine, to some early celebration, which is
held before our good vicar is up :  sitting up at
nights seems to make no difference. Somehow,

Mrs Sylvestre, that quiet unobtrusive sort of
observance counts."

"Yes, as the mechanical prayers of the Mohammedan
counts, and the devotional katoo of the
Chinaman grovelling before his god  not otherwise.
I must own it vexes me a little, Dr Farquhar,
that my niece should have listened to your
commendation of Roman Catholics ; it has been
our object ever since she was under this roof to
weaken the pernicious influences of her youth."

I don't think I have done her much harm,
or that there is much the matter with her after
all," was the doctor's answer, as he shot his keen
glance again in her direction.

Her figure had lost its languid droop, her
whole aspect had undergone a change. An
eager vitality now lighted up the face which
had been so pale and spiritless a few moments
before. When she shook hands with him, the
firm flexible fingers closed over his with an unmistakable
grasp of goodwill, and the intense
indefinable look in her beautiful eyes almost
sent a thrill into the celibate doctor's case-hardened
heart.

There is something in it," he said to himself,
as he climbed carefully into his saddle 
the well-groomed and well-trained cob having
stood during his visit patiently tethered to the
vicarage garden-gate  " how much, I do not
precisely see ; but there is another point I do
see with remarkable precision, that Anna Trevelyan
is  well  let us say, such a young
woman as one does not meet every day in one's
life."

CHAPTEK XIX.

One morning, oh ! so early, my beloved, my beloved,

All the birds were singing blithely, as if never they would cease ;

Let my voice be heard, that asketh not for fame and not for glory,

Give for all our life's dear story,

Give us Love, and give us Peace ! "

Jean Angelo.

"Dolly," said Anna, as the two girls entered
their bedroom together soon after the ten
o'clock reading of family prayers, and general
dismissal of the household to bed, " come and
sit down by me  I have something to tell you.
You are not sleepy, I hope ? "

Dolly was sleepy : she had been trained to goto
bed at a certain hour, and nature of course
accommodated herself to the discipline ; also
days of uneventful incident and dull routine are
perhaps more exhausting than is generally supposed.
There is no weariness so intense as that
which comes of monotony.

Something to tell me ? " she answered, with
a little quickening of interest ; " is it about
Adrian Earle?"

Anna made a gesture of repudiation ; her
movements were always wonderfully expressive.
The slight flush that came into her face was not
likely to be detected by the light of the solitary
candle, which was considered quite sufficient
for bedroom illumination by Mrs Sylvestre's
economy.

Put out the candle, Dolly," interposed
Anna, with a fine accent of contempt  she
always expressed herself as if her early experiences
had been on a scale of wealth and splendour
: " the moon is almost full," drawing up
the blind as she spoke, and throwing open the
window; " who could want to go to bed on such
a night as this ? "

She leaned out of the window as far as safety
would admit, into the pure illumined air, and
drew a deep breath of irrepressible desire. Her
whole being responded to the influences of the
night : the moon was so bright that she could
distinguish the gleam of the distant sea at the

point she knew well where to look for it ; the
low range of hills, with their twin master-peaks,
showed blackly against the heavenly background
; and the shadows of the trees and forefront
of the house lay motionless on the grass.
Now and again there was a faint stir in the
branches, as some drowsy bird swerved or
shifted its position, and through the serene
hush of the night came the distant hooting of
owls  a weird mysterious sound which seemed
to give the finishing-touch to her mood of emotional
excitement.

Mother of God!" she murmured to herself
(it was an echo of her childhood, and her nearest
approach to devotion), " give me what I want !
I want so to be happy ! "

The moment after she mocked herself with
remorseless contempt. If she did want to be
happy, it was only her own skill and daring
which would get the victory for her, and the
first step in that direction she was now fully
prepared to take.

Did you ever walk to Crawford, Dolly ? "
she asked, retreating from the window with the

sudden apprehension that their voices might be
overheard.

Never ! it is a good five miles."

And how long would that take to walk ? "

I can't say exactly. What have you got in
your head, Anna ? If you want to go to Crawford,
I daresay we can have the pony-carriage
tomorrow."

I want to attend Mass at the Catholic
chapel tomorrow morning, at the early celebration.
When I say I want, my meaning is
that I am resolved to go."

Dolly, who was in the act of loosening the
shining plaits of her golden hair, suffered her
arms to drop suddenly to her side ; she turned
upon her cousin open-mouthed with surprise.

You ! why, I have heard you make fun of
the service scores of times ! Why do you want
to go ? Mamma would never forgive you,
Anna."

"But I shall manage in such a way that she
will never know. I want you to help me,
Dolly. You must go with me !  we can easily
get out of the drawing-room window."

But we cannot easily fasten it again ! The
servant will tell. It is out of the question,
Anna. I should be frightened to death. Besides,
it is too far to walk ; we should have to
get up before it was light. It would be quite
a disgraceful thing to do, and  what for ? "

Anna hesitated a moment ; then slowly raising
her arms above her head, and suffering them
to fall to her sides again with a singular but
expressive movement habitual to her moods of
excitement, she answered clearly 

I want to speak to Philip Methuen."

Oh ! " was Dolly's response, in an accent
of unmistakable reprobation; "I could not do
that, it would be dreadfully improper ! Besides,
Anna, we should be sure to be found out
some one would see us and tell, and I don't
know how mamma would punish us. We
should be going against her on so many points,
we should deserve "

She stopped short ; Anna's look of passionate
scorn almost frightened her.

"Do not speak another word, Dolly; you
are a miserable little fool ! I shall go all the

same, only I shall go alone. No, I don't want
to hear the sound of your voice again."

I would do it if I could," said Dolly, helplessly
; but Anna vouchsafed no answer.

It was a long time before Dolly sobbed herself
to sleep that night. She tried to renew
her remonstrances, but her cousin silenced her
with almost brutal contempt. Anna herself lay
open-eyed through all the long hours of the
night, never for a moment swerving from her
purpose.

At one time the idea occurred to her that
she would so far alter her programme as to
lie in wait for Philip nearer his own house  it
would save time and fatigue ; but the fear of
missing him led her to return to her original
plan.

If she arrived first at the chapel, she could
not possibly fail in her object.

At five o'clock in the morning she got up
and looked at the weather. The sun was
barely risen, and the heavens were overcast
with clouds. Already a few drops of rain had
fallen. The outside world looked indescribably

chill and depressing : the charm, the allurement
of last night, were as extinct as if they
had never existed. Dolly was asleep, but turning
restlessly on her pillow. For a moment
Anna's resolution faltered. Then she renewed
it with tenfold stringency. Was it not from
such a life as now shut her in that she was
going to escape ?

She made a careful and judicious toilet.
There was a chilliness in the air that induced
her to put on the faultless dark-grey ulster
which Miss Earle had given her as a parting
gift, and which, as revealing the grace and
admirable symmetry of her person, was the
most becoming garment she could have worn.
She had a dainty close - fitting hat which
matched it, accommodating itself to the massive
coils of her hair, to the delicate finely cut
face and the magnificent dark eyes, as the last
harmonious touch of a perfect picture. It
vexed her sense of congruity that she felt constrained
to carry an umbrella ; but although the
rain was not at that moment falling, the skies
threatened a downfall.

Just as she was ready to leave the room
Dolly opened her eyes. She glanced with a
momentary bewilderment at her cousin, and
then the remembrance of last night rushed
back on her mind. In a moment she had
sprung out of bed and seized Anna's hand.

Oh, Anna, do not go ! I beseech you, do
not go ! "

Anna's only answer was a contemptuous gesture
of repulsion.

Then wait a few minutes," said Dolly,
pushing back the cloud of fair hair from her
face, and looking up at her cousin with a sort
of martyr resolution  " wait, and I will go with
you ! "

"You will not go with me, for there is no
time to wait ; besides, you could not walk so
fast as I. I will go alone. You can please
yourself about betraying me."

She turned and went out of the room.

There was no difficulty about getting out
of the house. Anna walked straight into the
drawing-room, guiding her way carefully so as
to make no noise in the imperfect light, opened

the shutter of the window against which she
had been leaning during Dr Farquhar's yesterday's
visit  it seemed longer ago than that 
and let herself out into the garden.

The garden-gate was never locked. There
was a bolt easy enough to withdraw, and in a
few minutes more Anna was walking swiftly
on the highroad to Crawford.

Her first sensation, in spite of her high
spirit, was one of extreme nervousness. Since
she had been grown up  rather since she had
been in England  she had never been out of
doors so early before. There was something
foreign and unaccustomed in the aspect of
things,  the world seemed still asleep. Her
own footsteps were almost the only sound she
heard, except the flutter and twitter of the up-rousing
birds, and the plaintive bleat of some
sheep in the fields which she skirted. After
a time she encountered farm-labourers at intervals,
trudging heavily along the roads to
their respective labour, with no more elasticity
in their gait or vitality in their faces than when
they had exchanged " good night " at sundown

yesterday, with any passing stranger. Sleep
had revived their physical forces enough for
the weary round of the day's work, but allowed
of no reserve of energy for any human function
beyond mere physical sensation. Now
and again some man, younger and more alert
than his fellows, stared hard at Anna, with a
confused sense of pleasure and then of surprise ;
but beyond standing still to look after her fora
moment, he gave no sign and offered no interruption.


It was otherwise, however, when she drew
near the town.

Crawford was the seat of a thriving local
industry, and flocks of men and girls were
wending their way to the different mills, not
with the bovine docility of the agricultural
labourer, but with coarse laughter, gross jest,
and a good deal of indiscriminate horse-play.

Some of the women intentionally jostled her
in passing  all had their keen criticisms to
make on her dress and appearance ; and the
men, or boys rather, offered her compliments
that brought the blood to her cheek. Anna

VOL. II. D

had the spirit of a lioness, but not even a
lioness fights against stupendous odds ; and besides,
it was a necessity to escape observation.
She glided through the crowd as swiftly and
silently as a shadow, with every pulse at fever-heat,
and darting covert looks around.

Carshalton Street, in which the chapel stood,
was one of the lowest thoroughfares in the
town, and of the worst reputation, though
naturally the girl was unacquainted with the
fact. She saw, however, with her quick inclusive
glance, that several spinning - ways
opened direct upon the sidewalk, and that
knots of frowsy unkempt women, and rough
brutalised-looking men, were standing together
in the way she must go before she could reach
the little building at the extreme end of the
street.

Involuntarily she made a little pause to reconsider
her position, and at the same moment
she was aware of a swift firm step behind hera
light touch upon her shoulder, and turning
almost with the impetus of light, she found
herself face to face with Philip Methuen.

Thought and emotion have also the velocity
of light, and the strongest currents of feeling
may ebb and flow within limits inappreciable
to time and space. It was perhaps scarcely
within a moment's interval that Philip Methuen
and Anna Trevelyan, thus strangely met after
more than three years' separation, looked at
each other in silence, but it was long enough for
the one to imbibe a draught of sensation which
permeated every nerve and fibre of her being
with a rapture akin to intoxication ; and for
the other to perceive that the girl he had left
behind him was grown into the most perfectly
beautiful woman he had ever seen.

Anna ! " he exclaimed. " I need not ask if
you are well ; but what is the meaning of this ?
So far from home  alone  and in such a part
of the town as this ! It is well I am here to
take care of you."

She laughed with pleasure, deliciously conscious
of a new life in the light of his countenance,
and still holding the hand he had
naturally extended, in a grasp of the tenacity
of which she was scarcely aware.

m , IUIN0I*

IIQQAR

"It is well!" she answered, in her low
melodious voice. " Oh, Philip, how glad I am
to see you ! and  how splendid you have
grown ! "

He coloured a little, but her delight and
ardour were so spontaneous, he had not the
heart to check her ; his feeling was how much
of the impulsive child she still retained. At
the same time he was keenly aware of the
observation they were attracting, and drawing
her hand through his arm, led her gently along
the street.

Anna, on whom few external things were lost,
observed that the women drew back with a
sudden air of decent reserve, and that some of
the men touched their caps to him ; also that
he seemed to recognise faces on all sides. He
did not say much to her till they had entered
the chapel enclosure.

It still wanted a few minutes to the hour of
service ; a few worshippers had already assembled
 there were not likely to be many ; and the
priest was at that moment crossing over from
his house, which closely adjoined the chapel.

He lived and laboured zealously in the midst
of his unsavoury flock.

Philip, who had placed Anna within the
shelter of the porch, stepped across to speak to
him.

I have Father Price's permission to make
use of the vestry for a few minutes, while you
explain how it is I have found you here," he
said to her when he came back. " Please follow
me."

She followed him, as a matter of necessity,
into the small whitewashed chamber, which
held nothing beyond a table and chair, and an
old oaken chest clamped with iron, which was
the depository of the district registers. A
dingy surplice hung from a nail in the wall,
and a bottle of water and glass were set upon
the table. The one redeeming point of beauty
was an ivory crucifix of mediaeval workmanship,
which was suspended above the chest.

Philip placed the chair for her, and pouring
some of the water into the glass, offered it to
her to drink.

You are right," she said, accepting it eagerly,

" I am worn out with excitement and fatigue.
I have walked all the way from Kensington
Vicarage."

"So I judged,  but why, Anna? I do not
wish to hurry you, but I have not much time
at my disposal. What has led you to do this
thing?"

What ? cannot you suppose it is to worship
as you worship ? But no  I won't deceive you 
that was not my motive. On those subjects I
feel just the same as ever  as my father taught
me to feel. I came, because I could think of
no other way of meeting you."

I am distressed," he answered, " that you
should have been driven to such an expedient,
and that circumstances have made it impossible
for me to come and see you. But I relied upon
Mrs Sylvestre explaining her own objections,
and I looked forward from time to time to the
chance of meeting you at Earlescourt. For the
rest, you know pretty well how my time is
spent just now."

What do you mean about Mrs Sylvestre ?
Also  Have another wrong to put right  why

did you not meet me at the station when I came
home ? I thought it would have been enough
for me to express a wish."

It might have been enough," he answered,
with an indefinable reserve of manner which
irritated her to the highest point, "had my
time been at my own disposal. I had occasion
to see Mrs Sylvestre the same morning I received
your letter, and I begged her to explain
how impossible it was for me to do as you
wished. My uncle was at that time very ill
indeed. Her answer was, that under no circumstances
would she have sanctioned such
an arrangement, and she made it a personal
request that I should not visit you at the
vicarage. Is it possible she did not explain
this ? "

She explained nothing," said Anna, in a
low tone.

Then it is very generous on your part to
have forgiven what must have appeared to you
such shameful neglect ; and I am deeply grateful,
Anna, though I could wish you had proved
it at less cost to yourself."

He spoke with more warmth, and his eyes
rested upon her with a sort of tender admiration.


"How beautiful you have grown, little Anna ! "
and he lifted her hand to his lips ; " and Honour
and Oliver tell me how clever and accomplished
as well ! You have proved the truth of what
we once talked about  the wheels run more
smoothly, and you are willing to own now that
life is worth living ? "

"Yes," she said, looking at him with eyes
full of tears ; " I am willing to own it now."

Her heart was full to overflow. The tones of
his voice, the remembered individuality of his
manner, the physical beauty which wrought
at all times upon her sensuous temperament,
swayed her with irresistible force. She could
scarcely resist the impulse to cast herself upon
his breast, or to sink at his feet sobbing out her
passion and her joy ; but time and training had
done something for her in the way of self-discipline,
and also she did not feel secure one
moment against interruption.

It was an unwelcome shock to her excited

sensibility when he said more coolly, " Will you
sit and rest here for a few minutes while I go
into the chapel ? Then we will get a carriage
of some kind from the ' Bull ' to take you
home."

But you mean to come with me ? "

No, that is out of the question. Mrs Sylvestre
will regard your conduct, I hope, as a
characteristic stroke of impulse ; or if you think
I can do any good, I will try, if possible, to call
at the vicarage before the day is over  there is
a long day yet before us."

He smiled, seemed to take her angry silence
for consent, and opening the door which led
into the chapel, went out.

Anna clasped her hands before her eyes.

Was this casual meeting  these guarded,
kindly words  this infinite gulf of distance 
to be the only outcome of her perilous freak?

Oh, but he was priest-trained, and under
bondage still ; she would not risk her future by
too great precipitation. One thing, however,
would be necessary : to restore her relations
with Earlescourt, so as to obtain the opportunity

of occasional intercourse with him. She
would throw herself upon Honour's generosity,
and ask if she was to be cut off from her love
because she had not been able to love Adrian
back as;ain ?

Philip returned, after a short interval, accompanied,
to her angry displeasure, by the old
priest, who greeted Anna with almost paternal
kindness, and began to talk to her about the
village of Skefflngton, and the changes he had
known in his time. After a few more minutes,
the messenger who had been sent for the
carriage came in to announce its arrival at the
door of the chapel, and bringing with him at
the same time a cup and frothing jug of new
milk.

Come, Anna," said Philip, as he filled the
cup and offered it to her, " this reminds me of
the old days at Fiesole  you were never so content
as when feeding me with goat's milk."

Let me feed you now ! " she said, eagerly.
I will not drink unless you share it with

me."

It was perhaps as well that in the rush of

memory his words excited, she had slipped
back into the softness of the Tuscan tongue.
She held out the cup her lips had tasted as she
spoke ; but he put it down on the table beside
him without responding to her tender challenge,
and with a deliberate avoidance of the glance
which he knew was fastened upon his face.

Let me put you in the carriage at once," he
said, with a smile which, in spite of its sweetness,
had a suggestion of restraint in it ; " it is
quite time that both of us were at home."

"Will you not drive back too ? " she asked,
as she took her place.

1 am not ready. I prefer to walk. Actio,
a riverderci ! "

CHAPTER XX.

If thou must love me, let it be for nought
Except for love's sake only, that evermore
Thou mayst love on through all eternity. "

E. B. Browning.

Put out the lights and draw up the blinds, so
that I can watch the dawn, and persuade myself
the night is further spent than it is. I
shall weary you all out ! It frets me that I
should make such a long business of dying."

And I have not courage enough to face the
idea of the time when that business will be done !"

"Oh, that eases my mind! I have been
thinking, as I lay awake, that no man could well
be more solitary than you when I am dead. I
don't know of any man, woman, or child who
can claim relationship with you. You must
marry, Philip, and give me your promise that
you will  it is in the bond."

The young man was silent, and it was too
dark to see his face.

It vexed me greatly," pursued Sir Giles,
that you made yourself the guest of the Abbe
de Seve during that week in Paris. What better
way could you have taken to put yourself in
touch with the old denials ? To my thinking,
it was treating me unfairly. I repeat, you stand
pledged to maintain the race : you are twenty-eight
years old, nephew."

There was again a pause between them, and
Philip perceived that Sir Giles had turned
towards him as well as his weakness allowed,
and was peering through the semi-darkness to
see the effect of his words. He moved his chair
close to the bedside, and took hold of the hand
that was straying over the coverlet with the
restlessness of pain and weakness.

I see that it will comfort you," he said, with
his habitual directness of speech, " if I tell you
that my reluctance to marry is a thing of the
past  that is, if I am happy enough to persuade
Honour Aylmer to be my wife."

Honour Aylmer ! " repeated the old baronet,

with a gasp of emotion. " Heaven is kinder tome
than I deserve ! You have lifted a load
from my heart  Honour is not too good for
you."

My prayer is that she may be willing to
think so."

"You will go and ask her the question
tomorrow  that is, to-day  Philip ! Tell her
from me, a dying old man, that she must forego
her privileges  that I must see your hands
joined before I go. "What should hinder it?"

His excitement was rising dangerously high ;
the consolation he had never expected to receive
seemed suddenly close within his touch, and he
was eager to grasp it.

"Promise," he cried, sharply, "that there
shall be no delays or reserves on your part, and
that you will do all a lover can to overrule
hers."

I promise," said Philip ; and there was
something in the inflection of his voice which
satisfied his uncle. He fell back on his pillows
with a sigh of relief.

Send Duncan to take your place, and go to

bed for an hour or two. Do not go to her
heavy-eyed and pale. Yet  wait a minute ! "

It was characteristic, that his morbid sensibility
was quickly reasserting itself, and checked
the full tide of his comfort.

"It is human nature, but I should hardly
have thought it was yours, Philip, to have fallen
in love in such a time as this. You have
managed to indemnify yourself pretty well
for the tedium of waiting on an old man's
deathbed. I do not complain, but the fact
strikes me."

My love for Honour Aylmer is not the
growth of the last month or tw T o. I took it to
India with me, and I still keep my secret. I
don't mean to deny that we have never met or
parted lately without a deeper conviction on
my part that my happiness lay in her hands,
but this without any breach of loyalty to

you."

"So be it," said the old man, still with
impatience; "let it pass! Anyway, now you
have the satisfaction of knowing that your love
and your loyalty run on the same lines. Don't

keep me in suspense an hour longer than
necessary ! "

There are perhaps few things more difficult
than for a man to make deliberately an avowal
of love ; it seems to be of the essence of the
passion that such disclosures should be accidental
and spontaneous. Perhaps as Philip Methuen,
later on the same morning, rode slowly towards
Earlescourt with this purpose in view, he felt
such awkwardness less than most men would
have done. The long training of his youth had
tended to chasten, almost to eliminate, the
impulsive propensities, and to reduce every
action of his life to some recognised law of
conduct.

It would indeed need to be some terrible
crisis of experience when either his words or
actions escaped his own control, or hurried
him into the vortex of self-abandonment ; but
it should be remembered that this mastery is
never obtained by any man the bases of whose
character are not deeply laid in strength of
feeling as well as strength of will. Thus it
followed that even his love for Honour should

be modified by the potent influences of his
education, as well as by the bias of his nature :
whether right or wrong, he held the opinion
that even in legitimate forms of self-gratification
there is, not perhaps positive unworthiness,
but a descent from the highest plane of
human conduct. To live to himself was sofar
from being an allurement, that it almost
needed an effort to accept this charmed life
which seemed opening before him,  not from
coldness or lack of receptivity, but from the
temper which instinctively disclaims the right
to personal happiness.

Soul, take thine ease ! " he said to himself,
half bitterly, would be the burden of the message
the future bore him, if Honours sweet
eyes answered the love in his ; self-indulgence,
self - delights, the highest sensual pleasures
masking themselves as duties, instead of the
relentless sacrifice of individual will and desire
the rigour of shrinking subserviency to
other men's needs.

As he got off his horse and entered the
house, he distinguished the sound of Oliver's

VOL. II. E

piano under Honour's crisp and delicate touch.
He was sufficiently at home to find his way
to the room without introduction. Oliver was
lying on the couch under the window, which
stood open to the warm perfumed air. A
magnolia-tree in blossom pushed its lustrous
leaves close against the glass.

He looked flushed and worn, and the lines
on his brow indicated not only some special
pressure of pain and discomfort, but of intense
impatience and resistance under it.

Oh ! " he cried, as Philip entered, " is it
you ? Leave off, Honour  Philip is better !
I begin to hate Chopin as he does. Presently
he shall sing to me."

He made room for Methuen to sit beside him,
and frowned and twisted with irritation when
he saw him cross over to the piano to speak
to Honour.

Bear with him," she said, in a low tone ;
he has had one of his worst nights, and is
worn out with pain. Your influence is greater
than mine; how are we to give him strength
to suffer ? "

Her look and manner were that of one whose
sympathy has been strained to the verge of
endurance, and there was a pathetic droop in
the lips, and a heaviness in the eyes she
raised to his face, that suggested the idea to
his mind that Oliver's sleepless night had not
been endured alone. Pity and tenderness, and
the instinctive worship of his soul for such
unconscious virtue as hers, quickened his love
almost to the point of pain ; it took the colour
from his cheek and gave fire to his glance,
but no more overt sign escaped him.

"I can stay with him for an hour," he answered
 and the sacrifice taxed him more
heavily than he would have believed possible
" if you will rest meanwhile, and give me
the opportunity of speaking to you before I
leave the house."

He dropped his eyes as he spoke ; he did
not choose to read his sentence in advance.
For a moment Honour's heart stood still :
the man who spoke to her was the ideal of
all charm and excellence to her pure and exacting
mind, and  there could not be much

mistake as to what his words and manner
meant. It meant, that she should spend the
given hour of rest in questioning her own
worthiness to receive the great gift of his love.

When Methuen had closed the door after
her, he turned back to Oliver, and was struck
by the expression of his face  the suffering
and bitterness were so intense. It had been
in his mind to expostulate with him on his
unmanly want of patience and consideration,
but pity conquered every other feeling. " I
see," he said, " your pain is almost past bearing.
What can I do ? It seems a cruel mockery
to say I wish I could bear it for you."

You ! " cried Oliver, turning fiercely upon
him  " you ! What do you know of aches and
pains ? I am insulted by your pity ! It is
an infamy that one human being should be
born into the world like you and another
like me  a mark only for the contemptuous
compassion one throws to a thrashed
hound or over-driven horse ! What was hard
enough to bear as a boy, I find out is unbearable
as a man. Do not stay here ; go

where you wish to go  to Honour, who is
waiting for you ! Am I blind, do you think,
as well as lame and crooked ? "

I grant," said Philip quietly, sitting down
beside him in spite of his resistance, " that
if you accept your hard fate in a spirit far
meaner than that of a beaten hound, you lower
yourself even beneath that level,  you to whom
some of the highest chances of humanity have
been offered."

The boy uttered a disdainful snort.

"It is nothing but a truism to tell you that
the perfect equilibrium of body and mind, the
energy of the strong, the success of those called
great, even the happiness of happy lovers, count
for nothing in the divine estimate ; while one
sigh of impatience checked, or sharp stroke of
pain endured without betrayal, knits the soul
to God."

Oliver glanced at him askance.

"1 should hate you, Methuen, only  you
believe what you say. The justice of God,
then, puts martyrdom for my portion, and
every good gift of body and mind, and all

the human bliss that goes with them, for
yours ; and I am to accept it as an equitable
arrangement ! "

What true soldier resents the call to the
front ? Tt is he who is placed in the rear,
amongst the reserves which may never be
wanted, who may well doubt his courage and
merit." Philip stopped short suddenly ; his
teaching seemed to have a sharp personal application.


"Pity you should not be able to change
places with me ! " said Oliver, in a tone of derision.
" If there is one thing to my mind
more disgusting than another, it is to see the
man who treads softly on rose-leaves indicating
the red-hot ploughshares to the appointed
victim, and bidding him take heart of grace.
Martyrdom never commends itself to the martyr,
depend upon it. I like the reserves ! "

He leaned forward and peered into the other's
face, which he had turned away.

"Why don't you tell me you would have
preferred my lot in life to yours ? " he asked,
with a sneer.

Because I could not say it honestly ; the
strength to submit and endure only conies
with the necessity."

He got up and went to the piano. "I will
sing to you, if you like."

Ah, well, that will be a minor martyrdom,"
said the boy, spitefully. " You shall sing till I
am tired  only, if you have been sitting up all
night, I am afraid you will not be in good voice,
and I am critical, if nothing else."

Philip accepted the challenge  his blood was
on fire. Every pulse seemed to rebel against
this forced suspense and quiescence ; but was
he to prove unequal to this trifling test with
his own brave words in his ears ?

Oliver did his best to make the test wellnigh
intolerable. He interrupted and contradicted
him continually  asking for what he knew he
did not sing, and finding fault with what he
did, with a mixed perversity and acuteness
difficult to bear ; but Philip's patience and
coolness were invincible.

Oliver was first tired out  or rather a spirit
like his, which hung upon musical expression

as upon a golden chain, lifting him out of the
abyss of physical sensation, could not resist the
spell of the exquisite voice, touched to the finest
faculty of interpretation.

Forgive me !" he said humbly, as Methuen
for the third time reached the conclusion of a
certain movement of Purcell's, in which the boy
had lost himself in rapture  " forgive me, and I
will let you off. Come here a minute ! "

Philip went close up to him, and saw that his
eyes were full of tears.

When you have taken Honour Aylmer away
from me, Philip Methuen, what good shall my
life do me ?  and yet I cannot hate you."

If," was the answer, " I am so happy as you
seem to expect, I will never take her away from
you : our home shall be yours. And now let
me go and find her."

But as he went down-stairs towards the garden,
where he seemed to know by instinct she
would be, Miss Earle interposed with friendly
greetings and inquiries, and polite acknowledgments
of his kindness to Oliver.

We miss Adrian so much," she said. " He

was always good to his brother, and lightened
Honour's labours a little. You have not heard
from him lately, I suppose ? "

No, I have not heard from him. I thought
he was at Tenure with Sir Walter."

Oh no, he has never been with his father
at all ; he has gone off on some raid of his
own."

She looked at Philip curiously, wondering
how much he knew of the situation, and if it
was to his account that her nephew owed his
recent disappointment, and the rest of the
family their profound satisfaction.

You are not going, I hope ? Surely our
forlorn condition will move you to pity, and
you will be persuaded to stay to luncheon. Sir
Giles, I judge from your looks, is better this
morning ? "

He is not better  it is a certain though
slow decline  but he gave me leave of absence.
No invalid could be less selfish."

Then you are not in a hurry, and I will put
a shawl over my shoulders and show you my
rose-garden. We have quite a second harvest."

Philip submitted with the grace of a courtier,
and the practised patience which was seldom
unequal to the demands made upon it ; but Miss
Earle was disappointed in her companion. Her
impression was " that he knew something about
roses," as she expressed it, and recognised their
importance in the scheme of the universe ; but
after he had miscalled " Mareschal Vaillant " for
Xavier Olio," ard failed to perceive that
he had never beheld so perfect a specimen of
Prince Camille de Eolian " before, her interest
slackened, and she remembered she had letters
to write.

I think you will find Honour in the buttery,"
she said. "It is a favourite retreat of
hers, and if you can spare the time, a chat with
you will do her good. Tell her I depend upon
seeing you at luncheon."

She nodded and turned away, and he was at
last free to follow his bent.

The Buttery was in a far-away corner of
the grounds  a somewhat wild and neglected
stretch of shrubbery with filbert-trees of so
considerable an antiquity that they might well

have been mistaken for trees of the forest, and
the more so that they had long ceased to bear
fruit. It was a whim of Sir Walter Earle's not
to have them cut down. On the right hand the
space was marked out by a wall covered with
mosses and lichens of exquisite gradations of
golden colour, and with tiny hart's-tongue ferns
peeping out from every chink of vantage.

A straight grass-covered path, soft as velvet,
and with its verdant pile almost as closely cut,
led to a wide rustic bench covered with an
awning, on which Philip could perceive that
Honour was seated. Above shone the blue-grey
August sky, palpitating with light and heat.

Honour rose instinctively as Philip drew
near.

Don't let my coming disturb you," he said.
Sit down again, Honour ; with your leave I
should like to talk to you here."

His eyes dwelt upon her with a tenderness
not to be mistaken ; but for a few minutes he
did not speak.

You wore a white gown like this and a sash
of the same colour the first time I saw you  do

you remember ? Ever since I have judged all
women's costumes by that."

I remember perfectly. You read aloud that
passage from Dante beginning 'Li ruscelletti, che
de' verdi coll;' you condemned Chopin, criticised
my painting, and took Oliver's liking by storm."

Does your memory also recall that I stopped
at that time a whole month at Earlescourt ?
That month was to me a new revelation. It
was very soon after I left Paris, and was my
first experience of family home life. I had
never lived under the same roof with any
woman before (except my mother), and was
quite ignorant of the danger I ran. Honour,
forgive me if I seem to speak too abruptly. I
have no knowledge how other lovers plead ; but
you set before me in your sweet unconscious
daily life the qualities I had been taught to
reverence and adore from a child, in such a
fashion that I could not at first distinguish between
my religion and my love."

He paused a moment, but she did not speak.
Her inward answer was, " What am I, to be held
thus worthy ? " He went on 

When I discovered what had happened tome,
it was to know that I was guilty, if not of a
crime, at least of a shameful weakness. I went
to India to try and forget the betrothed wife of
Adrian Earle."

Then she looked up at him with a smile
touching her lips, and all the light of a woman's
tenderness shining in her eyes.

You are not going to tell me that you succeeded
? " she asked.

I succeeded so far," he answered, " that even
now at this moment, if he or any other man
could make you happier than I, my acquiescence
would be absolute. I have been content to forego
you, Honour  what stronger proof of love
can I give ? "

He had taken her hands in his. The inflections
of his voice, to which she had been keenly
susceptible from the first hour that they met,
and the proud humility of his manner, so
wrought upon her that it was difficult not to
make her response too swift and eager. She
turned away her face as she answered 

I am afraid ! Your notions are so high 

you are so different from other men. You think
me so much better than I am, and will be disappointed
when you discover your mistake."

Ah, I need to retaliate all that ; but it is not
to the point. I love you, Honour, once and forever.
Come what may in life, no other love
will touch me. Can you love me back ? I will
worship you next to God ! "

Can I ? " she replied, involuntarily tightening
her clasp upon the hands which held hers.
I believe I have always loved you, Philip ;
just as Anna Trevelyan opened Adrian's eyes to
the knowledge of his mistake, so, though I did
not know it at the time, did you open mine.
But, I repeat, I am afraid of my great happiness."


Trust me," he said ; " I will not deceive you.
Outside my duty to God, I am yours body and
soul, flesh and spirit, as long as I draw the
breath of life or can discern the evil from the
good."

He drew her into his arms, and their lips
met, not with the intemperate heat of passion,
which exhausts the honey of union as the bee

the flower, but with the nobler reticence of the
highest love, which by a divine paradox attracts
while it withholds.

Before Philip left Honour that morning (he
did not accept Miss Earle's invitation to luncheon),
he had won from her the promise that
she would come and see Sir Giles Methuen on the
next, knowing how it would cheer and gladden
the sick man to see her and hear her himself.
He had as yet said nothing about his uncle's
anxiety for an immediate marriage, for there
seemed to him something almost sacrilegious in
such haste. Perhaps he was scarcely anxious
to forego the finer rapture and more spiritual
delight of the lover for the assured content of
marriage, or he was reluctant to startle Honour
too suddenly from the tender contemplation
of her rose of joy.

It was also agreed upon between them that
though it was necessary to ask at once Miss
Earle's approval and consent, they should keep
their golden secret a little longer from public
disclosure, Oliver being made the only exception.


CHAPTER XXI.

The darkness of death is like the evening twilight ; it makes all objects
appear more lovely to the dying."  Richter.

How at every turn in the road of life men
have to reconcile themselves to renewed and
irremediable disappointment !

When Honour Aylmer, accompanied by Miss
Earle, arrived late in the afternoon of the next
day at Methuen Place, Mrs Gibson met them
with red eyes and speech scarcely under command.


Sir Giles was adored by all his dependants, to
the surprise of some of his friends ; but where
large-hearted generosity exists in conjunction
with rigid requirements as to essentials, and
indulgence towards details, added to quick discernment
of fidelity or the reverse, servants are
sure to be loyal in spite of flaws in the masters

temper. There is nothing that less wins their
favour than a slack, uncertain, unobservant rule.

She told them, as well as she was able, that
Sir Giles had been sinking rapidly during the
last twenty-four hours, and that the symptoms
now present were those which they had been
warned would precede dissolution. He had become
suddenly worse soon after Mr Methuen
had left the house the day before, and was
almost speechless on his return. Since then he
had rallied a little, and had insisted on having
his old servants summoned to his bedside to
bid them farewell, and was now in the very
act of receiving the last offices of the Church,
both Fathers Price and Francis being in attendance.


She added, " he was in a heavenly frame of
mind "  a statement which drew a doubtful
smile from Miss Earle's stanch Protestantism,
and a sigh of indefinable desire from Honour.

The two ladies exchanged looks of hesitation
and sympathy, and then the elder said 

I think, if you see no objection, we should
like to wait a little while, in case of change or

VOL. II. f

improvement in poor Sir Giles ; no one need
know that we are here."

The housekeeper showed them into a sitting-room,
and lingered a little longer at Miss Earle's
request.

"Mr Methuen, no doubt, feels it very
deeply ? " she asked ; "he will be left very
much alone in the world."

It would be a strange thing if Mr Methuen
did not feel it," was Mrs Gibson's almost indignant
rejoinder, u for Sir Giles took to him from
the first more like a father than anything else.
The thing he feels most now is parting from
him ; it would go to any one's heart to see the
way he lies in bed and watches him, and his
voice has a different sound when he speaks to
him after another. But there, what can you expect
? Who could help loving Mr Methuen out
of the common ? There isn't a stable-boy about
the place who doesn't do the best he knows to
please him ; and if Sir Giles has treated him
like a father, no son could have gone beyond
him in duty."

"I agree," said Miss Earle, briskly; "very

few young men watch month after month ina
father's sick-room as Mr Methuen has clone.
He must be very much worn out."

You would think so, but he doesn't show it.
Some people have a way of soon knocking themselves
up with nursing and calling out for pity
instead of the patient, just because they neglect
all reasonable ways of taking care of their health.
Now, Mr Methuen goes out for a good walk
every day, and takes his meals regular ; but
for all that, there are not many hours in the
twenty-four when he is out of Sir Giles's room,
and that's hard upon a young man when all's
said and done."

At this moment a bell rang from the upper
portion of the house. Mrs Gibson turned a
little pale.

It's the dear master's bell," she said. " Excuse
me a few minutes, ladies."

Only," said Honour, catching her hand,
"come back and tell us, or send."

They waited a few moments in painful suspense
; at least it was acutely painful to Honour.
Miss Earle could not help letting her eye wander

over the furniture of the room in which they
were sitting, and speculating upon the radical
changes that would be necessary before Methuen
Place could be made ready for its new mistress.
She condemned herself for the involuntary callousness,
but could not feel any profound emotion
at the passing away of a feeble, querulous
old man, who had no ties upon her regard.

Then the door unexpectedly opened, and
Philip himself entered.

His face was so pale, and his manner so intensely
quiet and controlled, that Miss Earle
felt a little startled.

"I am sure," he said, addressing her first,
"you will excuse all ceremony. My uncle is
dying ; he knows you are here, and he has asked
to see Honour. Have I your permission to take
her to him ? " Then he added quickly, " You
know what that consent means ? "

Take her  if you will," was Miss Earle' s
answer, and her voice was scarcely under her
control.

Come, Honour!" he said, and he took her
hand and led her out of the room.

The sick man, over whose eyes the films of
death were already gathering, looked eagerly
towards the door as it opened. Mrs Gibson
was sobbing at the foot of the bed, and the
two priests knelt one on either side.

Leave us for a few moments alone," said
Philip, addressing the elder of the two ; " I will
summon you again immediately."

Father Price retired at once, not without
a kindly glance at the tall beautiful girl whose
hand Philip still retained, but the other (the
same who had slept at his watch over poor Mark
Methuen's remains) made some slight protest.

Suffer it to be so now," urged Philip, with
an anxious glance towards the bed  " let the
responsibility rest with me."

"The responsibility of calling back a parting
soul fresh from the consecration of his
Maker is a heavy one, my son, and not to be
lightly assumed," said the old priest, in a tone
as devoid of sensibility as sounding brass; but
he could not resist the decision of the young
man's manner, and reluctantly followed his
brother into the ante-room.

Philip led Honour up to Sir Giles Methuen's
right hand, and the girl sank reverently on her
knees beside the bed, and fixed her tender
suffused eyes upon the ashen face.

I am here," she said, in low tones of exquisite
pathos  " give me your blessing."

Sir Giles with a concentrated effort fixed his
failing eyes on her sweet face, and a faint smile
trembled on his lips.

Philip, anticipating the purpose he had no
strength to express, knelt beside Honour, and
taking her hand in his, put it solemnly against
his lips.

We are pledged to each other for life or
death," he said, " and it will soften our sorrow
to know that you are satisfied."

Sir Giles succeeded in raising his hand and
putting it on the clasped hands of the pair
kneeling beside him. Then a few words ebbed
slowly from his lips.

Be good to him, my dear," speaking to
Honour, " and pay him back for me."

His eyes wandered to his nephew, and a sudden
spasm passed over his face. Human heartstrings

of necessity break and let go, but they
bleed under the process, and there was a look
of such poignant anguish in the gaze that
met his, that it added a bitter sweetness to
the final pangs.

His lips moved again, but utterance was over;
and had it been otherwise, no words could have
been adequate to express the yearning love
and wistful hope which were the last conscious
movements of the old mans spirit on this side
the undiscovered country.

Chapter XXII.

Now, by heaven,
My blood begins my safer guides to rule,
And passion having my best judgment choleric,
Assays to lead the way."

Shakspeare.

It was a subject of some surprise and general
remark that the death of Sir Giles Methuen
seemed to be so profoundly mourned by his
nephew. Not that there was any demonstrativeness
in Philip's grief: it had the depth,
sincerity, and strength which were the elements
of his character.

For the six weeks following the funeral he
shut himself up in the grey old Place, making
it to be distinctly understood that he neither
visited nor received visits. It was a foreign
custom by no means acceptable to English
notions, and Miss Earle's dissatisfaction almost

approached resentment, for no exception was
made in favour of Earlescourt.

You are satisfied with your lover, Honour ? "
she asked, drily. "He is certainly not made
for working days."

I am quite satisfied," she answered, and her
sweet face had that marvellous radiance with
which happy love transfigures the countenances
of some women. " He writes to me every day."

Miss Earle shrugged her shoulders. " Let us
be thankful for small mercies ! I feel bound
to warn you, dear Honour, against taking too
obviously the attitude of worshipper; it is a
temptation which corrupts even the virtue of
an archangel, and I suppose that Sir Philip
Methuen himself does not stand higher than
that. Somehow my mind misgives me  I have
always held paragons in fear."

You mean  that you do not trust Philip ? "
Honour smiled with a superb assurance.

Not exactly that ; but I can hardly believe
that we can have a commonplace wedding, a
refurbishing of tarnished splendours, and prosaic
bliss afterwards, when he is the hero ! You

know the Methuen motto and legend  'Fides
non felicity '  and that ill-luck is the inheritance
of every heir to the title ? But forgive
me, darling, I am only jesting in order to
keep your ideal expectations within reasonable
bounds. 5 '

It was true that Honour was looking both
grave and pale.

I cannot conceive what could come between
us but death," she said. " Together there would
be nothing to fear."

And that ' together ' will not be very long-delayed,
sweet," kissing her tenderly. " I admire
the common-sense of poor Sir Giles, who
laid that injunction on his nephew ; and at
bottom, perhaps, I admire the self-denial of the
nephew himself. Let us say that he loves you,
dear, almost as well as you deserve."

The singular seclusion observed by the new
baronet was equally a subject of discussion at
Kensington Vicarage. It would have been a
matter of astonishment to any one unacquainted
with the craving hunger after personal details
which seems the normal condition of country

society, and is only to be paralleled by the
mysterious sagacity with which it scents them
out, how every movement of young Methuen
was watched and known. How often the family
solicitors visited him  whether Mr Chapman
stayed all night or otherwise  every occasion
when the old priest at Crawford was his guest,
or he walked himself to the chapel for early
celebration,  were circumstances as well known
to his neighbours as himself.

Anna Trevelyan, from the time when she
came almost as a child to the vicarage, had
been in the habit of bribing her aunt's housemaid,
Janet, for news of the doings at Methuen
Place, increasing her bribes with the difficulty
or necessity of obtaining it. The fact of the
girl having a brother in the stables of the house
established a natural line of communication, and
was prized by Anna as an inestimable piece of
good fortune. In this way she was kept pretty
well informed of his visits to Earlescourt, and
had even known of that paid by Miss Earle
and Honour to Sir Giles Methuen on the day of
his death.

This circumstance quickened to an almost
intolerable degree the latent jealousy and misgiving
she had always entertained in respect to
Honour Aylmer, and she began again eagerly
to revolve schemes for placing herself in direct
communication with Philip. The obstacle which
had stood between their intercourse was surely
now removed by the death of the selfish old
man (there are none so keen to detect selfishness
as those whose motive-power it is), who
had monopolised the time and affection of his
nephew. What was there now to prevent the
recognition and fulfilment of the contract which,
she never ceased to try and persuade herself,
dated back to her childhood?  his excessive
scruples about visiting at a house where he had
been forbidden ? the failure of his expectation
of meeting her at Earlescourt to which he had
referred ? his exaggerated respect for his uncle's
memory, and monkish way of showing it ?

She never concealed from herself that her
regard for Philip Methuen was a much more
active and powerful sentiment than his for her,
and that it would be part of the function of

her love to kindle the flame of passion from her
own torch ; but she accepted the necessity as
the natural outcome of his priestly training,
and the prospect of breaking down the barriers
of his coldness and reserve rather stimulated
her imagination than otherwise.

But this was only so long as he was equally indifferent
to all other women : the notion of his
feeling any attraction towards Honour Aylmer
beyond the moral complacency he had often
expressed, and which moved Anna's unmitigated
contempt, worked so powerfully against
her peace of mind that the routine of her aunt's
household became daily a burden heavier to
bear.

The one mitigating circumstance was the
seclusion which Philip thought proper to observe,
and which, she had kept herself informed,
was not violated by any intercourse with the
Earlescourt family.

Anna had succeeded in keeping her visit to
the Roman Catholic chapel a secret from her
aunt. On the day in question she had dismissed
her carriage at a discreet distance from

the vicarage, and had then walked quietly into
Mrs Sylvestre's presence with the announcement
that she had been taking a walk before
breakfast in hopes of getting rid of a headache,
which, she added, " is so bad that I shall never
be able to boast immunity again."

So well had her diplomacy succeeded, that
she had thought it better to get a note conveyed
to Methuen Place, through the usual
channel of communication, telling Philip not to
come to the vicarage as he had promised, the
matter being arranged without his interference.

Such was the condition of affairs about five
weeks after the death of Sir Giles, when the
vicar, coming in as usual one afternoon from
his parish rounds, said, as he took his place at
the tea-table, invariably spread and surrounded
at the same hour  

I forgot to mention that I met Mrs Gibson
in the park yesterday  a very worthy creature,
my dear, is Mrs Gibson  and learnt some news
of the new baronet."

Mrs Sylvestre instinctively bridled : the commendation
of the stanch old papist housekeeper

would certainly have been met by protest
or disclaimer, only she was not unwilling
to hear what had been communicated, and
deemed interruption unseasonable.

You will be surprised to hear," pursued Mr
Sylvestre, examining with some natural disappointment
the contents of an almost exhausted
tin of sardines, "that Mrs Gibson has been in
town for the last ten days engaged in choosing
and furnishing some bachelor chambers for Sir
Philip Methuen."

I am not in the least surprised," interrupted
Mrs Sylvestre, severely ; "I am quite prepared
to see the young man indemnify himself for the
unnatural restrictions of his youth by running
a course of profligate self-indulgence in the
future. It is simply the effect of a cause ; and,
I ask, what is there to restrain him in a religion
formulated to accommodate itself to the worst
weaknesses of human nature ? "

"I don't think, my dear," replied the vicar,
a little drily, " that the young man in question
will draw very heavily on his spiritual privileges.
It appears that Lord Sainsbury is

expected home in wretched health, which of
course we already knew from the newspapers,
and has telegraphed to young Methuen to meet
him in town. There is some press-work to begot
out of hand which was intrusted to him
w T hen he left India, and must see the light before
Parliament meets. Let us hope that this
will help to keep him out of mischief."

In that case it would have been more
reasonable for Philip Methuen to take up his
abode under Lord Sainsbury's own roof."

Mrs Sylvestre spoke with that air of finality
which is never more influential than when weare
arranging our neighbours' affairs.

Lord Sainsbury only stops in town a few
days, and then goes on at once to some warmer
climate. His town house is not open ; he will
go to Coleridge's, but Methuen prefers a domicile
of his own. His work will keep him in town
some time, it appears  not a cheerful prospect
at this time of the year."

It was Anna's policy never to betray the interest
she felt in this subject to her aunt. The
news she had just heard was absolutely unacceptable,

baffling her plans, and rendering her
course of conduct more difficult than ever ; but
she ate her dry toast, and sipped her milk
(which was the diet she preferred), with her
habitual air of indifference to whatever subject
was under discussion.

Inwardly she blessed the minuteness of her
aunt's curiosity when Mrs Sylvestre asked 

"And where are Philip Methuen's apartments
? "

In Bruton Street, I think she said, and that
he was going up to town in a day or two. One
thing is certain, he will not be much missed ! It
can never be sufficiently deplored that Kensington
parish is in the hands of a Catholic proprietor.
I hear it reported that the new baronet
means to restore the home chapel at the Place,
and bring over a chaplain from some foreign
seminary ; but I trust his friends at Earlescourt
will advise him against doing anything so unpopular."


His friends at Earlescourt or elsewhere will
never influence Philip Methuen much," replied
Mrs Sylvestre with a sneer ; and then she added,

VOL. II. G

moved by the association of ideas, " I cannot
understand, Anna, how it is that the Earle
family have seemingly dropped your acquaintance
since you returned from town  there is
more in it, I begin to suspect, than you choose
to explain."

In spite of herself Anna felt the hot blood
rise in her cheeks, and was aware that everyone
at the table looked at her. Mrs Sylvestre
compressed her thin lips with an ominous
change of countenance, and began to talk laboriously
of something else ; but when the meal was
over, she called Anna into the drawing-room 
a room rarely used when the family were alone,
but always made the scene of important discussion
or of the administration of parental law.

I have sent for you," she said, " to ask you
once more  as I have often asked you before,
only this time I mean to have an answer  the
reason why you cut short your visit to the
Earles in London, and of their casting you off
since their return ? "

She spoke with the quiet incisiveness which,
as Anna expressed it, meant mischief ; and the

girl was quick to perceive that another occasion
had arisen for a mutual trial of strength.

o

Would it suit her purpose best to defy her aunt
or to yield ?

I was tired of them," she answered sullenly
; " I wanted to come home."

You are not apt to be soon tired of a life of
luxurious indolence, and of opportunities for
the indulgence of your love of pleasure and
personal display ; your excuses lack ingenuity,
Anna. Try again ! "

The sneer wrought upon Anna. Her eyes
flashed.

Have the truth if you will," she said with
a gesture of defiance ; " I came home because
Adrian Earle made love to me."

Daring as she was, she felt startled by the
change in her aunt's face ; the colour ebbed from
cheek and lips, and a cold gleam of sinister
meaning came into her eyes. She looked as if
she had received a blow ; and it was true that
she had  one, the force of which she was only
able to estimate by degrees.

Do you mean," she asked, in a low suppressed

voice, " that Adrian Earle made you an
offer of marriage ? "

What else could I mean ? To what other
end was he likely to make love to me ? "

And you refused him ? "

I refused him," repeated Anna.

There was a pause. It would be hard to convey
the idea of the rage and disappointment in
Mrs Sylvestre's mind. Here had been a solution
of the problem as to the final disposal of
her niece, beyond her wildest expectations and
desires ; so much indeed beyond the latter and
the girl's deserts, that it would have been
thoroughly obnoxious to her except for the
incalculable advantages such a position would
have won for her own children ; and Anna, with
a perverseness beyond calculation, prompted by
an almost inconceivable malice, had thrown her
chance away !

And this is why you came home ? You
complain of your life here, and the burden of
poverty and dependence, and you had the offer
of becoming mistress of Earlescourt, and  refused
it ! I do not believe you."

Anna shrugged her shoulders with an air of
ineffable indifference. In Mrs Sylvestre's mood
of irritation it was more than she could bear ;
her accustomed self-control escaped her, and she
grasped the girl's arm with passionate violence.

Or if," she resumed in a hissing whisper,
"if it be true, there is some shameful explanation
of the fact. What is it ? You would not
be Lewis Trevelyan's daughter if, sooner or
later, you failed to disgrace the name ! "

Anna wrenched herself away from her aunt's
grasp with a face white and distorted with
anger. Mrs Sylvestre had put her finger on
the most sensitive spot in the girl's heart : her
whole being was in revolt.

Mother of God ! " she cried, and she raised
her hand as if in invocation, while her face
flamed with the white heat of her passion,  " I
will never forgive you ! If I live for ever and
ever, I will never forgive you ! " And she
turned and fled from the room.

Where should she go ? What should she do ?
She was beside herself with rage and indignation
 the insult to her father's memory scorched

her brain like fire. Oh that she had some
friend at hand who would receive her, so that
she might never taste the ignominy of sleeping
or breaking bread under that miserable roof
again !

And then came another turn of thought.
Had she not a friend ?  the man who had stood
by her dead father's side, and renewed in that
awful presence the pledges he had so often given
before ? Who had said, " My child, I love you
dearly  love me a little ! I will take care of
you as long as I live."

He was not yet gone to London. She could
go to him, and tell him the hour was come beyond
postponement when he must make good
his words. His days of forced mourning were
over ; it remained for her to bring back warmth
and joy into his desolation.

This was the first impulse of her mood of
outrage and excitement, but as her passion exhausted
itself, certain whispers of prudence and
common-sense made themselves heard. It was
now the middle of October, and daylight was
already gone ; there were neither moon nor

stars, and the wind was rising. How could she,
alone and at such an hour, demand admission
at Methuen Place of the sleek, self-important,
inquisitive servants who must answer her summons
at the door? There were no means at
this season of the year of stealing admission
into the house as she had done before. Moreover,
might not Mrs Sylvestre, finding she had
escaped in her desperation, follow her to the
one only asylum where her desperation could
take refuge ?

No ; if she were wise, and would succeed in
compassing the end she had in view, she must
delay her appeal to Philip Methuen till the next
day : it would be easy to make it appear she
was the bearer of some message from the vicarage
; or, in the wholesome light of day, what
necessity to consider appearances at all ? She
should at once pass that and all other anxieties
into his hands.

For the remainder of the evening she kept
her room, and was allowed to keep it  a circumstance
which Anna readily translated into
a proof that Mrs Sylvestre recognised and probably

regretted her intemperance, which conclusion
increased her contempt without softening
her resentment. She appeared, as a matter of
precaution, at the breakfast-table the next morning,
pale, sullen, and taciturn ; but this behaviour
also appeared to be condoned  her aunt at
least, whom she avoided looking at, making no
comment.

Mr Sylvestre looked somewhat sharply towards
her, his wife's tolerance naturally reducing
his own.

"What is wrong with Anna this morning?"
he asked. " She looks as if she had not slept
all night, or had got out of bed on the wrong
side this morning."

These homely phrases transported Anna
with mingled disdain and indignation ; her lip
curled, her sensitive nostril dilated, and she
straightened her neck with an air of imperial
scorn. The vicar's eyes lingered upon the picture
almost involuntarily.

What a splendid creature it is ! " he said to
himself. " I devoutly wish she were safe in
some good man's keeping ! "

After breakfast Anna again retired to her
room, meaning to take the first opportunity of
escaping unobserved from the house ; but circumstances
helped her scheme. She had not
been long there when Dorothy came in.

Mamma wants me to take a message to Mrs
Michel at once," she said. "It's a little vexing
! I have not got that new chant perfect,
and meant to practise it this morning."

What is the message ? " asked Anna indifferently.
"Is there any answer wanted?"

No ; only to say mamma is willing to give
Mr Michel ten shillings for the silver-spangled
Hambro' cock. She objected at first, as being
too much. I think it is too much."

I will go," said Anna. " The vicar is right.
I look fit for nothing this morning ; a walk will
do me good."

A quarter of an hour later she was walking
leisurely across the vicarage garden ; leisurely
through the long straggling village, where every
eye that fell upon her knew her, till she reached
the gate that led into Methuen Park. During
this period of forced repression her excitement

was growing fast, so fast that she refused to
stop and answer the questions which pressed
on heart and brain.

What was she doing ?  what should she say
when she and Philip Methuen stood face to
face ? She would not give ear even for a
moment to the rising whispers of womanly
pride and modesty ; she turned scornfully upon
her struggling shames and hesitations, as pusillanimous
and out of place. What should she
say?  would speech be needful?  would not
her first glance challenge his manhood and
quicken the slow blood in his veins?  would
not a hint be enough to make him understand
that she appealed to him in this extremity asher
pledged knight ?  that she had flung off
the protection of her aunt, whose cruelty had
culminated in that last brutal insult, on the
strength of her belief that a dearer and more
secure asylum awaited her so soon as she saw
fit to claim it ?  Still, was not the fact that she
needed to reassure herself after this fashion a
proof of the extremity of her situation ?

Anna stood still for a moment, and leaned

against the trunk of one of the liusje elm-trees.
Since she had entered the park she had walked
so rapidly as to be already out of breath, and
the conflict of her mind was still more exhausting.
She drew a deep breath, and tried to
settle and order her mind.

It was a lowering, chilly, autumnal day : the
gorgeous splendour of the kindled foliage had
already faded, the crimson and gold had changed
into sickly orange and brown, and the leaves,
saturated with moisture, hung limp and dishevelled
from the boughs. The occasional caw
of a rook from one of the more distant plantations
was the only sound which broke the dull
silence of the thick oppressive atmosphere : the
stream flowed so sluggishly, she could scarcely
detect the movement of the water, and its
pleasant tinkle was dumb. The only figure in
view was that of a boy threading the public
road which crossed the park, with a heavy
basket of bread upon his back, under which he
seemed to labour and groan, shifting the burden
continually from one shoulder to another. The
girl was conscious of a feeling of impatient disgust

as she marked his uncouth face and figure,
and ungainly gait.

She could distinguish the chimneys of the
house where she stood, and observed how little
a way the smoke rose in the heavy air. She
moved slowly a few paces nearer, and the old
grey mansion lay at her feet, dumb, too, as it
seemed to her. Every window was closed, and
the blinds drawn in all the principal rooms
facing the gardens.

A feeling of sickening disappointment, or
rather of blind impotent fury as against some
fate that mocked her, put new life into her
limbs. A few moments more she had pulled
the bell at the heavy gateway, and heard the
sound reverberating through the house. An
interval elapsed, brief indeed, but almost
intolerable to her impatience, before the door
was somewhat slowly opened, and Austin, the
old butler, faced her in the wide issue.

Is Sir Philip Methuen at home ? I have a
message from my uncle, the vicar of Kensington."


Whatever the inward sinking of her heart,

her bearing was as stately and defiant as usual,
and her beauty of that rare and perfect type
which carries its message to high and low alike ;
also, as a matter of necessity, the man was personally
acquainted with her.

"I am very sorry, Miss. Sir Philip started
for town about half an hour ago ; but perhaps
you will come in and speak to Mrs
Gibson ? "

Anna walked into the house like one in a
dream, and sat down on the first chair that
offered in the room into which Austin showed
her. Her feelings seemed for a time in a state
of collapse. Gone ! It did not in the least
appear to her what she could do next, only
instinct told her she must not let the keen-witted
old housekeeper guess at her state of
mind.

When Mrs Gibson came in, stiff and reserved
as her manner was to strangers, and especially
so to any member of the Sylvestre family, to
say nothing of her quick sense of the obvious
breach of propriety the vicar of Kensington was
committing in making his beautiful niece his

messenger to the young master of the house,
Anna rose from her seat resolute and on guard.
The expression of the good woman's face was at
once a challenge and a warning.

Sir Philip Methuen is gone to town already,
I hear," she said with perfect aplomb. " That
is a pity ! My uncle had an important commission
he thought he would be good enough to
undertake. I am a good walker, Mrs Gibson,
and "offered to bring the message myself."

"It is a written message of course, Miss
Trevelyan ? In that case, I can enclose it by
to-day's post to the master."

For a moment Anna felt herself at fault ; butin
proportion to the inward difficulty was the
steadfastness of the watch she kept on Mrs
Gibson's face.

Oh no, it was not written ! " she answered.
It was about some book the vicar wanted,
and I was quite able to explain. You seem to
forget that I have known your master ever
since I was a tiny child : he taught me to
read ! "

He is not at home, at all events, Miss

Trevelyan," replied Mrs Gibson, without any
relenting of the lines of her face. Mr Sylvestre
must ask his favour by letter. I see
no objection to giving you Sir Philip Methuen's
address."

She turned aside to a writing-table as she
spoke, so that the sudden change in Anna's face
was lost upon her  a change arising from the
swift perception that to obtain his precise
address was to place a new weapon in her
hands.

As Mrs Gibson handed her the slip of paper,
she added, with an air of evident reluctance 
"I do not know whether Mr Sylvestre may
think his business important enough to take
him to Trichester on the chance of meeting
Sir Philip ; he does not go up to town till the
afternoon express."

Perhaps few greater triumphs of self-control
have been gained than was won by Anna Trevelyan
on receiving this information without
betrayal ; that the pallor of her skin flushed
a little, and the light in her eyes concentrated
and darkened, were signs too delicate to be

read by Mrs Gibson, who had just removed
her spectacles after having accomplished her
little effort at penmanship.

"I will tell my uncle what you say," she
answered,  and there was a metallic ring in
the habitually deep, melodious voice,  "and
he will of course do as he thinks proper. No,
thank you, I don't require any refreshment."

A few minutes more and she was in the open
air again, free to breathe, and think, and plan,
with the quiet unheeding sky above, and the
unbroken solitude of the park all around. She
walked away from the house mechanically, and
in the homeward direction  for might not there
be curious eyes watching her ?  but when she
had reached a certain turn in the path where
she knew herself to be beyond observation, she
stood still, took off the hat which weighed on
her forehead, and passed her hand over her
eyes and brow, as if to wipe away the sensations
which oppressed her.

She was in that mood of mind when the
human heart cries upon God : upon the Power
around and outside us, to help the reason that

is consciously tottering, and scatter the darkness
which, if left to thicken, means despair.

She knew as well as if she had seen him, that
the man in whom her passionate life was bound
up was at Earlescourt, unable to leave home
without bidding Honour Aylmer farewell, and
she could not bear it !

So much was it true that she could not bear
it, that her mind, with the instinct of self-preservation,
instantly seized upon alleviations of
the idea. They at Earlescourt were his neighbours
and best friends, and courtesy required
that he should take leave of them. His kindness
to Oliver Earle was of the kind he showed to
all stricken and miserable creatures, and would
be sure to lead him to go and see the youth
before he went away. Sir Walter and Adrian
might have suddenly returned. As for Honour,
did she not know that his regard for her was
of the sedate ethical kind which might mean
friendship, but not love ? No, not love !

And at that very moment the man and girl
of whom she was thinking were standing together,
hand locked in hand, her head upon his

VOL. II. H

shoulder, his kisses upon her lips, and only no
speech between them, because love has a finer
medium of interpretation, and defies words to
bear the burden of its joy.

Come into the garden," he had said to
her ; "I can bear it better in the open air ! "

Bear it ?  the rapture of reunion, the pain of
parting, brief as it was to be. " A week hence
I shall be home again, Honour, to ask you formally
of Sir Walter Earle, and announce our
engagement, and then "  his face kindled as he
bent over her  " sweet, you will remember I
have loved you for years with every breath
I drew, and that my dear uncle's pain in
death was lessened by his belief in your goodness.
How soon will you consent to come tome
? "

But this was what Anna could not see or
hear even in the hush of the solemn autumnal
morning. Would it have made any difference
had she been able ?

There was one way still open : she could avail
herself of the chance of meeting him at the
station. She cared nothing for consequences if

her scheme miscarried, and if it succeeded, the
care of the future would lie with him.

Eight miles divided her from the county
town ; but she was vigorous enough to think
lightly of the distance, and to walk there would
help to pass the tedious hours away, besides the
difficulty of finding any other way of getting to
Trichester. Vehicles had to be hired from Crawford
or Trichester itself, and were not to be
picked up at any intermediate point.

So Anna retraced her steps through the park,
though at the farthest practicable distance from
the house, and set her face steadily to her
purpose.

On consulting her watch, she found she had
no time to lose. It was then nearly twelve
o'clock, and the express was timed to leave
Trichester at three.

The road was an uninteresting beaten highway,
without a single point of interest to her ;
the free expanse of downs on either hand looked
dreary enough under the brooding skies, and at
no time commended themselves to the warm
Italian instincts of the girl. She was much

more fatigued than she expected to be when she
at length entered the town, and saw by the huge
clock of the parish church that only twenty minutes
remained before the departure of the train.

She had always been accustomed to look
upon Trichester as dead and lifeless to the last
degree ; but to-day it seemed to her strangely
full of stir and bustle, and that every passer-by
looked at her in spite of the effort she made
to assume a brisk and business-like demeanour.
She made her way at once to the station, whereto
her vexation, she perceived the stationmaster
already on the watch for the express.
He recognised her and touched his cap. The
refreshment-room was on a very meagre scale
at Trichester; yet it could at any rate have
furnished Anna with a glass of milk and a
biscuit, of which she stood sorely in need, but
she durst not ask for them for fear of attracting
attention and remark.

I am waiting to see a friend off to town,"
she explained haughtily enough to the stationmaster,
whose silent observation as he passed
her was becoming; unbearable. Indeed she felt

increasingly that the whole situation was becoming
unbearable. The hands of the clock
pointed to five minutes of the hour. A fair
sprinkling of passengers had already gathered
on the platform, where each was in full view
of the other.

What chance of speaking to Philip Methuen
in a few breathless seconds, before the impertinent
observation of outsiders ? Would he not
be astonished and displeased at the step she
had taken ? Was it not imperative to secure
privacy enough for explanation before she ventured
to show herself to him ? How could thisbe
done now ? Still less, how could she go
back to her shame and her misery without
doing it ? What explanation of her protracted
absence could she give that would satisfy Mrs
Sylvestre's vigilance ?

The train was sharply signalled ; the commotion
quickened a little.

Hold hard, Bill ! " cried one of the porters.
There's one of the Earlescourt carriages coming
along like mad. It will take all they know
to catch the train ! "

Anna looked, and read the explanation at a
glance. He had lingered too long over his
adieux, and taken the Earles' carriage, because
their horses were better than his own. Was
she, after all, deceiving her own soul ? or
was it rather in his mind to deceive her ? Her
blood tingled in her veins. Was she of the
temper to submit to treachery without protest
? to stand aside, superseded, without a
struggle for her rights ? Come what might,
she would put his honour to the question.

Her hand shook as she opened her purse.
She had money enough for her ticket to town,
but not much over.

Open the carriage door, and get me my
ticket," she said to a porter standing close by
her side.

Where for, Miss ? " asked the man, touching
his cap.

"Waterloo," whispered the girl, shrinking
back into a corner of the carriage with bated
courage and failing strength, for she had scarcely
eaten anything that day, and dreaded nothing
so much as that any eye should recognise her.

At the moment the man placed her ticket in
her hand, she saw Philip come on the platform.
He was walking rapidly towards the already
opened carriage, with the Earlescourt footman
following with his portmanteau, and the little
station-master trotting almost obsequiously beside
him, and laughing at his success in catching
the train. He was dressed in deep mourning,
but there was no mourning in his face.
He looked in full vigour of body and mind,
assured master of himself at all points, and
of the blessedness which warmed his heart and
touched his lips with a new sweetness, and his
eyes with a direct and masculine light.

To the girl who watched him furtively, he
looked like the beautiful youth who had played
about with her at the old farm at Fiesole  the
pledged friend of her girlhood and the redresser
of her wrongs  the man whom no other woman
should take from her.

CHAPTER XXIII.

"And she said,
Not to be with you, not to see your face 
Alas for me then, my good days are done ! "

Tennyson.

Before they had reached Salisbury the rain
fell in torrents. This was the first pause on
the line ; and at this point Anna's carriage,
which she had hitherto had to herself, was
invaded by a party of travellers, consisting of
mother, nurse, and three children.

The girl had not only no love for children,
but they were positively disagreeable to her;
and although the year-old baby sat passive and
wide-eyed on its nurse's lap, and the two pretty
little fellows, in their picturesque sailor suits,
only offended by their infantile chatter and
eagerness to see what little was to be discerned
in the fast-growing darkness from both windows

of the carriage at once, their presence and lightheadedness
were almost more than she could
endure in her condition of nervous tension. Of
Methuen she saw nothing ; and the nearer they
approached the capital, the greater became her
passionate anxiety. The train had only made
one other stoppage  (at Vauxhall) between
Salisbury and Waterloo,  and by the time it
reached the terminus night had fallen in effect,
though it was only seven o'clock ; and the
special aspect of ugliness and disrepute which
belongs to that station, was aggravated by the
condition of the weather.

Anna sprang out of her carriage almost before
safety warranted. Her state of mind was by
this time such that all doubt and diffidence
were lost in what she felt was the extremity
of her situation. Her claim upon Philip Methuen's
protection had taken a form it was impossible
for any man to resist.

For the first few moments she did not see
him  that is, she failed to discover him among
the men who were leaving the first-class carriages,
and none of the occupants of which, she

was convinced, could have stirred from their
seats before she had done. Also, she had
marked the position of the carriage he had
occupied with her usual precision ; but for those
first few minutes she refused to accept the evidence
of her senses. It was not till the train,
which had been a short one, had discharged
all its passengers, and was being promptly
shunted off the line, that the iron fully entered
into her soul. He was not there. Probably he
had got out at Vauxhall ; and she was alone and
friendless in London, almost without money,
or even money's worth  for Anna's disdain of
ornaments led to her seldom wearing any of
the costly trinkets she possessed,  and with
her hope dead within her breast.

The train had emptied itself so rapidly, that
there had scarcely been time for her appearance
to attract attention, and her fellow-travellers
were close behind her. She heard the clear shrill
voice of one of the boys in eager exclamation 
Papa ! I see papa ! Eemember I was the
first to find him out ! " She hated him for
the rapture which brought home more acutely

to her soul the sense of her own despair.
At the same moment a porter civilly accosted
her with the usual formula as to luggage and
cab.

I have no luggage, but I want a cab  nota
hansom."

The girl offered him a shilling as she stepped
into the unsavoury recesses of the four-wheeler,
with a grim sense of the discrepancy between
her liberality and her purse : there is a sort of
ghastly humour which walks side by side with
some moods of desperation.

"Tell him Bruton Street, No. 17," she said
to the porter, who was still officiously hanging
about the cab - door. What else could she
say ?

During the short transit Anna sat erect, defying
her fate. The stakes for which she was
playing were so tremendous that to lose courage
or faculty of resource meant ruin  ruin for such
as she was ! Involuntarily she raised her beautiful
head with the old gesture of superb assurance.
She was weak because she was faint with
hunger, and it would be wise to renew her

strength before fighting the battle that lay
before her. She stopped the cab before the
door of a pastry-cook's shop they were passing.

Wait ten minutes," she said to the driver,
with as cool and haughty a gaze into the man's
face as if she had been at ease in an assured
position. " You need not be uneasy  I will
pay you well."

She went in and satisfied her hunger with
some* soup and bread, but the latter seemed to
choke her. Appetite was in abeyance, though
exhaustion had made itself felt. She returned
to the cab less invigorated than she had hoped.
The rain was still falling ; the lamps reflected
their shadows on the wet gleaming pavements ;
the dripping, unfurled umbrellas of the tide of
pedestrians  a tide which never ebbs  added
to the oppressed and unpicturesque aspect of
the streets. London looked squalid to her
eyes  not like the same city as it had appeared
to her, rolling through its West - end
thoroughfares in one of the Earles' well-appointed
carriages.

Another brief interval, and the cab stopped

before the house in Bruton Street ; the cabman
descended, and came round for instructions.

Knock and inquire if Sir Philip Methuen
is arrived," said Anna, pronouncing the name
with deliberate distinctness.

The man obeyed, and after a moment or two,
evidently spent in colloquy with the woman
who had opened the door to him, came back
with a negative.

14 There is some mistake," she said in answer ;
44 ask the mistress of the house to come out and
speak to me  or wait, I will get out myself."

She walked through the still open doorway
of the house, and confronted the woman who
stood waiting in the hall, with an air at once
modest and assured, and with a skilful avoidance
of the light of the lamp from falling at
once upon the beauty of her face.

44 This is the house, No. 17 ? " she asked,
44 where my aunt, Mrs Gibson, has taken apartments
for Sir Philip Methuen ? He will not be
here for a day or two possibly  he is gone to
Coleridge's Hotel to meet a friend from India,
and I have been sent with a list of things to

make his rooms more comfortable and homelike."


The woman looked at her steadily.

And how am I to know, Miss, that you
are Mrs Gibson's niece ? It is not the right
time of day for a respectable young woman to
come to a strange house on business of that
sort."

No, indeed ! " said Anna, suffering her voice
to fall a little. " I was afraid how it would
strike you, and have been fretting about it as I
came along in the cab. But Methuen Place is
eight miles from Trichester, as no doubt Mrs
Gibson would tell you, and I just lost my train
and had to wait for the express. My aunt
would be in a dreadful state of mind if she knew
I was out in the streets of London alone so
late ; as we timed it this morning, I ought to
have been here at three o'clock at latest. See !
she wrote down the address for me last night,
for fear it should slip my memory."

The girl produced from her pocket the neatly-written
slip of paper which the old housekeeper
had given her that morning. The landlady

glanced at it, and saw her own name and
address in the careful laborious handwriting
she immediately recognised as Mrs Gibson's,
from whom she had received several written
communications. It was evidence not to be
gainsaid, and the simple directness of Anna's
manner was difficult to mistrust, in spite of the
inevitable suspicion her good looks excited.
Also the remarkable plainness of her dress
helped the illusion : Anna owed more than she
knew to her straight unfounded skirts. She

o

was quick to detect the advantage gained.

"My aunt said that if I could not get my
work done in time to-day, perhaps you would
let me have a bed under your roof instead of
going to a hotel, which is not nice for a young
woman by herself ; and then, perhaps, you might
be able to go shopping with me tomorrow ? It
is quite certain now I shall not be able to get
my work done to-day "  there was a sob in her
voice.

London landladies as a class are reported to
be lynx-eyed and callous-hearted ; and probably
they adapt themselves, like other things, to

their environment ; but there are exceptions.
Also Mrs Baillie was not a little influenced by
the fact that she and the old housekeeper from
Methuen Place had discovered that they were
both west-country women; and although one
hailed from Somerset, and the other from
Dorset, this is held as kinship in the Philistine
capital. Moreover, she had a very imperfect
idea of Sir Philip Methuen's age and appearance
; she had not yet seen him, and Mrs
Gibson was not garrulous.

A few minutes more saw the cabman dismissed
 Anna discreetly slipping her last half-crown
into Mrs Baillie's hand for the purpose 
and her asylum for the night secured. Just as
the cab had turned the corner of the street,
and disappeared in the darkness, Anna suddenly
clasped her hands together with a gesture of
distress.

My bag ! my new handbag ! " she cried.
I have left it in the cab ! What shall I do,
Mrs Baillie? My aunt packed it for me so
carefully this morning ; and I had some recipes
in it for you for Sir Philip, who is very particular

about what he eats. She will never forgive
me ! "

She burst into tears, and sobbed hysterically :
it was a safety-valve for her excitement of
which she eagerly availed herself, for such
passionate overflow was a necessity of her
nature ; and the violence and genuineness of
her grief made a final conquest of Mrs Baillie's
motherly heart. For the rest of the evening
all was plain sailing ; Anna was treated as
guest and equal, and accommodated herself to
circumstances with admirable facility, entertaining
Mrs Baillie with anecdotes of the Methuen
family, which removed the last lingering doubts
from her mind ; and then, well fed, well warmed,
and elated by success, she was conducted at
night to a comfortable little bed-chamber adjoining
that of her hostess.

She had supposed that excitement would have
prevented her from sleeping, but youth and
fatigue were too strong for her, and her eyes
closed almost as soon as her head was laid on
the pillow.

The next morning brought a note from

VOL. II. I

Methuen to Mrs Baillie, to Anna's thankful
relief, from Clavicle's Hotel, saying that he
would take possession of his rooms in the
course of the day, and would rely upon finding
everything in readiness. This note put the
good woman into a considerable flutter ; the
terms on which she had let her rooms had been
so advantageous, and Mrs Gibson's injunctions
and personal painstaking had been so solicitous,
that she held her new tenant in anxious respect.

Look round the rooms yourself, my clear,"
she said to Anna, " and you will be able to see
if they are all right. What a pity the list you
spoke of was in the bag ! Don't you remember
some of the things Mrs Gibson mentioned ? "

Anna rapidly enumerated certain articles 
an easy-chair of a particular description, a 
of some special construction  but
added she would prefer to wait now till she had
heard again from her aunt.

She professed to have written to Mrs Gibson
that morning, telling of her misadventures, and
excusing herself accordingly, and had, indeed,
read the letter to the sympathising Mrs Baillie,

and had taken it for better safety to the post
herself, where, it need not be said, it was never
deposited.

As the day wore on, Anna's excitement grew
almost beyond her control, and she welcomed it
as a priceless relief when Mrs Baillie announced
her intention of going out for an hour for commissariat
purposes, saying that it was a comfort
to leave some one in the house to look after the
little maid. " There was no knowing what
mischief they did when left to themselves ; she
might even go pulling things about in Sir
Philip Methuen's own rooms ! "

To those rooms Anna now betook herself.
The sitting-room fronted the street ; she would
be able to hear a cab stop and the street door
open and shut. She sat down in a chair placed
in a dark corner, and began her passionate
watch. " I think," she said to herself, as she
bowed her aching forehead upon her burning
hands, " that I shall go mad if he does not
come soon ! I feel as if I could not take up
this farce again."

She forced herself, by mere dint of will, to

sit quite motionless for a quarter of an hour,
timing it by the chimes of a neighbouring
church clock. But it was reserved for her to
hear all the remaining hours of the day chimed
from the church steeple, before Philip Methuen
arrived ; and when at length he came, it was
so late at night that the girl had been obliged
to retire to her room, unable to play her part
any longer.

Mrs Baillie came in to speak to her before
she went to bed, and Anna was quick to observe
a change in her manner.

I had no notion he was such a young and
handsome gentleman ! " she said ; and there was
unmistakable suspicion in the glance she cast
at Anna. But Anna was already undressed,
and ready for bed; what mattered the landlady's
loss of confidence? She could not turn
her out of doors that night, and tomorrow 
tomorrow would vindicate her position for all
time.

That night was added to the short list of
Anna Trevelyan's vigils ; she lay awake in a
half-delirious trance of anticipation, her brain

suggestion almost realising, the incidents so

CO O' < '

soon to be lived in reality. The phantom bliss
which had eluded her so long was to be grasped
tomorrow !

She would claim her own, and maintain her
claim in face of any obstacle raised by faithlessness
on the one side, or feminine artfulness on
the other.

She could condone  smiles of passionate
tenderness touched her lips in the darkness,
as she asked herself what it was she could not
condone to Philip Methuen  but she would
never relinquish.

The knowledge of his vicinity so stirred her
pulses and warmed the eager blood in her veins,
as to make her forced quiescence a physical
martyrdom. But at last daylight, as seen
dimly in a narrow London street, dawned, and
the welcome sounds of life and movement in
the house became audible.

Anna's bedroom was at the top of the house,
as we have said, close to that occupied by the
landlady. Mrs Baillie came in to speak to her
before going down-stairs.

I would rather send you your breakfast up
here, Miss Gibson," she said in quite a different
tone from the day before, and with a hard lookin
her eyes ; " and you shall go home, if you
please, to your aunt by the first train this
morning." And she whisked out of the
chamber without giving opportunity for reply.

Anna rose at once, conscious that there was
no time to lose ; for how could she depend upon
Methuen's movements ?

She dressed herself with elaborate care (as
birds preen their feathers), plaiting and arranging
her magnificent hair to the best advantage,
and proudly comforting herself with the belief,
as she studied the reflection of her face in the
meagre little looking-glass, that her beauty was
of the type which owes little or nothing to the
accessories of dress.

She was now in her nineteenth year, tall as
Honour was tall, and straight as a young pine-tree,
with a certain regal gait and air which
seemed to challenge the world at large to offer
her anything beyond her rights. The contour
of the oval olivet face, with its perceptive forehead

and short firm chin, was perfect ; and the
skin was of so exquisite a texture and tint,
that the colour which it lacked would have
seemed a superfluity. This fine pallor aided
the effect of the full moulded lips, the slightly-aquiline
nose, the delicate black brows, which
overarched eyes that were the crown of her
beauty. To look into Anna Trevelyan's eyes
was to encounter not only the physical charm
of perfect colour and form, and the allurement
which hangs on heavily fringed eyelids, but
an expression of such passionate wistfulness as
caught the attention of even the most casual
observer, and quickened the pulse of interest
and admiration.

She wore a blue serge gown, with soft muslin
frills at throat and wrist ; but the latter had
unquestionably lost their freshness. It was
not a particularly becoming garb, but it fell
into place about the girl's supple waist and
noble limbs, in folds and lines of harmonious
adaptation.

Never had she looked so beautiful in all her
life before : there was a suffusion in the lustrous

eyes, a softness about the parted lips, through
which the fragrant breath came in half-unconscious
sighs of intense repression, and a faint
flush upon the cheek, which were like an accomplished
painter's last touches to a picture held
to be perfect before.

She waited till the little maid had brought
her the tray containing her breakfast, and had
had time to reach the lower regions of the house
again, And then, stealing out of her room, she
glided quietly clown-stairs, and put her hand
upon the lock of the floor of Philip Methuen's
sitting-room. If he were not already there 
but she hoped much from her knowledge of his
early habits  she would wait for him.

He was there ; sitting with his back to the
door at a side-table covered with papers, which
he had evidently just removed from the strong
leather case which stood open beside him. At
the opening of the door he turned round, and
on recognising Anna Trevelyan, he instinctively
rose to his feet.

For a moment he almost seemed to doubt the
evidence of his senses : the first flash of thought

pointing to the baffling difficulty of her being
on the scene at that early hour of the morning,
with the home in which he imagined he had left
her securely sheltered, more than a hundred
miles away. Also, he was fully aware that she
had not a single friend in London at this season
of the year. Was the woman of the house
known to her by some strange twist of circumstance,
and had she sought her protection under
some exaggerated sense of injury,  their meeting
under the same roof being one of the inexplicable
coincidences of life ? All this rose instinctively
to the surface of his mind ; but at
bottom, scarcely recognised or admitted, was a
latent apprehension of evil  the cold projected
shadow of calamity which chills the spirit with
the breath of prophecy.

Anna, who had advanced half-way across the
room, with a smile of delicious enjoyment of the
situation upon her lips, and her eyes scanning
his face, stopped short suddenly as she read
something of its meaning. Beyond the first
natural exclamation as he recognised her, he
had not yet spoken, and he still stood motionless,

with his hand resting on the table beside
him.

Have you nothing to say?" she asked;
no welcome to give me?" Her tone was
a compromise between tenderness and indignation.


I have nothing to say," he answered, " because
I have no words to express my astonishment.
What is the meaning of my finding you
in this house ? Explain, Anna."

Oh yes, I will explain," she answered,
struggling hard to control the passionate pain
caused by his cold and peremptory manner,
and with wrath gathering in her eyes ; " I am in
this house because I have no other to go to.
My aunt has driven me from hers ; the Earles,
your chosen friends, have shut their doors
against me because I did not choose to take
Adrian Earle as my husband. Tell me where a
forlorn unhappy creature as I am should turn
for help and comfort, if not to the one friend
who is bound to stand by her ? "

I do not in the least understand. What
possible connection can subsist between you,

Anna Trevelyan, and the woman of this house ?
Yet it is just conceivable "

"That there is some link of connection between
Mrs Baillie of Bruton Street and my old
life in Florence ! That perhaps she is, let us
say, my foster-mother herself, or at least kith
or kin to her, or to old Assunta of the Lung'
Arno ! " The girl spoke with her passion let
loose, and the ring of sarcastic scorn in her voice
was of concentrated bitterness. " Why do you
pretend you do not understand me ? " she demanded.


He passed By the imputation as not worthy
his attention.

You mean that / am the friend bound to
stand by you ? Tell me, Anna, how you knew
where to find me ? or, knowing it, how even
you could have been capable of the madness of
seeking me out here ? When did you arrive ?
where have you spent the night ? "

He spoke calmly, but evidently holding himself
under strong control, and he looked at the
freshness of her face and aspect with an intense
scrutiny in which her passionate sense

detected that admiration held not the smallest
part.

I have spent the night here, under this
roof, where I spent the night before last also.
I knew where to find you, because Mrs Gibson
gave me your address. She gave it to me when
I went, mad with misery, to Methuen Place to
find you the day you left town. I did not find
you  you were gone to Earlescourt ; but I
followed you to the station and took the same
train as you did. Can you picture my situation
when I got out at Waterloo, faint with hunger,
without money or friends, and ftumd you were
not there ? "

"And if you had found me there  what
then ? "

She turned very pale, and the light of her
face died out, but not the resolution of it.
I should have put my hand into yours,
and told you  what I tell you now  that the
time was come to fulfil the pledges you gave
to my dear father. They comforted him in
death, and have given me courage to live my
life until now."

The pledges which I gave to your father,
Anna, have been fully redeemed. It was I
who found you a natural asylum in your aunt's
house, and who made you known to a family
whose friendship has enriched your life. A
girl whom Adrian Earle loves talks at random
when she speaks of her life as needing courage
to endure. The question now to consider is how
to ward off the consequences of your present
indiscretion, which is more serious than you
seem to have the faculty to perceive."

He spoke with perfect decision and collectedness
; but that there was a strong undercurrent
of excitement was evident enough from
the paleness of his face, the dilation of his
eyes, and the strenuous grasp of his fingers
on the table by which he was still standing.
Anna read the signs aright, and the passion
of her disappointment broke down the last
feeble barrier of her reserve.

"You think I am an impulsive child," she
cried, "ignorant of the ways of the world, and
risking my reputation without knowing it. I
will try and make you understand. What I

have done I have done with my eyes open, to
give me a stronger claim on what my heart
is set. Are you so blind as not to see my
meaning? Can you look into my face and
need me to tell you the truth? I have
loved you, Philip, from a little child  not, I
think, as little children love  but with the
germ of the feeling which has grown too
strong now to be held down by any womanly
shames and hesitations. See, I keep nothing
back  my very soul is at your feet ; I cannot
live my life unless I live it with you."

She made a movement of passionate deprecation
towards him, but he drew back sharply
from her extended hands.

I will not touch you," she said, with a cry
of pain as if he had hurt her ; " but if you do
not take me in your arms and comfort me, my
misery and shame will be greater than I can
bear."

"And that is what I cannot do, though it
cuts me to the heart to tell you so. Had I
known this sooner  but it would have needed
to have been very soon  I might have shaped

my life differently,  I think I would have been
willing to do so. As it is, I have no longer

power to direct it  as little power as will "

He stopped ; there was a confused sound of
voices outside the room, voices which both he
and Anna recognised.

He drew a breath of inward thanksgiving.

"I thank God," he said solemnly, "your

friends are come to reclaim you ! Anna "

It was in his mind to make some appeal on his
own behalf to her honour and candour, but the
expression of her face as she turned it upon
him checked the impulse. He recognised at
once that he had a woman's vengeance as well
as a woman's love to deal with, and that the
odds in the coming contest would be heavily
against him.

At the same moment Mrs Baillie opened the
door, and announced 

"The Eev. Herbert and Mrs Sylvestre."

She gave a little shriek as she saw Anna.

On my soul and honour, madam," she
asseverated, addressing Mrs Sylvestre, "I did
not know she was here ! Fie upon them both !

The artful hussy, she has deceived me through
thick and thin ! "

My good woman," was the answer, " I have
no doubt you are quite innocent of any collusion
in this deplorable business. Be so good
now as to leave us alone with the young lady
and Sir Philip Methuen."

CHAPTER XXIV.

Oh ! must the cup that holds
The sweetest vintage of the vine of life
Taste bitter at the dregs ? Is there no story,
No legend, no love passage which shall end
Even as the bow which God has bent in heaven,
O'er the sad waste of mortal histories,
Promising respite to the rain of tears."

M. Arnold.

Perhaps it would have been difficult for any
man to have been placed in a position of
more cruel or complex difficulty than Philip
Methuen.

To vindicate his own honour was to deepen
the condemnation of the girl who was standing
before them, erect and fearless but palpitating
with emotion, like some beautiful wild animal
brought suddenly to bay ; and to fail to do so
was to compromise not merely his own happiness,
but everything which he held most

VOL. II. K

sacred  above all, the happiness of the sweet
woman whom he loved better than life.

He saw as he looked at Mrs Sylvestre that
she was strongly agitated, though doing her
best to maintain her usual measured and imperturbable
manner, and he met the gaze of her
hard blue eyes with one of equal steadfastness,
touched by an involuntary sympathy.

She coloured, and drew herself up with
offended dignity.

I think you make a mistake in the object
of your compassion, Sir Philip Methuen," she
said. " I can only congratulate ourselves that,
coming upon you unawares, we have sufficient
proof of the situation to justify our demanding
of you the only reparation in your power. But
possibly this unhappy girl is already your wife ? "

What are the injuries I am expected to
repair ? " he asked.

Mrs Sylvestre looked towards her husband.
The Vicar answered the appeal by an uneasy
change of posture from one foot to another, and
a nervous rubbing of his forehead with his open
palm. When he did speak it was with a considerable

measure of hesitation, for there was
something in the young man's look and manner
which shook the strength of his conviction and

*&'

anger.

"It sometimes happens," he said, "that an
honourable man may feel bound to repair injuries
which have been unwittingly inflicted.
Mrs Sylvestre and I are in great distress ; our
niece is known by all the neighbourhood to
have gone alone to your house two days ago
to seek you, and not finding you there, to have
followed you to the station and travelled up to
town with you in the same train ; to have
thence proceeded direct to your lodgings, where
she has passed the last two nights, and her
aunt and myself find you in each other's company
early this morning. I put it to you, asa
man of the world, whether in these circumstances
there is more than one course open ?
If, as has been already suggested, she is not
your wife, you will not mistake me when I say
that I do not mean to go back to my parish
until I, or some other duly qualified person,
have made her such."

Anna, who up to this moment had maintained
her attitude of defiance, uncertain what
position her aunt and uncle would assume,
suffered herself at this point to drop into a
chair, and covered her face with her hands.
The stricken attitude, the flame of colour which
dyed the pale cheeks beyond the sheltering
fingers, did more to win the good vicar's condonation
than any words could have done. She
herself had no thought of the effect of the
action ; her whole soul was hanging on the
words which Philip would answer.

The statement you have just made is quite
true, I believe, as regards facts," he said ; " but it
is equally true that Anna and I have only met
within the last half-hour since she left her
home."

He looked towards her, but she neither spoke
nor stirred.

Unfortunately assertions of that kind need
authentication," interposed Mrs Sylvestre with
a sneer ; " and I perceive that even my unhappy
niece does not answer your appeal.
Even if she had, it would have counted for

nothing with me. A woman is scarcely expected
to criminate herself."

She stopped a moment, and looked from one
to the other with a curious expression.

You are well matched," she pursued. " A
girl who has been brought up to deny God and
the divine rule of right and wrong, and you,
Philip Methuen, a half-pledged priest, who
have masked your real character under ostentatious
devotion to a false faith until you had
made quite sure of your worldly interests, and
sent a credulous old man hoodwinked to the
grave ! Still, unworthy as Lewis Trevelyan's
daughter is, we will save her from the shame
which she has courted."

Once more, Philip turned his pale set face
towards Anna, who still sat in the same crouching
posture with her head bowed between her
hands.

"Have you no instinct of womanhood to defend
yourself from imputations such as these,"
he asked slowly, " even if my honour is of no
account to you ? "

Then Anna dropped her hands and lifted up

her white despairing face. "What does it
matter ? " she answered. " Nothing that I can
say or do now will wipe out this disgrace. It is
quite true that you have deceived me, Philip,
whether you meant it or not. If you do not
belong to me, I have always believed that you
did, and you have betrayed my faith in you
and spoilt my life all the same. What do I
care as to what becomes of me now ? "

Instinctively he put his hand before his eyes ;
partly to hide the despair which gripped his heartstrings,
partly to avoid the malicious smile with
which Mrs Sylvestre continued to gaze at him.

There are some forces so relentless that no
man can resist them successfully. Anna, too,
watched him for a moment, and then, moved by
a new impulse, went close up to her aunt as if
to challenge her attention.

You have always hated me," she said ; " but
you are not false, and I will tell you the truth.
I see he despises me because I have not spoken
before, but it will make no difference. It is
exactly as he says. I have not seen him since
I left your house until just before you arrived.

But do you think that even such a girl as I am
would have been mad enough to do what I have
done if she had not felt sure that the man for
whom she risked her reputation wanted her for
his wife ? I want you to believe this for my
dear father's sake. Philip Methuen promised
him when he was dying to take care of me as
long as he lived ; when he was dead he took mein
his arms and kissed and comforted me. ' I
love you dearly  love me a little he said. It
seemed to me all that meant one thing only ;
and I felt so sure of this, that I was content to
wait his own time and submit to his ways. So
when your treatment drove me out of your
house, I came direct to him to claim the home
I thought was ready for me.  I knew his mourning
was over.  I believed he cared for me.
You see, don't you ?  What was there to wait
for ? " Her voice broke as she ended, and she
strained her clasped hands together, as if in the
effort to keep down her sobs. Mr Sylvestre,
glancing from her pale troubled face to Philip's,
felt his heart harden against him.

"What my niece has just now told us," he

said stiffly, " exonerates you from participation
in her imprudence, but increases tenfold her
claims upon your honour. Give us the assurance
we want, and we will withdraw with her
to our own hotel until arrangements can be
made for the marriage. You will agree with
me that it should not be postponed beyond
tomorrow."

It cannot be. I am unable to marry Anna
Trevelyan. It sounds cruel and unmanly to
say it, but the thing is impossible."

He spoke as a man under torture might be
supposed to speak, and his face looked as if it
had been cut out of stone.

"I am this girl's natural guardian, Sir Philip
Methuen," said the Vicar, hotly ; " and if you
persist in your refusal, I will do my poor best
to have your dishonour known through the
length and breadth of the county. No other
woman shall usurp my niece's place, if words
can blast your chances. Do I offer you what
is not worth having ? any man might be proud
to take what you contemn. It cuts me to the
heart to see such a girl rejected."

And then Mrs Sylvestre's clear cold voice
attacked his ears.

"Let me offer you another consideration,"
she said. " For the sake of our daughters and
our own position in Kensington, it is morally impossible
that Anna Trevelyan can ever live
under our roof again  she is already a byword
in every cottage and farm-house in the parish.
Facts are known, Philip Methuen, without
their extenuating circumstances  that is, if a
girl's indecent passion can be called an extenuation.
The question remains, What is to become
of her? Separated from her friends, and repudiated
by you, she will be a mark for the
world's scorn. Even Lewis Trevelyan himself
would scarcely be satisfied with such an outcome
of your pledges of service."

I will so provide for her honour and safety
that no breath of scandal shall touch her ; but,
I repeat it, I cannot marry her. My life is not
at my own disposal, and such a marriage would
be an outrage and a sacrilege far greater than
the evil it tried to avert. There are some
sacrifices which it would be infamous to make."

Then," said Mrs Sylvestre rising, " we will
consider the last word is spoken, and will leave
her to your tender mercies. It is only under
the one condition that we take Anna away with
us, and that you tell us is impossible. Pray
lose no time in carrying out your programme
for re-establishing her good name. I shall be
curious to see how it will be done. For our
part, we have tried our utmost for her, and 
failed,"

My dear," said the Yicar, nervously, " you
cannot, of course, mean exactly what you say. It
is out of the question that we can go away and
leave Anna here ; if she does not come with us,
we must at least find her some respectable
shelter. Do you suppose she would consent to
remain ? "

I would consent," said Anna, wearily  " for
what would it matter, if I am disgraced already ?
but Mrs Baillie would turn me of doors as soon
as you are gone. I do not think she will let
Philip Methuen stay here either."

She looked towards him as she pronounced
the beloved name, and his aspect so wrought

upon her, that it produced a sudden revulsion
of feeling.

With a cry of distress she cleared the distance
between them, and threw herself at. his feet.

Forgive me ! "  and the passionate caressing
diminutives of her Tuscan tongue flowed from
her lips as she clung about his knees  " I did
not know my love would break your heart !
Mother of God ! " she wailed, as he tried to
disengage herself from her embrace, "do you
hate me, Philip ? Ah, you are cruel  you hurt
my hands ! "

The Vicar came forward, with tears in his
eyes, to lift her from the floor.

Have you a man's heart within your breast,
and can treat a woman thus ? " he demanded
sternly, as he put his arms about the girl.

I do not know," was the answer ; and then
after a brief pause he added 

Take her away with you ! "

' You mean  that is, I am to understand "

The Vicar paused, wondering if the young man,
whose face expressed nothing but a dumb agony
of pain, knew the meaning of what he was saying.

Mrs Sylvestre showed less forbearance.

My husband is unwilling that there should
be any mistake. If we take Anna Trevelyan
away with us at your request, it is on the distinct
understanding that you consent to make
her your wife  and that with as little delay as
possible."

Philip bowed his head mechanically.

"To-morrow ? I think the necessary matters
could J)e arranged in time "

"Not tomorrow, nor next day. I will
Saturday, and make what arrangements you
please."

There was a pause of hesitation. Philip
looked from the one to the other quickly.

I give you my word of honour  I will
marry Anna Trevelyan on Saturday. Do not
consider expense, if money will facilitate matters.
Also, leave me your address and communicate
with me here  but by letter only."

The Vicar still regarded him with anxious
attention, but the other had rallied his strength.

You do not trust me ? " he asked,  and
drawing off a plain signet-ring which Mr Sylvestre

recognised as one habitually worn by
the late Sir Giles Methuen, he crossed over to
where Anna stood, and slipped it upon her
wedding finger.

This ring bears the motto of our house," he
said ; " you may take it as a pledge of my good
faith. For the rest, you will not wonder if I
ask you to leave me alone, and  give some
explanation to the woman of the house."

He had not looked at Anna during this little
ceremony ; but the girl caught both his hands in
her passionate grasp, and covered them with
her kisses and her tears.

Spare us that ! " said her aunt sternly, and
drew her out of the room.

CHAPTER XXV.

Now on the summit of Love's topmost peak
Kiss we and part; no further can we go:
And better death than we from high to low
Should dwindle, or decline from strong to weak.
. . Heaven of my Earth ! one more celestial kiss,
Then down by separate pathways to the vale."

Alfred Austin.

No exile's dream was ever half so sad,
Nor any angel's sorrow so forlorn."

M. Arnold.

Philip Methuen remained standing as they had
left him in the middle of the room, until the
sound of their voices was silent, and he heard
the house door shut upon them. Then he walked
deliberately towards a chair, and sat down with
the intention of facing his calamity and deciding
on his plan of action. But even his strong and
disciplined will refused to obey the call. For
more than an hour he sat with folded arms and
eyes fixed on the ground, as motionless as if life

had already left him, and with no other consciousness
but of anguish so extreme that it was
like the thrust of some relentless sword piercing
even to the dividing of the joints and marrow.

There is perhaps one thing harder than the
crucifixion of the flesh with its affections and
lusts  namely, the crucifixion of the divine and
the true ; and hardest of all is it to know that
what we endure we inflict, and that the pang
which rends our own soul destroys the happiness
of another for whom it is a poor thing to
say we would have laid down our life.

There is a spirit of devotion to high and
noble causes which commends itself at once to
the magnificent chivalry of great natures ; but
to sacrifice the best for the worst, the good for
the evil, the noble for the base, almost exceeds
the limits of human indulgence, and makes of
the martyrdom of saint or patriot a mere
pageant and self-gratification.

As the man sat, living in advance the
moments that were lying in wait for him, like
some wretch extended on the rack and in suspense
of the turn of the wheel, the lines of his

face hardened, and the fine charm and bloom of
its beauty passed out of it for ever. The gentleness
which made children confide in him,
and the noble sweetness which touched every
woman's heart who looked at him, were scorched
and consumed in the blast of that terrible
furnace : the iron had entered his soul, and was
subduing it to its own nature.

Even the stimulus and consolations of religion
were-denied him. The deed he was about to do
was unholy and sacrilegious ; what love had
made sacred and divine was become infamous
and repulsive. The convictions and influences
of his priestly training, which had yielded to
the solvent of a generous passion, reasserted
their old power. He abhorred the idea of
marriage with Anna Trevelyan : it was not
martyrdom that was demanded of him, but a
life of ignominy and degradation, from which
God Himself would hide His face.

He was aroused by a knock at the door of
his room ; it had been repeated before, but he
had not heard it. Mrs Baillie was anxious to
know if Sir Philip Methuen would have his

breakfast served. The answer was in the negative,
through the closed and locked door, and
the woman missed, with a feeling of confused
surprise, the graciousness of manner which had
won her goodwill the night before.

Thus recalled to the details of life and business,
Methuen's eyes fell on the papers on
which he had been employed when Anna
Trevelyan had come in, and he remembered
that he had been engaged to meet Lord Salisbury
at his hotel by noon that day. It was
long past that hour, but he would go ; or was it
worth while to go ? Did the claims of friendship
hold ? was duty still to be influential over
his maimed and demoralised life ? Also, could
he give his mind to literary discussion under a
fastidious author's exigent demands, and answer
the claims of physical pain and sickness, with
the knowledge before him that ere the sun set
he must stand face to face with Honour Aylmer,
and exhibit to her her blessedness torn up by
the roots ? Wei], he could but put it to the
test.

A few minutes' rapid walking brought him

VOL. II. L

to the hotel. As he entered Lord Sainsbury's
room, he perceived such signs of pain and
weariness on the worn face as suggested a
sleepless night, and perhaps patience exhausted
by his own delay, and the instinct of pity
slowly stirred within him.

I am sorry to be so late. I have been unavoidably
detained, and have now only an hour
at your lordship's service. Will that be enough
for what we need to arrange ? "

It will not. I cannot talk within the fetters
of an hour. What is wrong, Methuen ? "

Lord Sainsbury looked at him fixedly. Then
he rose, which cost him an effort, and followed
Philip to the window, to which he had turned.

He laid his hand affectionately on his
shoulder.

If there is one man to whom you need not
hesitate to speak the truth," he said, "it is
surely to him with whom you have gone down
almost into the valley of the shadow of death.
It is something that has cut very deep, I see.
It is scarcely possible, when I remember what
you told me late last night, that anything can

have come between you and the woman you
love?"

It is possible. I have lost her, but through
no fault of hers or mine. Ask me no more questions
 I cannot answer them."

The tone was hard and unresponsive, and he
avoided meeting the eyes which he knew were
fixed upon his face.

Is the misfortune irremediable, and yet so
sudden ? When we parted yesterday "

Philip endured the stab without flinching,
but his stoicism did not deceive the other ; he
forbore to go on.

After a few moments' pause, he asked, " There
is, then, nothing I can do for you ? "

Yes ; treat me as you did yesterday. I am
afraid you have not slept well, and I am still
of the same opinion about cancelling the last
chapter of your book. "Why defend a policy
which has not been impugned, and which you
would pursue again in like circumstances ? 1
read it over once more still more carefully
after I left you last night."

Lord Sainsbury could scarcely have given

this friend a greater proof of his love and confidence
than by accepting the line indicated,
and taking up the discussion of his literary
and personal affairs at the point where they
had been left the day before.

When the hour was up, Methuen rose.

Your sister joins you this evening, and tomorrow
you start for Mentone ? My best wishes
go with your lordship."

It was all he could say, for the eager eyes
which met his were softened almost to tears.

"You are resolved to trust nothing to my
friendship, Methuen ? "

"Mention the name and address of some
priest whom I can trust. I am to be married
on Saturday."

The two men looked steadily at each other,
and then the elder said, with solemn earnestness,
" Is this a righteous solution of the difficulty
? Marriage is an indestructible bond."

I know it ; righteousness and I have parted,
but  there is no alternative."

I refuse to believe it ; you have not had
time enough to deliberate."

As much time as when a man is called upon
to choose between the surrender of his honour
and his life. I was going to say I had given
up the last ; but in some cases one is obliged to
part with both  that is mine."

He stopped, and then added, with a supreme
effort,  " I am not the same man that I was
yesterday, and even your sympathy wounds
rather than heals. Let me go."

A few hours later he was standing in one of
the wide bay-windows of the drawing-room at
Earlescourt waiting for Honour Aylmer. He
had sent a telegram in advance, asking to see
her alone, and giving some hint of misfortune ;
he dreaded for the blow to fall without any
preparation. There were only one or two
candles lighted in the stately room ; but a large
fire scattered warmth and brightness around,
giving fantastic effects of fluctuating flame and
shadow. The blinds and curtains were still
undrawn, and the outlines of the trees and
shrubs could be discerned in the faint gleam of
the crescent moon.

Philip Methuen stood and gazed out into

the darkness, seeing nothing but the projection
of his own misery, and that meant, at
this moment, the sense of the misery he was
about to inflict. He was, as he had been
throughout the day, outwardly composed ; but
this self-repression was so severe and protracted
that he dreaded lest his strength should fail
him in the moment of uttermost emergency.
He would shorten the interview as much as in
him lay : instinct and reason combine to make
swift the stroke by which we save our honour
and slay a life dearer than our own.

He heard the door open, and felt that Honour
had entered the room; but it was a moment
before he had courage enough to turn round.
She came towards him quickly, with eyes raised
to meet his own, full of tenderness and trust,
and both hands extended. In the presence of
calamity, womanly shyness and reserves were
out of place. She wore a soft silk gown of the
mellow tint of old ivory, and the ends of the
sash round her waist were deeply embroidered
and fringed with gold thread. There was a
distinction in the simple yet beautiful costume,

which suited well with the sweet dignity of
her tall and lithe figure, and the loveliness of
the face eager to discover and greet her lover.

Philip, after a moment's hesitation, came forward
and met her in the middle of the room,
taking both her outstretched hands in his.
They looked into each other's faces without
speaking ; but every trace of colour ebbed from
Honour's cheeks and lips as she read the awful
sorrow of his gaze.

Tell me what has happened," she whispered,
almost in the tone we adopt in the
chamber of death. " I can conceive of no
misfortune that can part us  say, it is not
that ! "

"It is that, or it would not be misfortune."

And then, in compassion to the agony of
suspense she forbore, for his sake, to express,
but which he read in every line of her drooping
face and figure, he forced himself to say, still
holding her hands firmly in his 

I have broken the bond between us, and
pledged myself to marry  Anna Trevelyan."

He had been about to add on Saturday, but

reflection came in time to enable him to spare
her this additional blow.

Honour uttered a low suppressed cry. Incredible
as the announcement might have
appeared to some, it reached her ears with
something of the effect of a dim foreboding realised.
One flash of backward thought helped
her comprehension, although it only served to
add intensity to her distress. The flight of
Anna Trevelyan from her home was a fact
known far and wide. But even in the first
moment of sharp endurance her instinctive feeling
was less that of self-pity than of passionate
sympathy. The expression that met Philip's
sombre and concentrated gaze was one of such
abounding tenderness and compassion that it
went near to break down his fortitude.

He dropped her hands, and turned from her
to avoid what he could not endure.

Honour's instinct was to follow him, but she
forbore, and said, standing where he had left
her 

Tell me everything that it is necessary forme
to know, and trust my love to bear it. I

am made for calamity, Philip. Besides, if thisbe
so, what is my pain to yours ? "

"Your pain!" he repeated; "your pain! it
is that which will haunt me night and day,
and turn endurance itself into an infamy.
Have mercy upon me, Honour ! anger and reproaches
would be less cruel "

Then I will reproach you ; were there no
means of escape ? "

But as she asked the question  it was so
charged with misery  her voice broke, and the
sound of her weeping reached his ears. He
had dreaded her tears as the one thing his
courage would not be able to sustain, and in
effect the moment held within it the very
bitterness of death. Suddenly turning towards
her, he snatched her into his arms and strained
her against his breast, with a passion which left
her faint and breathless.

My God ! " he said, " can I forego ? we are
pledged to each other by ties which it is impiety
to break. Honour, I am not yet hers ;
must I do this accursed thing ? Forbid it, and
I am bound to obey."

She saw his terrible suffering, and postponed
hers by an instinct of her nature.

Let me judge," she said, softly ; " and tell
me everything, that I may judge."

He obeyed her touch mechanically, and sat
down on a couch beside her, leaning forward
with his elbows on his knees and his hands
covering his face. His voiceless despair pierced
her soul ; and when after a time he lifted up
his headland looked at her, there was that in
his changed aspect alone which carried with
it a weight of woe. Seldom have a few hours
worked more havoc in a human face. The
lines and curves which had gone to produce
the expression of assured serenity and sweetness
had disappeared ; the brow had taken the
deep vertical furrow of intolerable pain ; the
eyes seemed to scorch where they fell, and
the mouth was hard and set. A sudden
flash of memory recalled him to her as she
had seen him four years ago at the foot of the
Earlescourt staircase, when he had suggested
Spenser's Christian knight to her mind, and the
contrast brought with it a pang of agony. He

had been grave and in trouble then ; but that
was a sorrow which purged and ennobled, having
the divine element of renunciation in it 
this the grip of an irremediable wrong, which
degrades while it tortures.

"Let me hold your hand," he said, "that
I may feel if you shrink from me. I am not
guilty, I suppose, but I have all the shame
and pain of guilt. ,,

And then, in direct abrupt phrases, he told
his burning story, without extenuation and
without reproach ; and as Honour listened to
details which were the knell of her own happiness,
her passion of love and sympathy quickened,
and she strained the hand which held
hers against her heart.

When he had done, he said,  " It is an insult
to ask you whether I was right or wrong. You
trusted me with your happiness, and I have
betrayed you. It is a poor excuse that it was
under such cruel pressure as turns the victim
on the rack into a liar and a perjurer."

He looked down upon the pale, tender, noble
face raised towards his own, and it needed all

the strength of the consideration that the
symptoms of his own distress aggravated hers,
to enable him to suppress a groan of anguish.
He pu her gently from him, and, rising abruptly,
turned again to the unsheltered window.

I will go now," he said, after a pause.
I have dealt my blow, and have no power
of healing. In the future it will be well that
we should never meet."

"Never meet!" she repeated; "you take
away my last hope. To have helped you in
your misery would have been some mitigation
of mine."

You could not have helped me," he answered
sternly. " Every time I saw your face
and heard your voice would have rendered
hers more hateful. The only comfort you
can give me is to let me know that  I have
not spoilt your life. I shall live mine w T with
the hourly prayer that the time may be
hastened when you will forget that you ever
loved me. What was my glory yesterday is
the millstone that sinks me to the bottomless
abyss to-day."

The tone in which he said this drew her
irresistibly to his side again ; it was sharp
with the accent of unendurable pain.

Philip," she cried, seizing his reluctant hand
in passionate appeal, " you ask of me more
than I can do or God requires ! You must
not insist on separating yourself from me.
Will you deny me the help that would come
from seeing how you live your life ? "

Not if I thought it would help you ; but
I shall live my life as the galley-slave lives
his  not escaping from it because chained to
the oar."

It seems so now," she said, breathlessly,
for the aspect of the averted face was almost
more than she could bear ; " but you will
not be long held under such a yoke as that.
You belong to the men who forge their spiritual
weapons out of suffering. God, who
knows the secrets of all hearts, has perhaps
marked out these lines of sharp denial and
daily martyrdom instead of those you would
have chosen for yourself, and  you will not
be unworthy of your vocation, Philip ? "

Sweet saint!" he answered, and put hex-hand
reverently to his lips ; but the thought
in his own mind was that divine service cannot
be based on the violation of all which he held
most sacred.

"Bear with one word more," she added;
it may help you a little to remember that
Anna did not know the wrong she was
doing us."

"I remember it thankfully; neither my
heart nor yours will be given to her for prey,
but  you must not plead for her, Honour."

Then silence fell between them, he still retaining
the hand he had taken, and she leaning
against his shoulder. He longed with
strenuous desire to cut short an interview
which had exhausted him more even than
he had feared; but he knew that the tender
woman clinging to his side was still loath tolet
him go. Presently he said, more gently
than he had spoken before 

There is some comfort which you will not
begrudge me, Honour, in the thought that
our engagement is not generally known ; it

would have distressed me greatly if your name
had been publicly associated with mine. Miss
Eaiie and Oliver must keep our secret."

But you will send some message to Oliver ? "
she urged.

He shook his head. " All that will be outside
my life in the future. Oliver must draw
his own conclusions."

Then he drew her more closely towards him,
and bending over her, gazed into her sweet
face with a concentrated yearning. He gave
no other expression to the despair which filled
his heart as they thus exchanged their speechless
farewell. He kissed her once or twice on
lips and brow, but with a chastened tenderness,
as if passion were exhausted.

Forgive me, I shall never kiss you anymore
; kiss me again and yet again, Honour,
my pure saint, my own unwedded wife ! I
thank God my uncle did not live to see this
day!"

He released her from his embrace, and had
turned to leave the room, when the door was
sharply opened, and Miss Earle advanced towards

them. She looked from him to Honour
with keen suspicious glances.

"Forgive me," she said, "if I am unwelcome ;
but I could not stay longer away when I knew
that you were the bearer of bad tidings to my
beloved daughter. What is wrong, Sir Philip ? "

You have every right to inquire," he said.
I am prepared to explain, but it must be after
Honour has left the room."

Let me stay," she pleaded  " I can make ita
little easier for you ; " but he answered her by a
glance of resolute denial, opening the door for her
departure, and closing it again quietly after her.

We had bidden each other farewell before
you entered," he explained to Miss Earle. " I
am now at your service.  Allow me to do that
for you."

We have said that the room was but dimly
lighted. Miss Earle had taken up a taper, and
was applying it with quick angry movements
to the chandelier above her head. She could
not read his face as she wished.

"Is that enough?" turning towards her in
the full blaze of the illumination, and meeting

her gaze steadily, in spite of the inward recoil
of his whole nature from the scene about
to be forced upon him.

She looked at him with a feeling of stupefaction
; a vague idea occurred to her that he
had been guilty of some sudden crime. "What
else could have happened to change him in so
brief an interval ?

His next words seemed to give colour to
her suspicion.

Will you permit me to give you my explanation
by letter?" he asked.

He was a strong man both in body and mind ;
but the equipoise of the finest organisations can
only resist the stress of circumstance up to a
certain point, and he had tasted no food that
day, though he was scarcely conscious of the
fact. He was, however, painfully conscious of
a failure of power which it needed a desperate
effort to resist successfully ; also, he had not
prepared himself for this repetition of his
punishment.

Pardon me," she said coldly, " I cannot
consent to wait. Your proposal means in effect

VOL. II. M

that my poor Honour should tell your story
instead of you. That would not be fair."

No," he said, " that would not be fair. I
am come to-day to get Honour's consent to
break our engagement  or rather, that is not
absolutely true,  I have already broken it, and
came to tell her so. The thing is without appeal."

His hard repellent manner had returned, and
increased her indignation and bewilderment.

Explain !" she demanded haughtily ; " but,
whatever the cause, I will never forgive the
man who has ruined Honour's life. Also, there
are others better qualified than I to call you
to account for an injury you scarcely condescend
to recognise."

"Hear what I have to say, and judge me
afterwards," he answered. And then once more
he told his miserable story, with the same conciseness
as before, and with scarcely less pain
and repugnance.

When he had done, Miss Earle, who had
listened not without angry and imperative interruptions,
said harshly 

Do you expect that I shall justify your

conduct, or agree that it is necessary to sacrifice
Honour in order to preserve the reputation
of an infamous girl like Anna Trevelyan ?
The matter is not so easily arranged as 3011
seem to imagine. I have always mistrusted
you, Sir Philip  you were too good to be
true. How do I know you have not played
us false ? You were free till you chose to be
bound  the girl has always cared for you. If
you suffer "  she glanced keenly at him  " I
have no pity for you. I wish you could add
Honour's pain to your own !"

Such wishes are vain," he said coldly, " and
it has ceased to be a matter of consequence tome
in what light you view my character or my
conduct. I have told you the truth ; but you
will, of course, accept or reject it at your discretion,
and take what action you think right in the
matter. Only  if you have any divine charity
in your soul  I appeal to it not to betray to any
other person that Miss Aylmer and I have been
engaged. Also, I trust to the honour you have
not pledged to keep secret these circumstances
I have just related to you."

I refuse to give any such pledges  it is
effrontery to demand them."

I do not demand," he answered, " but solicit,
and for the sake of her we both love. You will

consider " he stopped. " Perhaps it is not

necessary to say any more. Have I your permission
to take my leave ? "

Her woman's heart yielded a little.

Not till you have taken some refreshment,"
she said,* preserving the ice of her tone while
her eyes softened. " Honour in her trouble
has forgotten the duties of a hostess  let me
order something to be served for you in the
breakfast-room. "

I could not eat," he answered ; " but I am
thankful to take away with me the recollection
of your goodness."

Five minutes later he was driving back to
Trichester in the hack-fly which had brought
him from the station. He spent the night at
the newly erected meagre Railway Inn, and
took the first train to town on the following
morning.

CHAPTEK XXVI.

So long as the world contains us both,
Me the loving and you the loth,
While the one eludes, must the other pursue.
My life is a fault at last, I fear :
It seems too much like a fate indeed !
Though I do my best I shall scarce succeed."

E. Browning.

Mr and Mrs Sylvestre had taken up their
quarters at Haxell's Hotel, as a judicious compromise
between the West End and the City,
and thither they withdrew with Anna. The
interval that was to elapse before the Saturday
morning which was to relieve Mrs Sylvestre of
a charge reluctantly accepted and grudgingly
fulfilled, dragged heavily for all the parties
concerned.

Mr Sylvestre was, of course, free to employ
himself about town as well as a country parson
is able to do at the deadest season of the year,

and he had also the not altogether disagreeable
responsibility of making the necessary arrangements
for the wedding. An old college friend
happened to be the incumbent of the neighbouring
church of St Barnabas, and had readily
agreed to perform the ceremony and give any
advice or assistance in his power. Mr Sylvestre
had offered what he considered a very plausible
explanation of the haste and privacy of the
marriage; but he had not succeeded in disabling
his friend's mind of a certain amount of
suspicion, mixed with a still larger measure of
curiosity.

The Eev. Edward Dormer had naturally considered
it his duty to call upon Mrs Sylvestre
and her niece, but had been disappointed in the
object he had in view. Anna was not allowed
to be seen, being kept in strict seclusion by
her aunt, with the exception of a daily constitutional
in the Temple Gardens. An old bencher,
who was one of Mrs Sylvestre's few influential
friends, had placed the key of this sacred enclosure
at her disposal, as well as his opinion
and advice in respect to the legal aspect of the

marriage now impending. This gentleman had
asked her if no settlements had been made on
her niece by Sir Philip Methuen, and evidently
received her negative as a proof of gross negligence
on the part of the girl's friends, and lack
of proper behaviour on that of the bridegroom ;
but Mrs Sylvestre silenced his suggestions with
decision. It was a matter of no consequence to
her that Anna would be entirely dependent on
the liberality of her future husband, or indeed
whether that husband would be liberal or otherwise
; while the prospect of any postponement of
the marriage filled her with anxiety and apprehension.


It would perhaps be wrong to say that she
rejoiced in the circumstances which were to find
their climax in this forced union ; but at least
the result had so much that was consolatory in
it as to reduce her regret to a minimum.

To see Anna Trevelyan the wife of Sir Philip
Methuen was not indeed equal to the greater
and far more comfortable distinction which
Adrian Earle had offered her, and was attended
by drawbacks of a very substantial kind ; but it

was a great deal better than she had ever ventured
to expect, and relieved her of an odious
responsibility. Of course she would not be
able to permit any friendly intercourse between
the two families ; but as regarded any conscientious
scruples on the girl's own account, she
naturally argued that Anna's reputation must
take precedence even of her spiritual welfare,
and had almost entertained a doubt whether the
Catholic idolatry itself might not be better than
sheer infidelity.

Anna passed these days for the most part in
the solitude of her dreary bed-chamber. She
was neither submissive nor recalcitrant, neither
humbled nor defiant  she lived in a condition
of suspense rendered endurable by deliberate
realistic dreaming.

She mapped out with curious precision the
way in which she would spend her time at
Methuen Place, and how she would reopen and
decorate the old family house in South Audley
Street, disused for half a generation,  the alterations
she would make, the society she would
organise, the effect she would produce by her

own brilliant personality. She would make
friends again with Earlescourt (her latent suspicion
and jealousy of Honour Aylmer lending
only zest to the prospect), and dazzle them with
the practical fulfilment of the hopes and ambitions
she had often discussed under that roof.
They would see that Anna Trevelyan, arrogant
as they thought her, had not rated her value
too high  Sir Philip Methuen had indorsed the
estimate. The man whom they all admired had
chosen her for his wife.

Chosen ! It may be asked whether the girl
were so blind and insensate as not to be able
to understand the meaning of the miserable
scene in which she had just borne a part?
whether the signs of indifference, not to say of
repugnance and the sharp anguish of coercion,
had not been sufficiently manifest ?

For all this Anna Trevelyan had one inclusive
explanation ; it was the ascetic devotion of
the priest to the rule of celibacy. He did not
love her  no !  but he thought love a weakness
and marriage almost a crime, and her ardour
offended him because his manhood was still

under a yoke. But this was simply a prejudice
of education, that was to yield, like the ice-crowned
mountain-tops under the heat of summer
suns, to the breath of her passion.

That he did not love Honour Aylmer was
proved to her satisfaction by the bare fact of
his yielding to the pressure put upon him ; had
he done so, she argued (for we all reason self-outward),
he would have refused to yield.

If a certain recoil is felt from this condition
of mind as unwomanly and unnatural, it should
be remembered that the warm blood of the
south flowed in her veins ; that where no spiritual
faith exists self-gratification is apt to become
at once the creed and goal of life ; and, in
fuller extenuation, that her love had grown from
childhood with her growth, and retained something
of the artlessness and familiarity of the
past with the tumult and intemperance of the
present.

Mrs Sylvestre had been greatly exercised in
mind in respect to Anna's trousseau, or rather
of the entire deficiency of such provision. She
met the difficulty by telegraphing to her daughters

to forward to Haxell's Hotel the best part
of their cousin's wardrobe, and by deciding that
a certain travelling suit which it contained
would answer fairly for the marriage ceremony.

She had not the least idea what Methuen's
plans would be after he and Anna were man
and wife, but he w T as scarcely likely to propose
a return to Bruton Street. And in case of
going home to Sherrington or of a more distant
journey, it would be well to have the bride
properly equipped.

She still nourished a secret mistrust, as perhaps
we all have a tendency to do when the
thing expected seems too good to be true, and
which was strengthened by her fundamental
belief that subterfuge and falsehood were held
as very venial sins by men of his persuasion.
Mr Sylvestre, contrary to agreement, had called
once or twice in Bruton Street to discuss this
point or that with the distinguished principal,
as he called Methuen with mild jocularity,
but on none of these occasions had he been
admitted. " Sir Philip Methuen was out,"
was the invariable answer.

Her anxieties were, however, put at rest by
a note received from him late on Friday evening,
accepting all Mr Sylvestre's arrangements,
and stating that he would be in St Barnabas'
Church at the hour appointed.

No human satisfaction, however, is perfect,
and there was a clause in the letter which
almost overthrew Mrs Sylvestre's equilibrium.

I propose that the marriage ceremony shall
be immediately repeated at the Catholic Chapel
in Street."

"Does he conceive," she demanded, " that we
shall compromise ourselves to the extent of
assisting at an idolatrous rite ? Why, I believe
they speak of marriage as a sacrament ! "

She herself spoke as if even that degree of
acquaintance with the dogmas of a noxious
superstition was almost more than could be
justified in a right-minded person.

My dear," replied the Vicar, quietly, " our
niece will be quite enough married for you and
me by my good friend Mr Dormer and myself,
she will then be Sir Philip Methuen's wife as
hard and fast as the laws of England can make

her ; but lie does not recognise our orders, and
I hold it as a point of honourable feeling that
he is willing to make the union binding from
his own point of view. You would wish him
to consider himself her husband ? It will simply
be a bowing down in the house of Kimmon ! "

At ten o'clock on the following morning Mrs
Sylvestre and Anna entered St Barnabas'
Church. The Vicar had preceded them sometime
before, as he was to take part of the service,
and had arranged to breakfast with his
friend.

The persistent rain was still falling, and the
church, closed all the week, looked more like an
opened tomb than a sacred place of resort. The
vacancy and dreariness were increased by the
week-day aspect of inverted cushions, and linen
cloths over the more elaborate pieces of the
ecclesiastical furniture.

The altar itself had not been uncovered ; fine
holland concealed its costly drapery, recently
presented by a wealthy parishioner. Why
should it have been unanimously disclosed
before the decency of Sunday observance made

it necessary?  its suggestive services would not
be called into requisition on this occasion.

Anna was in a mood of controlled but intense
excitement. A little more and her hand would
be taken by the man to walk by whose side
through life was the prayer of her soul, and
no power could prevail hereafter to force them
asunder. Was he there ?

Her eager eyes scanned the vicinity of the
altar with searching scrutiny ; but almost before
she realised her disappointment, he stepped out
of a side pew, deep in the shadow of a heavy
pillar, and came forward to greet them. He was
accompanied by a friend, whose physiognomy
and ga-rb at once announced him as a Eoman
Catholic priest, and upon whose fine sharply cut
face Mrs Sylvestre gazed with haughty misgiving.
At the same moment, a few stragglers,
attracted by the open door and the waiting cabs
outside, sauntered into the church. The two
clergymen entered from the vestry, and after a
short whispered colloquy, they came forward to
the communion-rails and signified their readiness
to begin the service.

Philip placed himself on the right hand of
the chancel-steps, with his companion standing
close behind him ; and Mrs Sylvestre led her
niece forward, and stood beside her, with an expression
upon her face which indicated a sense
of righteous displeasure. The necessity she felt
under to watch the emissary of Satan opposite
her, who supported the bridegroom, somewhat
diverted the attention she was anxious to give
to the latter ; but, as she scornfully said to
herself, they were cast in the same mould.
They were both pale, quiet to immobility, and
with a reserve of expression which baffled her
penetration. She had observed keenly when
she gave Methuen the wedding-ring (which it
had been her function to procure) that the hand
which took it was perfectly steady, and that the
voice which greeted them in those few hurried
moments, was the same. But she was by no
means deficient in acuteness, and the completeness
of his mastery over himself only deepened
the conviction of the severity of the effort which
had been required. The days which had elapsed
since she saw him last seemed to have wrought

the effect of years upon him, although to her
mind the sternly beautiful face was more attractive
than his former sweet and winning aspect
had been.

As the service proceeded, a feeling of reluctant
sympathy and respect stirred in her mind towards
him. She pitied any man who was to bethe
husband of Anna Trevelyan ; but this man
had reasons of his own which made the union
abhorrent to him, and yet had succeeded in
ordering his looks and manner into such complete
subserviency to his will. Anna would be
in strong hands, she said to herself with a grim
smile.

Only once did she see his countenance change :
it was when for a moment Mr Dormer held their
united hands under his own as he pronounced
the momentous words which rendered the marriage
bond indissoluble.

The change was an indefinable one : a slight
increase of pallor, a hardening of the lines of
the resolute face, a deepening of purpose in the
steadfast eyes ; but it meant the instinctive
revolt of his whole nature against the unnatural

contract, and the renewed suppression of that
revolt by strength of will.

As soon as the ceremony was over, he lifted
his wife's hand to his lips, and received the congratulations
of the little group with proper recognition.
He introduced his companion with
an air of marked deference to the two clergymen,
who did not recognise the well-known name,
as Father Florentius, and asked if they would
return his courtesy by assisting in their turn at
the ceremony which was immediately to follow
according to the rites of his own Church.

Mr Dormer, however, excused himself on the
plea of further " duty," meeting the graceful
cordiality of the priest with that amount of
reserve and stiffness which marked his sense of
the ecclesiastical gulf which divided them.

During the few minutes spent in the vestry
for the necessary signatures, Mrs Sylvestre was
astonished to find herself yielding to the irresistible
charm of Father Florentius' manners.
He had the happiest art of saying, even of
looking, the things most acceptable to the person
addressed, and so filled the situation by

VOL. II. N

his tact and fluent courtesies, that any omissions
on the part of Methuen were not likely to
be noticed.

His recognition of Anna was so masterly an
exhibition of high-breeding, conveying at once
interest, admiration, and delicate respect, that
Mr Dormer was irritably conscious of the inferiority
of his own greeting ; and the girl herself,
who could scarcely resist the depressing influence
of her new husband's reserve, brightened and
responded.

The chapel was not more than ten minutes'
distance from St Barnabas' Church, and the
party reached it in two cabs. During that brief
interval Philip said 

I hope you will be satisfied with the arrangements
I have made  I thought you would
like to go direct to Florence. Do you feel equal
to crossing the Channel to-night ? "

She looked down for a moment, conscious that
it was not what she liked. She would have
liked to carry home her triumph to Methuen
Place  to have smiled defiance into Mrs Gibson's
keen suspicious face  to have kissed Honour

Aylmer's cheek and whispered, " I have
won what I never meant to lose ! " Then she
glanced across at her companion, and her reluctance
vanished.

It is no matter to me where I go, so long
as you are with me, Philip."

She stopped, her pale face suddenly suffused
with a glow of colour.

You have not kissed me yet," she said.
Kiss me now ! "

She put her arms about his neck and her
warm red lips to his, and felt with a thrill of
triumph that the pressure was returned.

It was not likely to be Philip Methuen's way
to remit any point of service to which his
honour pledged him,  it would have been not
only a cruelty but a fraud to reject the caresses
of the passionate girl who had cast her reputation
at his feet. The task required of him was
one that made life look haggard and bankrupt in
the long future that probably stretched before
them, but he had accepted it.

To his mind that meant neither flight nor
evasion.

An hour later Mr and Mrs Sylvestre were
standing alone on the main-line departure platform
at Charing Cross, watching the express as
it dashed out into the murky drizzle. She had
bidden Lady Methuen farewell with a complacency
that could never have been gained by
Anna Trevelyan. As they turned slowly and
began to walk towards their hotel, the Vicar
remarked 

"Do you really think that Philip Methuen
does not care for Anna ? It is a very shocking
idea, and no new husband could possibly be
more attentive."

In the way of magazines, newspapers, and
wraps, it would be quite impossible," she answered,
with a curious inflection in her voice.
"It is also evident that he is not prepared for
much conversation on their journey, nor for
what there is being of a confidential nature.
Perhaps you did not observe the dexterity with
which he avoided the empty carriages? But
the future is their own affair. Thank God, I
have done with Anna Trevelyan ! "

Chapter XXVII.

I shut my eyes and turned them on my heart.
As a man calls for wine before he fights,
I asked one draught of earlier happier sights,
Ere fitly I could hope to play my part."

R. Browning.

There are many ways of meeting the irremediable.
A man may face it with absolute
austerity, yielding what is exacted without protest
or complaint, but adding to it no grace of
gentleness or heroic effort at amelioration. Ina
sense, it is comparatively easy to do the thing
we have admitted it to be our duty to do, with
a hand of iron and a heart of steel ; but it is
infinitely hard to appear to fulfil the unwelcome
task with the gracious freedom and fulness
which How spontaneously towards the work we
choose for ourselves, and love to perform.
Amid all the cross-currents of life there is

none more baffling nor disastrous than an ill-assorted
marriage. It is not a situation in
which worth and honour show in heroic proportions,
but it is one in which a man's or
woman's capacity to endure and conquer maybe
tested to an extent which makes all other
martyrdoms poor and superficial.

Philip Methuen has been married six months,
and it must be allowed that so far he has fulfilled
his duties on the lines of hard necessity
alone. Anna had her rights as his wife, and
they were rendered, but not a jot beyond.

They went abroad, and he allowed her unlimited
choice as to where they should go or
how long they should stay ; but it was he who
decided what society they should keep, and
how they should employ their time. Whatever
appeared reasonable or right for Anna todo
or to enjoy he conceded, and was her unwearied
companion in the doing or the enjoyment
of it ; but there was no appeal from his
decisions.

During the excitement of constant change of
place and scene, and the new bliss of their union,

the young wife was fairly acquiescent ; but six
months is a period long enough to test the
patience and credulity of the most love-stricken,
and Lady Methuen was slowly awakening to a
sense of disappointment and resentment. As
was characteristic, her grievances were of a low
and personal kind. She was so beautiful that
every man's eye which rested upon her quickened,
bringing her the indisputable tribute
which she felt to be her right ; but her husband's
face never glowed nor softened as he
looked at her, although that beauty was his
own inalienable possession, and she did her best
to use it for the conquest of his senses and his
heart.

Over and over again had she presented herself
to him in some new toilet of bewitchery,
or under conditions of studied negligence and
effective dishevelment which instinct taught
her were more potent still ; but no fire had
lighted the sombre eyes, nor any responsive
smile of perception parted the lips. With the
vehement contrariety of her nature, his coldness
only served to stimulate her ardour ; if he had

fully reciprocated her passion, it probably would
have cooled.

Easter fell early the ensuing year, and they
returned to Some to spend it there, diligently
attending the elaborate and incessant services of
the Church  the one as a point of acceptable
duty, the other as offering the best field of display
for her beauty and distinction of dress.
A few days after their marriage, Philip had
said to her 

I think you profess to be an unbeliever,
Anna ; but you will be willing to allow that
this is the result of early influences, not of any
thinking or experience of your own. You are
now bound to spend your life with a man who
believes in God, and I shall require you, as my
wife, to attend the services of the Church  not
too strictly, but enough to give the opportunity
of some word of divine conviction reaching your
heart."

Will you not also give me good books to
read, and argue with me, so as to show me my
errors ? " she asked, with a sort of tender
mockery.

No," he answered, " I shall not do that,
unless the time should come that you ask to
be taught in the true spirit of humility. It is
not a perversion of the intellect with you so
much as a fault of character."

"I would as soon kneel beside you as sit
beside you," she said, " and I like to watch you
at your prayers."

This, as we have said, was in the first days
of their marriage ; but when Easter found them
at Some, six months had passed, and Anna was
weary of travel, and had already begun to
question whether life with Philip Methuen
were quite equal to her expectations, and to
answer the doubt with a bitter and passionate
denial.

The constant restraint he exercised over her
conduct ; his absolute indifference to the pleasures
of the shifting society of Continental cities,
even although he did not prevent her from taking
her share of them ; the gravity of his personal
pursuits ; the austerity of his rule of life ;
the unreasonable amount of time and money he
gave to matters of philanthropy and religion,

burdened and chafed her temper almost past
endurance.

But, after all, this was not the core of the
girl's disappointment. That lay in the fact
that the conquest of his heart, of which she had
made so sure  the yielding of his nature into
the softness of passion under her influence 
seemed as far off now as ever.

Father, indeed, the chances were more remote
and hopeless : with her vehement and sensuous
temperament and keen faculty of insight, she
could not hide from herself that either this
man, whom she adored, was incapable of loving,
or that she, in spite of her charms, was incapable
of exciting the emotion in him. Then she
missed, as all who knew him missed it, the
sweetness and gentleness which had been his
distinguishing characteristic .

The one circumstance that held her under
restraint and rendered her life tolerable, was
that his indifference to the society and attractions
of other women was so complete as to
mitigate the crime of his insensibility to herself
; for if once the idea had been received by

her mind that what was withheld from her was
bestowed elsewhere, her pain and wrath would
have burst all bounds.

Another stone of offence in Anna Methuen's
path was one over which it may be considered
that she legitimately stumbled  her husband's
refusal to return to England and go home. On
this point she had the courage to renew the discussion
time after time, feeling that she had
right on her side.

One morning at this period, Anna was sitting
alone in the fine salon of the suite of apartments
they occupied in the Strata del Populo.
All the windows were open to the warm air,
revealing a faint blue sky without fleck or
cloud and palpitating with meridian heat and
light ; while, on the left side of the outlook, one
could glimpse the terraces of the Pinch, with
the white gleam of marble amidst its pines and
cypresses.

She was dressed in a faint cinnamon-tinted
gown, of so slight a texture as to define, almost
too obviously, the outlines of the superb form it
covered ; and the hair, which was well drawn

back from the perfect face and twisted into
heavy coils in the creamy nape of her neck,
caught shades of bronze and gold in the sunshine,
where she sat with a book between her
languid fingers.

She had declined her husband's invitation to
go out of doors, and now sat impatiently awaiting
his return. Later in the day she would
receive," as was her habit on two days of the
week, and would have the gratification of having
her rooms thronged by the select few of
native Eoman society, and a more miscellaneous
crowd of distinguished English and American
strangers. For that occasion she had a new
tea-gown prepared after her own artistic device,
so unique and beautiful that it might almost
have made the Medical Venus herself dissatisfied
with her unadorned perfection. But till
that hour of social triumph arrived, there was a
long spell of time to get through, and Philip's
absence was unduly protracted. She was always
eager for his return when they were apart ;
but to-day she had a speech ready prepared to
greet him, and was wearying to test its effect.

When he came in she rose from her seat at
the further end of the room, and went towards
him, book in hand.

You sometimes scold me, Philip, because I
never read ; but I have been reading one of
your books this morning, and found something
which has almost made me cry with longing
and vexation. I will read it to you." And
she read aloud those well-known and probably
best-quoted lines of Robert Browning : 

Oh, to be in England now that April's there !

And whoever wakes in England sees some morning unaware
That the lowest boughs and the brushwood sheaf
Found the elm-tree bole are in tiny leaf,

While the chaffinch sings on the orchard bough
In England  now ! "

She closed the book and put it down, still
keeping her eyes on his face. " Think of
Methuen Park," she said. " Once more, will
you take me home? I am more sick of Italy
than words can say ! "

He looked at her from head to foot, for her
toilet was of a kind to challenge attention, saw
how beautiful she was, and how boldly aggressive
in her consciousness of the fact, and  hated

that beauty ! Also he recalled how it was she
alone who stood between him and his return
from an exile which was far more painful to
himself than to her.

No," he answered, " I will not go home."

Another vision was before his eyes, so adorable
in its noble sweetness and reticence as towring
his soul with an almost intolerable regret,
and to give to his voice a harshness of which he
was scarcely aware. He crossed the room as he
spoke, and sat down on a couch a little in the
shadow of the wall.

Anna, whose keen sight could have defied a
much longer distance, stood where he had left
her, and looked at him with intent observation.

We have been married more than six
months," she said  and there was a threatening
vibration in her voice  " and have been vagabonds
all that time. I am sick of vagabondage !
Methuen Place is my proper home and yours,
and I love it. I love England in the spring
better than at any other time. What I ask you
to do is right and reasonable. Why do you refuse
? You must have some very strong reason."

Philip was silent for a moment. Possibly, in
order to preserve his sacred secret, he might
have to yield this point, and had been ill
advised in his persistent refusal.

It is to be supposed," he answered, " that I
have what appears to me good reason for what
I do. The quiet life we should of necessity
lead at Methuen Place you would soon tire of.
You must know that there is a line of demarcation
between me and our neighbours."

He had a sense of indignant shame as he said
this, feeling such insincerity to be part of the
ignominy of his position, and was also aware
that his wife's acuteness detected the reserve
and reluctance of his manner.

As for that," she answered eagerly, catching
at the symptoms of hesitation, " the remedy is
in my own hands. I will undertake to readjust
your social relations. All the county will call
on Lady Methuen out of curiosity at first, and
she will engage to make friends of the county.
I shall also be able to amuse myself with improving
and refurnishing the old house. Then
there is another point you seem to overlook 

that between us and our neighbours at Earless
there is assuredly no line of demarcation."

Does it not occur to you, Anna, that the
fact of your having refused Adrian Earle's offer
of marriage, will be a difficulty in regard to any
renewal of our former intercourse ? "

I am not of that opinion at all," was her
eager rejoinder. " Adrian and I parted the
best friends in the world. Besides, would you
wish me to give up the advantage of Honour
Alters friendship and the satisfaction of
amusing poor Oliver because  because I loved
you and not him ? "

She paused ; but as there was no response,
went on again 

Or, granting that there may be a little
awkwardness at first, will you be at no trouble
to get over it in order that I may still be able
to profit from the example of a girl you have
always held up to me as a model ? I presume
you think as well now of Honour Aylmer as
before you went to India?"

Not as well," he answered, "but infinitely
better. When I went to India I had only an

imperfect knowledge of her character. During
my uncle's last illness I was often, as you may
probably know, at Earlescourt, and learned todo
her fuller justice."

The manner was so natural, and the tone so
quiet, that it once more shook the half-suspicion
in Anna's mind.

In that case," she answered, " it will be just
as pleasant for you as for me to be friends again
with the Earlescourt family. What is it worth
to me that people here know me as your wife ?
in one sense the honour only counts in one's
own country. I want Oliver and scornful Miss
Earle, I want Honour Aylmer herself, to see
that I did not rate myself too high, or claim
that to which I was not entitled," and the girl
raised her beautiful head with an air of proud
assurance, which baffled the man who heard
and watched her. Presently she added, with
a flash of her magnificent eyes  angry and hurt
at the cold unresponsiveness of his manner 
Good as Miss Aylmer is, and perfect in your
eyes, with wealth and position so far above
poor Anna Trevelyan, at least she has been

VOL. II. o

able to take from her the two men, neither of
whom she would have refused to marry ! "

He had tried by an imperative gesture to
arrest the words before they left her tongue, but
failed. She took a malicious pleasure in insulting
the woman that he commended, and was ina
mood to defy any indignation she might
arouse. But as she met his eyes there was that
in their concentrated anger and scorn which
helped even her blind moral sense to perceive
that the sin she had committed was a heinous
one in his sight.

I have stated an undeniable fact," she said,
in defiance of her inward sinking of heart.
"Why do you look at me, Philip, as if you
hated me ? "

"I pray God," he said, with intense expression,
" that I may not hate the woman with
whom I am bound to live ; but hate is not the
word to express the feeling she is capable of
exciting in my mind."

And he got up and went out of the room.

He walked rapidly in the direction of the
Indian Hill ; but the noontide heat was so

intense that he soon turned aside into the
sheltered gardens of the Villa Medici, and sat
down on one of the lichen-covered stone seats
in the grateful shadow of the ilex-trees, the
high hedges of dense box which enclose the
straight formal paths of the garden, shutting
out the enchanting vista beyond. There lay
the widespread Campagna, which had lost its
vivid autumnal tints, and was now a delicious
plain of vernal green waving with flowers,
and beyond that gleamed the silver streak of
intense white light where the sea melts into
the horizon at Ostia.

But Methuen's object was to be free to think,
not to admire the beauty which seemed an incongruous
setting to such misery as his.

He had often speculated whether any hardship
or misfortune could befall him which his
native force of character, helped by religion,
would not enable him to endure ; but now he
was already doubting whether it would be possible
for him to live his life with a girl capable
of such measureless indelicacy and bluntness of
moral perception as Anna had just betrayed.

The words which she had spoken were like the
sting of a lash to the acute susceptibility with
which he guarded the honour of the woman
who had loved him.

He put it in this way to himself, for love had
ceased to be lawful between them, and whatever
was outside the range of duty was to each
of them a thing to be conquered at all costs ;
but also the closer insight he had obtained into
the depths of his wife's unworthiness strengthened
his conviction of the necessity of preserving
the sacred secret of their love.

And then, for a few moments, nature wrenched
the mastery from his grasp, and he suffered his
mind to dwell upon the lost possibilities of life
the wreck and bankruptcy which had overtaken
him, turning light into darkness, and
making of existence a load almost too heavy
to be borne.

His memory forced upon him that terrible
scene of parting in which the patience and devotion
of Honour had touched a divine height,
and enhanced the severity of renunciation.
The dread of moral retrogression, too, was strong

upon him. All his strength seemed drawn off
into the daily struggle to endure and to forget,
and he condemned himself as failing in tolerance
and generosity towards his wife, in that
he was abhorring what he should deplore, and
hardening his heart against the manifestations
of her love, where lay, perhaps, the one chance
of redemption, if redemption were possible for
selfishness so overmastering as hers.

There were other considerations as well. Was
the outcome of his life, hitherto so full of worthy
ambitions, to be nothing beyond this domestic
conflict, more or less successful, with attention
to such side-issues as he might be able to give ?
Was this marriage to mulct him at all points 
not only of happiness, but of the power of doing
good in his generation ? This waste of energy
and opportunity  this burying of the talents
of youth, faculty, and wealth  was a crime he
dare not lay upon his conscience.

He would shake off this unmanly incubus,
or, at least (for that was scarcely possible), do
his work in life as well as might be under the
weight of it ; and perhaps  for Methuen's mind

immediately turned towards putting principles
into practice  it would be wise as well as kind
to reconsider his wife's wishes and return to
England. That did not mean  even a return to
Methuen Place did not mean  renewed relations
with Earlescourt ; the instinct of every member
of that family would fortify his own judgment
and keep them apart.

On their way home he would visit Lord
Sainsbury, who was still resident at Mentone,
and of whose health he had received good accounts
of late, and make the offer of his services
to him in any way which seemed best. There
was }et the stress of his late uncle's affectionate
ambition binding upon his grateful memory.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

Where ye feel your honour grip,
Let that aye be your border :
Its slightest touches, instant pause-debar
a' side pretences,
And resolutely keep its laws,
Uncaring consequences."

Burns.

It seemed to Anna Methuen like one of the
quips and cranks of an ironical fate, that sometime
after her husband had gone out, the
servant brought her a card with Adrian Earle's
name upon it, and asked whether the Signora
would see the gentleman before her appointed
hour of receiving.

There was a brief pause of rapid consideration,
the antitheta of compliance ranging themselves
clearly in her prompt and dexterous
mind. Her decision was soon formed ; here
would be indisputable proof of the assertion

she had so recently made, and a fresh point to
urge in furtherance of her wishes ; also here
was relief for her intolerable ennui, and a
tribute to her influence not to be despised in
her present mood of irritation and depression.

A few moments later she was standing up,
flushed and radiant, with outstretched hand,
to welcome her visitor. She saw at the first
glance that Adrian was looking better than she
ever remembered to have seen him ; he was
tanned and braced by adventurous travel, and
there was greater vigour both of body and
mind in his aspect. And he, as he walked up
the long salon, perceived that even his memory
as a lover had never painted her so beautiful as
she was, and that the familiar ring of her low
melodious voice, which he had taught himself
to believe had lost its power over his heart, 
the very hopelessness of his passion curing
itself,  set all his pulses beating at fever-heat.


"Is it really you  so soon, Adrian?" she
said. "How sweet and kind it is of you to
come and see me! I am more pleased than

words can say. But how did you know whereto
find us ? "

M It is not a hard matter, Lady Methuen, for
those who read their ' Malignant ' to discover the
domicile of such distinguished visitors as yourselves.
I landed at Brindisi a few days ago,
and came on here for the Easter festivities. It
is so long since I have seen a familiar face that
I risked denial in the hope of seeing yours."

"Why should I deny myself to you," she
asked, with that simple directness of speech
which was one of her best characteristics, " if
you are willing to be friends with me ? You
must stay and dine with us. All the world is
coming to us this afternoon, and I should like
you to see how I play my part as dame de salon.
Besides, I have all your adventures to hear."

So great was her own exhilaration, that she
did not stop to consider whether Adrian might
not find some difficulty in responding to her
unexpected familiarity and kindness ; and when,
shortly afterwards, Methuen came in, she introduced
their guest with a triumphant satisfaction,
which only served to mark the contrast

between her cordiality and her husband's
courteous but reserved greeting.

To the latter this visit appeared a breach
equally of right feeling and good taste, and
he marvelled that Adrian Earle should have
crossed the threshold of his door, when he
could not but believe that he had been grossly
wronged and misled. It was no small addition
to Methuen's trouble that explanation on the
point of his seeming treachery to his friend
would be impossible ; the facts of his marriage
it would always be out of his own power to
explain.

Anna, with that sort of deliberate effrontery
she was in the habit of employing when she
considered she had cause of complaint against
her husband, did not allow his entrance to interrupt
the easy flow of her talk with Adrian;
and the radiant sweetness of her looks and the
dulcet cadences of her voice moved Methuen to
indignant sympathy, as he watched their effect
in the changes of Earle's expressive face.

"Philip was only telling me this morning,"
she said, "that we could never be friends with

Earlescourt any more ; but since you have forgiven
me, the difficulty is removed  no one
else has a right to be angry."

Perhaps not with you, Anna," interposed
Methuen, quietly ; " but Mr Earle and I have
a quarrel of our own which will effectually
prevent our putting his magnanimity to the
test in the future."

He looked at him as he spoke with a steadfast
gravity of regard, not unmixed with kindness
and regret, but Adrian did not choose to
meet it. He lifted his eyebrows and made a
corresponding movement of the shoulders ina
characteristic way, as though the challenge
were beneath his notice, and laughed his
delicate derisive laugh.

There is not much depth in my nature, as
you know, for memories either good or bad,"
he answered. " I am willing to be friends
all round, and wipe out your offences, Philip,
as well as those of  others. Twelve months'
knocking about the world shows things in their
true proportions. The wise man does not nurse
resentments."

Philip bowed stiffly, and Anna said with
effusion 

"You do not know how happy you make
me ! Half the pleasure of going home would
be lost if your house were shut against us.
Philip cannot stand out any longer. But I
must go and change my gown. You will wait ?
and dine ? There are people coming who are
worth seeing ; and at any rate I wish you to
remain, if only to discover that I have at
length developed a taste in dress. I shall be
satisfied if you approve. Philip never looks
at me."

As she went out, two other guests were
introduced into the apartment  men of considerable
political influence, whose names only
were known to Adrian Earle, but whom it was
an unmistakable honour to meet  and both he
and Methuen welcomed the circumstance as
relieving them from the disagreeable friction
of a personal interview.

That afternoon afforded Anna Methuen one
of her most acceptable triumphs, and on the
strength of it her bearing to all those with

whom she came into contact was more haughty,
assured, and indifferent than her wont.

She read the effect of her beauty, accentuated
by the picturesque costume which she
wore, in the vivid glance of every man that
looked at her, and in the guarded cordiality of
the women who were her guests  appraising
the one tribute as highly as the other.

Adrian stayed for an hour or two longer ; but
the crowd was so great, and Anna's Italian
speech so fluent and swift, that he contented
himself for the most part with watching and
listening, in a mood made up of pain and
cynicism. He smiled to himself to see what
hard work Philip had to do to redress the
balance of Anna's insolent exclusiveness and
caprice by his own fine courtesy and tact, and
even admitted to himself that few men could
have fulfilled the difficult function better. The
man looked older and altered to a degree that
surprised Adrian Earle, judging from the physical
effects of his own disappointment ; but there
was the same distinction and individuality of
aspect and manner which always challenged

attention, and perhaps justified the expression
in Anna's face as he chanced to catch it when
her eyes rested for a moment on her husband.
Seeing that Adrian had noticed the look, she
coloured with vexation, and motioned him to
come and speak to her.

You see the girl to whom Philip is talking
with that ridiculous air of interest and respect ?
She is Victoria Orsini, a girl of good birth, only
just let out of her, convent, and without two
ideas in her head. She is not in the least
beautiful  is she ? Can you help me to understand
why he looks at her like that ? "

It would have puzzled, or perhaps even disillusioned,
any other man but one who had
known Anna Trevelyan from a girl, that such
a question could have been proposed by her to
himself. As it was, he swallowed his distaste,
and contented himself with answering a little
spitefully 

She is very pretty and innocent-looking,
and is of the type of woman whom Methuen
admires."

Anna turned a little pale. " Ah, you want

to punish me ! Don't make any mistakes. It
may not seem so, but  I am still very fond of
Philip."

"And you scarcely expected your constancy
to last so long ? Six months, is it ? Well, I
could scarcely have been justified in forgiving
you if you had spoilt my life for less than that."

Spoilt your life ! " she repeated, disdainfully.
" I never saw you look so well and self-satisfied
before. I  I should like to ask you a
question. Who told you that Philip and I were
married ? "

The colour came into her cheek and a spark
of fire into her eyes.

Adrian glanced at her, and then looked with
a disengaged air across the room.

I saw the announcement in all the papers
when I got back to Paris. I was then on my
way home, but  I took another departure. I
was stricken with a sudden desire to see the
Soudan with my own eyes and went, and extended
my tour afterwards up and down the
Nile. I am going to write a book about
Egypt,"

"You mean that your own people did not
mention it in their letters ? "

"They mentioned it simply as an event that
had happened  nothing more."

And then he turned and looked at her
intently.

She was still watching her husband, and her
eyes had a tender, wistful look, such as he had
never seen in them before, except in connection
with this man's name. It quickened his sense
of enmity against him.

It is an impertinence," he said, " to ask a
six months' old wife whether she is happy ; but
you sacrificed me without the hesitation of a
moment in order to become so. Are you quite
satisfied with the result ? "

She closed her eyes for a moment, as if to
help her inward search ; then her bosom heaved,
and the corners of her beautiful mouth drooped
a little.

If you had had your way and married me,"
she answered, "how tired we should have been
of each other by this time ! It is a great strain
on human nature to have to live most of the

twenty-four hours in each other's company, and
you cannot fairly judge of this without proving
it ; but still there is only one man in the world
with whom I could bear it, and he might make
it easier to bear. Philip ! "

Her accent, laden with passion, was the same
as of old ; the same as when she stood, a pale,
crude, forlorn girl, by his side, and looked down
for the first time upon Methuen Place. Adrian
winced under it, in spite of the resistance of his
wounded pride. His eyes involuntarily followed
the direction of hers ; and Methuen, as if feeling
the magnetism of their gaze, stopped in
what he was saying to the lily-fair girl at his
side, and glanced towards them. His face had
a cold hard look in it, which was new to Adrian's
former knowledge of him.

Obeying an irresistible movement of his mind,
without giving himself time for reflection, he
said, in a low intense whisper 

"He is not unkind to you, Anna ? "

Anna threw up her magnificent head ; her
love and her pride were cut to the quick by the
lack of response on Philip's part, fully con-vol.

II. p

scions as she was what her own face must have
expressed.

"He is not unkind," she answered; "he is
cruel."

She gave him no time to reply, nor, as he saw
with an angry pain, did she so much as glance
towards him to see the effect of her words. The
next moment she was answering the gracious
courtesies of a certain dignitary of the Church,
high in favour at the Quirinal, who was pledging
himself to procure for her an introduction to the
inner court circle which it had suddenly occurred
to her she should like to obtain ; and Adrian
made his way through the throng, intending to
disappear without leave-taking to either host or
hostess.

This purpose was, however, frustrated by
Philip, who, seeing his intention, came forward
to speak to him.

"You will not, then, accept Lady Methuen's
invitation to dine with us this evening ? "

No," he answered brusquely, " I will not.
I should risk too much."

"Then you are in the right to refuse. It

will perhaps be better that you should not come
here any more. We are leaving Rome almost
immediately."

Adrian nodded, and passed on without shaking
hands. It was his way of marking resentment
the only vent he allowed himself for the rage
and pity of his soul.

That night, when dinner was over and dessert
on the table, the tall wax-candles scarcely flickering
though the windows stood wide open,
Philip said to his wife 

I have thought over what you asked me this
morning, and have decided to do as you wish.
We will leave for England as soon as you
please."

Anna continued to play with the strawberries
on her plate for a few moments longer
in silence ; then she looked up.

You would not have yielded if Adrian Earle
had not turned up to-day. You are willing todo
now what you refused before, because, at the
same time, you take away from me a pleasure
almost as great as the one you have persuaded
yourself to grant."

"I do not understand you," he began; and
then he suddenly dropped the cold reserve of
his manner, and a softer expression came into
his face.

"Anna," he said, kindly, "there must be an
end to this strife and contradiction between us ;
it lowers both of us. I know that I have often
failed in patience and consideration, but I will
be more careful not to vex you in the future ;
and you on your side must try to be more
reasonable and conciliatory. Shall it be a contract
between us ? "

He had meant to infuse more affectionately
into his words and manner ; but the sweetness
and the tenderness seemed beyond his power to
force or simulate, and he felt he had failed ashe
met Anna's eyes.

Let us talk about your part of the contract
first," she answered. " Do you mean to behave
like other men when we get back to England ?
I mean, will you allow me to take my proper
place in English society ? Will you write to
your lawyers at once  say tomorrow  and give
orders to have the house in South Audley Street

put in proper repair, and refurnished as it ought
to be at the beginning of a new reign ? And
while that is going on, will you take apartments
or a house in town, so that I can have my own
way as regards details and decoration, and enjoy
a London season in my own right ? Will you
do this ? "

There was provocation and defiance in her
tone, but he was strictly on guard.

Yes," he said, " within certain limits I am
prepared to do this."

But that is not all," she continued, and she
put her elbows on the table, and leaned her
dainty chin upon her clasped hands, with her
beautiful eyes full on his face. " When our
house is ready, will you consent to entertain
in a proper manner  not in your narrow exclusive
sect, but without distinction beyond
that of social advantage ? "

He smiled a little, with that sort of aloofness
from her power to wound, which hurt her heart
and pride alike.

I shall always reserve to myself the duty
of choosing the society we keep," he answered ;

but I have never been accustomed to confine
it to members of my own communion, which is
not a sect, little Anna, but the dominant creed
of Christendom. For the rest, I am not only
willing but anxious to meet your wishes so far
as my means allow."

Your means ! " she repeated. " Are you
not rich ? "

I am not rich as Sir Walter Earle is rich,
and I have heavy arrears of obligation to meet.
A great deal of building needs to be done in
Skefiington ; and there are some streets in Crawford,
which are part of the Methuen estate, which
admit of no improvement without complete demolition."


And you will waste your money like that ! "
she cried. " And when life is so short, and so
soon over, and wants so much to make it bearable
! I do not think that this is fair to your
wife."

It will make no difference to my wife. I
have already given instructions to my lawyers,
Anna, to draw up a deed of settlement which
will make you quite independent of me as regards

your personal expenses. But these different
claims will leave no margin for extravagance
or ostentation."

And is the money you allow me calculated
on the lines of my poverty and friendlessness,

or ? " and she paused without finishing her

sentence.

Yes," he said, quietly, " I think it is ; at
least Messrs Chapman & Hurst tell me that it
exceeds the provision made by my late uncle
on behalf of his wife, and therefore it can scarcely
be considered as below your rights "

Oh ! " she exclaimed, eagerly interrupting
him, " she and I don't stand on an equality !
I have heard Sir Walter Earle say that Sir
Giles Methuen adored his wife. You know
quite well that the scale in which my claims
are weighed is empty of all that, and you throw
in more gold to make the balance even ! Do
you remember you spoke just now of patience
and consideration ? such words are an insult tome.
Philip, I shall learn to hate you if you
will not love me a little for my much ! "

She pushed back her chair from the table,

and, getting up, came half-way towards him,
then stopped short, with her clasped hands
crossed on her breast, and her beautiful head
bowed in an attitude almost of supplication.

I wonder you can resist me ! " she said, in
her low ordinance voice.

The colour rushed into his face, and his
brow contracted. The capriciousness of a
temper which veered from insult to tenderness
within the space of ten minutes  a love which
demanded and offered caresses only as proof
and test of its existence, and ignored or outraged
the deepest feelings of his nature  which
stooped to the arts of the mistress instead of
maintaining the dignity of a wife  revolted
him, and closed his heart against her, and would
have done so without the effectual barrier of
absolute preoccupation. Had Anna known it,
she could not have riveted the bonds of the
old love more firmly than by offering perpetually
so glaring a contrast.

And yet he condemned himself, inasmuch ashe
could not coerce his soul to the fealty to
which he had pledged himself. Had her love

been nobler, it might have subdued him  but
such as it was !

Such as it was, some response was required
from him.

He rose to meet her advance, and taking her
hands in his, drew her close to him, and looked
earnestly into the expectant flushed face raised
to his.

You do both of us a great wrong," he said,
when you take this posture of humility, and
beg me to care for you a little. I have cared
for you, Anna, since the day we first met  do
you remember ? Your father took me to the
Fiesole farm to see you, and you ran and hid
yourself behind the pine-stack, and could not be
persuaded to come out and show yourself. In
those early days you used to scold me because I
did not kiss you often enough. I am just the
same now as then. I have never lived with
tender women, nor learnt to show affection after
their fashion; but it exists. Anna, there is
nothing lies so near my heart as your happiness
and welfare. Do not let us quarrel ! "

He stooped and kissed her as he spoke ; and

she, moved by a finer instinct than her wont,
forbore to fling her arms about his neck and
repay his kindness with her ardour.

"If I could be quite sure," she answered,
leaning her lovely head upon his shoulder,
that it is your way to love in this reluctant
fashion, and that you are keeping nothing back
from me ! But if I thought, or knew, the
woman lived whom you could have loved
better than me  in 'another fashion  it would
be a bad day for all three of us when Anna
Methuen made that discovery."

That day will never come," he said quietly,
and kissed her again as he spoke ; but for
the first time a doubt flashed across his mind
whether he had taken the best and noblest way
in concealing the length and breadth of the
sacrifice which she had extorted from him.

CHAPTER XXIX.

Who knows what's fit for us ? Had fate
Proposed bliss here should sublimate
My being  had I signed the bond 
Still one must lead some life beyond,
Have a bliss to die with, dim descried.

Earth being so good, would heaven seem best ? "

Pv. Browning.

The three months which followed the Methuenss'
return to London were perhaps the happiest
period which Anna had ever known. Philip,
as she expressed it to herself, seemed to have
turned over a new leaf, and to be bent on
helping her to fulfil the programme of triumph
and self-gratification she had marked out.

They took a house in Gloucester Place for the
season  for so searching were Anna's reforms
that there was no possibility of their own being
ready for occupation  and very soon they had

made good their admission into the innermost
circles of London society. Their success was
due in no small measure to the active friendship
of Lord Sainsbury, who in their behalf
threw off the indolent cynicism with which
he was credited. He did his utmost, by his
own generous recognition of Methuen's former
services and worth, to indicate to his immediate
friends the terms on which he accounted him
entitled to be received, and extended to his wife
so much kindness and consideration as served at
once for a cachet of distinction. Lord Sainsbury 's
efforts were seconded by his widowed sister, Mrs
Auchester, who was the mistress of his house,
and his ready co-operator at all points ; and
Anna, at once nattered and grateful, showed
to better advantage than at any former period.
A girl so beautiful as she was bestowed pleasure
and conferred distinction upon any company
that she joined, and her personality was so
unique and brilliant that it enhanced the first
impression of her good looks. She was neither
intellectual nor well read, and almost as ignorant
of the great questions of the day as she was

indifferent to them  self being the centre of all
her radiations ; but she had great tact and
promptness of perception, and could not only
cover her ignorance adroitly, but, by guarded
generalities and an air of wistful consideration,
assume a knowledge she did not possess.

As a hostess, Lady Methuen did not excel,
except in a certain artistic individuality as
regarded the accessories of her table and surroundings
; for she was too intent on monopolising
the chief share of attention and admiration,
and found it irksome to be civil to other women
without the direct view of personal advantage.

But here Methuen's innate and carefully
trained courtesy helped to fill up her own shortcomings.
He succeeded without effort where she
failed, because the pleasure of each guest was
not only the professed but actual object of his
solicitude; and while every word and action
seemed regulated by some unerring law of subtle
adaptation, the absence of strain or self-consciousness
was obvious to the most casual
observer.

Although no longer officially connected with

Lord Sainsbury, his time and services were still
greatly at his former chief's command ; and
indeed it soon became pretty well understood
in their own immediate circle, that if there were
any difficult work to be done on the lines of
social or political philanthropy, demanding sustained
and personally unremunerative labour,
Philip Methuen was the man to fall back upon.
At the same time, he never permitted these
engagements to interfere with Anna's legitimate
claims ; or rather, while he put it in this way
to himself, he was equally influenced by a deep-rooted
mistrust of her discretion and right
feeling. He not only rode with her in the Eow
when her mood inclined to so healthful an
exercise, but he often sat beside her in her
carriage during her unwearied afternoon perambulations
 unwearied because the tributes
offered to her vanity never ceased to please 
whenever he knew she had no other suitable
companion. When she was not under the
sufficient chaperonage of Mrs Auchester, he
accompanied her to her evening amusements,
and fulfilled the function of the hour without

apparent grudging or impatience ; nor did he
ever claim her gratitude or hold himself
entitled to it, for sacrifices which were almost
as hard as stern duty under any aspect could
have exacted from him.

Anna was never unwilling to exhibit in
society what accomplishments she possessed,
and she would have been quite ready to
exercise in its behoof her singular talent of
improvisation, as well as her brilliant musical
gifts, if Philip had not put an absolute veto on
the exhibition of the latter. It was a point she
yielded with the greatest reluctance, knowing
her own powers of fascination ; but she consented
to do so as being fairly satisfied with
the present state of things, and her husband's
general subserviency to her will and pleasure.

It is almost unnecessary to say that Lady
Methuen was neither an acute nor a delicate
observer. A woman who could misinterpret, as
she had done, the signs of repugnance and despair
in the scene which had fixed her destiny,
was scarcely likely to read aright the less
marked and carefully guarded manifestations of

Methuen's daily behaviour. She was beginning
to accept the studied kindness and conscientious
observance as the nearest approach to love and
its expression that his temperament admitted,
and his incessant companionship as a proof of her
growing influence. It is equally true that she
still missed, with an angry pang, the response
to her own ardour which she had felt so sure
of awakening ; but she was so absorbed in the
novelty of her social triumphs, that she had not
the same leisure nor inclination to brood over
her disappointment.

There was one, however, whose sagacity was
more penetrating. Lord Sainsbury watched
the young man whom he loved, with an almost
paternal anxiety and respect. Intimate as their
relations were, Philip Methuen held inviolate
the secrets of his married life  no disclosure
nor complaint ever passed his lips. Every
attention and service offered to Anna was
accepted by him with a cordial gratitude that
could scarcely have taken a warmer tone, and
his personal treatment of her was perfect in its
consideration and loyalty. He was simply

putting into practice the resolutions made in
the Medici Gardens, and the purpose expressed
to his wife before they left Rome ; and that with
a completeness and success which were the
result of a harder struggle than the discipline
of St Sulpice, or the mission-field of the Core,
would ever have exacted. But such victories
leave their scars ; and it often cut Lord Sains-busy
to the heart to detect, in the tamed
enthusiasms, the eager acceptance of work
apart from personal choice or interest, and
the constant effort to conceal his latent weariness
and dissatisfaction, that Time had as yet
brought to Methuen but little healing on its
wings.

Gracious as this good friend was to Anna,
and prepared to admit her attractions, he had
no personal liking for her. Apart from the fact
that she, in some way he did not understand,
had spoilt the life of his friend, her obvious lack
of all the nobler elements of character, and her
conspicuous unblushing self-seeking, were keenly
discriminated by him; and there were moments
when, reading by some instinctive move-vol.

II. Q

ment how sharp was the jar received by the
man doomed to be her life - companion, he
could scarcely repress some manifestation of
sympathy.

He had even questioned in his own mind
whether he should break the reserve between
them and solicit Methuen's confidence ; but
this would not have been easy in contact with
the resolute silence the latter chose to observe,
and which was carried out so completely, that
he never recognised any hint or suggestion,
however guarded or kind.

An incident, however, occurred about this
time which broke down the barrier of reticence
between them.

It happened one morning early in July that
Lord Sainsbury and Philip were walking arm in
arm across the Green Park, engaged in earnest
discussion of an incident which had occurred in
the Lower House the night before, and was regarded
by the former as a significant indication
of a growing schism among the members of
the Government, welcome to a man strong in
conscientious opposition. Their political views

were almost identical ; and Philip was speaking
with the quiet incisiveness and acute judgment
of results involved, which always caused his
late chief the most intimate satisfaction, when
he paused suddenly, and made an involuntary
movement as though he would have withdrawn
his arm from his companion. Lord Sainsbury
looked up quickly for an explanation.

It was not very far to seek. Following the
direction of Philip's eyes, he saw that Sir
Walter Earle, with Honour Aylmer on his
arm, had just entered the Park from the lower
Piccadilly end, and were advancing along the
path, evidently prepared to greet them with
every sign of cordiality.

Escape was impossible ; and yet the glance
which Lord Sainsbury had cast into Philip's
changed and set face convinced him of his absolute
reluctance for the inevitable encounter,
and moved him to give what help was in his
power by taking the initiative upon himself.
So, withdrawing his arm from his companion's
without the least hint of comprehension, he took
a few steps in advance to meet Honour, and to

encounter the first animated overflow of the
baronet's greetings.

Well met ! " cried Sir "Walter, cheerily. " I
never saw your lordship look in better health
and spirits ; and I am delighted at the chance
of meeting Methuen again and being able to offer
him at last my congratulations on his marriage.
All is fair in love and war," he added in a lower
tone, grasping Philip's extended hand with great
cordiality; "and I am. quite prepared, if you
will allow me, to call on Lady Methuen and wish
her joy."

Anna will take it both as an honour and a
kindness."

Methuen succeeded in saying these words with
a perfectly conventional manner ; but there was
a further duty required of him, which needed a
harder effort to fulfil. The unexpected sight of
Honour, and the instant impression he had received
that she looked thinner and paler than
of old, taxed his self-control to the uttermost ;
but the involuntary tension of his gaze, and
the growing look of pain in his eyes beyond
his power to efface, were an appeal to which

the tender and stricken woman hastened to
respond.

Sir Walter only speaks of himself," she said,
smiling ; " but Miss Earle and I shall be just as
pleased to be friends with Anna if she will let
us. Our stay in town will be very short this
season. We are only just arrived, or I suppose
we should have met before, and we soon
go home again. Oliver is not so well."

Lord Sainsbury, who had immediately engaged
Sir Walter Earle in conversation on the
subject which their meeting had interrupted,
now slipped his arm through the baronet's,
and prepared to retrace his steps in the direction
in which the other appeared to have been
going, so as to leave Honour and Methuen at
liberty to fall behind.

It was a consideration for which his friend
did not thank him.

It may be thought that Methuen's creed was
a narrow one, for it ordered simply this
to turn his back on the temptation which
he feared. After the first inevitable gaze at
meeting, he had averted his eyes from her.

It was necessary to walk by her side ; but
he did so looking straight before him, and
with the consciousness, quickening with every
breath he drew, that the mere sound of her
voice had stirred to their depths the remorse
and despair of the future, which were as profound
as on that day of separation.

This man's love had not been one passion
among many  a little stronger and purer than
the rest,  but the very breath and essence of
his manhood. To be thus brought face to face
with Honour, was to have the vision thrust
upon him from which it was his deliberate desire
to escape  that of the heaven he had lost
and the hell to which he was condemned.

Some attempt at speech, however, was imperative
; and as soon as he could trust his
voice he said, falling back upon her last
words 

You mentioned Oliver. He is not seriously
ill, I hope?"

He has been worse than I ever remember
to have known him," was the answer. "His
life is increasingly hard to bear, and  he cannot

bear it. The physicians, too, give us no
hope of improvement."

And you ?  forgive me this once  I thought
you looked ill. I pray God, Honour, that it is
because you have been suffering with him ? "

"Yes," she said, quietly, "it is just that;
and Miss Earle insisted on bringing me up to
town for a month."

She forbore to call him by his name, or to
ask him any questions. Indeed, all that her
tender heart yearned to know she had read in
his face and voice, and her own quiet hopeless
misery which she thought she had reduced to
submission, stirred and quickened with a convulsive
life.

He did not break the silence which had again
fallen between them for several minutes, then
he said 

"You spoke just now of being friends with
Anna; but, understand once more, the thing
is impossible. Promise me that you will not
make the attempt  out of mistaken generosity."

I promise whatever you wish ; but  you
must let me take advantage of this opportunity

!  I believe we might meet without harm,
and strengthen and console each other."

"You might so meet," he said, abruptly 
not I ! "

Then perceiving that Lord Sainsbury and his
companion, who were some way in advance, had
stopped as if to take leave of each other, he
added quickly 

Do not form wrong conclusions because I
have behaved like a churl and a coward this
morning. The shock of seeing you took me so
utterly at unawares. I want you to know that
time has done something for me  that there
are alleviations in my life. I am able to take
pleasure in work once more. Anna  Anna
behaves well and suspects nothing. I believe
she is happy."

Here he looked at her ; his reluctant gaze
devouring the pale, lovely, pathetic face.

You are not really ill ? " he asked, in a
hoarse whisper ; " tell me I am not so miserable
as to have been able to hurt your health ! "

No, no," she answered eagerly ; " I have
been quite well until lately. I am only a little

fagged with anxiety about Oliver. Don't be
angry with me if I say the sight of you has
done me good. I can see in your face  Philip
that you are strong and brave, as I dared
to tell you you would be. I thank God it is
so ! It is the one thing which makes my heart
sing a little for joy."

Their eyes met : hers, woman-like, shining
through tears of tender reverence, his softened
to an expression of poignant sweetness, to
which his face had long been a stranger.

Then I am glad we met' he said, and took
her hand in formal leave-taking, for the others
were close upon them by this time.

When may I tell Anna you will do her the
honour to call ? " he asked of Sir Walter, with a
perfect recovery of this usual manner.

"To-morrow, if you like. I will come and
ask her for a cup of afternoon tea, since I perceive,
Methuen, you have no intention to ask
me to dine."

No guest can be more welcome to either of
us," said Philip, smiling ; " come tomorrow and
dictate your own conditions."

When the 7 were gone, he turned back to
Lord Sainsbury's side, taking up the conversation,
after his wont, at the precise point where
it had been interrupted ; but the other did not
intend to be put off.

It hardly seems worth while, Methuen, to
keep up the pretence of indifference with me.
I like you well enough, but I should like you
better if you would draw oftener on the sympathy
of your friends'

"That is a reproach which Lord Sainsbury
should be the last man to make to me. It is
not long since I came to you telling you frankly
the story of my trouble and asking for help.
You helped me generously, even to the extent
of leaving your retirement sooner on my
account."

And does it not strike you that this is all
the stronger reason why you should trust me
now, when I see with my own eyes what must
be still more obvious to yours ? It is not only
your own life which has been spoilt  Miss
Aylmer is very much altered."

Philip did not speak directly. " If this be

so," he said after a little, " sympathy can only
take the form of silence, for there is nothing
to be done. Words waste strength. I want
all I have to walk straight and live my life decently.
What has happened this morning will
not make things easier, nor would it do so to
talk them over with you. Your kindness would
not help but hinder me. Forgive me if I seem
ungrateful."

They walked on in silence for a few minutes,
then Sainsbury said  

Things are evidently drifting towards a renewal
of intercourse between the families,  will
that help or hinder your happiness, Methuen ? "

They must not so drift," was the answer.
There is no question of happiness concerned 
it would be the ruin of peace and honour on all
sides." They had turned into Waterloo Place,
and were now just opposite the Travellers' Club.
Philip stopped.

I think your lordship said you were going
in here this morning, and I will ask leave to
wish you good morning. Frankly, I shall be
glad to be alone."

CHAPTER XXX.

Who is it that says most ? which can say more
Than this rich praise  that you alone are you ?

You to your beauteous blessings add a curse,

Being fond on praise, which makes your praises worse."

Shakespeare : Sonnets.

On the same morning that this meeting had
occurred, Adrian Earle called on Lady Methuen
in Gloucester Place. Anna welcomed him with
a cordiality which at once flattered and provoked
him.

It is odd," he said, as he let go the hand
she extended, " that you never knew how to be
civil to me till civility was of no value. Why
are you so pleased to see me ? "

I want you to go with me to South Audley
Street and speak the final word about the arabesques
for the drawing-room ceiling. They are

pretty, but impoverished-looking indeed that
is what they are ! I have discovered a young
Italian genius who has sent me some perfect
designs for centre and angles  scenes from the
Cameron '  but Philip says we cannot afford
them. I thought when I was Lady Methuen I
had heard the last of that detestable formula."

Ah ! " said Adrian in a low suggestive voice,
we are always a little behind our expectations."
He threw himself into a low lounging-chair,
clasping his hands behind his head in a
favourite attitude, and looked up at Anna with
an expression of fine raillery.

His morning dress was perfection ; a glance
showed that the art of physical personal cultivation
had been carried to the highest point.
There was an extreme delicacy and refinement
conveyed by every feature and limb, every turn
of expression and of movement. The thought
came into Anna's mind that he was a great
deal more attractive now than in the days before
her marriage, and her face flushed a little.

I think I can read Lady Methuen's thought,"
he resumed, still speaking with the same slightly

ironical inflection. " She is speculating
whether, if she had married the humblest of
her humble servants, his income would have
been adequate to ' Cameron ' episodes on her
drawing-room ceiling."

Anna's colour deepened. Love cannot exist
without some sense of loyalty to its object,
and daily contact with virtue breeds discrimination.


You ought not to say such a thing as that ;
not that it really offends me, but I feel that it
ought to offend me. I had no such thought;
though now you mention it, I do wish Philip
were as rich as you. How much do you think
a man ought to spend in charity ? "

Personally, I am quite content with the
law as my almoner, and what little adroit
mendicancy extorts from my pockets ; but I
can believe it possible that a man like Methuen,
who is tied hand and foot by the notion of religious
obligation, may give a tithe of all he
possesses."

"Ah!" she cried eagerly, "and you look
upon that, of course, as the ne plus ultra of religious

fanaticism ? Well, you are both right and
wrong. That is what Philip gives, and counts
it  nothing ! He says that is a debt, and charity
only begins after it is paid."

Adrian slightly shrugged his shoulders.

"Then, though you will tell me again I
ought not to say it, I think you have every
right to consider yourself ill-used. You will
remember, Anna, that you told me in Home you
did so consider yourself."

Yes," she said, " I told you so, but it was
not true ; or, if true then it is not so now, and
never was in the sense that you would understand
it." And then, after a pause  " I thought
you and he used to be good friends ? "

We drew together pretty well before he
went to India  never since his return." He
hesitated and added  " Besides, no friendship
could stand up against wrongs as great as one
man can receive from another. But on this
subject it is forbidden me to speak."

Is it ? I don't in the least understand.
You need not mind saying what you mean tome
; I am very tolerant of wrong-doing. It

may sound odd, but I should really be almost
glad to know that Philip had behaved badly in
some way or another ! Can't you understand
how irksome it is to live with a person who is
always in the right, especially," she added in a
lower tone, " when he has no difficulty in proving
that you are always in the wrong ? "

Adrian got up and sauntered to the window.
He could not trust himself to look into her face.
He had seen the sudden suffusion of her eyes,
and heard the vibration of sensibility in her
voice, and was moved by them to an indignant
and passionate sympathy. He said to himself
(as all men say in the same circumstances), that
if she had been happy he could have been content
; but the knowledge that Anna Methuen
was suffering from the indifference and neglect
of the man who had taken her from himself,
and was wasting with conscious pain the ardent
tenderness he would have given years out of his
life to obtain, was too hard to bear in silence
and patience.

He was not perfectly acquainted with the
circumstances which had led to their marriage :

but the gossip of the neighbourhood could not
be shut out from his ears, and he had a general
impression that there had been indiscretion on
the one side, and sacrifice more or less on the
other. He had also naturally questioned the
members of his own family ; but, with the exception
of Oliver, they had preserved an honourable
silence. From the latter, however, he
learnt enough to acquit Methuen, however unwillingly,
of deliberate duplicity towards himself.
At the same time (so difficult is it for
either man or woman to estimate fairly the
claims of the human creature whom they love),
Adrian argued that the personal sacrifice in
marrying a beautiful girl who had betrayed
the secret of her love could not have been
very great, and, anyway, the man who undertook
it was bound to render her happy. To
himself Anna was still now, as before, the great
prize of life  lost, indeed, but none the less
precious on that account  and her unhappiness
and discontent touched him more closely than
his own.

Do you remember," he said, coming back

VOL. II. R

to her after he had recovered his firmness,
that I once told you that if ever the time
came when you wanted help and comfort, you
would find me ready to give it ? If there is
anything I can do, put me to the proof,
Anna."

He was half amused and half mortified at
her answer. The rare mood of sensibility was
over, and the intrinsic selfishness of her character
reasserted itself.

Help me to get this thing done as I wish.
Yesterday Lady Andrew Pattison went through
the house with me, and I told her what I had
planned, and that Philip would not consent.
In her bold way  you know her, I suppose,
like all the rest of the world ?  she laughed to
scorn the notion of my subserviency to his will
and pleasure. ' Give the order, my dear, and
take the consequences,' she said, ' or else you
may write yourself down slave for life.' But
I am a coward after all ; I don't dare to do
that. I am afraid of Philip."

The colour came into Adrian's face.

The thing could easily be managed," he

said. " I have given you no wedding present,
Anna, and this is but a trifle ! Order your
painter to do his best, and "  he looked at her
eager face to see how far he might venture, and
added quietly  " send me the bill."

Without telling Philip ? "

He smiled in spite of himself at the bluntness
of her perceptions : it was a little shock even
to his infatuation ; only with that eager wistful
look in her eyes, how beautiful she was !
Through life Anna had always accepted gifts
as a prince accepts his dues.

Tell Philip that your protege has consented
to paint your ceiling for the honour of the
thing, at the same price as the arabesques
would have cost, and  arrange with the man
accordingly. I need not say my name is not
to appear. You will pay the difference out of
your pin-money."

Anna reflected. " If no one ever found it
out, I would not mind ; for you are very rich,
and will not miss it, and I shall have to live a
great part of my life in that room ; only Philip
is not easily deceived. He seems to know what

everything is worth ; he would never believe
that the man would do such good work for so
little money."

Not if the artist told him so himself ? " he
asked, significantly.

She coloured. " I will think about it and let
you know ; " and then the wistful preoccupied
look grew less concentrated, and she turned
away from him and approached the window.

The sight of Adrian's groom leading his
master's horse up and down before the house
suggested to her mind a new train of thought.

How delightful it would be," she said, turning
round with great animation, " for you and
me to ride together in the Park ! Is there any
reason why we should not ? I can get my
horse brought round from the livery stables
in ten minutes,"  crossing the room and putting
her hand upon the bell,  " that is, if you
have no better engagement. Philip is with
Lord Sainsbury, and will not be home to
luncheon. Let us go ! it will be like old times
again."

Of course he assented, and Anna, moved by

some inexplicable coquetry, exerted herself to
please him as she had never done before. She
talked continually of Earlescourt, as if the happiest
days in her life had been spent there, and
offered him the subtle flattery of recalling
thing's he had done and words that he had
spoken in the far-away past.

Then she looked to superb advantage on
horseback : men turned back to look at her,
not only because she was beautiful, but that
she seemed to radiate vigour and health like
some youthful goddess.

Adrian could have wished that she had known
fewer people, and not responded so freely to the
recognition of her friends. He was scarcely
willing as yet that their names should be mentioned
together.

Amongst those who accosted Anna was a
well-preserved handsome woman, with the bold
direct gaze and perfect aplomb which indicate
a comfortable assurance of recognised social
standing. She was riding a thorough-bred
mare, groomed to the highest point of perfection,
and the servant in attendance was

mounted on one of the showiest cobs in the
Now. She stared hard at Adrian, and then
said, with the matchless effrontery of the
modern woman of fashion 

Introduce me to your cavalier, my dear !
It is quite refreshing to see you attended by
some one else than your husband. Personally
I adore Sir Philip Methuen, but I applaud
every effort in the direction of conjugal independence."


Anna named Adrian without the slightest
hesitation, saying a little spitefully 

But I thought Lady Andrew Pattison knew
all the world ? "

No doubt," interposed Adrian ; " therefore
the conclusion is that I have been out of the
world."

Lady Andrew regarded him attentively.

I know your father," she said; "but there
are no young men like him. I never remember
to have seen you before ; you must have
been in hiding or going round the world, as
they all do nowadays. Every one I meet
bores me about Japan ! "

I can undertake to bore you," said Adrian,
without going so far afield."

She gave him a bright look and nod of
encouragement.

Come," she exclaimed, " we shall be good
friends ; but we must not stand here any longer
my mare objects to have her haunches constantly
jostled. It is marvellous how few
people can steer clear even of so pronounced
an impediment as myself ! "

They walked their horses leisurely the full
length of the Eow, Lady Andrew Pattison not
only taking the lead in conversation, but ignoring
or overwhelming Anna's attempts at participation.
As regarded Adrian, she simply took
possession of him, eliciting his opinions and
taking his measure while offering him perfumed
doses of ingenious flattery.

Anna, who never willingly submitted to the
rule of spectator or subordinate, broke in with
a certain defiant unconventionality, saying it
was time for her to return home, and they
would bid Lady Andrew " Good morning."

"We will turn at once," was the answer.

It shall never be said that it was my fault
that Lady Methuen neglected her domestic
duties. By the way, have you thought twice
about the matter we were discussing yesterday,
and made up your mind to give little Farina
the chance of winning himself immortality ? "

There was a latent sarcasm in the tone which
brought the angry colour into Anna's face.
The speaker was evidently prepared for a
negative.

I think that may possibly be the conclusion
that I shall reach," she said coldly, " only, I
mean to submit his designs to a little closer

investigation. Some of them struck me as "

She hesitated and blushed.

As  as  having a soupcon of impropriety? "
laughed the other. "My dear, that simply
means they are relieved from absolute insipidity
; but I frankly own I am out of my reckoning.
I did not think lo sposo would yield to
the pressure applied. No conquest, I see, lies
beyond your bright eyes. It will be the
prettiest room outside Belgravia. Ta, ta, ma
belle."

CHAPTER XXXI.

I would I could adopt your will,

See with your eyes, aud set my heart

Beating by yours, aud drink my fill

At your soul's springs,  your part, my part

In life, for good and ill."

E. Browning.

Sir Walter Earle paid his congratulatory
visit to Lady Methuen as he had promised, and
made several observations.

He had always, as men do when not subjected
to their influence, condoned Anna's faults
of character and temper on the score of her
beauty, and he perceived that the development
of that beauty even went beyond the promise of
her girlhood. Had her manners been as captivating
as her person, he said to himself, she would
have been simply irresistible. But Anna, unless
bent on being gracious, was too scornfully indifferent,
too socially negligent to please.

Society abhors egotism, and demands at least
the appearance of unselfishness, and Anna's
self-seeking was rarely in abeyance. It is
true she did her best to win the goodwill of
Sir Walter Earle ; and the sparkle of pleasure
in her eyes, the inflection of grateful welcome
in her voice, and the marked deference she
showed him in a room full of people, did please
him effectually.

He responded frankly to her cordiality, and
expressed a hope that the coolness now subsisting
between the two families might soon begot
over.

"Adrian," he said, smiling, "must do as
better men have done before him  make friends
with the woman who would not have him as a
husband. We cannot give up our neighbours
to please him."

Some indefinable reserve prevented Anna
from saying that Adrian had already proved
that he found no difficulty in this matter ; it
was quite evident to her quick perception that
Sir Walter did not know that they had met.

"It is not Adrian that I am afraid of," she

answered, in her low seductive voice. " There
has been plenty of time for him to forget such
an insignificant creature as myself; but will
Miss Earle and Honour forgive me?"

Her glance and accent turned Sir Walter
Earle into her advocate.

That same day after dinner, as soon as the
cloth and servants were withdrawn, he opened
the subject with his sister, telling her where he
had been, and asking if she could not be induced
to forgive the slight Anna had put upon
her nephew, and offer her the civility of a call
and invitation to dinner.

Miss Earle looked up sharply : it needed a
mental effort to recall the difference between
the real facts of the case and her brothers
partial knowledge of them.

"It strikes me as a little inconsistent," continued
Sir Walter, "that you should bear the
girl so much ill-will, Bella,. when the step she
took in Adrian's little affair was the only one
that would have pleased you."

Miss Earle reddened, and glanced towards
Honour. To see the colour fading from that

clear face, and the veiled look of pain in her
eyes, hardened her heart against Anna Methuen.
Evidently she was averse to any renewed intercourse
with the Methuenss. How, indeed, could
she, with any regard to dignity and peace of
mind, meet the man who had sacrificed her to
the shameless exigence of another woman ?

It had always seemed to Miss Earle's robust
good sense that it would have been better that
the truth had been generally known, at least to
Anna herself and the members of their own
family ; but she had yielded the point to the
urgent representations of the girl whom she
considered to have been so cruelly wronged,
and whose love, after the interval of all these
months, seemed neither to have waxed nor
waned. Honour still held by her inflexible
belief in Methuen's worth, which had irked and
irritated Miss Earle all along. But the necessity
of keeping the secret to which she was
pledged made her say 

"I clo not quarrel with Anna because she
rejected Adrian  that is the one point in her
favour  but because I never liked her, and was

wearied and disgusted by her selfishness and
arrogance when she was our guest last year."

Oh, my dear, you may feel sure that Lady
Methuen will be better behaved than Anna
Trevelyan. We can never, for the sake of
auld lang syne,' have them living at Methuen
Place as strangers. The neighbours will talk.
Also, you seem to have forgotten how valuable
Methuen's kindness was to our poor Oliver."

I admit that as an argument," said Miss
Earle, with an impatient sigh ; " but I am not
at all sure they would be such good friends in
the future. You know you all liked Philip
Methuen a great deal better than I."

I am prepared to own he is a man who has
disappointed me a little," was Sir Walter's
answer. " He is evidently not going to make
the figure in the world I expected, though I
learn there is still a chance of getting him into
Parliament under the Norfolk patronage, only
they must make haste about it. Honour would
tell you that we met him and Sainsbury in the
Park yesterday. He struck me as very much
altered."

Miss Earle cast a swift glance of grieved surprise
upon Honour, but she answered loyally,
without the hesitation of a moment  " Since
yesterday morning we have been in such a whirl
of petty engagements that we have not had the
chance of five minutes' private conversation.
We will discuss this matter, Honour and I, atour
ease presently, for we are rejoicing in a
quiet evening at home ; but are you quite sure
it would be well-advised to expose Adrian to
Lady Methuen's influence ? "

Sir Walter lifted his eyebrows.

He must take his chance about that. If
he does not meet her in this house he will meet
her elsewhere. He is a little too old to be kept
in leading-strings."

As soon as the two women were alone together,
Miss Earle turned her grave reproachful
face full upon Honour.

Is this man to come between us and rob me
even of your trust ? " she asked. " Why did
you not tell me of this ? "

Why ? " repeated Honour ; " why ? "  and
there was an accent almost of despair in her

voice,  " because I thought I would be brave,
and try and keep my misery to myself ; but  I
should have told you. It is too strong for me
after all."

She went up to Miss Earle with a look in her
eyes such as the latter scarcely remembered
to have seen in them even on the day of that
terrible separation, and then suddenly bowed
her face upon her shoulder.

What will you think of me?" she said.
After all  this long time  when I believed
the worst was over  I am not sure I shall be
able to go on  living my life ! "

The voice was sharp with the poignant accent
of pain ; the figure round which the other had
thrown her arm was shaken with sobs  not the
facile hysteria of an emotional woman, but those
which tell of the breaking up of fountains
hitherto rigidly sealed.

Miss Earle's keen delicate face changed and
quivered. She found it hard not to weep too,
with this girl whom she loved so fondly ; but
she controlled herself, and stood for a few
moments quite silent, and stroking with ineffable

tenderness the head bowed on her
neck.

My darling," she whispered fondly, " I was
always afraid how it would be when you met.
God forgive me, but I could curse this man ! "

Him ! " said Honour, with a sort of dull
surprise  " him ! He is cursed already. I  I
never hated her until yesterday."

She lifted up her face as she spoke, and Miss
Earle saw, with almost a- shock of surprise, how
pale and stern it was.

Did he complain of his wife ? " she asked,
with a sneer. " Did he dare to refer to your
past relations ? "

He did not complain of her. He said she
behaved well and was happy, and that he was
able to take pleasure in his daily work. But I
I offered to be friends with Anna, and besought
him to let us meet sometimes. He
refused."

And am I then to understand, my poor
child, that you have looked forward to a renewal
of intercourse with the Methuenss ? Could you
endure it ? "

I could not only endure it," was her answer,
but I do not think I can endure to give up
the idea. Sometimes to see him, so that I can
judge for myself whether his life is bearable 
or, at least, how he bears it  is necessary to help
me to bear my own. You  mother ! more almost
than that  you will believe that I could
do this without injuring  Anna, I was going to
say, but I will say without wronging my own
self or him by a single thought ? "

My dear, it would be harder than you
think  at least for him."

So he said ; but I have thought the matter
out, and  he must be convinced that he is
wrong. Picture him shut up in Methuen Place
with her  which is so full of cruel memories
for him. Chief of all, the memories of the old
uncle he loved so much, and who died happy,
thinking he had made his happiness sure. That
thought alone must be terrible to bear and 
hide."

Honour, these fine agonies don't pierce
men's hearts like ours ; he will have his out-vol.

II. s

lets. Also, he has married a very beautiful
woman : she has probably consoled him by
this time."

"Ah!" said Honour, "that does not touch
me. I only wish she had, and I would forgive
her everything. If Anna could make Philip
happy, God knows I would rejoice and be glad ;
you should not hear a word of complaint or
regret from me then."

Miss Earle was silent," stroking delicately the
hand she held.

Tell me, dear, what passed between you, if
you can, that has so opened up the floodgates
of your grief. My pet ! I had thought you were
beginning to be content."

I think I was, cheating my own soul by
telling myself he would forget me and be happy.
What passed ? Very little ; only he looked as
if the fight had been  harder even than I feared
very much altered, as Sir Walter puts it ; and
he looked at me and spoke to me simply under
compulsion. That is," dropping her voice, " I
saw that he could scarcely bear it."

And your logical conclusion is that it would
do him good to be forced to bear it ? "

I think that if he could be induced to bear
it until it ceased to be painful  if he could take
up his old relations with us all  be Adrian's
friend again, and kind and helpful as in the days
gone by  it would be better for him. You see,"
she went on persuasively, " he is too much alone,
concentrating his strength on one point only 
doing his daily duty without ease or distraction.
Don't you understand, dear ? "

I understand quite well that you are of the
same mind as Sir Walter ; you wish me to be
civil to his wife, and open our doors to her again.
You would like to call upon Lady Methuen tomorrow,
and invite them to our next Tuesday's
dinner ? My child, he would decline."

No doubt he would decline ; but it would
be a breaking of the ice, and when we are all
at home again, things might fall into the old
groove. If you love me, let us put it to the
proof."

Miss Earle knitted her delicate brows.

"And have you nothing to fear from Anna's
jealousy ? You will be complicating the troubles
of this man if you excite that girl's suspicions."

"Can you not trust me?" she asked. "Of
him I am sure. Besides, her suspicions would
surely be aroused if we all stood aloof from
her."

"I am not convinced, Honour. I think
you are setting yourself a task beyond your
strength ; but you shall have your own way in
the matter."

Two days after this conversation, when
Methuen entered his wife's drawing-room at
the hour of five-o'clock tea, Anna said, as she
handed him a cup 

You have just missed some old friends.
Miss Earle and Honour Aylmer have been
here."

She looked at him steadily as she spoke, butin
his intercourse with his wife Philip seldom
put off his armour. In spite of the secret spasm
of painful surprise, he answered without embarrassment
or hesitation 

Then I am to understand that we are to

accept the visit as a formal offering of the olive-branch
? Ah, Lady Andrew Pattison, I beg
your pardon. I did not see you for the
moment. Anna excludes the light almost too
rigorously."

The lady in question was standing in one of
the deep recesses of the window, gazing out
into the street. She had risen from her chair
in order to command a better survey of the
Earle equipage, which she had been criticising
to her hostess with her usual air of arrogant
finality, and the folds of the heavy curtain had
concealed her figure.

Oh, I excuse you readily," she answered,
being accustomed to be overlooked wherever
Lady Methuen is present, who has, we all
know, no greater admirer than her husband."

She fixed her bold black eyes on his face as
she spoke, with a smile of doubtful suggestion,
and then added 

I think myself fortunate to have met Miss
Aylmer here to-day, for although much talked
of  as heiresses mostly are  she is seldom seen.
It has given me the opportunity of correcting

an erroneous impression. I thought, Sir Philip,
you men reputed her to be a beauty ? "

I suppose there are few men," he answered,
who know less of such social estimates than I.
I have never till this moment heard Miss Ayl-
mer's beauty canvassed ; and those who, like
ourselves, have the honour of being her friends,
are scarcely likely to be fair judges. At least,"
turning towards his wife, " Anna and I think
her beautiful."

His smile and manner had so much of the
old winning sweetness, that it checked the
words that had risen to Anna's tongue. Lady
Andrew continued to observe him with a peculiar
expression on her face.

Ah," she said, " I beg pardon. I did not
know I trod on sacred ground. The relations
of the families, then, have been more intimate
than I even suspected ? "

"It is a subject quite undeserving the exercise
of Lady Andrew Pattison's suspicions.
The facts themselves are entirely at her service.
The Earles were our earliest and best friends
when Anna and I first came to live in England."

Really ! I should never have gathered that
from what passed just now. I thought their
cordiality a little forced, though I own I never
saw Lady Methuen more effusive. It is easy
to see she shares your estimate of the beautiful
Miss Aylmer."

It would be a little difficult to explain the
motives which actuated Lady Andrew Pattison
in her relations with the Methuenss ; but her instinct
was certainly inimical to their conjugal
peace. Anna's insolent confidence in her own
beauty, and obvious disparagement of other
women, herself included, had something to do
with it, added to a certain fascination which
Methuen possessed for her, and to the indications
of which he had shown the most absolute
unconsciousness. Her acuteness, too, had detected
a certain want of spontaneity in the
unfailing kindness of the husband to the wife,
which provoked the curiosity and speculation of
the idle woman of fashion.

Her last words had brought the angry colour
into Anna's cheek, and a smile of gratification
at her own successful coup parted her lips.

"The girl rises like trout to the fly," she
said to herself, as she marked the haughty uplifting
of her beautiful head ; but again, and
most unexpectedly, Anna held her peace, checking
the eager disclaimer which had sprung to
her lips, and checking it only because Philip
was looking at her so kindly.

"If it were not even worse taste for a man
to praise his wife than himself," he said, smiling,
" I should be inclined to answer, that
Anna is fortified by nature against any jealousy
of other women. Also, you must forgive
my repeating that Miss Aylmer is too
much our friend to admit of disinterested
criticism."

Lady Andrew Pattison coloured. " I shall
take care not to offend in the future," she said.
I see Lady Methuen has already learned the
same lesson. She is dissentient, but wisely
keeps her opinions to herself. Odd, isn't it,
that husbands and wives never think alike
about the same people ? "

"Your ladyship's experience is so much fuller
than mine," returned Philip, " that I will not

venture to dispute the assertion, though my
own crude notion was that daily intercourse
tended to accommodation of sentiment."

She laughed a little, and turning towards the
pier-glass, near which she was standing, began
coolly to arrange her hat and veil prior to
departure.

"You pick your words with discrimination,
Sir Philip ; accommodation is an elastic phrase."
Then addressing Anna 

"He was too well advised, my dear Lady
Methuen, to speak of agreement. Nine months
serve as well as nine years to dispel certain
illusions."

Anna shrugged her shoulders, and affected to
stifle a yawn.

I am not good at that kind of talk," she
said. "I detest innuendo. Philip and I had
no illusions to begin with."

You mean that antagonism was clearly
understood from the first ? " asked the other,
with an innocent air.

Anna's eyes flashed. " I mean, that I always
loved my husband  now as well as then

that there is no question of illusion in the
matter."

She stretched out her hand towards him as
she spoke, with her grand air, and Philip, meeting
boldly Lady Andrew Pattison's keen glance
of investigation, bowed low over it, and put it
to his lips.

'Tis like a scene in a French play," was her
rejoinder, " and I feel myself rebuked for the
second time to-day  by the wife as by the
husband. But I see my carriage is at your
door once more, and there is a droop about
old Sutton's shoulders which means sullen despair,
and reminds me of the unconscionable
time I have stayed. Au revoir, ma belle"
touching Anna's cheek caressingly with her
glove ; " and rely on my holding myself at
your disposal in regard to the Farini designs.
Send for me any hour of the day or night."

Anna's response was indifferent to the verge
of incivility, and as if in defiance of her guest's
cynicism, she said to Philip, who was going to
see her to her carriage 

11 Come back again, please, as soon as you
can  I have something to say to you."

He came back as desired, but hesitated fora
few moments before entering the room. He
dreaded what his wife was going to tell him,
for it probably bore upon her renewed intercourse
with the Earle family.

He had an increasing sense of the difficulty
and discrepancy of their position. He was married
to a woman who adored him, and he could
not love her. Had he then no magnanimity ?
no real faculty of self-mastery ?

Since he and Honour had met a week ago,
the craving of his heart, which had been held
down by remorseless pressure, with righteous
purpose to stamp it out, had quickened into
the old vitality. The pain he felt was as
sharp almost as in that first hour of separation.
Persistent practice seemed to make duty
no easier.

To recall the sweetness of her face as he had
lately seen it, the tenderness of her voice, the
divine unselfishness of her behaviour, was to

feel that more was required of him than he
could bear.

They must not meet.

The desire to take her once more into his
arms, and kiss the pure pathetic lips and the
eyes shining with unshed tears  to try and
console her for the irremediable sorrow he had
cost her  would consume his life.

He vaguely wondered if other men loved
other women as he loved Honour Aylmer. Not
beautiful ! Anyway, no other of God's creatures
was so formed to meet the most subtle and intimate
requirements of his being. He had told
her that, so long as he drew the breath of life,
no other love would touch him. It was just as
true at that moment as when the words first
left his lips : he had no power to change.

He heard a movement in the room within, as
if Anna had risen and was approaching the
door.

Could he go in and talk to her ? Was not
his life an ignominy and a lie ? And if it were,
was it his doing that honour and integrity had

been out of his reach ? And this was the outcome
of the long training of his youth  of the
holy ambition and sacred dreams of his early
manhood. This !

God ! I grope in the dark," he said inwardly;
"but I did not choose darkness."

He opened the door and went in.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.

ii

THE

STOEY OF PfllLIP Methuen

In bulk, doth make man better be ;

Or standing like an oak three hundred year,

To fall a log at last, dry, bald, and sere.

In small proportions we just beauties see,

And in short measures Life may perfect be. "

Ben Jo'ssoy.

STORY OF PHILIP METHUEN

BY

MES J. H. Needed

AUTHOR OF 'JULIAN KARSLAKE's SECRET,
'LUCIA, HUGH, AND ANOTHER*

IN Three VOLUMES
VOL. III.

William BLACKWOOD AXD SONS

EDINBURGH AXD LONDON

MDCCCLXXXVI

http://www.archive.org/details/storyofphilipmet03need

Y. 3

THE STOEY OF PHILIP METHUEN.

CHAPTER XXXII.

Well, it is earth with me ; silence resumes her reign :
T will be patient and proud and soberly acquiesce.
Give me the keys. I feel for the common chord again,
Sliding by semitones till I sink to the minor  yes."

Abt Vogler.

Anna had seated herself in a low lounoino;-
chair, with a careful adjustment of her picturesque
tea-gown. She was fanning herself with
a languid imperial air peculiarly her own, and
with a sense of profound personal satisfaction.
She had just enjoyed one of the dearest triumphs
of her life ; the recognition of her position as
Lady Methuen by the friends who had known
her in her former state of insignificance and

VOL. III. A

dependence ; and she was pleasing herself with
the prospect of future indemnification.

There was a little mirror fixed in the stick
of her fan, and as she slowly moved it to and
fro, she studied the reflection of her face with
a smile of intense conviction.

Her claims to admiration, unlike those of
other women, did not admit of canvass. She
was as beautiful as a Greek statue, if such a
statue could have been raised to her level by
having the warm wave of vigorous life sent
flowing through its perfect form.

The expression of her eyes as she looked up
at her husband's entrance puzzled him. They
shone with the softened light of caressing self-gratulation.


I am so happy," she said, " so happy ! I
think I have got now all I want. Are not you
glad of what has happened ? You see I was
right ! I knew they would come round sooner
or later. Why shouldn't they, for none of them
wished me to marry Adrian ? "

Yes," he said ; " I allow you judged better
than I."

THE STORY OF PHILIP METHUEN. 3

She looked towards him sharply. " You are
not glad ! I don't understand. Earlescourt
used to be more to you than to me. What has
changed you, Philip ? "

''I am not changed. Earlescourt is to me
what it always was, only I cannot get over as
easily as you seem to do the awkwardness of
future intercourse with Adrian Earle. You
have spoilt our friendship, Anna''

Do you regret it ? " she asked, with an
inflection in her voice, and an expression of
eye and lip that would have drawn any other
man to her feet ; and that he was impervious
to the charm, and still kept his eyes
on a book which he had carelessly taken up
from the table, cut her heart with equal pain
and anger. " At any rate," she resumed, " you
weill have to get over the awkwardness. I
have accepted their invitation to dinner for
next Tuesday."

I am engaged," he answered, with a certain
eagerness. " You will have to write and
explain."

Her vexation was so great that her temper

mastered the discretion she had learned to employ
in their daily intercourse.

I do not believe you," she said sharply ;
*you have a standing engagement to thwart
my wishes."

He shut up the book, and came nearer to her.

*that is a breach of good manners, Anna,
which you must not commit again. You can
easily satisfy yourself that I speak the truth.
The Indian Budget is fixed for Tuesday, and
I have promised Lord Sainsbury to be in the
House."

She fanned herself deliberately, keeping her
eyes fixed on his face.

"Are you ill," she asked, ''or only angry,
that you look so pale ? I would much rather
you went into a passion. It is of no great consequence,
after all. Miss Earle said Tuesday
week would do, if you happened to have an
engagement. But perhaps the Indian debate,
will be adjourned ? "

He paused, weighing with swift precision the
for and against.

I will go on Tuesday week," was the answer.

He recognised the impossibility of further resistance.
Events must take their course.

You have made me quite happy," said
Anna, with a full return to her conciliatory
manner ; for she lacked the fine sense of proportion,
and had no remembrance of the hurt
or outrage she had inflicted, so soon as it suited
her own interest or pleasure to forget it.

She rose as she spoke, and going up to him,
slipped her beautiful arm, from which her loose
sleeve fell back, about his neck and kissed him.

Miss Earle told me Sir Walter had said you
were very much altered ; but I think you are
more like Donatello's St George than ever 
only more beautiful."

She spoke, leaning against him, in a caressing
whisper, and it was as much as he could do
to check the instinct which prompted him to
free himself from her encircling arms and the
lingering pressure of her lips.

The sensuousness of her love revolted him.
There were moments when he wished some sudden
blight might fall upon the beauty that provoked
it. Her endearments tried his patience

more than any other portion of his daily discipline,
every charm she possessed working upon
his temperament to increased repugnance. He
could have borne his forced union better had
she been less lovely.

I might have answered," continued Anna,
' that you were not the only one who was
altered. I think when you see Honour Aylmer
again you will agree with Lady Andrew Patti-son
that she cannot be called beautiful. Once
I was jealous of her ; but that is past. I have
gained where she has lost. I am glad  for your
sake, Philip."

There never was a time," he said, putting
her gently away from him, ' when you were not
more beautiful than Honour Aylmer. Beauty
includes your whole circle of perfection, Anna."

Not quite ; there must be room for pleasure
to come in. Come ! it is a delightful afternoon
drive with me in the Park for an hour. It
does you good sometimes to contemplate the
world, the flesh, and the devil on their rounds.
More ; Lady Andrew said her box at Covent
Garden is at my disposal to-night. It is 'Fidelia,'

and you like ' Fidelis Will you go ? or must
you lend your ears to Lord Sainsbury ? "

He consented to go, thankful when the duty
required of him took such practical definite
forms, and giving Anna no reason to complain
of the way in which he fulfilled his promise.
So far as was possible, he adapted himself to
her mood and temper, and accepted her observations
and criticisms with as much kindly
courtesy as if each word had not proved anew
that they had neither thought nor feeling in
common. Nor did he by any means omit the
numerous petits soins which an indulged and
beautiful woman is apt to exact from whatever
man is in attendance.

Anna felt fairly content as she sat by his side
in the brilliant theatre, for it was a renewed
proof of her success in getting what she wanted.
She was perfectly satisfied with herself, her husband,
and her dress, not to say with the general
outlook of her position. During the course of
the evening several men of their acquaintance
came to their box to pay their respects to her,
willing to prove the honour of knowing the most

beautiful woman in the house ; but it would
have been impossible to have found cause of
offence or jealousy in her behaviour.

She took the civil things they said to her
with the most absolute indifference  much as
an idol in a shrine absorbs the incense offered.
She would refer from what they said to her
husband with an odd mingling of naivete and
insolence, which had a sort of provocative
attraction, and was deprived of offence by
the tact and courtesy with which Methuen
met it.

During the days which followed upon the
Earles' visit, it seemed to Anna that Philip had
never shown himself more amiable, and again
and again she referred to the reconciliation as
an event which obviously gave him as much
satisfaction as herself. Adrian seized upon the
circumstance as giving social justification to the
frequent visits he now paid to Gloucester Place,
timing his calls at the hours when he pretty
well knew Methuen would not be at home, and
putting himself and his services entirely at
Anna's command, more especially as regarded

the work going on in the house in South Audley
Street.

Partly through ignorance, but also partly
through intention, Anna's additions and alterations
were assuming formidable proportions.
Comments dropped by Lady Andrew Pattison's
acrid tongue, or languid criticisms and suggestions
of Earle's, given without reflection,
appealed so strongly to her mixed vanity,
and pride that she ruled her arrangements by
them, with very little regard to the question of
expense.

It happened unfortunately that Philip, having
given his orders with distinct brevity to
the men employed, and carefully demonstrated
to his wife the necessity of keeping within certain
limits, dismissed the details of the matter
from his mind. He was well content for Anna
to find interest and amusement in the furnishing
of her house ; to him it was a point of complete
indifference.

He felt increasingly  and character and education
combined to make the result inevitable
that weariness and disrelish of fashionable

society and the bondage of uncongenial domestic
ties, which he had professed long years before to
his uncle ; and he availed himself, accordingly,
of all work and interest which took him out of
himself  the harder, even the more distasteful,
the better.

He was almost as much Lord Sainsbury's
secretary as when an official tie had bound
them together, and many hours in the day were
often passed under his roof. He excused his
partial neglect of Anna, on the plea that the
fundamental want of sympathy between them
must make his society oppressive to her, and that
she had so far established her position and won
friends of her own, to say nothing of her renewed
relations with the Earlescourt ladies, as
to make her independent of his constant companionship.
No girl could go wrong who was
associated with Honour Aylmer and Miss Earle,
and with whom it was a matter of social necessity
to preserve the good opinion of his patron s
influential sister, Mrs Auchester; nor, he said
to himself, whatever her faults, was Anna a girl
likely to go wrong.

He continued to regard Adrian's visits with
reserved displeasure, though ignorant of their
extreme frequency and the practical form that
they took ; but under the circumstances of general
reconciliation, it was quite impossible to
put a veto upon them. Anna, he believed, ran
no danger, and Earle was certainly beyond the
power of his influence.

Also, the soreness of his own heart was such
as to unfit him to play any intermediary part.
It was as much as he could do to fulfil his
own duty in life, according to 'his notions of
requirement, under the increasing exigency of
circumstance.

The dinner in Arlington Street had been duly
eaten and repeated, and the Earles had in their
turn dined in Gloucester Place.

Philip, who had learnt a severe lesson from
the weakness of which he considered himself
to have been guilty in his first meeting with
Honour in the Green Park, was fully master of
himself before they met again.

It had been his fixed purpose to avoid intercourse,
but that had been overruled, making the

difficulty of preserving the sacred secret of his
love infinitely greater but even more imperative
than before. He had reached the conclusion
that this was only to be done in one way  a
way that many men would have found impossible,
but which was not so to a man whose
faculties of self-repression and self-mastery had
been trained and tested during long years of
moral and spiritual discipline, and who viewed
his life in the light of a daily sacrifice to God.
It behoved him, he said to himself, to behave
with the same cordial friendship towards Honour
Aylmer as Anna had been accustomed to witness
in the old days.

So complete was his success in carrying out
this purpose as to become almost a source of
embarrassment and distress to Honour herself.
He neither sought nor avoided her society,
but took the opportunity as it fell with so exact
a simulation of his former manner of half-tender
half-respectful distance, as made the girl
thrill with a strange blending of pleasure and
pain.

There was not a trace of the anguished avoidance
which had pierced her soul at their first
meeting ; his eyes met hers and neither flinched
nor softened ; his voice took no different inflection
when he spoke to her.

Also, unconsciously, he scored another victory.
He won Miss Earle's reluctant favour  not, it
must be owned, from any efibrt on his own part,
but because she could not resist the feeling of
approval and respect he excited in her mind by
the equal perfection of his behaviour to the two
women who loved him.

In her secret cogitations, however, Miss Earle
often sighed and shook her head over the situation.
There was a look of pathetic wistfulness
in Honour's eyes which touched her more than
the forlorn sadness of the days just gone by ;
and whatever might be the results of this renewed
intercourse on the stronger nature of the
man, she felt quite sure that it tasked, as she
had known that it must, the tender endurance
of the woman.

At the end of July she succeeded in carrying

Honour off with her for a long round of visits.
Sir Walter and his son were to remain in town
till the end of the session, and then to join them
at a favourite country-house in the Highlands ;
the Methuenss proposing to go home to Methuenss
Place immediately on the rising of Parliament.

Chapter XXXIII.

Oh world, where all things pass and naught abide !
Oh life, the long mutation, is it so ?
Is it with life as with the body's change ?
Where e'en though better follow, good must pass, . . .
And though the new stays, never both at once."

R. Browning.

There is no denying the fact that English
country life draws heavily on physical and
mental resources, and that when these are not
present to meet the demand, the problem of
how to make life worth living becomes a very
serious one.

There are certain conditions under which country
life is pleasant,  when the ancestral home
is full of the vitality, hope, and promise of a
young family, and the parents, still in their
first youth, find their hearts in responsive beat
with the children's exuberant joy and keen
zest in living. Life is full enough when it

VOL. III. B

grows deeper and wider with every new existence,
and there is little chance of weariness when
we live over again in the ambitions and hopes
of our boys and our girls, who are so pathetically
confident of winning what we have missed, and
of carrying through the purposes which we have
been forced to forego.

And country life may also be sweet when
there is enough sacred human love between
husband and wife to gild the long summer days,
and to brighten the sombre march of wintry
hours. Where there is a sufficient community
of intellect and taste to breed an intimate sympathy
on points of importance, and enough of
diversity to guard from insipidity a lifelong
intercourse. When also the outside world is
looked upon as the adjunct of a happiness otherwise
sufficient, not the forlorn-hope of exhausted
conjugal patience.

But it must be frankly conceded that neither
Sir Philip nor Lady Methuen were qualified for
its enjoyment.

Anna was profoundly disappointed that their
return to the old family seat had nothing of the

nature of a triumph. No peals from church
bells welcomed home the bride and bridegroom,
nor was there any gathering even of respectful
tenantry or obsequious servants.

It is true old Austen himself came forward to
open the carriage-door, pushing the younger
footman on one side ; and Mrs Gibson, in
spotless kerchief and cap, stood awaiting them
in the hall, looking as the housekeepers of
Methuen Place had looked for generations past.
Also, all the arrangements were as complete as
willing hands and anxious hearts could make
them.

But Anna's observation was right : there was
no joy nor even cheerfulness to be perceived 
the new mistress was an unwelcome guest.

When Philip, taking her hand, led her up to
Mrs Gibson, saying, " I have brought home my
wife at last: I know you will serve her as faithfully
as you have served all those who have
borne our name,"  Anna threw up her head
with a gesture of haughty impatience.

It was as much as she could do to check the
words of anger and defiance which the old

woman's aspect and manner excited. There
was precisely the same hard reluctant expression
in her eyes when they fell upon her, as
had moved her hot displeasure in their last
momentous interview.

She had been obliged to endure it then, as
she was obliged to endure it now ; but it only
strengthened her purpose of future retaliation.

Her husband's solicitous kindness and air of
almost affectionate regard irritated her only less
than did the searching look which Mrs Gibson
dared to fasten upon her master's face.

Methuen, on his side, had been quite prepared
for this vigilant scrutiny, springing from her
intimate knowledge of the past, and prompted,
as he well knew, by loyal devotion to himself ;
but it was by no means the easiest conquest
he had made. There are perhaps few things
harder to ignore or evade than the unexpressed
sympathy of an inferior in possession of disagreeable
facts.

Mrs Gibson curtsied profoundly, instinctively
responding to the quiet authority of Methuen's
manner ; but as Anna had not spoken, it was

unnecessary for her to try her reluctant tongue
at a welcome.

As soon as thej were alone, even before she
had taken off her travelling things  for Anna
recognised no law of propriety or consideration
where her passions were aroused  she turned
to Philip and said, in the low suppressed voice
which always marked her strongest excitement


Before we sit down to dinner, and begin our
new life in this old place, Lady Methuen has
one request to make  a promise to get  from
its master."

Philip waited. The pressure of the new life
in the old place was already weighing upon his
spirits. His present effort was to shut out the
crowd of associations which every glance brought
home to him with a poignancy which taught
him that he had never estimated his sacrifice,
nor fully tasted his martyrdom till this hour
of coming home.

*you do not answer," she resumed, with
sudden tears of passion in her eyes. " I can
see that your heart towards me is cold as a

stone ; but  you are a gentleman, and  will not
have your wife insulted."

"You may feel quite sure on that point,
Anna."

"Then I demand," she said, with an imperious
sweep of her hand, " that all these old servants
shall be dismissed. They  they know
the story of my marriage. I will not read that
knowledge in their faces."

She met his quiet glance with defiant steadfastness,
and spoke like one who has thrown
down the glove and challenges the enemy to
single combat.

"My dear Anna," he answered, "there are
few things which I would not do to allay such
an apprehension as that  it cannot touch your
self-respect more deeply than it touches mine.
But it is not a question to discuss in the first
moment of our return "

She interrupted him eagerly.

I will not dine nor sleep till it has been
discussed. One word is all I want  say they
shall go, and I am satisfied."

Then, in one word, since you force me to

a decision, I cannot say it. They have spent
their lives in my uncle's service, and were commended
by him to my care on his deathbed,
and it is out of my power to dismiss them. If
you will let them, they will love and serve you
as faithfully as they have loved and served
those who have passed away."

He spoke with an exquisite gentleness, as if
to disarm her opposition ; but she who listened
to him was not to be won by any grace of
manner when the substance of her desire was
refused.

That means that, although I am your wife,
you take advantage of my friendlessness to
deprive me of the authority which is my right.
What do your pledges to the dead signify?
You are bound by stronger ties to the living.
Do you mean that I am to endure the covert
insolence of that old woman, who looks at meas
if she begrudged me my position, and who
will refuse me the respect to which I am
entitled ? Dismiss Mrs Gibson, and I will
waive the rest."

Whenever you convince me she has failed

in respect, Anna, Mrs Gibson shall be dismissed;
but bear a little with the innocent self-importance
of a faithful, spoilt old servant. She was
my first friend at Methuen Place."

He smiled as he spoke, and held out his hand
to draw her towards him, and to kiss the angry-sullen
face ; not, indeed, because he was moved
by any impulse of affection, but rather by the
reverse consciousness of an increasing alienation,
and therefore she should not see how her words
and actions moved him.

And Anna, who had never known from him,
nor, indeed, seen displayed to others, anything
beyond this deliberate measured kindness, accepted
it as the best he was able to give, while
rebelling against the passionate craving which
seemed to grow with his coldness until it
threatened to exhaust the freshness and gladness
of her youth.

It was the strength of this conviction which
gave such zest to her pursuit of social distraction
; but society was, as we have said before,
sparse and scattered in the Kensington neighbourhood,
and when the chief of the county

families had driven the necessary ten or twelve
miles to pay their respects to the foreign wife
of the half-foreign young baronet, and a single
dinner had been exchanged, dreariness settled
down upon the scene. Miss Earle and Honour
were not at Earlescourt, and Mrs Sylvestre,
though she had called upon her niece and
invited her to visit them at the Vicarage,
distinctly refused to allow Dolly to be her
cousin's guest at Methuen Place, fearing the
pernicious influence of the master of the
house.

Methuen, anxiously and promptly aware of
the ennui from which his wife suffered, made
some attempt to awaken her interest in books,
or art, or music, for which latter pursuits she
had considerable natural talent, but her objection
was ready 

I am too good a judge of excellence to pass
my own drawings, and who would sing and play
to you, Philip ? I will listen."

I have given up the piano," he said. "We
will build an organ-chamber when  when there
is no better claim on the money."

He himself was seeking out employment for
his time with resting solicitude. It was
necessary to stamp out the recollections with
which the grey old house was filled ; the very
atmosphere seemed charged with the eager
generous love of the fond old man who had
gone down to the grave happy in the happiness
he thought he had accomplished. Soon after
his return, Methuen had naturally paid a visit
to the room where Sir Giles had died, and had
stood for a few moments gazing at the spot
where he and Honour, kneeling side by side,
had exchanged the vows and received the blessing
which had shed a divine light in the very
valley of the shadow of death ; then, warned by
the acuteness of the pang he suffered even to
the extent that a feeling of revolt stirred within
his soul, he gave instructions to Mrs Gibson
that the room should be kept strictly locked in
the future, and opened to no one's inspection
but his own.

For the rest, he fulfilled Mrs Sylvestre's worst
apprehensions by having the little dilapidated
private chapel put in thorough repair, and

enriching it with the numerous treasures of art
he had carefully collected for this purpose during
his recent residence abroad.

Every step of the process was known at the
Vicarage  the decoration of the altar, with its
costly draperies and still more costly accessories 
the erection of the crucifix and the painting above
it, the one a miracle of medieval art, the other
a superb Assumption, said to be by Perugino,
and to be worth a year's income  and the filling
in of the fine old eastern window with ancient
painted glass, on which the Vicar himself gazed
with unstinted admiration. Then followed the
consecration of the now perfect chapel by no
less a personage than Father Florentius himself,
who remained a whole week the guest of the
new master of Methuen Place ; followed by a
succession of services and a gathering of the
few" scattered members of the Eoman communion
in the vicinity, glad to avail themselves of the
privileges for the first time offered within the
memory of the present generation. All this
involved the last straw of provocation  the
institution of the domestic chaplain.

It was Mrs Sylvestre herself who brought
home this pregnant piece of news.

I think, my dear," she said, addressing the
Vicar with a neater and sharper accentuation
even than usual, as she raised the heavy family
teapot at the afternoon meal (dexterously
graduating the strength of the infusion according
to the prerogative of the recipient)  " I
think you will now admit the wisdom of the
course I have felt it right to adopt in respect to
Methuen Place. I thank God I have never been
betrayed by my affection for Dolly into placing
her in the way of temptation ! "

'My feeling was," replied the Vicar, a little
impatiently, " that Dolly would have got no
harm there. Anna, unfortunately, has no
religion worth speaking of, and Methuen would
scrupulously have avoided the subject. He
does his best to gather his own sheep into the
fold, but he has never shown any disposition to
make proselytes."

What, may I ask, do you call the rebuilding
and embellishment of his private chapel for
daily idolatrous worship, to which all outsiders

are welcomed ; and the introduction of a full-blown
Jesuit priest into his household ? " (Mrs
Sylvestre recognised but one order in the Roman
communion.) " You will find fewer worshippers
in the parish church next Sunday, or I
am very much mistaken. It is the thin end of
the wedge."

Ah, I am sorry ; but if a man has a chapel
he must have a priest, and it is hard to go
seven miles to church all weathers. Besides,
when all is said and done, we should wish to
see Methuen have the courage of his opinions."

"Good heavens!" exclaimed Mrs Sylvestre,
putting down the teapot with precipitation, and
actually turning a little pale, "you frighten me,
Herbert ! One might almost think, to hear you,
that you had a bias in that direction yourself."

Set your mind at rest, my dear  I am not
of the stuff of which Verts are made ; but I seethe
work that Methuen is doing here in Kensington,
and I know of the same kind of thing
as going on at Crawford, after a century of indifference
and neglect, and I cannot withhold
my approval. Moreover, although he has refused

the offered nomination of J. P. for the
county, I am told lie is about to offer himself
for election to the Board of Guardians. Every
gentleman who is willing to serve his generation
in that way deserves the thanks of the
nation. It shall be no fault of mine if we do
not carry him, though the opposition will be
very strong."

"And you, as a clergyman of our beloved
Church, will abet the introduction of a Papist
to the Board? Do not you see that he will
undermine your influence on your own ground,
and send his priests to contend for the souls of
your paupers ? "

Mr Sylvestre slightly shrugged his shoulders.

I don't want to startle you, my dear ; but
the truth is, I shall be very glad of additional
help in the wards of the Union. Half the inmates
of the house are Irish, and therefore
Papists, and have hitherto been very badly
looked after. As they turn a cold shoulder
to my ministrations, I shall be quite willing to
pass them over to a Christian teacher of their
own persuasion. Father Price was supposed

to attend, but he is old and overworked.
Methuen will see now that they are better
treated. I hear he has been at the workhouse
more than once already."

Mrs Sylvestre's tongue clave to the roof of
her mouth ; she was speechless with pain and
consternation.

"Of course," resumed the Yicar, 'a great
deal depends on the character of the priest.
Price is a harmless nonentity. A red-hot propagandist
would be objectionable on all scores ;
but I fancy Methuen would be judicious in
his choice. Did I understand you to say you
had seen him ? "

I saw Sir Philip Methuen yesterday standing
outside one of his own hovels in Kensington
talking to a Eoman Catholic priest, and I
naturally passed by on the other side of the
way." She spoke with an air of severity.
I heard afterwards from Mrs Mitchell that
he had been at the Place more than a week
past, and that Miss Foster's pretty little cottage
has been taken for his occupation."

"Ah 1 that looks like business ; we shall need

to be on our guard. I thought Methuen would
have liked to have had him under his own
roof; but no doubt there are objections. AVhat
did the man look like, my dear ? "

Look like ! " repeated Mrs Sylvestre, contemptuously;
'have they ever any individuality?
That is well planed out before they
are sent about their business. He looks  as
Father Florentius looks without his dignity,
or as Philip Methuen himself with the beauty
left out. They have all the same expression
of arrogant serenity, as if every question were
solved, and they held the keys of the spiritual
kingdom."

Her face flushed as she spoke, and the Vicar
looked at her with a little surprise.

Ah, well ! " he answered, " we are happy
in knowing that such is not the case, and
can afford to leave them to the discovery of
their mistake; but I scarcely think 'arrogant
serenity ' describes the expression of Methuen's
face."

"I see it too seldom to form any opinion,"
replied Mrs Sylvestre, with all the inconsequence

of a perverse woman. 'rit is hardly
likely to be so, seeing he is Anna Trevelyan's
husband. By the way, I hear that Adrian
Earle is come home at last ; his unfortunate
brother must have been having a bad time
of it lately."

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XXXIV

Anger is certainly a kind of baseness, as it appears well in the weakness
of those subjects in whom it reigns. Men must not be bees :
Animasque in vulture ponunt.' "

Bacon : Essays.

It needed a considerable effort on Philip
Methuen's part to pay his first visit to poor
Oliver Earle. He knew that the young man
was more or less acquainted with the miserable
circumstances of his marriage ; and it was
the instinct of his nature to conceal his private
pain and grief. Even sympathy was unpalatable
to his temper ; and in this case he
had good reason to believe that if sympathy
existed, it would be largely qualified by resentment.


He had by this time provided himself with
so much work to do, that he had excused his

reluctance on that score ; also the visit of
Florentius had intervened  an event which, to
a man living as he did an inner life apart from
those around him, was as refreshing as water-springs
in a dry and thirsty land.

The circumstance of Anna having carelessly
spoken of going herself to Earlescourt to see
Oliver, brought Philip's hesitation to an end.
It was absolutely necessary that the boy's
silence should be secured on a matter which,
rightly or wrongly, Methuen held it necessary
to conceal.

It was late in the afternoon of a dull September
day when he at last found himself at
Earlescourt, within a week or two of the date
a year ago, when he had paid his farewell
visit to Honour on the eve of his departure
for town. He had then been in possession of
a happiness so complete, and so fine in its
completeness, as only a few men touch in a
generation, and it had been shattered by a
blow which still seemed to him brutal. Upto
this hour he had never accepted his fate 
only endured it. The power of association over

some minds is feeble ; over others it maintains
a relentless and indestructible bold, so that
the soul is tied and bound by the chain of immortal
pain and loss.

As Methuen got off his horse and glanced
through the gathering gloom towards the familiar
gardens, where he and she had walked
in their unspeakable joy, and then entered
the house and passed the closed door of the
room where he had carried out his renunciation,
his face darkened, and the dull sense of
habitual depression started almost into mutiny
against pain. If he had not already sent a
servant forward to announce his visit to Oliver,
he would even then have turned and left the
house without carrying out his purpose.

Oliver was lying as usual on a couch, coiled
up under the covering which in his solitary
hours he never relinquished, and in an attitude
which showed him to be ill at ease. His
face had been towards the wall, but he turned
with difficulty as the man softly closed the
door behind him, and he became aware that
Philip had entered the room.

Philip went close up to him, and saw that
the sensitive frame was twitching with suppressed
excitement, and that the eyes which
looked into his own were sullen and resentful.
The bitterness he had felt a few moments before
died out as he looked down upon the suffering
incapable creature before him, and realised that
all the months of change and travel which he
had passed since their last meeting, had been
for the most part endured by Oliver within
the weary circuit of that room  upon that
couch of pain. The old accent of sweetness
and pity touched his voice as he said 

I see I am not welcome. It is enough for
you to say the word, and I need never enter this
room again."

Oliver continued to gaze at him steadfastly,
then muttered under his breath 

There is not a member of this family, Philip
Methuen, but wishes you never had entered this
room."

Ah ! " answered Methuen, " is that the feeling
of your mind towards me ? "

He paused and turned a little aside, hesitating

what course he should adopt. To ignore
Oliver's meaning, or to resent it, seemed almost
impossible to him, when he could not fail to
perceive that every nerve of the young man's
body and mind was alive with perilous sensibility
; also, it was not very hard to forgive a
resentment based on the strength of his loyalty
towards Honour Aylmer.

If I had known," he resumed, " that you
did not care to see me again, I would gladly
have spared us both the pain of this interview.
I know that you are in possession of facts which
I should have gladly kept from you ; but, under
any circumstances, you will allow that they do
not admit of discussion between us."

The careful reserve of his manner had an
unfortunate effect upon Oliver.

Is that your line ? " he answered, in his
shrill, excruciating voice. "Then, be warned
at once, for I will not spare you ! You were
welcomed in this house like a brother, and you
have paid us back by spoiling the life of every
member of it. You have taken away from
Adrian the girl he wanted and you didn't,

although you knew the doing of it would well-nigh
break Honour Aylmer's heart."

The mention of her name seemed for a moment
to check the rage of the speaker. He
broke off.

"Honour!" he repeated; "to speak of her
to you is an outrage, and yet I will speak" 
answering some gesture of deprecation from the
other. " Shall I ever forget how she knelt by
this sofa weeping, and told me her miserable
story, with no thought of self, but all divine
pity for you ? God ! how I wished I were a
man instead of the useless boy I am, and could
have thrashed or killed you ! "

Then, as Methuen made no answer, he went
on still more vehemently 

Ever since that hour, I have been brooding
in my mind how I could pay you back, even
when I believed you were as miserable as you
had made her, and cursed the hour when you
were born. It was only left for you to show
me that you were reconciled to your shame 
not miserable !  to take away the last shred of
reluctance from my mind. You set a high

value on your matrimonial peace and quiet, but
I will spoil them for you. I know no woman in
whom the sleeping devils of jealousy and revenge
would wake to better purpose than in
Anna Trevelyan."

The threat was so unexpected yet so easy of
fulfilment, embodying as it did what Methuen
considered the supreme prospective calamity of
his life, that, in spite of his firmness, he started
a little and changed colour.

Oliver laughed, in a low, mocking, provocative
way.

"You will not stoop," he said, ''to beg for
mercy ? "

"Not for myself," was the answer, and the
man's voice shook a little; "but there is no
humiliation I would not accept to prevent you
from causing additional pain to  to her we both
love."

"That is out of my power  you have left me
nothing to inflict. Besides, what harm could
come to her, shut in as she is by the love of
us all ? You see, abject cripple as I am, I am
obliged to put your punishment in the hands

of a woman ! Anna, mad with rage and disappointment,
will  what shall we say ?  recognise
and revenge Honour's wrongs."

Undoubtedly Methuen was strongly moved.

It suddenly seemed as if the strenuously
guarded decencies of his daily life were to be
sacrificed to the purposeless malice of a boy.
He knew enough of his wife's natural temper
to be aware that, under the threatened provocation,
any extremity of passionate unreason was
to be apprehended. He shrank with extreme
repugnance from the notion of Anna's knowledge
of the real state of his heart and character,
and of the supreme sacrifice her madness
had exacted. It would be the wanton violation
of all that which he would almost have given
his life to keep inviolate. To hear Honour's
name profaned on her lips, and the love he
held as sacred the mark of her scorn and rage,
would change the dull purgatory of his present
existence into an active hell. He had a sickening
consciousness that there is scarcely any
limit to the pain, shame, and humiliation which
a jealous and vindictive woman is able to inflict

on a proud and sensitive man. Also, even beyond
all this, was the vague misgiving of which
he was conscious, that it might be in his wife's
power to hurt the peace, or honour, or safety
of the woman whom she had wronged.

He decided promptly that pride and self-respect
must yield to the greater emergency.

Oliver," he said, again going up to the
couch where he lay, twisting and writhing in
intolerable excitement, " let me understand
exactly what you mean. Do you threaten to
tell Lady Methuen the fact of my engagement
to Miss Aylmer? If you do, I don't hesitate
to own you will do me the cruellest injury one
man can inflict on another, and you will drive
Anna to desperation. But what will you gain
when you have done it? You cannot do it
without parting with every shred of honour
and conscience. Are you so utterly changed ?
If you are bent on revenge, find some other
way, where at least I shall suffer alone."

Ah ! " was the answer ; ' then, after all, I
have brought you to your knees. But it is no
good. I do not say I will tell Anna Methuen

to-day or tomorrow ; but I will tell her sooner
or later, as the mood takes me. I will see her
and talk to her first, so as to find out exactly
the state of her mind towards you, and where
I can plant the blow with most effect. You offer
me an inducement when you say I shall spoil
your life  that is the future aim of mine."

There was a vindictive passion in his face
and a note of triumph in his voice which went
beyond Methuen's comprehension. There was
also something weird and unnatural in the idea
that his own moral strength and resolution lay
at the mercy of this frail emotional creature.
He put out his hand and grasped Oliver's
shoulder, partly from the instinct which prompts
to physical contact under the coercion of appeal,
partly to restrain the spasmodic movements
which irritated the tension of his nerves.

It is impossible to believe," he said, " that
you can be guilty of this vileness from no other
motive than to punish an involuntary wrong.
Will she thank you ? "  but here Oliver, with
a passionate expletive, wrenched himself away
from him.

"Don't think to move me by pointing out
that I can only strike you through her. That
is the goad which pricks me. She must bear
a little more, that you may get your deserts.
Come, Methuen, I will consent to make things
clearer : you have thrown away the thing that
was the very core and kernel of my life. It is
a ridiculous notion, isn't it, that a degraded
cripple like me should have a man's heart in his
breast, and dare to love the girl who has been
the angel of his life, like a goblin in a fairy
tale ? But sometimes, you know, in such cases
as mine, passion and instinct are in advance of
years and growth ; and I would have you understand
that my love for Honour has long been
of the kind that torments and consumes. What
yours was, God knows ! but I know that she
gave you in return her whole soul and strength,
keeping nothing back ; and I was forced to bean
eye-witness of it all. Maybe other men besides
yourself can suffer, and hold their tongues.
Don't pity me ; that is an insult I will not endure
from you. I can fight my own battles."

He had raised himself on his arm in the

strength of his excitement, and Philip, comprehending
the state of his mind, forbore to
show by look or word the compassion which he
felt. He went slowly back to the hearth and
sat down with folded arms, waiting for the other
to speak again. He knew enough of Oliver's
idiosyncrasy to be quite aware that nothing was
to be expected from him under the stress of
personal injury. The matter was closed between
them. No further appeal was possible.
'you do well to be quiet," resumed Oliver.
I kept myself from hating you, so long as you
were necessary to Honour's happiness. I would
even have lived under your roof, as you proposed,
and sunned my frozen life in her dear
presence  still not hating you, because you were
the source of her joy. But,  when you killed
that  without pity, and breaking a deathbed
oath  my mind was set free. There is not a
reptile that crawls on the face of the earth that
is so obnoxious to me as you are. I cannot
crush you, for I am a wretched worm myself;
but I will set one on that will worry out your
life."

He threw himself back, as if exhausted, on
his couch.

I have done ! Have you anything to
answer ? "

Nothing in the way of personal protest, and
any expression of feeling would be out of place."

Nothing either in the way of explanation
or self-defence ? "

To you ? " asked Methuen, with a quietness
which had more effect than any burst of anger
or scorn. " What would your boy's judgment
be worth of the necessity which was forced
upon me ? No ; I have nothing to say to
you."

He got up and glanced round the room preparatory
to departure, but was careful that his
face expressed nothing of the stern and bitter
memories the scene evoked.

"I shall never come here again unless you
send for me," he said. '' I will go now. It
would be a mockery to say good-bye."

But you will prevent Anna Methuen from
coming to see me ? Not that it will balk my
purpose. I have a note from her to-day. The

post is always open, and is hard to watch
efficiently."

I shall make no attempt, Oliver, either to
restrain Lady Methuen's movements or to circumvent
your malice. Do your worst." And
he opened the door and went out.

It is not only the great troubles of life that
come upon us in troops, but those lesser ignoble
cares which warp our nature as well as wound it.

When Methuen returned from Earlescourt it
was already late, and close upon the dinner-hour,
so that he went at once to his dressing-room.
A fire had been lighted there ; and a
certain antique bronze lamp of exquisite workmanship,
which had always stood on his late
uncle's writing-table, and been esteemed by
him as one of his most precious possessions,
shed a soft subdued brightness on the substantial
comfort of the room.

Methuen was by nature, training, and principle
an ascetic ; but, like other men in a
similar position, he concealed his physical austerities
with an ingenuity and success worthy,
it may be thought, of a better cause.

Obeying now a natural impulse  for the
night was raw and cold, and his whole tone
of mind one of profound discouragement  he
sat down close by the fire, and took up again
the broken thread of his thought. It was soon
interrupted by a knock at the door, to which
he answered by a careless " Come in ! " supposing
it to be his servant Duncan, and was both
surprised and disconcerted at the unexpected
entrance of Anna. Without any specific arrangement
on the subject, it was practically
understood that Methuen wished the privacy
of his own apartments to be strictly observed,
and in fact his wife had scarcely entered this
room before. She wore a long white dressing-gown
of some woollen stuff", soft and fine as silk,
and her magnificent hair was loose, and hung ina
sheeny rippling mass almost to her knees.

Philip rose at once, partly from the instinct
of courtesy, partly from that of the sleepless
vigilance he always preserved in his intercourse
with his wife. He also knew from experience
that Anna had either some grievance to disclose
or some petition to osier, and his heart always

closed against the feminine wiles it was her
habit on such occasions to display.

I beg your pardon," he said coldly, " I
thought it was Duncan. Will you not sit
down ? " He placed a chair.

No," she answered, looking smilingly around
her, " I will not take your seat. How comfortable
the room looks ! I like it infinitely better
than mine, after all. I had no idea, Philip, you
knew so well how to take care of yourself
Please sit down again ; I want to speak to you
about something, and cannot dress or dine till
the matter is settled. You are not impatient
for dinner, I hope ? "

"No; I am quite at your service." And he
resumed his seat, rapidly forecasting what was
coming.

Anna knelt down on the rug by his side, her
snowy robes floating far behind her, and her
hair, glowing like bronze in the light of the
fire, sweeping the floor. She stretched out one
of her beautiful hands to the pleasant warmth,
and laid the other upon her husband's knee,
turning up her alluring face to his.

VOL. III. D

'* You must not be angry at what I am going
to tell you," she said. " I have given Mrs
Gibson her dismissal. She was insolent, and
I would not bear it. It is a great relief to my
mind."

She paused and dropped her eyes at the last
words, but presently looked up again on finding
that he made no answer.

You cannot mean," she went on with growing
eagerness, and baffled, as she often was, by
the reserved expression of his face, "so to humiliate
me and compromise my authority in
the house, as to interfere between me and this
woman ? If you were to revoke my decision, I
should be the laughing-stock of the servants'
hall. Say that you wil not do that, Philip
that you consent that she shall go. I hate
her."

Your hatred is shameful," he said at last,
and your professions of affection for myself
are an insult. There are few ways in which
you could have hurt me more effectually."

Ah ! " she said insolently, and rising to her
full height the better to confront him, " I knew

you would be angry, but was scarcely prepared
for such white heat as this. Is this woman's
comfort of more consequence to you than mine ?
Because she grovels at your feet  as you would
like your wife to do  you are blind to the fact
that she dares to treat me as your inferior  as
one raised by your condescension to a dignity
which I did not deserve. My hatred is not
shameful  it is justified at all points."

We will not dispute about words," he answered,
" but consider the facts of the case.
Why should you resent so strongly the sort
of motherly solicitude that a woman of her
age and experience would naturally feel towards
a girl who is new to the cares and duties of a
large household ? It should touch your heart,
Anna, not offend your pride. When I first
came to this house," he added, trying even
against the natural movement of his mind to
win her, " Mrs Gibson never wearied of instructing
and warning me as to the things I
should do and leave undone. Now she transfers
her anxieties to you as the greater stranger.
Forgive her, dear ! Make friends with her

again  I will not say for my sake, but for the
sake of him whose memory ought to have
weight with you."

Anna's pale cheek burned with a sudden
flame of colour; tears, not of submission but
of passionate anger, came into her eyes.

"Do you know," she cried sharply, *you
called me dears Do you also know I never
remember your calling me so before ? And the
first time you use the word is to cajole me into
sacrificing my self-respect to your will and
pleasure. No, no ; soft fool as I am where you
are concerned, I am scarcely to be won by a
bribe so plain and pitiful as that. I would
rather cut off this hand," surveying it as she
spoke, " than humble myself to make terms
with Phebe Gibson. She shall end her days
elsewhere."

"Yes," he said, in a low tone, "under my
care and consoled by my devotion."

She looked at him defiantly, though her
heart quailed a little as she met his eyes.
There was not so much passion as pain in
them ; but the pain, she thought, arose chiefly

from the added sense of alienation from
herself.

Nor did she make any mistake in this conclusion
: the disposition she revealed excited
in his mind a moral recoil inevitable as when
the absence of the sun destroys light and
warmth.

Still the matter in question not only touched
his heart profoundly, but his sense of duty and
responsibility, in comparison with which his
personal pride was held of no account. What
she required of him was an act of outrage and
disloyalty to the dead.

Let me speak to her, Anna," he began
again, passing over all the ignoble provocations
of her speech. "I will take care of your dignity,
and insist upon the fullest apology wherever
she has failed, however unintentionally,
in respect."

"The affair is finished," was her answer.
"I have provided against all such contingencies.
The woman would not stay even if you
were to urge her  that is, if you were capable
of insulting your wife in that fashion."

ONiVEf?s/ry OF ,ll/no

ilBRAftv

Then there is nothing more to say," he
said sternly. "You have won once more,
Anna ; there are no weapons so irresistible as
those of a relentless selfishness."

He got up from his chair and opened the
door for her.

* Excuse my dismissing you ; but I hear the
dinner-bell, and it is scarcely worth while to
break the heart of another old servant by letting
the dinner spoil. I can be ready in ten
minutes."

Instead of advancing, she clasped her hands
together as if in supplication.

'' You are very angry," she murmured ; and
there was a quiver in her voice, and a pathetic
droop of the beautiful head.

"Yes," he said quietly, *'I am very angry 
so angry that you will do wisely not to try and
deprecate my anger. You poison the wounds
you inflict when you offer your false sighs and
tears to heal them."

He stood waiting for her to go out, with an
air of authority she did not choose to resist;

but as she passed him she looked into his face,

with her own divided between passion and
pain.

You hurt me more than you know," she

whispered. "I would to God I did not love
you!"

Chapter XXXV.

Alas, thou foolish one ! Alike unfit
For healthy joy and salutary pain:
Thou knowest the chase useless, and again
Tunes to follow it."

C. Rossetti.

It was an unfortunate circumstance in Lady
Methuen's life that the habitual burden of
ennui and disappointment wbicb she felt was
aggravated at this time by the coldness arising
from the quarrel with her husband. Philip
treated her as a matter of course with perfect
consideration, but he unquestionably relaxed a
little in the unfailing attention to her will and
pleasure to which she had grown accustomed ;
and in addition to this, he had committed himself
to so much out-of-door labour and supervision
of labour that he was often absent from
home the chief part of the day.

True, if he had been at home they would not
have spent their time together. He had tried
in vain, as we have said before, to interest her
in books or study of any description,  a modern
French novel, or the volume she possessed of
the poems of Leopardi, were the only literature
she cared for.

He had suggested (simply from the sense he
entertained of the duty of being in her company)
that she should help him in certain matters
of antiquarian research in which he was
engaged in Lord Sainsbury's interest, but she
refused almost with indignation.

Labour, without some personal end to gain,
seemed to her as absurd as distasteful. If
Philip would have consented to idle with her
over the piano, or to play the lover with her
in her morning-room, what new discoveries of
allurement and charm she could have made
him, and how effectually she would have
cast and riveted his chains ! but to this
he showed no inclination to consent ; and in
default, and still smarting under the recollection
of the words he had spoken, she

gave herself up to the distractions lying close
at hand.

Yes ; Adrian Earle was at home again, and
that in the absence of the ladies of his family.
What wonder was it that he constantly turned
his horse's head in the direction of Methuen
Place, ostensibly to visit the master of the house,
for whom he always solicitously inquired, butin
reality to while away the dull hours in
Anna's brilliant society?

He was always welcome, for she was bored
to death by solitude and vexation of spirit, and
never failed to read in his mobile vivid face
that here at least the power of her beauty and
charm was undiminished. So intimate had
been their former relations, and so minute aud
patient was Adrian's sympathy, that Anna exercised
little reserve in respect to her domestic
discontent. She did not, from a natural pride,
ground it upon her husband's fundamental indifference,
but upon the constitutional defects of his
character and his acquired insensibility to pleasure
and self-indulgence  upon the divergence
of their pursuits, and the consequent solitude

which resulted  and every complaint she
uttered, by proving to Adrian the undiminished
hold the love of her life still had over her heart,
helped to irritate and inflame his own.

When, he asked himself, would the time
come when Anna would forego her infatuated
fondness for the man who ignored and neglected
her, and fall back for consolation on what it was
in his power to offer ? What that was he did
not stop to discriminate : at any rate, he said
to himself, he only hurt his own peace and
compromised his own future by nursing his
forlorn passion ; she was guaranteed from injury
only too effectually.

Also, on several occasions, Anna had driven
over to Earlescourt to visit Oliver ; and it would
have been a great mortification to Adrian could
he have known that the proud, dissatisfied, restless
girl found his brother's society more stimulating
than his own.

Oliver showed a curious interest in all the
details of Anna's experience, and questioned
her with eager pertinacity on matters which
Adrian's finer sense would not have ventured to

approach. Then there was always so much stress
of nervous mental activity about him, that all
those who were subjected to it yielded their best
under his strenuous pressure. Anna fell back
into the habit of her old improvisations and
recitals, much more animated by Oliver's sharp
criticisms than by Adrian's ardent if unexpressed
admiration.

For Oliver's behoof Anna also consented to
exercise her rare talent of mimicry, that took all
forms, from a sharply discriminated reproduction
of the singers, musicians, and actors of the
day, to a spiteful caricature of personal friends
and relations.

Shouts of shrill laughter and applause rewarded
her for these exertions ; but to Adrian such
exhibitions were distasteful. He thought them
derogatory, and even ventured to expostulate
with her on the subject.

Derogatory ! " she repeated contemptuously ;
I hold nothing derogatory which helps to put
wings to the leaden feet of old Time. You know
I have no ideals to work up to."

No," said Adrian, leaning towards her, and

speaking in a passionate whisper, "you fulfil
them."

Ah ! " she answered, with that careless touch
of scorn in her voice which always made him
wince, " you remind me you were once my lover ;
but such speeches do not please me."

Here Oliver interposed.

Have you ever shown Philip Methuen how
well you can do it, Anna ? or is he in happy
ignorance of his wife's talents ? Would it be
too great a sacrifice to your feelings to show
us how he looks and moves and speaks ? 
you have had opportunities for an exhaustive
study."

I could do it  to perfection," was her
answer ; ' but I must draw the line somewhere,
and I draw it there. Oh yes, he knows
I can act, for he has seen me."

And he swelled the paean of praise ? "

** Why not, Oliver ? He said I had a great
gift, and that it was natural I should like to
exercise it."

But that personally he objected to such
exhibitions ? "

No, he did not say that," returned Anna, a
little wearily; "he is not illiberal."

Oliver laughed his low mocking laugh.

Is not the transformation edifying, Adrian ?
Anna Trevelyan in the character of Beatrice
' taming my wild heart to his loving hand ' !
Only," dropping his voice, " in this case there
would be a marked discrepancy in the text."

Anna looked up sharply. All weariness had
disappeared from her face, which was alight
with anger.

You are insolent," she said, " as always ;
but another time  when wee are alone  you
shall tell me what you mean. I am going
home now."

Adrian saw the pain that lay behind the passion,
and his love justified itself in the generous
unselfishness of his interference. " You do
Oliver too much honour," he said, " to take
notice of anything he says. He has no meaning
beyond his general desire to make everyone
as uncomfortable as himself. Do you know
my aunt and Honour come home on Saturday?"

I know it, and am very glad to know it."

There was an unusual softness in her manner,
that made his heart yearn over her. Was she
brooding over the old trouble which Oliver's
brutal words had quickened ?

With that wistful look in her eyes which he
remembered so well of old, he was almost willing
that she should be satisfied after her own
heart  not his.

Ashen she approached Oliver to bid him goodbye,
she leaned over the low cushions on which
he was stretched in front of the fire, and whispered


You shall tell me what you mean before
many days are over."

The sooner the better," he answered in the
same tone. "There is no time to lose; come
again tomorrow. I have a secret in keeping
that I am bound to disclose before Honour
Aylmer comes home."

CHAPTER XXXVI.

The stage is more beholden to love than the life of man : for as to
the stage, love is ever matter of comedies, and now and then of tragedies ;
but in life it does much mischief ; sometimes like a siren, sometimes like
a fury" Bacon

There is a terrible uniformity in Nature and
in Life.

It so happened, hj one of those bizarre coincidences
which only gather importance from
their consequences, 'that the day on which Anna
returned home from her next visit to Oliver
Earle corresponded precisely in date to that on
which, a year ago, she had followed Philip
Methuen to London.

Even the weather was of a like description :
the half-stripped woods had the same dank and
forlorn aspect ; the atmosphere was heavily
charged with moisture, holding mist and vapour

in suspense, and shrouded the distant landscape
with an impenetrable veil. Drops of water
hung from the point of every leaf which still
maintained its hold on bough and twig, and
stood in tiny pools on the level surfaces of rail
or fence,  all the autumnal glory of colour
was washed out. A grey pall seemed to invest
the old mansion-house of Methuen Place,
and to beat down the smoke of its many
chimneys.

Oliver Earle had accepted Methuen's challenge,
and done his worst. He had not only
told his tale, but had omitted no point of
exacerbation in the telling of it. He had insisted,
with cruel pertinacity, not only on the
reality of Philip's love for Honour, but on the
passionate force and fire of that love, and on
the element of indestructibility which it contained.


He had even reminded the girl of some of
her own contemptuous criticisms on the cold
moderation of her husband's character, and
mocked her conclusions from his own accurate
observation that Methuen was as capable as

VOL. III. E

other men of the follies and extravagances of
love.

He told her, which was not precisely true,
that the wedding-day had been fixed when
Methuen went up to town, and that only a
fortnight divided him from his felicity when
her own action destroyed it for ever.

The manner in which Anna received the intelligence
surprised and baffled him a little :
he had expected some passionate outburst 
eager questionings and denials, and ungoverned
fury. He had often seen her under the influence
of passion, and had prepared himself for
similar manifestations, only stronger in degree.

But she sat in the full focus of his vision,
silent and motionless, with no other sign of
feeling than the growing pallor of her face, the
gleam in her dilating eyes, which never swerved
from his while he was speaking, and the tension
of her unloved hands clasped in her lap. Now
and then the breath came in great gasps from
between her parted lips, but still no words followed.
True, there was small need for her to
ask questions, for Oliver, with inhuman hardness

of heart, not only obviously told her all
he knew, but offered suggestions and impressions
of facts.

'' The crowning marvel to my mind," he said
in conclusion, as he passed his handkerchief over
his brows, wet with the dews of intense excitement,
" is that any feminine creature could have
allowed herself to be so grossly deceived as you !
I mean that Nature might have suggested that
one cause only could have fortified the man
against such attractions as yours."

Anna stood up ; she had thrown off her
plumed hat, loosened her heavy cloak, and
drawn off her gloves on first entering the room,
and now she began hastily to reassume them,
as if in readiness for departure.

Oliver, who was watching her keenly, thought
her beauty was never more superb than as she
thus stood before him, speechless still, but erect
and defiant, her face white and stern, and
lighted by the sombre fire of her eyes. The
hands which clutched the fastenings of her
cloak shook almost spasmodically ; but she
compelled them to their office, and raised and

placed her hat on her head with deliberate
intention.

Then she came to the foot of his sofa : he
could see the convulsive heaving of her throat,
and the supreme effort it cost her to speak
without breaking down ; but she succeeded.

'' Whom do you hate ? " she said, and her
voice had an unnatural harshness  " Philip
Methuen or me ? "

Him ! " answered Oliver sullenly, a little
daunted by the intense anguish of her face.
I have good reason to hate him, and  I have
put his punishment into your hands."

Into mine ! " she repeated, with a sort of
hysteric laugh  " his punishment ? And what
of the other ? "

Of Honour ? " said Oliver, and he turned a
little pale; "you cannot touch Honour, and
you would not if you could ! "

She looked at him with the heavy lashes
dropped over her lengthening gaze, and an
indefinable expression came into her face.

I think I understand," she said. " Honouris
loved not  not only by  by Philip, but by

you, malignant, misshapen little devil as you
are ! But, rest satisfied ! I mean to accept the
work you have given me to do."

And she nodded, and went out of the room.

She had not thought about ordering her
carriage, and when she got down-stairs she found
the coachman had taken out the horses, supposing
she was likely to stay for hours, as washer
custom. She left word that he was to make
haste and follow her, and she would walk on in
the direction of home.

But she had not gone many paces beyond
the grounds, walking rapidly in her strong excitement,
when she felt her strength suddenly
collapse, and she was obliged to stop and lean
against an adjacent gate for support. The
damp mist wrapped her round and saturated
her heavy clothing, and the wet ground soaked
the thin shoes she wore. She had the feeling,
which comes to all of us in moments of supreme
suffering, of being outcast and deserted, as on
that other day when she had stood in her
despair on the platform of Waterloo Station.

But I am more miserable ! " said the girl.

half aloud to herself, and lifting her hands
instinctively to her aching head. " Then I was
horribly afraid, but I had hope at the bottom ;
now !

The word broke from her lips like the cry of
some wounded animal. She was suffering the
most exquisite tortures known to humanity :
those pangs which have transformed the hero
into an assassin, and invested murder with the
sanctity of a religious rite.

Her misery seemed to assume unnatural and
tragic proportions in her mind : so great was
the pressure of it that she felt as if she must
send up the voice of her despair into a cry loud
enough to reach the empty heavens, and make
the dull earth tremble on its axis. Hope was
shut out of her life ! There was a barrier between
her and her husband that no love, no patience,
no energy of endurance and effort could
break down. Who but herself knew what she
had suffered and condoned on the score of his insensibility
and coldness ? picking up the crumbs
of his kindness, when her heart was craving for
living bread with a hunger he refused to appease.

She heard the distant sound of carriage-wheels,
and made an effort to walk on to avoid
observation. When the vehicle overtook her
she stumbled as she got into it, for her eyelids
burned above her dazed and tearless eyes, and it
seemed as if she saw nothing clearly or in due
proportion.

As they approached her own house, she received
almost unconsciously the weird impression
of a former experience  a mental difficulty
in distinguishing Now from Then. The incidents
of that other terrible day rose before her
mind's eye with preternatural vividness.

She saw Philip Methuen as he had crossed
the platform at Trichester in the perfection
of his manhood, radiant with the joy of his
love ; she remembered the sweetness of his
lips, the gladness in his eyes ; and from that
hour to this his face had never worn that look,
because  it had looked only upon her !

She  passionate above the feeble strength of
most women, and so beautiful as to be, as it
were, type and crown of her sex  sufficed only
to harden his heart and to freeze the blood in

his veins. And while she had chafed, fainted,
and endured under this yoke of abstinence and
denial, telling herself it was the defective nature
of the man she adored, he was as capable as herself
of the fires of love, and hated her because
she had torn him from the arms of another.

And that other ? Ah, God ! there, at least
at present, her thoughts must not rest, if she
were to keep madness out of her brain, only 
only  to hurt her, to make her suffer !

The passions of the race are perennial and
keep the same channels ; and the vengeance
which has instigated so many crimes at once
great and pitiful, surged in the breast of this
poor nineteenth-century wife.

She had got home by this time and gone to
her dressing-room, and her maid, who had relieved
her of her wet cloak, was now kneeling at
her feet removing her soaked shoes and stockings,
and marvelling much at the condition of
her mistress. There was no fellowship between
the two, as often exists in such intimate
relations  for Anna was always haughty and
overbearing to her inferiors, and the woman

ventured on no remark, and the mistress vouchsafed
no explanation.

Is Sir Philip in the house ? " she asked
presently.

"Pardon, my lady; I had forgotten, seeing
my lady so wet and tired. He went out about
an hour ago, and left a note for my lady, to be
given as soon as she came in."

The note contained only a few lines saying
he had business at Trichester, and should dine
and sleep at a friend's house, returning the next
day ; but it was written in Italian, as she always
preferred him to write, and had a gracious,
pleasant turn of expression. Anna, who had
dismissed her maid before opening it, let it fall
suddenly from her fingers as though it had
stung her.

Jealousy and suspicion are passions of matchless
ingenuity and resource ; the idea instantly
occurred to her mind that he knew as well as
herself that the next day  Saturday  was the
day of Miss Earle's and Honour's return, and
that he designed to meet his love.

For a moment Anna even contemplated the

verification of this suspicion ; but finally dropped
the notion as impracticable and to no purpose,
and fell back into her former mood of mutinous
misery.

She refused dinner, and had a cup of chocolate
and some dry toast brought to her dressing-room
; and then slowly, as the first paroxysms
of her passion abated, she set her mind deliberately
to the solving of one problem 
how to revenge her wrongs upon the wrongdoers.


So deep-rooted was Anna's impression of her
inalienable early rights over Philip Methuen,
that she did not hesitate to consider Honour's
engagement as an act of treachery on her part
towards one whom she had called her friend,
and that this fact absolved her from keeping
terms even with the restraints of humanity.

It is no exaggeration to say that not any
calamity which could have befallen the sweet
and gracious creature to whom she owed so
much would have been too great or piteous to
satisfy her hatred, and that in default of any
misfortune in the natural order of events, she

was prepared to tax all the resources of her
ingenuity to provide her punishment herself.

In every pulse of this girl's magnificent frame,
as she sat in her deep lounging chair, clad in her
soft warm gown of flowing white, far into the
hours of the morning, and with her feet
stretched out to meet the hot glow of the fire,
throbbed precisely the same lawless and ruthless
temper which sent her countrywomen of the
middle ages to the laboratories of the alchemist
and physician, to win by force of beauty or of
bribe the occult poison that was to still for ever
the heart which had been proved or suspected
to be false.

It was against Honour that her anger raged
most vindictively. She had lured and won him
from an allegiance he might otherwise have
kept, and though to hurt and torture him ashe
had hurt and tortured her was her deliberate
purpose, she would not have cut short the
thread of his life by a single hour. Only so
long as he breathed with her the vital air would
life be worth living.

Chapter XXXVII.

*' That is the doctrine, simple, ancient, true ;
Such is life's trial, as old earth smiles and knows.
K you loved only what were worth your love,
Love were clear gain and wholly well for you.
Make the low nature better by your throes !
Give earth yourself, go up for gain above ! "

R. Browning.

Philip Methuen returned home at such an
hour in the afternoon of the next day as proved
the impossibility of his having waited at Tri-chester
for any arrivals by the down express.

In answer to his inquiries, he learnt that
Lady Methuen was indisposed, and had kept her
dressing-room since her return from Earlescourt
the day before.

Other functions besides conscience make
cowards of us all, and his apprehensions were
at once aroused as to the cause of any real or
fancied interruption to Anna's splendid health.

Doubtless the young man Oliver had taken
his revenge.

And if he had ? Methuen was not of the
type of men who are taken by events at the
surprise : he had fore lived this contingency over
and over in his mind, and was prepared to meet
it. On what precise lines he could not say,
because he did not precisely know what form
his wife's resentment would take ; but that only
made it a question of adaptation. The foundations
on which were built up his own character
and conduct were impregnable under any
assault.

He sent a message to Anna by her maid, and
followed it in person after the interval of a few
minutes.

Anna's dressing-room was one of the few
apartments which had been modernised and
refurnished in Methuen Place, Philip having
successfully opposed the thorough and searching
upsetting of all the old arrangements which his
wife had been anxious to effect.

As some compensation for her general disappointment,
Anna had done her best to make

the fittings and accessories of this room and her
own especial sitting-room as costly and luxurious
as possible  so much so that, without going into
technical detail, enough money had been lavished
upon them to adequately furnish a moderate
mansion, and to excite a pang of conscientious
compunction in Philip's mind whenever he
entered them. On the day in question, Anna
was lying full-length on a couch, which was
drawn across the hearth in the full focus of the
glowing fire, her narrow high-stepped feet,
encased in oriental slippers, negligently crossed,
and her arms, from which the wide sleeves of
her gown fell back loosely, clasped above her
head. Their perfect shape and the exquisite
texture of the flesh could not have been exhibited
to better advantage than by such a
posture and environment ; and the sombre colour
of her robe, soft and clinging, and falling in
straight folds from neck to heel, after her almost
invariable mode, enhanced the beauty of her
face, from which the hair was rigidly brushed
back, as if in disdain of any added charm that
might have been gathered from it.

She was lying in such a position as to face
the door, and as Methuen opened it and entered,
their eyes met instantly. She made no movement
nor any sign of recognition, only a faint
wave of colour passed over her face, and her
beautiful wide-opened eyes scintillated and
narrowed.

Philip went up to the side of the couch, and
put his hand kindly upon her arm.

What is wrong, Anna ? " he asked. " They
told me you were ill ; but you can scarcely be so
ill as to be unable to give me a greeting,  what
has happened ? "

"Nothing has happened," was her answer,
looking at him steadily ; '' all things are as they
were before, and you have never given me reason
to suppose that my coldness would hurt you.
How do you wish me to greet you ? "

She rose as she spoke, and going to the fireplace,
leaned over the mantel in an attitude at
once defiant and contemptuous, and with her eyes
still fixed on his face ; but he observed with
how passionate a grip the fingers of her other
hand, hanging by her side, closed over the folds

of her gown, and that lie trembled a little in
spite of her eager efforts at self-command.

How do you wish to be greeted ? " And
there was the provocation of insult in both tone
and glance.

In perfect candour and good faith," was his
answer. " Something has come between us
since we parted : tell me what it is, and if it
has hurt you, Anna, it may be in my power
to take the sting out of the wound. Trust
me, and tell me the truth."

His words, and still more the careful gentleness
of his look and manner, wrought upon her
like oil on flame. It had not been her intention
to betray herself so openly and so soon ; but
every phrase he used exasperated her frame of
mind beyond her poor power of endurance.

A spasm of mingled rage and pain convulsed
for a moment the beauty of her face ; when she
spoke her voice was choked and broken from
the extremity of her passion.

*' Trust you, and tell you the truth!" she
repeated  " you I Candour and good faith towards
one whose own life has been a living lie !

A cheat so consummate  so cruel  that even
now I am loath to believe you are  what I have
been told  traitor and impostor at all points ! "

She stopped breathless, for she had launched
every word as if it had been a missile ; but he
took no advantage of the pause, his attitude
being that of simple attention.

"Are you treating me," she cried, "as you
used to do when I was a child  letting me
spend my rage before you tried to pacify me ?
Answer ! Is it true what Oliver Earle has told
me ? Have you taken from me all I had to
give  which other men prized  and given
me nothing in return? When I remember 
but, oh, I shall go mad if I do 1  the shames
and humiliations you have made me suffer 
how I have schooled my pride, telling myself
you were too saintly to be fond  and all the

while " She covered her face with her

hands. "I cannot put it into words; but I
wash that there were indeed a God and a judgment
to come, that I could curse you and  her ! "

"Her!"

The sound was scarcely audible ; but he spoke

VOL. III. F

as a man speaks who obeys an imperious instinct
 the instinct of defending from sacrilege
the saint he adores. Anna recoiled a little, and
her face grew paler than before. " Oh," she
said, drawing a deep breath, "I thought until
now it was only her that I hated ! Philip, I
would lay down my life at this moment to
make you suffer as I am suffering now. Do
not look at me ! I could kill you with my own
hands!"

"It will be better that I should go away,"
was his answer ; and though his voice was stern,
there was a look of pity in his face which made
the proud desperate girl wince under the humiliation.
" As things now stand between us,
there is a great deal to be said which must
be spoken, but this is not the time. We do
not throw words to the whirlwind."

He turned slowly and deliberately, as if to
leave the room; but with a swift movement
Anna sprang forward, and threw herself between
him and the door. The eyes that she lifted
to his own blazed with excitement.

You shall not go ! It is like a mau s cowardice

to escape from the sight of the misery he
has made ! but you shall stay and answer me.
Will you dare to tell me with your own lips
that what that humpbacked cripple has told
me is true ?  I am your wife, and you have
never loved me ! I thought it was because the
priests who brought you up had taken the man's
heart out of your bosom, and I bore it  ordered
my pain to be dumb  though there have been
moments when I have hated you almost as
fiercely as I hate you now. Ah, God ! " she
broke off suddenly, striking her hands together
" what a little line it is that divides love
from hate ! "

Then the limitless compassion of a great
nature broke down the barriers of pride, and
even of a man's righteous wrath.

He seized both her hands in his, and drew
her in spite of her resistance within his arms,
closing her eyes with his kisses, and pressing
his lips to hers with a fervour which she had
never tasted before.

Forgive me what I have made you suffer,"
he said ; " I have been more cruel than I knew

the future shall wipe out the past  trust me,
Anna."

At first she had struggled fiercely to be free ;
but as soon might bird or fish repel their native
element as this passionate soul reject the demonstrations
of the love for which her whole
being yearned.

A few moments later and she was lying on
his breast, with her arm about his neck, and
tears of exquisite satisfaction stealing from
under her closed eyelids over the pallor of her
cheek.

Philip Methuen looked down upon the exhausted
pain which that face expressed, and
renewed the vow the extremity of her anguish
had wrung from his soul. The sacrifice he
had made to this girl a year ago had stopped
short of righteous completeness : the letter of
the contract had indeed been rigidly fulfilled,
but not the spirit of it. This latter he would
now exact from his awakened conscience. He
had married her under coercion, under the revolt
of every instinct of his nature ; but should
not his will be strong enough to subdue the

mutiny of the flesh, and to graft an alien but
lawful passion upon the natural stem ? Or if
not, it was but a shifting of imperative duty :
what would then behove him would be the
strenuous counterfeit  the flawless simulacrum
of the love beyond his power to transfer.

It is probable that if Philip Methuen had
received a different training,  one in which it
had not been the rule to probe and dissect
impulse and motive to their innermost fibre,
and pore as with a microscope over' the seeds of
principle and duty, in order to detect their germination
and growth,  he might have accepted
and met the hardship and difficulties of his
position in a simpler and more direct fashion.
Also, nine men out of ten would not have
experienced that hyper-refinement of sentiment
which induced him to conceal so solicitously
his former relations with Honour Aylmer,
in order to guard what appeared to him the
sanctities of their love, and to spare the susceptibilities
of Anna Trevelyan.

If, however, he had hoped that this new
departure on his side would suffice to silence

and satisfy his wife beyond the first excitement
of feeling, he was doomed to disappointment,
and to a very speedy discovery that it
was so.

He had lifted Anna in his strong arms, and
put her back upon the couch, saying that she
was exhausted and weary, and had better rest
alone till dinner-time, and had then turned
from her with the view of leaving the room,
when she caught his hand to detain him.

No ; don't go away," she said. " Your kindness
just now almost took away my senses for
the time ; but I am quiet now, and able to
think. Sit down by my side, Philip ; you
won't refuse in your turn to tell me the liruth."

I think we shall spare each other much unnecessary
pain," was his answer, "if we take
this day as a new start in life, and forbear to
rake up the ashes of the past."

"Ah, but I have no past  no ashes to rake
up ! I mean all my life has been open to you.
It is only fair, before I trust you for the future,
that you should tell me what there is in your
life which has been kept back from me  otherwise

I shall not be able to trust your promises.
In one word, is what Oliver Earle told me about
you and Honour Aylmer  the truth ? "

It cost her a struggle to speak the name
quietly, but she succeeded. She saw that he
hesitated a moment before he answered, and
that when he did, something of the old reserve
of his manner towards her was apparent in tone
and expression.

I do not know what Oliver Earle has told
you," he said, " and I ask as a concession on your
part, that you will spare me the repetition of
it. True or false, it belongs to the irrevocable,
and has nothing to do with your relations and
mine to-day. I think, Anna, I must refuse to
go over this ground with you."

No, you must not do that," she exclaimed
eagerly, and raising herself on her arm, so as
to be able to look more directly into the face
he had averted. " Eemember you have just
pledged yourself not to be cruel  not to make
me suffer as I have done  and there is no peace
of mind possible for me until it is set at rest
on this point. I will not vex you more than

I can help "  but there was a spark of sombre
fire kindling in her eyes  " but it is within
my rights to be told whether Oliver Earle has
dared to malign you and insult me."

Yes," he answered, " I cannot deny that
this is within your rights, and therefore I will
not refuse any longer to answer. If Oliver
Earle told you that Miss Aylmer and I were
engaged before  before your marriage and mine
took place  he told you the truth."

Anna had never felt a momentary doubt of the
truth from the first moment that Oliver had
asserted it ; but involuntarily, as Philip's words
reached her ears, she put her hands before her
eyes, as if to shut out a fact too hard for her to
face.

But she had spent her violence, and had already
decided that a quieter course would not
be less effectual. No one but her husband
could be credulous enough to believe that a few
passionate kisses, yielded by his generosity to
her extremity, were to wash out the record of
her wrongs.

And yet," she answered, speaking under her

breath, and with her hand still shading her eyes,
you had pledged yourself to me from the time
we were boy and girl together ; and she knew
that I had no other love in my heart than love
for you."

I think," he said firmly, " as this subject has
been forced upon us, that it will be better to
speak plainly on all points. You have just
now repeated a statement, Anna, which you
have often made before, and I have not thought
it worth while to dispute ; but it is necessary todo
so now. I was never pledged to you by any
ties beyond affectionate goodwill and friendship
for your father. Also, Miss Aylmer had no such
knowledge as you speak of, until your own
action forced the conviction upon her, and then
she consented to forego her own rights to
secure your happiness." His face flushed and
darkened. "You force me to say what it is
hateful both to speak and to hear," he added, ina
lower tone.

Anna deliberately let her hands fall from her
face, and looked at him with passionate reproachful
eyes. He had got up from the seat

he had taken by her side, and was standing
on the hearth opposite her.

Is this," she said, " so far as your compunctions
go  an instalment of the loving-kindness
you promised ? "

The retort," he answered, '' is one quite
natural for you to make ; but all the same I do
not deserve it. It is you who have forced this
subject upon me, and refused to forbear even
when I stooped to solicit your forbearance, and
it is now become necessary to set it in its true
light. This once  but, understand, never but
this once  Miss Aylmer's name shall be mentioned
between us, and mentioned in order that
you may do justice to the goodness which has
never warmed your heart, although you owe toit
almost every good thing in life you have
enjoyed."

Anna trembled with indignation. All the old
rage and passion swelled again. " You mean 
I owe to her  the blessing of being your wife ! "

'*No," he said, "I did not mean that;" and
the complete absence of heat and excitement in
his manner only served to fan her own. " It

would be both useless and unmanly in me to
remind you to what circumstances our connection
is owing, and I can well believe that you
have long ceased to regard it in the light of a
blessing. I simply mean that Miss Aylmer was
the friend of your girlhood ; sweet and kind
and generous to you, in spite of your frequent
perverseness, and providing you with pleasures
and outlets such as could never have reached
you otherwise as Mrs Sylvestre's niece. The
ties which bind you to her are so strong that it
is hard to understand how the sudden knowledge
that you have injured her  even though
at unawares  can excite any feeling but sorrow
in your mind ; and I should think exactly
the same, Anna, if Miss Aylmer and I
were strangers. As for myself  I have already
owned my behaviour has not been blameless ;
but even in my case extenuating circumstances
might be found."

No doubt ! " was the girl's answer. " Because
I took your love out of your arms and
forced you to stifle the heat and ecstasy of your
passion, or to transmute them into the ice and

iron of our relations ! Oliver has told me how
saint and celibate can love."

Do not quote Oliver ! " he said sternly. '' I
am prepared to tell you myself that I loved her
dearly, but the fire was fire of heaven ! There
is only one more word to say : we were within
three weeks of our marriage when you followed
me to Bruton Street."

You do well to be explicit  I will never
forget it ! Is it within my province to ask if
that heavenly fire is now extinct ? or is it the
burden of your confession to your priest and
your protracted prayers at the altar ? "

He looked at her with that expression of
aloofness which had often tormented her with
the conviction that he stood too far off from her
to be hurt by her.

'ewe confess our sins," was his answer, "and
there is no sin in my love for Honour Aylmer.
All that there was of earth or dross has long
been consumed." And then he came a little
nearer to her, both in act and manner  " Let
us consent that this unhappy page in our life
shall be closed once and for ever. There is need

of forgiveness on both sides. I mean to love
you in the future, Anna, after your own heart's
desire."

There was the old light in his eyes and the
sweetness in his smile that she had sometimes
thought was lost to her for ever ; but her heart
was so sore that it did not move her.

"You give me alms," she said, * as you give
alms to your paupers at Crawford ; but I will
not take them. What do you think I am
made of? Your kindness is worse than your
cruelty. Do not go away deceived  I am not
pacified. Your plaster has not healed my
wound  that is left for me to manage in my
own way."

"You mean that there is to be strife between
us ? "

She gave a little unnatural laugh. "Do not
be afraid ; I will not do you any bodily harm,
although just now I threatened to kill you,
and  I am made of the stuff that does such
things ! But that would be a blundering
revenge."

He looked at her with an anxiety he could

not wholly conceal. He knew from long experience
the strength of her passions, the ingenuity
of her arts, and the absence of all the saving
restraints of conscience and pity.

Was Honour Aylmer safe if this girl were
bent on her injury? And then he mocked his
instinctive apprehension as absurd and untenable
in the thick of the social conventions of
the nineteenth century, and for one surrounded
by friends and relations, and the natural safeguards
of high position.

'revenge is always a blunder," he said,
'and one that seldom fails to recoil. Please
God, Anna, I will win you to a better mind."

She smiled, and got up from her sofa with
the air of one who wishes to close an interview.
The promises of good behaviour are all on
your side, you will observe. I wish things to
go on precisely as they did before. So I intend
to come down to dinner to-day, being as anxious
as you always are that the servants should not
think we have quarrelled. May I trouble you
to ring for my maid ? '

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

The changes wrought
Type oxir own change from passion into thought.
What though our path at every step is strewn
With leaves that shadow'd in the summer noon ;
Through the clear space more vigorous comes the air,
And the star pierces where the branch is bare."

Lytton.

Nearly six years have passed since we first
looked into the bright interior of the house
of Earlescourt, and now that Miss Earle and
Honour are at home again, it bears externally
almost the same aspect as it did then. Sir
Walter Earle's voice rings just as cheerily
through hall and chamber. And Honour, now
as she was then, and has been through all the
interval between, is still the constant companion
of his constitutional morning ride, his
intelligent referee in all matters, whether of
political research or on moot points respecting

timber, tenant, or farm, as well as the confidante
of his public and private dissatisfactions.

Miss Earle is content to confine her rule
within her own kingdom, which is the direction
of household affairs to that point of perfection
which makes Earlescourt at once the admiration
and despair of the neighbouring county ladies,
or perhaps, more strictly speaking, of their
lords.

Adrian still lives his aimless life, at once
eager and indifferent, and into this is now
introduced the enervating element of love for
another man's wife, which, while it holds him
in a passionate bondage, sapping the springs of
health and mental vigour, yet leaves his eyes
open to perceive the abounding sweetness and
patience of the woman who is still his daily
companion and friend.

But to that woman life in the old home has
changed. Her accustomed routine is just the
same, as we have said, and her personal influence
is perhaps more tender and penetrating ;
but the glory and splendour of youth and
hope are passed away. We do not mean that

Honour's life is an empty and blighted one ;
but its ardour is tamed, and her dreams and
ambitions are for others, not herself.

Her intellectual and artistic interests are still
pursued as diligently as ever  more so perhaps,
as happens when it is necessary to pour into
these channels the energies which have been
blocked elsewhere.

Her trouble was not so much because she
had lost the lover of her youth  if the resistless
hand of Death had parted them. Honour could
have accepted that stroke  but because running
through the warp of her own life was the woof
of his untoward destiny.

In a sense she identified herself with all his
provocations and denials : the first thought
when she awoke in the morning was how he
might fare through the weary day, and the
last at night was the tender hope, which became
a prayer, that things had not gone too
hardly with him.

When she got back to Earlescourt the pressure
naturally became more severe ; they were
so near, and yet so far.

VOL. in. G

Also the reports of his strenuous work
amongst the poor, of his zeal in the repair of
long-neglected obligations, and in the maintenance
and exaltation of his religion, were
all charged with a pathetic meaning to her
mind.

Then she had reason to believe, though
Adrian never told her, that he was constantly
at Methuen Place ; and this fact, coupled with
his increasing gloom and irritability, was of
sinister omen for Philip's peace.

And there was another circumstance which
perhaps went as far as any other to spoil the
comfort of her daily life. Oliver's room was
no longer a pleasant resort. The boy had become
(by a sudden bound, as it seemed to hera
man, and the man was bitter, ungracious, and
increasingly mutinous, under the hardships of
his lot.

It had now become a thing almost impossible
to please him : he found fault with her music,
calling it mechanical and prosaic, and criticised
her paintings with cynical severity ; while
again, on occasion, his passion of compunction

and gratitude assumed a form that brought the
colour to her cheek, and aroused a vague misgiving.


It need scarcely be said that Oliver kept the
secret of his own love, at least as far as open
declaration went, and also of his breach of faith
in regard to Anna. On this point he had taken
no one, not even Adrian, into his confidence,
although he had eagerly questioned him as to
what appeared to be the existing relations between
her and her husband.

Here, however, Adrian could not satisfy him ;
he now carefully timed his visits to avoid Philip
Methuen, and it suited Anna's purpose not to
betray the knowledge she had acquired.

Shortly after their return home. Miss Earle
had proposed to Honour that they should pay
a call of ceremony at Methuen Place, and this
they had done, the result being extremely unsatisfactory.


They did not see Philip, and Anna's manner
was uncertain and depressed.

When she returned the call she came alone,
explaining that her husband was gone up fora

few clays to Lord Sainsbury's place near
Guildford. There was an air of weariness and
repressed excitement in Iter manner, which was
not lost on Miss Earle's keen perceptions. She
had never liked Anna, and she had thought
that no circumstances could ever induce her
to pity the girl who had wronged Honour so
grievously ; but we are nobler than our resentments,
and there was something in the look of
the young wife's face which appealed to her
sympathy.

You must be very lonely," she said, kindly.
I wonder you don't have one of your cousins
with you."

I am always lonely," was Anna's answer ;
but my aunt Sylvestre would not allow Dolly
to stay with me, lest she should curtsey to the
crucifix in the chapel, and Philip should lead
her soul astray. She need not be afraid ; it is
necessary to be a pauper, or otherwise loathsome,
to excite Sir Philip's sympathies."

She looked up, and met Adrian's eyes ; he
had come into the drawing-room, and had
stayed when he saw who his aunt's visitor

was. It followed, therefore, as a matter of
course, that he took her down to see her into
her carriage.

"Wait a moment, Anna," he said, as they
reached the last stair of the broad staircase,
"your shoe is untied."

He knelt before her as he spoke to secure the
lace, she standing a little above him, and accepting
the service with her careless imperial
air. As he rose, he pressed his lips passionately
to the thin silk covering of the beautiful dainty
foot. A deep crimson blush, such as he had
never provoked before, rose in Anna's cheek ;
she leaned over him and touched his bowed
head for a moment with her unloved hand.
It was like a caress, and wrought upon his facile
sensibility almost to madness.

Anna," he said huskily, almost crushing in
his vehemence the hand he had caught in his
own, " is the time come for your long patience
to be wearied out and mine to be rewarded ? "

She looked at him with curious attention.
His delicate face, flushed and inspired by passion,
moved her a little.

*' Come and see me tomorrow," was her
answer, " and I will tell you."

He went to her on the morrow, but found her
mood changed. His passion brought no colour
to her pale cheek, and his prayers were met by a
baffling calculation of chances.

She was dressed in the soft clinging black
gown in which she had received her husband
a few weeks before ; but it was now belted round
her waist with a crimson sash, and she had a
handkerchief of the same colour knotted under
the lace about her throat. The costume suited
her to perfection ; but that was always the impression
produced with whatever Anna put on.

To Adrian's eyes she had never looked so
beautiful, and the languor of her face and dejection
of her manner were provocations at once
to his pity and his love.

"Do not think," she said, in answer to his
pleadings, " that I reject what you beg me todo
because it is wicked ? I have no feeling of
that kind. I would go away with you tomorrow
 to-day  if I thought it would make
me happy  happier, I mean. We worms of

earth are never happy. Life is what my father
used to say  just one long struggle against
misery, with the certainty of being beaten in
the end. Only some of us are beaten in the
beginning."

She got up as she spoke, and began to walk
up and down the room, trailing her long skirts
along the floor, and with her clasped hands falling
loosely before her. She did not interrupt
her lover's eager assurances of the heaven that he
would secure for her in the future, but listened
as if she wished to be convinced, with her
beautiful head a little raised, and her eyes looking
straight beyond.

*'I am quite sure," she answered, when he
paused a little, 'that you are in earnest, and
I believe what you say ; but the doubt in my
mind is whether I should be better ofi". I don't
deny that I am now a very miserable girl 
yes, you may curse him if you like !  but I am
not a disgraced one. Sin has no terrors for me,
but shame has."

"Shame should not touch you, Anna, my
love 1 my queen 1 "

He would have approached her, to put his
arms about the beauty that drew him with an
irresistible lure ; but she made an impatient
movement of restraint.

"You forget," she said, "that I do not love
you, Adrian, though I am willing to wish that
I did, and you see the case stands thus. Which
is harder  to live with a man who does not care
for me, but from whom I cannot tear away the
fondness that was sown in my heart as a child ;
or with the other, who gives me what I do not
want and cannot return ? "

No woman should be able to resist the love
which should hedge you round."

There was the humility of a great passion in
his tone and glance, and Anna was for the
moment moved to kindness.

She paused by his side and put her hand
lightly on his arm. " I am very sorry for you,
Adrian; and I repeat, I would love you if I
could. Then I would dare the shame."

What shame could touch my wife ? You do
not doubt my honour, Anna ? "

If that were possible," she answered, " you

should not plead in vain, for where the honour
of his name is concerned, even Philip would
feel; and he deserves to suffer at my hands.
But you forget he is a Catholic  he would
never go into the divorce court."

Adrian's head drooped for a moment ; he had
ventured to put his hand upon hers, so as to
keep her touch upon his arm. When he looked
up, his eyes were wet with tears.

I had forgotten ; but  it would only mean
deeper devotion  a more tender respect on
my part "

She stooped over him and touched his lips
with hers ; but when he would have seized her
in his arms, she broke away with a passionate
resistance he did not choose to overcome.

'why did you send for me?" he asked.
Is it part of a woman's cruelty to exasperate
the love she will not share, and amuse her
leisure by making sport of the pain she inflicts?
When you call me again I will not
come."

''Do not say that, Adrian ; for if ever I send
for you again it will mean that I have made up

my mind to cast in my lot with yours  that
the chain at which I pull galls past bearing.
You will not fail me ? "

He renewed his pledges, and went away more
hopelessly demoralised than before. The love
of this girl, stimulated by her mingled frankness
and coldness, permeated his whole being
with the poison of tantalised desire and despair.
Out of her presence he seemed to have scarcely
patience enough to draw the breath of life,
and the family affection and manly honour
which, in spite of indolence and self-indulgence,
had kept his nature sweet and wholesome,
sickened and died in the malarious
atmosphere.

He shunned Honour's pure eyes, and avoided
as much as possible contact with his father,
of whose mocking penetration he stood in
dread.

A good part of the shortening winter days 
shortened still more by the morning hours consumed
in bed  he spent in his brother's room.
Oliver s bitterness had assumed of late almost
a savage form. And there was something congenial

to Adrian's disordered mind in the young
man's impious arraignment of Heaven and Fate,
and in the malignant enmity he professed towards
Philip Methuen.

Sometimes Adrian rode, or even, from sheer
restlessness of spirit, walked as far as Methuen
Place, and haunted the park or entered the
gardens in the hope of encountering Anna ;
but he soon learnt that neither she nor her
husband was at home. He, it was said, was
still at Guildford  the few days having apparently
run to a fortnight  and she, driven no
doubt by the desperation of her loneliness, was
gone to pay an unusual visit to Kensington
Vicarage.

This was in truth the explanation of Anna
having yielded to her cousin Dorothy's urgent
entreaties : the solitude of the Place during
the interminable winter evenings had become
intolerable, and she had a proud reluctance to
go into society during Philip's absence. It
would, she thought, divert her mind and quiet
her increasing restlessness, were she to submit
herself once more for a few days' time to her

aunt's rule, and lie down at night beside lier
innocent cousin, in the meagre white bed of her
girlhood. She had dreamed happier dreams
there than had ever known fulfilment.

The first few days passed with fair pleasantness.
Dolly was more than ever her beautiful
cousin's humble servant and worshipper, and
the younger girls followed in the same track.
The Vicar was kind and genial, full of talk
about parish matters, concerning which Anna's
knowledge and interest had equally fallen into
arrears; but she was at the trouble to feign
the latter ; and even Mrs Sylvestre was inclined,
on the whole, to admit that Anna had behaved
herself since her marriage rather better than
she had expected.

On the Saturday, however, the fourth day of
Anna's visit, a little friction occurred.

The family were gathered round the 
at what appeared to Lady Methuen
the unnatural hour of nine o'clock, the room
not yet warmed with the recently kindled fire,
and the accessories of the table looking meagre
and inadequate to her practised eyes.

Mrs Sylvestre was dispensing the tea, and
kept the post-bag at lier side till she had
leisure to open it  a function she strictly
monopolised. Anna was secretly eager to get
her letters  that is, she was nervously afraid
lest Adrian Earle should have been ill-advised
enough to have written to her. It jarred on
her irritability to watch the precision with
which her aunt selected the key from the
huge bunch she had drawn out of her pocket,
and then fitted it into the lock.

The bag did not contain more than half-a-dozen
letters ; four of them were for the Yicar,
and of the remaining two one was for Anna
and the other for her aunt.

"Is it from your husband?" asked Mrs Sylvestre,
as she handed it to her.

*rit is an enclosure from my maid," said
Anna ; and as a matter of precaution, for her
aunt's keen eyes were studying her face, she
was about to slip it into her pocket, when that
lady asked again, with a significant inflection
of tone 

Is it not worth while to ascertain if it is

from Sir Philip? This is the third morning
of your stay, Anna, and a letter from him is
surely due."

Thus urged, Anna opened the envelope, and
ascertained before withdrawing the letter it
held, that it was not the one she had feared.

All else was plain sailing. She drew out
the enclosure and examined it openly, knowing
that every eye was upon her, but now perfectly
indifferent to the fact.

"It is not from Philip, aunt, though you are
right in thinking it ought to be, for I have not
had a letter from him for more than a week.
But, wait a moment, the postmark is Guildford,
Lord Sainsbury's town, and there is a coronet on
the seal  there is something wrong." Anna's
face blanched as she spoke, and a sudden spasm
of the throat seemed to choke her. The next
moment she poured contempt on her weakness.
And if there is," was the inward whisper,
*' what is that now to me ? " She glanced
round at the expectant faces, broke the perfect
seal, deliberately smoothed the sheet, and
read as follows : 

"Saxelby, Guildford,
I2th Dec. 1881.

Dear Lady Methuen,  Let me assure you
at once, on recognising my handwriting, that
you have no cause to be alarmed because I
have turned amanuensis for your husband.
He has met with a slight accident, and disabled
his right hand, so as to be forbidden to
make use of it for a few days, but there is
no cause for anxiety. He is very anxious
that you should know that this is the reason
of the break in his correspondence, and his
staying here beyond leave of absence. He
has been daily expecting to be able to write
or return. As the doctor still puts his veto
upon his doing either for the next few days,
I write to explain what we both fear must
have cost you surprise and uneasiness.

"Pray accept the assurances of my friendly
regards. Sainsbury."

Anna suffered the letter to drop carelessly
from her fingers, and an angry glow came
into her face. Was that all? and her love

had been so quick to take fright, and she
had betrayed her fondness to her aunt and
cousins !

'lord Sainsbury might have spared his
consideration," she remarked, breaking the
little pause that followed on her own silence.
I felt no uneasiness ! I am not one of the
women who feed on letters : they bore me
either to write or read, and Philip knows
this. It had never even struck me that he
ought to have written."

But does it not strike you now as a little
odd," asked Mrs Sylvestre, drily, "that Lord
Sainsbury does not say what was the cause
of the accident? Or is the habit of suppression
and reserve so ingrained that they cannot
persuade themselves to be straightforward, even
in the common affairs of life, and where nothing
is to be gained by concealment ? "

They'' repeated Anna, irritably. " I don't
understand."

I mean your husband and his co-religionists.
Do you mean to tell me that Sir Philip Methuen
is open and above-board like English gentlemen

?  that you know, Anna, what he is doing,
and thinking, and planning for the future, or
even what his feelings are in regard to the
past ? "

An angry light came into Anna's eyes : there
was something in the question that chafed her
temper.

It would bore me terribly if I did ! I have
not a spark of interest in the Conservative
programme for next session, in the defence of
Catholic rights in this country, or even in the
roll of paupers in Crawford Union  and these
are the points round which Philip's mind mostly
revolves."

'' Talking of Crawford Union," said the Vicar,
anxious to pour oil on the troubled waters, " a
case came before the Board yesterday, on which
I should have been very glad to have had Sir
Philip's help and advice. A woman presented
herself for admission, who was being passed onto
her own parish at Trichester. She had a
big child in her arms, whom she alleged to be
too sick for further travel, besides being worn
out herself. The medical officer saw the child,

VOL. in. H

said it was suffering from small-pox, and refused
to admit either. She was instructed to proceed
to Trichester, where the authorities will be bound
to meet the difficulties of the case. It seemed
cruel. I can assure you her curses were both
loud and deep."

"But she will spread the infection wherever
she goes," objected Mrs Sylvestre.

On that point she was duly warned, and it
was calculated that she would reach her destination
before night. I doubted it, however."

Was it of much consequence ? " asked Anna.
*' A wretched pauper, and a child sick of a loathsome
disease ! It will save and be saved a great
deal of misery if it die on the road."

She rose from the table as she spoke, and
summoned Dolly by one of her significant
gestures to accompany her out of the room.
"Come upstairs with me," she said, as they
stood together a moment in the lobby, " and
help me to put my things together. I mean
to go home this morning. I have had enough
of this!"

Chapter XXXIX.

Our acts our angels are, or good or ill,
Our fatal shadows that walk by us still."

Beaumont and Fletcher.

When they had reached the bedroom, Anna
slipped on the superb sealskin coat which washer
present out-of-door garb, and sat down in the
familiar window-seat, while Dolly, who had not
ventured to protest against this sudden departure,
busied herself in collecting and folding
her cousin's things.

"It is marvellous to me," said Anna, as
she leaned back with her head against the
shutter, watching her companion through her
long half-closed eyelids, "how I ever endured
this ! Midwinter and no fire  no
couch nor even easy-chair allowed for weary
limbs, and the necessity of doing everything

for one's self, or else going without its being
done ! "

''I don't think," replied Dolly, with her
bright little laugh, " that you were ever reduced
quite so low as that. In the old days,
Anna, you always contrived to make me pretty
useful."

In the old days ! " repeated Anna, and she
closed her eyes, lest Dolly should see they were
suddenly wet with involuntary tears.

The words have a cruel power over most
human hearts, being charged with the sense
of the dire discrepancy between hope and fulfilment
; but to this selfish, unhappy, passionate
girl the old times meant when she had believed
in Philip Methuen's love, and been ignorant of
that great treachery which had changed life
and its outlook for her.

Dolly glanced towards her, and then said a
little timidly, as she rolled and smoothed the
ribbon in her hands 

I wonder if every one is disappointed with
what life brings them ! I used to think when
you married Sir Philip Methuen that you would

be the happiest girl in the world. You know,
Anna  you won't mind my saying it  you
were so very, very fond of him ! "

"I don't mind in the least, Dolly"  and
Anna's voice sounded to her cousin sweeter
and gentler than she ever remembered to have
heard it before  " I never did mind all the
world knowing; that it was so. No woman
ever loved a man better than I did  my husband.
But  we will not talk of it."

"Not talk of it!" repeated Dolly. "Why,
it is the very time to talk of it, when one has
got what one wanted and holds it safe and
secure for the rest of one's life ! And I don't
wonder you care for him so much, for, if I only
meet him on the road and he calls me by my
name and asks me how I am, I feel better and
happier, and worth more than I did before."

Anna smiled. " Thank you, little Dolly ;
that is prettily said, but we will get on with
the packing. I am out of sorts and restless,
and want to get home again, although there is
nobody there. I shall walk, and send for my
things. Oh yes, I remember quite well that it

is the practice in church this morning, and you
won't be able to come with me, but I don't
mind that. I am not sure that I would not
rather walk home alone."

She turned her head and looked out of the
window, where the tower of the old Norman
church showed clearly above the leafless trees.

Is the choir improved, Dolly, since I last
sat in the Vicarage pew?" she continued. "I
hear from Mary that you and Godfrey Nathan
are indefatigable, and that the boys can get
through ' Hark the herald-angels sing ! ' without
a hitch. I fancy those angels 'have had a
special message to you and him, Dolly ! "

Dolly's fair cheek was tinted like a sea-shell.

If you only knew, Anna," she answered, ina
little tender whisper, and with her blue eyes
shining with glad tears  ''if you only knew
how  how nice he is ! "

Anna drew her breath sharply. " If I knew ! "
she repeated ; " I know all about it, dear, and 
and you will be twice as happy as Philip and I.
That is, I mean, I wish you may be so  only,
of course, that is hard to imagine."

She seemed to speak without intention, and
there was a strange wild sadness in the expression
of her face. Dolly drew her soft little
hand tenderly over her cheek.

"Of course," she said, "I quite understand.
You are uneasy about this accident, and it
was very remiss of Lord Sainsbury not to tell
you particulars. But a few days will soon
pass, Anna; he said a few days, didn't he,
dear?"

But I do not think a few days will bring
Philip. I am not like myself to-day, as I told
you, Dolly, and I have an odd presentiment
hanging over me that something is going to
happen before  before I see him again. Do
you ever feel like that ? "

It was not Anna's wont to take the posture
of equality, and Dolly felt a little vague uneasiness.
She answered however gaily enough 
"Do I ever ? Often and often ! and it is a
good omen. I felt precisely like that on the
day when  when Godfrey Nathan met me in
Star Acre meadow and told me that  that there
was no other girl he liked so well as me. Goodbye,

darling Anna; I hear papa calling me.
Your maid can finish these things."

The girl seized her jacket, hat, and gloves,
and slipped into them with practised celerity.
She looked marvellously pretty, with the divine
love-light in her eyes and in the smile on her
lips. As she went out softly, closing the door
behind her and humming a merry tune as she
ran downstairs, Anna stepped back to her
former position and threw herself down in the
window-seat, bending forward till her bowed
head met her clasped hands.

Mother of God ! " she cried in the bitterness
of her heart, " I cannot bear it  the joy of this
girl and her lover ! How can I punish the man
who has made me suffer like this ? "

And then she suddenly raised her head and
stood erect on her feet.

*the man, did I say? Fool that I am, I
would not hurt him ! but the woman  who
took him from me  let her pay the penalty
for both ! I can wait and watch."

Lady Methuen's stubborn and capricious

temper was so well appreciated by her aunt,
that when she announced her intention of returning
home to luncheon, and walking the
distance, no objection was raised. Indeed, it
was always a relief to Mrs Sylvestre when she
and Anna parted : the truce between them
was always an armed one.

It was a grey December morning, the third
day of a hard frost. The earth was like iron
beneath the feet, and there was not a break
or hint of sunshine in the gloomy leaden sky
overhead. There was no gleam of sea to be
distinguished, and the distant hills stood out
hard and colourless. The dismal bleat of the
newly dropped lambs was heard in most of the
pasture-fields skirted by the road along which
Anna's path lay.

She walked rapidly, and with no sense of physical
discomfort. She was young and in vigorous
health, and exercise would soon have warmed
the blood in her veins, even if she had not
been clothed in furs from head to foot. But
the motion brought no exhilaration with it,
nor lightened the weight at her heart, nor relaxed

the tension of the beautiful brows and
set mouth, nor the gloom of the eyes looking
straight before her.

It seemed strange, even to herself, the hold
which her little cousin s love-story had taken of
her mind. She followed her in imagination into
the chancel of the fine old church, and saw
the meeting between the two. Not many words
spoken, but the direct glance of eyes which
spoke love to eyes, and the instinctive meeting
and close clasp of the cool young palms.

Godfrey Nathan was a fair, straight-limbed,
gentleman-like young fellow, with no special
gifts or graces ; but he had an honest faith in
the creed to which he was professed, and a
manly love for his Vicar's sweet daughter, and
this very singleness and simplicity possessed a
direct charm for Anna's brooding mind.

"Love is enough," she said to herself; "what
have I ever wanted but his love ? "

She had accomplished half the distance between
the Vicarage and Methuen Place, and had
hardly met half-a-dozen people. It was surprising
how lonely the road was, though it was between

twelve and one o'clock in the day ; but
these Dorset districts are sparsely peopled, and
work in field and pasture is at its height at noon.
Presently, however, she became aware of wheels
advancing on the road behind her, and looked
round sharply. Anna was by no means anxious
to encounter any friend or acquaintance at that
moment ; her walking alone, without even a
dog as companion, might look odd, and excite
remark, and just now she was specially anxious
to escape stricture or observation.

The air was so clear and rarefied by the frost,
and the surrounding quiet so great, that the
sound had reached her ears before the vehicle
came into sight. She walked on more swiftly
than before, and did not again look back till
the carriage was close upon her, and the sound
of Honour Aylmer's familiar voice in her ears.

Honour was driving a pair of ponies in an
open phaeton; like most country-bred girls,
she disliked a close carriage, except under stress
of weather. She stopped the carriage by Anna's
side, and leaned towards her 'with frankly extended
hand.

I recognised you half a mile off," she said,
smiling. " There is no mistaking your imperial
gait ! Will you jump in and let me drive you
home ? We are well met, for I am anxious to
speak to you."

"No, thank you," returned Anna, coldly. " I
dislike driving in cold weather, and I would
rather walk. I can wait for what you have to
say till another opportunity."

She had barely glanced towards her, and her
manner was unfriendly to the point of incivility ;
but Honour's keen sweetness had detected the
unusual melancholy of the girl's expression, and
her heart warmed towards her, thinking she
divined the cause.

"Then I will walk with you a little way,
and the carriage can go on and return."

Anna gave no sign of assent, but Honour
was not to be repulsed. For all that, there
was something in her companion's proud reserve
which made the task she had set herself
a difficult one. Perhaps it was this consciousness
which made her rush upon it a
little abruptly.

All of US at home," she said, and her colour
deepened a little, " are anxious to hear news
of Sir Philip. We hope his accident is not
of a serious nature. You have heard from
him, of course ? "

The simple words were like a match to a
mine. Anna trembled with suppressed passion,
and the lines of her face hardened. Nothing
had ever cost her a greater effort than to say,
in a tone which, though harsh and uncourteous,
stopped short of positive offence 

"I do not understand  how can you know
anything about his accident? It is not possible
" And the flame that leaped into

her eyes and touched the pale cheeks with
crimson, supplied the words she could not
utter.

Oh, no, no ! " cried Honour eagerly ; too
eagerly, perhaps, as the mere fact of her comprehension
seemed damning evidence of guilt
to Anna's mind. "We read the paragraph
in the papers, like all the rest of the world;
but beyond that we naturally know nothing.
You can scarcely be angry, Anna," she added,

with a gentle dignity, "that such old friends
as we are should wish to know how he is."

Anna stood still in the road, for she was too
excited to speak as she walked. The trivial
circumstance of Honour's knowledge being superior
to her own, owing to the fact that she
herself never read the newspapers, and that
this ignorance placed her at a certain disadvantage,
stimulated her jealousy and resentment
beyond her control.

But before the words of insult and outrage
had left her lips, an incident occurred which
turned the current of her wrath.

They had reached a turn in the road where
a wide five-barred gate gave access to a ploughed
field of considerable extent. In one corner of
the field, close to where the two girls were
standing,  for Honour had naturally stood still
when Anna did the same,  was a shed, newly
thatched, which was used as a store-house for
manhood roots, and a woman carrying a child
in her arms had just emerged from this shed,
and was making her way towards the highroad.
She walked like one over weighted by her burden.

and there was an unmistakable air of misery,
and revolt against misery, in her countenance
and gait. The child was a conspicuous spot in
the landscape, being covered all over with an
old red shawl.

As she approached them, Anna recoiled instinctively.
It would be difficult to say how
the impression was borne in upon her mind 
seeing that a female tramp with a child in her
arms is no uncommon sight on country high-roads
 that the pair now before her eyes was
the identical woman and child of whom her
uncle had spoken that morning ; but it was so.
Her first impulse had been to call to the woman
to keep her distance, and to warn Honour of
her danger; but another thought had flashed
into her mind, and arrested the words.

The woman, attracted by the sweetness of
Honour's face, had begun volubly enough to tell
the story of her wrongs, and beg for charity ;
and there was a certain indignant independence
in her manner, which distinguished it from
the ordinary whine of the professional beggar,
and disposed the listener favourably towards her.

Anna, before whose strained sight the scene
seemed enacted like the phantasmagoria of a
dream, where one is helpless to exert the suspended
volition, saw that Honour, obeying the instinct
of compassion, was every moment lessening
the distance between her and the unhappy
creature who held that fatal burden in her arms.

She perceived that in another instant she
would touch it  bend over it  perhaps (for
like Philip, Anna said to herself, while the
breath came in eager pants between her
parted lips. Honour had no temperance in her
humanity), perhaps she would even take it in
her arms.

And if she did, was it fault of hers ? or any
part of her duty to keep Honour Aylmer back
from harm?

Father, did not fate or chance, or whatever
blind force governed the world, offer her, deathless,
the satisfaction of her revenge ? Here was
the poison-cup presented to the lips of the
woman who had taken from her the heart of
Philip Methuen ; but her hand had not mixed
the draught, nor even administered it. Yet

what drop of concentrated essence from mediaeval
crucible had more potency than the
baleful breath of that infected child?

It was not death that she thought of or
even desired for her victim, but the destruction
of the loveliness which had made her
own powerless  the branding and biting into
the grace of that sweet and alluring face,
which had never looked more sweet and
alluring than at that moment.

It might well be that he had looked his last
upon it under that aspect ; that the next time
he stood face to face with Honour Aylmer, it
would be to receive into his soul the loathing,
qualified by compassion, with which he had
trained his fastidiousness to regard human infirmity.


Lady Methuen paused at her safe distance
just long enough to see that Honour was in
fact, and with a pathetic unconsciousness, walking
blindfold into the pit set for her destruction.
The woman had simply stated that the
child was very ill, giving the impression that it
was from fatigue and want of food, and the

VOL. III. I

natural instinct of pity, on which Anna had
calculated, was obeyed.

Honour with her own hands was helping the
mother to raise the shawl that covered the
groaning child in her arms ; and the next
moment the contact would be so close as to
make the absorption of the venomous poison
of all but absolute certainty.

Her part was played : why should she wait
any longer ? the meeting had been casual, and
Honour's own carriage was in waiting for her.

Anna crossed the road, and walked rapidly
on ; but not without giving, though she instinctively
tried to resist the impulse, a backward
glance.

That showed her that Honour had recoiled
with horror from the sight which the uplifted
shawl revealed, and even the sound of her voice
in alarmed indignant protest came to her ears.

Ashen Anna reached the carriage, she bade
the man join his mistress immediately, and
then turned aside herself into a path across
the fields, which led by a short cut to Methuen
Place.

Chapter XL.

And what is our failure here but a triumph's evidence
For the fulness of the days ? Have we withered or agonised ?
Why else was the pause prolonged but that singing might issue thence ?
Why rushed the discords in, but that harmony should be prized ? "

Abt Vogler.

Remorse is supposed to be the inseparable adjunct
of a great crime, but we doubt if this
is not one of the numerous moral fallacies disproved
by facts. Frustration of design, or inadequate
results from the act achieved have
often assumed this aspect ; but where success
has crowned the deed  the perpetrator reaping
the very harvest he desired to gather 
remorse is of slow and uncertain development.
At any rate its voice is never heard in the
first flush of execution and eager waiting upon
results, and Anna Methuen's mind was so constituted
as to be almost impervious to absolute

moral sensibility. There was rather the exhilaration
of a contingent triumph in her mood.

The first thing she set herself to do on her
return home was to search the file of newspapers
since Philip's departure, or rather since
the receipt of his last letter. Although habitually
negligent of all kinds of public journals,
Anna possessed that keen intuitive sagacity
which some people exhibit in their rapid investigation
of the daily broad-sheet, and soon
discovered the paragraph she wanted in the
half column below the leaders, generally devoted
to the chronicle of the doings of great
people.

It stated that a fire had broken out in the
village of Saxelby while Lord Sainsbury and
a friend, who was stopping at the castle, were
passing through ; that both gentlemen had
rendered the most valuable assistance, and
that the latter had suffered the misfortune
of having his hand seriously injured by a
piece of falling timber, while heroically engaged
in carrying a paralysed old man out
of one of the burning cottages.

The journalist added that the gentleman was
supposed to be Sir Philip Methuen, "a name
well known in the innermost ring of diplomatic
and sacerdotal aristocracy."

For more than a week Anna suffered from
a sense of intolerable loneliness, aggravated
by irritation and suspense. Even the daily
absence of her husband had never been a
matter of indifference to her ; but this was
the first time since their marriage that they
had been separated so long, and her discomfort
and excitement were increased by vague apprehensions
concerning the extent and consequences
of this accident, and by the pregnant
secret she held in reserve.

It was on the evening of the tenth day after
the receipt of Lord Sainsbury's letter that
Philip returned home, Anna having received
a telegram in advance. As soon as he had
put off his travelling wraps, he came direct
into the room where she was sitting to greet
her, and her first glance showed her how much
he was altered, considering how short the interval
of separation had been. Also, it both

troubled and annoyed her to observe that lie
carried his hand in a sling, for any sign of
physical infirmity was obnoxious to her feelings.
Still, and in spite of her latent resentments,
the sight of him under any aspect was welcome
to her eyes and heart ; she got up eagerly from
her seat as he entered, and went forward to
meet him, stopping short as her quick glance
took in these points of difference.

Good heavens, Philip, how ill you look !
I scarcely know you with that expression in
your face  and  I am afraid to touch 5ou !
What a stupid thing you have done ! As if
any paralytic in the world could be worth
your right hand ! "

He smiled and kissed her, saying how much
he regretted his long absence, and hoping she
had not been too dull ; and then he went towards
the fire with an eagerness the intense
cold of the weather might well justify, but
which again struck her as contrary to his usual
habits.

"I am ashamed of myself," he said, *for
looking and feeling as I do, and accept your

disgust as my desert. I think I was never
ill nor hurt in my life before, and I had the
notion that I was almost invulnerable to pain.
I have found out my mistake."

*' It is a very bad hurt, then ? Perhaps you
will be disfigured  maimed for life ? "

"The surgeon assures me to the contrary if
I submit to the necessary precautions, which of
course I shall do, as much, Anna, for your sake
as my own. My hand is now cased in plaster
of Paris."

Anna recoiled a little ; but he was looking
intently into the fire, and did not observe
it.

"This is quite a blow to me," she answered.
I always looked upon you as a sort of god,
Philip, and I cannot describe how it hurts me
to see that line of pain on your forehead, and
the pallid hue of your skin. Your eyes look
as if you had not slept for a week ! I always
knew your philanthropy would end badly.
Why could you not have let house and pauper
burn ? My belief is you will never recover the
perfect use of that hand."

*sin which case, Anna, you will hold yourself
released from your marriage vows ? "

She started and coloured a little, and then
suffered her face to assume an expression of
wounded feeling.

I did not mean to vex you," he said,
gravely; 'only to remind myself and you on
what foundations your love was built. The
blast of disease would shatter them."

She looked at him with an intense, indefinable
expression.

"I am not quite sure  with you. Sometimes
you do me injustice. Do you consider
it a crime or a shame that I take delight in
your strength and your beauty, and am deeply
grieved that they should have sustained injury?
 only I refuse to believe that. But,
come, let us be practical ! How do you manage
to eat under these new conditions ? "

She drew her seat close to him as she spoke,
leaning forward with her elbow on her knee,
her chin pillowed in her rosy palm, and her
eyes sparkling with enchanting archness. It
would have been hard to have resisted the

passionate fondness of her glance, and he did
not attempt to resist it. He kissed the lovely
face as he answered  " I have lived on strong
broths hitherto, with which I have been able to
feed myself,"  but she interrupted him gaily 

"Oh! but I should ask for nothing better
than to feed you, as the mother-bird feeds her
fledgling! Do you remember at Fiesole how
I used to try and persuade you to bite by
turns at the same fig? but you always preferred
one to yourself! If you will let me
wait upon you like that, I will not mind so
much."

He shook his head. " I should make a bad
patient, little Anna. To accept such services
becomingly would need an experience which I
have never had. I would rather Duncan cut
up my food, and I ate it with my left hand
in solitude." He stopped, then added seriously,
"The last fortnight has taught me that pain
and weakness are as distasteful to my natural
temper as to yours ; it may be because they
bear the marks of their origin, and that shame
and humiliation show through them. At least

few men could have stood more in need of the
lesson that has been set me to learn."

To what end ? " she asked. " Could you
be kinder to sick people, however offensive ?
or, perhaps, just because they are offensive?"

"Yes," he answered, "I could be kinder 
as the future shall prove. I have often failed
grievously, not so much, perhaps, in the outward
act as in the inward sense of fellowship."

I am very glad that there still remains
some room for improvement, Philip, and that
there is just this little touch of sympathy
between us. Then, after all, what you instinctively
love must be lovely ? "

It must be that assuredly, only so much
more than perfect form and colour and texture
is needed, to satisfy my meaning of the word."

He was silent for a moment, the gravity
of his expression deepening to sadness. She
thought he was thinking of his lost love, but
his next words proved her mistake. "I have
something to say, Anna, which I did not mean
to say to-night, but am encouraged to do so
by the gentleness of your present mood. It

must not be the cause of any quarrel between
us, for, understand plainly, I forgive you before
I blame you."

For a moment Anna felt troubled. "What
have I done ? " she asked, and she knelt down
by his side and clasped her hands upon his
knees. Then she remembered that he was
scarcely likely to be going to speak to her
about Adrian ; his blindness on that point
had been absolute up to the time of his
going to Saxelby, and he could have learnt
nothing since. Of that other deed, no human
soul knew aught. She could venture to meet
his eyes steadily.

What have I done ? " she repeated.

*' Before this accident occurred, Lord Sainsbury
and I ran up to town for a couple of
days, and I went to South Audley Street to
see what progress had been made in the house.
I found the front drawing-room ceiling completed,
and completed after the designs which
I disliked in themselves, and had rejected on
the ground of their costing more than I had
any right to pay. I was very angry."

But you are not very angry now ? " she
whispered, and laying her lips on the hand
she had taken.

*'I am not angry now, because, since then,
I have had time for cool reflection, and recognised
the folly  how shall I put it, little Anna ?
of expecting from you more than it is in
your power to give. But for the future you
must clearly understand that I never deny
you anything without good reason, and that
what I have once forbidden or commanded
must not be set aside. Have you received
the bill from Farini?"

"Not yet," she answered a little faintly;
and when I do, I am prepared to pay for it
out of my own purse."

"Then you must have the purse of Fortunatus,
if it is equal to such costly expenditure
as yours in dress and other womanish
indulgences, and yet leaves you at liberty to
give a cheque for 500 or 600 ! I believe
that was what the man had the effrontery to
ask?"

And which you are disposed to pay ? "

If such was the contract it must be met,
and I know of no other way of meeting it.
Do you?"

He looked at her with suddenly aroused and
stern attention.

There was in Anna a certain defiant recklessness
which prompted her under the least
provocation (and she regarded Philip's altered
manner in the light of a gratuitous offence)
to strain and test the bounds of his patience,
and even to offend his moral sense by the
avowed absence of all conscientious scruples
of her own. Also, in the dim background of
her consciousness, there lay a latent doubt
whether the time might not arrive when circumstances
would lead her to abandon her
present life of restraint and decorum, and accept
what her lover's loyalty might offer her.
It would not, she thought, be altogether undesirable
to awaken Methuen to the dread of
a catastrophe, which would appear to him so
terrible that there would be few things he
would not be prepared to do to avert it.
Therefore she answered with perfect composure,

and meeting his eyes with unflinching
steadiness 

Yes ; strange as you may think it, I do
know of another way. I complained to Adrian
Earle that you would not let me do as I liked
in this trumpery matter, and he proposed that
Farini should paint the ceiling at his expense 
as a wedding gift."

Philip changed colour : there was something
baffling in the effrontery of the statement.

"And the suggestion has been accepted by
you, without any perception of the insult offered
or the disgrace incurred ? " he asked ; and to a
finer sense there would have been an ominous
suggestion in the forced quiet of his tone.

*' Disgrace!" she repeated quickly. "I object
to that word, and you must withdraw it,
Philip."

She got up from her knees as she spoke, and
sat down in the chair she had quitted, with an
air of justly offended dignity.

"No," he said, "1 shall not withdraw it;
but 1 accept my share of the shame. Where
is this to end, Anna ? You are always giving

me fresh proofs of your insensibility to honour
and duty, till I dread the discovery which may
await me tomorrow. Until now I had retained
the hope that you at least respected your position
as my wife, and would scarcely have submitted
your name and mine to so insufferable
a humiliation. Have you forgotten that this
man was your lover ? "

A peculiar smile passed over her lips. She
would like to have answered, " I am not likely
to forget that of which he reminds me continually;"
but in view of Methuen's deep though
carefully controlled anger she durst not venture
on the outrage. She contented herself with as
great but a more guarded provocation.

I think," she said, " when you scold me
like this there are some things you forget to
take into account. You forget that our standards
are so different it is not fair to use the
same gauge. The supreme duty I recognise
is not obedience to hard laws of right and
wrong, but the duty of being as little miserable
as your conduct and opinions will let
me. Adrian Earle thinks, and others beside

him think, that I am a very unhappy and
neglected girl, and he comes here very often.
There is nothing secret in his doing so ; but it
happens that you are so seldom at home  and
when you are, you are never in my company 
that you do not know what all the rest of the
world knows quite well. Perhaps if you were
just a little less taken up with your own affairs
say, with helping to make Lord Sainsbury's
reputation, or with religious observances which
tell equally on your health and your temper, orin
brooding over what I took away from you, 
it would be better both for your own future
and mine. As it is, I don't think that any one
who knows what our life together really is, will
blame me very much if I look elsewhere for
what you deny me."

She stopped breathless : would he resent her
audacity, or betray the pain she felt sure she had
inflicted? for who knew better than herself how
to apply the lash where he was most sensitive ?

There was a brief interval before he answered,
but when he did it was with that complete
absence of passion which had often stung her
to the quick before.

In other words," he said, " you venture to
threaten that you hold my honour at the caprice
of your temper or your vengeance ? It is of
no use to be angry with you, Anna, for I know
of no instinct or feeling to which I can make
any effectual appeal, only  this last outrage
must be withstood  at any cost."

'but," she interrupted, stimulated by his
self-command to further insult, " you do not
consider that, in that case, you could perhaps
get a dispensation when, you must allow, good
would come out of evil."

'* Stop there ! " he exclaimed sternly. *' That
is the line I have forbidden you to cross, and
am prepared to defend. Only, Anna, believe
this  that no good could come to me that was
bought by your loss and shame. Such as you
are, I shall keep you always and protect you
against yourself."

He waited a moment, whether for answer
from her lips, or to order the words on his
own did not appear, but presently he added  

I confess now, as I have confessed before,
that I have been to blame in my behaviour

VOL. III. K

towards you, forgetting when angry that your
conduct cannot cancel your rights, or free me
from a single obligation. But it is my solemn
purpose to make amends for the past by the
future. Put my resolutions to the proof, iVnna ;
and do not wantonly speak of wrecking your
own life in order the more effectually to wreck
mine. Even to you remorse and pity would
come."

He went up to her and put his hand kindly
on her shining hair.

Child," he said, with a tender earnestness
that she had hardly ever heard from his lips
before, 'you gave yourself to me, body and
soul, and, under God, I will keep the deposit
safe ! Comfort me, Anna, with the assurance
that this devil's whisper has had no real power
over your heart."

She neither looked up nor moved. On the
contrary, she shivered a little and drew herself
away from his touch. She knew her own weakness
so well that she doubted if she had lifted
her eyes to his face whether the kindness of it
would not have broken down her pride and

resentment, and forced her to slip from her
chair to his feet, as she had so often done as a
child, and sob out her penitence and her love.

But that could never be again ! She might
forget, as she had forgotten for a time that
night in the joy of his return, the unbridged
gulf between them ; but there it would stand
for ever, and no charity or kindness on his
side, or compunction on hers, could overpass it.

Of what worth was his goodness to her, or
even, if that were possible, his love ?

The spontaneous passion of his heart had
been given elsewhere, and the laborious growth
of duty and religion had no value in her eyes.
Did any woman breathe who would have prized
his love higher than herself?

Then another thought struck her brain, and
vibrated through every answering nerve. Even
already it might be that she had vindicated her
wrongs, and that the punishment was working
in secret which had been so righteously earned.
Fool as she was and always had been where
Philip Methuen was concerned, the limits of her
endurance had been reached.

It was Honour Aylmer whom he loved, and it
was precisely because he loved her that he was
able to show such tolerance to herself. This
was a crime she refused to forgive, or to take
the insult of his pity as amends.

"You are waiting for me to make a proper
answer," she said at last, after a long interval,
during which he had watched the changes of
her face with acute solicitude, " and I have
none to make. Honour to my mind is only
binding where mutual love exists, and even you
do not pretend that this is our case. Do not
let us talk about it any more."

Agreed ! It shall be deeds, not words, Anna.
I will prove to you that I love you."

I am not easy to deceive," was her answer,
*' although I grant you are almost perfect in
some forms of deceit. Any way I hold myself
free, and will give you no promises for the
future."

And she rose, looked with mocking assurance
into his eyes as she passed him, and went
slowly out of the room.

CHAPTER XLI.

In brief, acquit thee lively : play the man.
Look not on pleasures as they come but go.
Defer not the least virtue : life's poore span
Make not an ell, by trifling in thy woe.
If thou do ill, the joy fades, not the pains.
If well; the pain doth fade, the joy remains."

George Herbert.

The next day, after a night chiefly spent
in painful consideration of the situation,
Methuen called at Earlescourt and asked to
see Adrian.

It happened that Adrian was sitting in
Oliver's room when the servant brought him
this message. As soon as the door was closed
again, the younger brother said eagerly 

*will you see him? Depend upon it there
is trouble at home, and, after his mode, he is
come to make some appeal to your good feel-nor.
You will bear in mind that there is nota

member of this family whom he has not
wronged more or less ? "

'' I will not forget," was the answer, " that
there are those outside this family whom he
has wronged far worse. You need not be
afraid."

He went at once into the room where
Methuen was waiting for him. The servant
had shown him into the great drawing-room,
though Philip would have given much to escape
the cruel recollections which filled it.

As the door opened to admit Adrian, he
turned from the deep window in which he
had been standing, looking out into the frost-bound
gardens, and crossed the room half-way
to meet him.

You will see that I cannot shake hands,"
he said courteously ; " I am still feeling a great
deal of pain and inconvenience from my accident,
but I am very glad you have been
willing to give me this interview. I may as
well say at once that I am come on that sort
of business which, fifty years ago, was decided
in another way. I do not send you a

challenge, Adrian, but I bring one in my own
person."

Ah ! " returned Adrian, with an affected
exaggeration of his usual languor of manner,
and sinking slowly into the depths of the
cushioned chair near him, he plunged his hands
into his pockets and extended his legs with an
air of easy indifference. " I remember in the
old days, Methuen, you piqued yourself on your
directness of speech  it seems even to have improved
with the course of time. You look, too,
as you are apt to do, desperately in earnest ; but
I give you fair warning that I am not in a
mood to be either bullied or cajoled."

You are secure," returned the other, "against
any attempt at either. My object is very
simple ; but it is one I preferred to accomplish
outside my own house. I wish you distinctly
to understand that your visits at Methuen Place
are not acceptable to me, and that they must
cease. Any further expression of feeling is, I
think, on all sides superfluous."

Adrian smiled in his light sarcastic way.

I congratulate you, Methuen, on the favourable

opportunity you have chosen to pass this
insult upon me and on one whom I will not
name, but for whom I resent it more strongly
than for myself. You have fortified yourself not
only against the change in public opinion, which
might have been got over, but by a physical
disqualification which invests you with a very
safe immunity. For the rest, your intimation
is not to be misunderstood, and it is one that
no gentleman ever fails to regard. But  the
world is wide outside Methuen Place."

"Yes," returned Philip, with the quietness
of manner which was habitual to him, and
which always suggested the consciousness of
strength, not only in his purpose but in his
own power of carrying it out. " I have not
overlooked the limitations of my authority,
neither have I yet said all that I came here
prepared to say. If I bring myself to speak
of a contingency which no man can contemplate
without shame, it is because we have both
known Anna Trevelyan from a child, and are
aware how entirely her conduct is at the bidding
of her feelings. There is another consideration,

Adrian, which no gentleman fails to regard
: were you to be so ill-advised as to induce
my wife to leave her home, it would not be in
your power to offer her the poor reparation
which the world exacts in such cases. Circumstances
can scarcely have so changed you
as to make it possible you should try and persuade
the woman that you love to a life of
unredeemed dishonour."

*not in order to redeem her from a life of
intolerable misery and neglect ? "

*' Such is not the case. I state this in justice
to myself, not with the idea that you will accept
it. But even supposing that it were true,
suffering* is more tolerable to a woman than
shame."

Adrian looked up with sudden passion.

'' The shame, such as it is, would be neither
hers nor mine, but yours, who first took her from
me and then rendered her life insufferable by
your cruelty. You squeeze and fling aside every
heart that trusts you, Methuen ; but you shall
not do this with Anna Trevelyan's ! I give you
fair warning : if she continue to stand in need

of comfort, and it is in my power to comfort her,
no human endeavour will suffice to keep us
apart. You are free to defend your own honour
in your own way, or to do the other thing if
you like it better,  the latter being probably
the course you will choose to adopt."

"I think," said Philip, 'ewe had better leave
these alternatives to the determination of
events. The matter under discussion is one
of life and death to me, and your little gratuitous
insults, Adrian, hurt me no more than the
blows of a wayward child. I do not plead with
you for myself, but for your own sake and  for
hers. Have you no sense of what it must cost
me to do this ? "

'' So lively a sense that, personally, I would
prefer the figurative death you speak of to the
humiliation ! "

But so would not I ! To save Anna from
the insufferable consequences of her own madness,
or rather of the madness to which you
would tempt her, I would submit to a much
deeper humiliation than to expostulate with
the friend I have lost. And it is not only

the blight that will fall upon the life which
I am bound to protect from evil that I consider,
but the equal ruin of your own. There
is no future possible to the man who is bound
by such ties as you desire. The poison eats
into the soul."

*' Have you discharged your conscience ? "
was Adrian's answer, " for we will end this.
If the subject is not too unpalatable for you
to discuss, it is for me ; and moral saws and
social platitudes never yet served but to clinch
the resolution to go wrong. From your lips
I can't stand them ! I repeat once more, that
whatever sin or sorrow or shame befall your
wife, and the man who loves her better than
his own honour and profit, will lie at your door.
I promise nothing for the future, except that I
will not cross the threshold of any house where
you are master."

He got up as he spoke, as if to show that he
considered the matter ended ; but at the same
moment, as Philip remembered had occurred on
a former occasion, the door was opened and
Miss Earle entered.

'excuse me," she said, with her usual rapid
but clear articulation, " if I interrupt some important
discussion ; but I am very anxious on
a certain point, and came in to consult Adrian.
He is generally able to take things coolly.
That you are here, Sir Philip, need make no
difference  your advice may be better worth
having than his. I am in great trouble about
Honour."

Is Miss Aylmer ill ? "

I will not allow she is ill ; but she has certainly
not been well for the last two or three
days, and this morning there are symptoms of
restlessness and excitement so unlike herself,
as to cause me considerable alarm. Yesterday
she refused to see Dr Farquhar ; to-day she is
quite willing to do so ; but that will not satisfy
me now, and I came in to consult Adrian as to
who was the best man to summon from town."

Are there any other marked symptoms you
can mention ? Forgive my interference, but
some elementary knowledge of medicine was
part of our curriculum at St Sulpice, and I
have myself served in several of the hospitals

in Paris. Restlessness and excitement point
at once to fever. In that case, under Adrian's
correction"  with a slight smile  "there is no
man whose reputation is higher than Sir Wilfred
Jenkyns. I have immediate business in
Trichester, and shall think it a favour if you
will allow me to despatch your telegram."

Thank you ! " said Miss Earle, with unusual
warmth ; " you are the very friend in need we
want. But  you will pardon my neglect, I
know  I have not yet asked how you are after
your accident, nor expressed my regret to see
you look so ill. You cannot be riding, of
course ? "

No ; but I have a pair of horses, and they
are better than in the old times."

The careless words suggested to each what
to one at least was almost an insufferable recollection.
Miss Earle's heart warmed towards
Methuen as she detected the sudden change of
expression, and his almost instant mastery of
the weakness.

"I will go at once," he said. "Is Dr Farquhar
here now?"

I sent for him two hours ago, but he is not
arrived ; at that time I was not seriously uneasy,
but every hour since has increased my
anxiety. No doubt he is with some other
patient, who needs him, I devoutly hope, more
than Honour ; but it is hard to wait in these
cases."

I will call upon him again as soon as I get
into the town. But no doubt he will have been
here long before that, and have relieved your
anxiety."

Miss Earle, in the sudden warmth of her
gratitude, accompanied Methuen herself into
the hall. He would have gone direct to the
carriage without waiting to put on his cloak,
but she would not allow it.

The cold is intense," she said, " and I do
not see how you are going to get into it without
assistance. You are one of the men, Sir
Philip, who defy fashion, and gain by the process.
Who but yourself drapes himself in a
garment of that fashion ? "
- " It is not coxcombry, be quite sure," he answered,
touching his arm ; " but on account of

my present infirmity. I will not lose a moment
on the road." He stooped towards the delicate
little lady and raised her hand to his lips.
"Eemember," he added in a low tone, "that
my anxiety will be intense."

"I will send you word in the morning."

"That will not satisfy me. If I send to
inquire to-night, may I rely on the latest information
? "

She nodded and dismissed him, standing a
moment to watch the carriage out of sight.

I will not tell my poor Honour," she said
to herself, as she went back to the girl's room ;
but for the first time to-day I seem to understand
that it is reasonable for any woman to be
fond of Philip Methuen."

It was eminently characteristic of Philip,
that in spite of his profound anxiety and the
increasing pain in his injured hand, he had
never succeeded better in concealing his personal
feelings or in rendering his society acceptable
to his wife than on the evening of the day
after his return from Earlescourt and Trichester.

Mrs Sylvestre would have found a ready explanation
of his success in his Jesuitical training,
and doubtless the severe discipline of his earlier
years had something to do with it ; but also it
is only fair to credit that discipline with the
growth and development of principles which
made the welfare of the wayward girl he had
married, a matter of such supreme importance
as to keep every other sentiment and instinct
in check.

It was equally characteristic of Anna that she
yielded herself up to his influence as fully as if
there had been no alleged quarrel and alienation
on her part, coolly accepting the pleasure
of the hour, while reserving the right of outrage
or offence at the next provocation.

It was beyond her power to be otherwise than
soothed and flattered by his tender kindness,
although precisely the same causes of repudiation
existed to-day as yesterday; and on the
strength of it she had asked him to sino; to her
after dinner, to the charming little piano which
was part of the new furniture of her morning-room,
in which she never allowed the fire to

go out. She had made the same request
continually from the time of their marriage,
and this was the first time he had acceded
to it.

She reminded him that such had been the
case, as she sat down to the piano and opened
the score of the " Huguenots."

"Ah well!" he answered, "we are roino; to
pass a sponge over my omissions and transgressions
in the past. You shall never in the
future ask me any more in vain."

Anna thought she had never heard him minor
with such exquisite precision and effect. The
pleasure it gave her was almost too poignant ;
and after he had gone through the solo parts of
Raoul she leaned back in her chair and lifted
her beautiful softened face to his.

Philip, I adore you ! " she said. " Were
you as ugly as a satyr, you would be able
with that voice to lure any woman's heart
into your hand, but  as it is ! Now, if you
are not tired, and have a mind to make
Christian and Catholic of me at once, I will
play some of the music of Bach's ' Passion,'

VOL. III. L

not as you play it for yourself, but to the best
of my ability."

It was very late before Anna's enthusiasm
was exhausted ; but at length Methuen found
himself alone.

So great was the latent excitement that
he had been holding rigorously in check, that
he began to walk up and down the room,
a habit to which he was by no means addicted.
With or without reason, he felt that heavy
weight of foreboding in respect to Honour
Aylmer's illness, which it is at times equally
impossible to explain or throw off. He had
not mentioned to his wife his visit to Earless
nor the intelligence he had received, for
obvious reasons, saying to himself that he
would wait for the night's report before doing
so. He had sent his uncle's old valet, Duncan,
who was now his own faithfully attached
servant, to the house with a note addressed
to Miss Earle, and had given orders that the
man, on his return, was to bring the answer
to him in person. There had been plenty of
time for his messenger to go and come back.

and as one half-hour succeeded another and still
he did not appear, Methuen seemed scarcely
able to endure the tension of his anxiety.

And yet no one who had seen him would
have thought this to be the case. He had soon
ceased his impatient walking of the room, and
was now sitting in a chair  as motionless as if
power of motion were extinct  with his elbow
on the arm of it, and his hand shading his eyes.

He was solemnly planning his future : telling
himself that so soon as the news reached
him of Honour Aylmer's safety, he would close
that episode in his life for ever, as he had
always known was the best and only right way.
He would not even trust himself to see her;
but he would write her a few lines of eternal
farewell, binding on his conscience. Then he
would take Anna out of England, beyond
Adrian's influence, and devote himself to her
service in such a fashion that every desire
of her being should be met  all the exigencies
of her passion in every phase of sensuous
and selfish requirement  so as to make
guilt and disloyalty impossible.

If, as the slow years passed and the fervid
heat of her youth declined, it became possible
to lift her to higher aims and a finer happiness
by the force of his affection and constancy,
he would take such a result as the
crown of his life, as God's assurance that his
reluctant martyrdom had been accepted.

Spiritual ambition had been his temptation
and snare : he had hoped, in a far-off alien
land, to build up his name in the future as
one who had dared much, endured much, and
achieved much, winning proselytes to the Cross
through blood and fire. But that door of
eternal life had been shut in his face ; his
way hedged up within safe narrow limits;
no risk of life or limb  no chance of proving
his devotion to Christ by his readiness to die
for Him.

Only, the cup put into his hand, which
looked to others as if it held the very wine
of life, was known to himself as a draught
of such unparalleled bitterness, that hitherto
he had tasted and refused to drink. Such
revolt was of the past. Henceforward he

would take up his despised cross and bear
it to the end.

There was a knock at the door. Philip rose
and opened it, receiving a scrap of paper from
Duncan's hands. He saw the man waited, as
if expecting to be questioned.

You have been a long time," he said ; " I
suppose you had to wait for this ? "

Over an hour and a half, Sir Philip. I
never saw a house so terribly upset  the poor
lady, they say, is very bad."

The words smote Methuen like a sword ; but
he asked no further question, nodding dismissal
to the man, and closing the door again as he
retired. Then he slowly retraced his steps to
the table, and held Miss Earle's message, which
was written in pencil on the back of an envelope,
under the lamp. It ran thus : 

*sir Wilfred Jenkyns has come and gone.
Honour is sick with small-pox, and I read in
his face that the case is a bad one. Pity us !
Do not come to the house for Anna's sake."

There are some burdens which the strongest
cannot bear alone.

When the grey winter daylight dawned,
Philip Methuen was still on his knees, almost
prostrate before the altar in the chapel. The
hours which had intervened had been one stern-conflict
of strenuous human desire against the
conceivable, though as yet undeclared will of
God. His prayers had only one burden  " Let
this cup pass from me ! "

Dumb submission to the mysterious decrees
of Providence  absolute effacement of personal
will and choice  were the spiritual conditions
it had been his life's work to attain ; but all
his soul seemed swept backwards and downwards
in the blast of this terrible calamity.
When he at length, haggard and exhausted,
brought his vigil to a close, he was conscious
that he had scarcely gained a single step towards
submission.

Not my will but Thine be done ! " sounded
to him like words heard in the clear rarefied
air of an immeasurable distance  the distance
which separates the God from the man.

CHAPTER XLII.

 The wind sounds only in opposing straits.
The sea beside the shore ; man's spirit rends
Its quiet only up against the ends
Of want and oppositions, loves and hates 
Where, worked and worn by passionate debates,
And losing by the loss it apprehends,
The flesh rocks round and every breath it sends
Is ravelled to a sigh."

E. B. Browning.

Before Philip and Anna met the next morning,
the latter knew that her vengeance had
taken effect, and that Honour Aylmer was lying
sick with that disorder which is the most dreaded,
because the most repulsive, in the long list of
calamities to which flesh is heir.

Her maid, when she came to dress her, brought
the intelligence, which Duncan, as a matter of
course, had spread in the servants' hall on his
return.

So great was Lady Methuen's excitement and

anxiety, that lie could not refrain from asking,
though her pride rebelled at the admission of
ignorance, "And what was Duncan's business
at Earlescourt late last night?"

"Ah! that I cannot tell my lady. It was
Sir Philip's business, and Duncan is always very
close about the master's affairs."

Anna's cheek burned with anger : it was as
much as she could do to refrain from boxing
the girl's ears, but she succeeded in maintaining
an air of haughty indifference, as dignity and
prudence demanded.

To her great disappointment, Philip did not
appear at breakfast, though this was by no
means an uncommon occurrence, his hours being
so much earlier than hers ; but the desire to
see what effect was produced upon him by the
news, which must necessarily be his as well as
hers by this time, was so imperious, that she
ventured on an unusual step.

She sent for Duncan, and inquired how he had
become informed of Miss Aylmer's condition.

There was not one of the old staff of servants
who regarded Anna with favour ; the affectionate

loyalty they felt for their master stimulated
their feeling against her, whom they regarded
as having forced herself, to his cost, into a
position which belonged by right to another;
for it is scarcely necessary to say that the
circumstances which led to her marriage were
known (more or less) to every member of the
household. Also, Duncan had been in attendance
in Sir Giles's sick-room when Philip had
led Honour into it on the day of his uncle's
death, an incident which needed no explanation
to any onlooker, and had been exhaustively
discussed in the servants' hall. Added
to this, the wanton dismissal of Mrs Gibson was
resented almost as an infamy and a crime.

It therefore occurred to the man, although
he had received no hint of secrecy, that it
might be as well to reserve the truth in respect
to his last night's errand.

*'He was at Earlescourt," he answered, "on
business of his own  several of the servants
there had been his friends for years  and Miss
Aylmer's illness was the only subject of conversation
at the hall table."

Anna's piercing glance fixed itself on his face
with severe scrutiny ; but it would have been
hard if Scotch wariness could not have defied
her. Duncan encountered her gaze with a respectful
determination, which in turn almost
discomfited his mistress.

*was Sir Philip gone out?" was her next
inquiry.

She knew pretty well to the contrary, as it
was his custom when he went out early without
seeing her to leave some intimation of his
movements ; but the point she wished to ascertain
was, whether he thought of going out.

Sir Philip was not out : he was lying on
the couch in his dressing-room," and then the
man added with some hesitation 

Did Lady Methuen think it was wise of the
master to go on with that hand of his, without
further medical advice? He was suffering
terribly."

"It is not a subject I am disposed to discuss
with any one but Sir Philip himself," said
Anna haughtily; and Duncan left her with a
deepened sense of dislike and distrust.

' It is not the pain of his hand from which
Philip is suffering," said the girl to herself,
as she slowly paced the solitary room, stopping
at intervals at the windows to look at
the scene outside. The snow was falling after
its silent stealthy fashion, covering the garden-walks
and lawns and trees, and the sloping
roofs of some distant outbuildings which her
keen vision could distinguish, with the exquisite
deposit, and transforming the familiar
landscape to a new beauty, which, however,
chilled and repelled her.

If he knew ! " was the thought that pressed
upon her mind, " if he knew ! " and involuntarily
she put her hand to her head, as though
the idea weighed upon her brain.

Am I frightened already ? " she pursued 
frightened because I have won the stakes for
which I played I Not I ! I can think of it
all  her pain and terror and distress  without
one touch of pity or relenting, for she has
hurt me more ! I shall be able to watch what
he suffers too, and make no sign, because I
shall remember what he has made me bear.

I will forgive her when the beauty which
tempted him is gone, and him too, the first
time I see the humiliating pity in his eyes.
It is easy to forgive what we have revenged."

But time, even more than usual, hung heavy
on her hands. Her anxiety to see her husband
was intense, in order that she might satisfy
her aching curiosity as to the way in which
he took this unexpected blow ; but she did not
venture to intrude upon his privacy. She did
go up-stairs as a diversion to her weariness,
and even passed the door of his dressing-room,
stopping and listening a moment, but she could
not detect a single sound. Then she took some
weary turns through the central gallery, examining
the faded panels afresh, and pausing at
each window to mark the new effects produced
by the snow.

In this situation she was able to command
a view of the front entrance to the house,
and presently observed, to her surprise, that
Dr Farquhar's neat little brougham had just
stopped before it, and that he was in the act
of getting out of his carriage.

The doctor was a great favourite with Lady
Methuen, as she was well aware that he had
a very strong admiration for herself, and that
he entertained the opinion  which, in spite of
her manifold claims to distinction, was not
generally held in their circle  that Sir Philip
Methuen was a very fortunate man to have
drawn such a prize in the matrimonial lottery.

There were, however, to-day some circumstances
which qualified her satisfaction at this
unexpected break in her morning's monotony 
first, a sudden fear that leaped into her heart
that Philip might be more ill than he acknowledged,
and had secretly sent for him ; and
again, that being, as she knew, in attendance
on Honour's sick-bed, there might be some
danger of infection.

As she passed Methuen's door she called to
him that Dr Farquhar was in the house, and
then ran half-way down the broad shallow staircase,
pausing on one of the landing stages, and
leaning over the balusters till he had entered
the hall. Then she flung him a gracious greeting
from this point of vantage 

"Is it safe for me to come down and shake
hands with you, Dr Farquhar, and have the
delightful gossip that I am longing to enjoy ?
You must know I have a horrible dread of
infection ! Is the news true about  about the
trouble at Earlescourt ? "

"It is quite true," he said gravely ; " but you
may venture to come down. I do not bring
more infection from this sick-bed than from
others, when Lady Methuen has experienced
no such anxiety. You may rely upon it, I
have taken every possible precaution."

She heard the door open above her, and the
next moment Methuen came out ; he stopped
beside her for a moment, and wished her good
morning with so completely his usual tone and
manner, that she looked up at him in surprise,
and then he went down-stairs to greet the doctor,
without betraying any symptom of anxiety or
disturbance.

"It is bitterly cold," he said ; "we must
not keep you talking in the hall  but Lady
Methuen and I are deeply grateful for the
kindness of this visit." He turned and offered

his hand to Anna, who was now close beside
him, and together they all three entered the
morning-room, the door of which stood open,
and the glare and blaze of its great fire seemed
to send a welcome in advance.

How is Miss Aylmer this morning ? " continued
Methuen ; " you have just left the
house, I conclude. Have you better news to
give us ?  you know how close our intimacy
with the family has been  we are deeply concerned."


He spoke with perfect quietness, standing by
the fireside, and still retaining Anna's hand in
his, perfectly aware that her eyes were searching
his face for signs of weakness, but also that
he was able to bear her scrutiny.

Dr Farquhar hesitated a moment before he answered,
during which he bestowed on Methuen
one of his swift glances of investigation. The
morning bath and careful toilet had done
much to remove the traces of his night's vigil,
and his practised faculty of self-mastery enabled
him to assume his ordinary manner with
scarcely a hair's-breadth of variation ; but for all

that there were certain physical indications not
too subtle to be detected by the keen eyes bent
upon him.

You are enough of a physician yourself, Sir
Philip," he answered, " to know that no definite
opinion can be arrived at in the present stage of
the disease. To-morrow Jenkyns comes again
for the satisfaction of the family as much as
the benefit of the patient  by that time the
eruption will fully have declared itself, and
we may be able to foresee its probable course.
That is, according to our lights, which events
discredit as often as not."

In Paris," said Methuen, " masks of calamine
or gum are constantly employed to prevent
disfigurement. I do not know what is the
practice in this country; but I think if the
idea were suggested to Miss Earle she would
be eager to have it adopted. Do you not think
it is worth trying ? "

Dr Farquhar shrugged his shoulders. " Such
palliatives are useful just where they are least
wanted  in mild cases where the patient has
not lost the power of self-control. I may as

well say at once in regard to Miss Aylmer, that
all the indications point to a severe type of the
malady."

Anna had pulled away her hand from Philip's
with an angry gesture, regarding his solicitude
on Honour's behalf, however openly and temperately
expressed, as an outrage upon her
own feelings. There was a gleam of triumph
in her eyes as she glanced at him to see the
effect of the doctor's last words, but he made
no sign. As he remained silent, she ventured
to ask  

'does any one know how Miss Aylmer
caught this dreadful disease ? "

The young lady is not in a condition to be
questioned on the subject, though I believe she
has made some communication to Miss Earle.
Singularly enough, a case has just been admitted
into the Infirmary at Rich ester."

He was going on, but at this point an interruption
occurred by a servant introducing Mr
Sylvestre. The Vicar was well wrapped up in
overcoat, muffled, and woollen gloves, and held
his hat in his hand.

VOL. III. M

"What weather!" he exclaimed, when the
first greetings were over ; " and we are going
to have more of it I We shall rejoice in a white
Christmas this year. I came in, Sir Philip, to
know if you would give me a lift to Crawford 
you have not forgotten, I hope, that to-day's
Board is a special one. The distress in the borough
increases every day, and the Guardians
must be induced to extend their system of outdoor
relief. We shall want you. But perhaps
you are disabled by your accident ? " and a look
of disappointment clouded his face.

I am very much disabled," said Philip, smiling
; " but not quite enough to strike work
altogether, only we must ask Anna for an early
luncheon before we go. Perhaps Dr Farquhar
can stay and join us ? "

And then he added in a lower tone, addressing
the doctor, "Under these circumstances, I
think the examination of my hand must stand
over until tomorrow."

Anna looked up quickly, and an expression of
lively concern came into the Vicar's face.

That is as you please," answered the doctor

drily. " I have not yet undertaken the case, and
am to succeed a great surgeon, the latchet of
whose shoes I am unworthy to unloose. I conclude,
then, you are suffering less pain ? "

*not that; only the matter would take
some time, and scarcely be a desirable introduction
to a Board meeting at Crawford. Can you
make it convenient to call here again tomorrow
on your way back from Earlescourt ? "

The arrangement was agreed to, and then the
Vicar and doctor, in the interval before luncheon,
fell again to discussing the circumstances of
Honour Aylmer's illness, which was at the
moment the point of chief interest in the neighbourhood.
Philip had left the room under
some excuse of giving orders about the horses,
and after a few minutes' hesitation Anna followed
him.

She found him in the dining-room, where the
table was already laid for luncheon, and he was
in the act of drinking a glass of water as she
entered. The circumstance, trivial as it was,
gave her a pang : water was Methuen's invariable
restorative, and it meant that he felt the

need of it. She went up close to him and put
her hand on his arm.

''I have a little question to ask," she said,
and her voice was low and measured, 'rand I
have the comfort of knowing that you always
speak the truth  when did you first hear of
Honour Aylmer's illness ? "

From Miss Earle's own lips yesterday morning.
I had business at Earlescourt, and chanced
to see her. Also, I took the telegram to Sir
Wilfred Jenkyns to Trichester and despatched
it. Need I say I would have done the same for
the veriest stranger ? "

Ah ! I think I understand. You could
not of course know then that it was anything
serious, so that you were able to sing and be
pleasant to me in the evening  you were very
pleasant !  or you might have had some end to

serve by deceiving me " She paused as if

considering. " Probably you saw Duncan before
you went to bed last night, and heard the dreadful
news. No news, I suppose, Philip, could be
more dreadful for you to hear ? "

"You are ungenerous," he said quietly ; " but

perhaps it would be unreasonable to expect
otherwise. For the rest, you have guessed right.
I not only saw Duncan last night, but it was I
that sent him to Earlescourt. You are now in
possession of all the facts."

Not quite all," she answered, and her glance
quickened. " Tell me if you went to bed last
night ? "

Nay," he said with an indefinable smile,
"you exceed your rights. It is no part of my
duty to give up my soul into your hands."

I am answered ! You have looked ill and
altered since you came home from Saxelby, but
not as you look to-day. Shall 1 wish that woman
to live who can bring into your face the expression
I can read in spite of all your disguises ?
Even now, although you are tormented with pain
almost greater than you can bear, you are
willing to bear it for twenty-four hours longer,
in order to make sure of the latest news from
her sick-bed ! I will not bear it ! "

It is not so," he said coldly. " Under any
circumstances we should certainly inform ourselves
daily of the condition of so near a neigh-hour

and friend. The reason I alleged was the
true one,  I should be too unfit for work, after
having submitted to the inevitable pain of an
examination. But it is time to fetch our friends
into luncheon."

One word before they come. You will return
to dinner and sit with me to-night ? You will
remember that if I ask you to sing you have promised
not to refuse ? Perhaps I shall ask you."

*' And I shall certainly refuse ! All pledges
are given under unexpressed conditions of possibility
and decency. I am quite sure, from my
present sensations, that by the time I return I
shall be physically unfit to do what you suggest ;
and were it otherwise, I should refuse, from feelings
of sympathy and affection with our unhappy
friends at Earlescourt."

At the same moment the gong sounded, and
Dr Farquhar and the Vicar entered the diningroom,
the latter exclaiming 

'ewe must consume our food in ten minutes,
Sir Philip, if we are to preserve our character
at the Board. Anna, my dear, I drink to the
recovery of your friend ! "

CHAPTER XLIII.

' Soft sounds, that breathe of Heaven, most mild, most powerful,
What seek ye here ?  Why will ye come to me
In deepest gloom immersed ? Oh ! rather speak
To hearts of soft and penetrable mould !
I hear your message, but I have not faith."

Faust.

The next few days were amongst the most
unhappy and dreary that Lady Methuen had
ever spent.

Philip dined and passed several hours of the
evening with her on his return from the Board
meeting, but he did so simply by an act of
heroism. And she, seeing that he could hardly
sustain the pain he was suffering, herself suggested,
with ill-concealed vexation, that he
should go early to his own room.

It was nearly two o'clock of the following
day before Dr Farquhar appeared, and Anna,
who had been watching for his carriage for

hours, went out eagerly into the hall to receive
him.

How cruel you have been ! " she exclaimed.
*' I thought you would never come  I am
almost beside myself with anxiety ! "

I have no good news to give you," was his
grave reply. " Things are going very badly
with Miss Aylmer  Jenkyns has consented to
stay the night."

Anna turned a little pale, and then threw
up her head with her accustomed gesture of
impatience 

"Of course that is very sad, only  people
who have been properly vaccinated do not die
of small-pox. I was not thinking about the
Earlescourt people at all, but of Sir Philip, who
has not known how to live through the last
twenty-four hours. I think he will die if you
do not manage to relieve him of that pain !
He bears it, of course, like a martyr at the
stake,  only the martyrs, you will remember,
always give in at last."

Ah ! my dear lady, your affection exaggerates
the case, but I will do what I can.

Please let me have Duncan in attendance  
he is invaluable in a sick-room, and I may
want his help. Send him up at once with the
little black bag he will find in the carriage."

A look of terror came into Anna's beautiful
eyes.

I shall go out of doors," she said. "Yes, in
spite of the snow"  answering the doctor's
wondering look, " I could not stay in the
house while  while this is going on. I think
if I were to hear him shriek or groan  do men
ever shriek or groan, doctor ?  I should die ! "

But, my dear Lady Methuen, this is nonsense
! I am not going to amputate a limb, but
simply, I trust, to relieve one of pain, by freeing
it from the plaster cast in which, in my opinion,
it was encased far too soon. That will give
ease at once."

He beamed upon her as he spoke, liking her
all the better for her extravagance, and thinking,
as he had often thought before, how the man
he had come to attend seemed to pick up all
the good things of life at once.

He went up alone to Philip's dressing-room,

the latter rising quickly from his chair to
meet him.

'eat last!" he said.

Just as the good doctor had misinterpreted
Anna's anxiety, he now did the same by Methuen's,
supposing he referred to the late hour of
his visit, and began rapidly to excuse himself.

I did not in the least mean that. I am
quite sure you are come as soon as you could.
I mean  what news of Miss Aylmer ? "

Whether it was the look of wearied pain or
of dumb anguish in the man's eyes which induced
a sudden weakness in Dr Farquhar's stout
heart it is hard to say, but he was certainly
guilty of a very unusual professional prevarication.


"Really, Sir Philip," he answered testily,
*rit is quite impossible to commit one's self to a
definite opinion in this way from day to day !
There is so little change that Jenkyns stays all
night to watch the case. Everything under
heaven that can be done for her will be done,
and I still trust our efforts will be crowned
with success."

'' Still ? I understand."

He could scarcely have grown paler, nor did
a muscle of his face move ; but the pupils of
the eyes which were looking straight into the
doctor's dilated and contracted, and he clenched
the fingers of his left hand so strongly that the
nails entered the flesh  but this action did not
appear. After a pause he said, *' There is one
thing, Farquhar, I wish you clearly to understand
 I must see her once again ! How does
Miss Earle bear up ? "

Like the true metal she is ! Commend me
to these small delicate women, who look as if a
puff" of wind would blow them away, for pluck
and endurance. We have two first-rate nurses ;
but that brave, fond little creature is not to be
displaced."

'but it must distress Miss Aylmer very
much if she sees her aunt wearing out her
strength in her service?"

Methuen looked steadily at the doctor ashe
said these words, who changed colour a
little.

*' You are setting a trap for the unwary, and

may as well have the truth now,  Miss Aylmer
knows nothing of what goes on about her. The
fever is very high ; unless there is some change
within the next three days, it would be only a
useless giving of pain for any friend to see
her."

That is for her friends to decide. I rely
upon your honour as a man, Farquhar, outside
all professional scruples, that you will give me
warning in time."

I pledge my word, Sir Philip Methuen,
since you exact it," returned the other coldly.
He was thinking of the look of terror in Anna's
face and the passionate expression of her anxiety.

Shall we now proceed to your own business? "
he continued drily. " Lady Methuen gave me
to understand that you were suffering acute
pain ; but that is evidently the conclusion of
her own extreme anxiety."

I am ashamed to have cost her so much.
I have never before had much experience of
pain ; but I think  ignorantly, no doubt  that
no suffering can be worse than what I have
endured the last three days."

"I shall be able to judge better about that
presently. It is now quite understood that
you put yourself entirely in my hands ? "

Philip signified assent, and Duncan having
now brought in what was wanted, Dr Farquhar
began at once to break and remove the plaster
cast in which the hand was embedded.

The whole hand had been frightfully contused,
and several of the smaller bones were broken :
it had been exquisitely set and bandaged, but
inflammation and even suppuration had supervened,
which were dangerously exacerbated by
the close pressure of the rigid plaster glove.
In spite of his long training of professional
reserve, an exclamation of horror almost
escaped the doctor's lips as it was at length
fully exposed to view. With exquisite dexterity
he had unbound and redressed the hand,
calling in the merciful aid of his lancet to
relieve the tension of pain at certain points,
and then binding it round with layers of wet
linen, carefully instructing 'Duncan in the
application of the same ; but in spite of his
skill it was only by a powerful exercise of will

that Methuen did not swoon under the extremity
of the anguish.

I shall have a meaner opinion of Sir Digby
Wall's intelligence from this day henceforward,"
remarked Dr Farquhar, as having brought
his work to an end, he leaned back resentfully in
his chair and wiped the perspiration from his
brows. " I should have said that no man who
knew his business would have built up that
hand at such a stage of the process."

'the fault was entirely mine," said Philip.
I was so anxious to return home, that I overruled
his judgment."

But that is a defeat to which no wise man
suffers himself to submit," returned the other
drily, "and you have taken the consequences.
I am now going to order you to bed, and to lay
my commands upon you that you do not leave
it till I give you permission. Absolute rest is
now your only chance. It will be Duncan's
function to sit by your bed-side, and follow the
instructions I have given him. The alternative
to disobedience on your part will probably bethe
loss of your hand. I cannot answer for it

now whether gangrene can be averted. Need I
say more ? "

And so it came about that Anna was thrown
entirely during the next few days upon her own
resources, and these, as we know, were soon exhausted.
The one hour of excitement was Dr
Farquhar s visit, which was the only occasion
during the day when she visited her husband's
room, her motive being quite as much to see the
way in which he received the news of Honour,
as to hear the medical opinion concerning himself.
Sickness and disability were abhorrent to
her, and the extreme discomfort she had experienced
(for it could scarcely be called sympathy)
from witnessing the pain he had endured
from his accident, had, as it were, worn itself
out, and had yielded to a suppressed passionate
indignation, as the impression grew that it was
the anxiety which he suffered on Honour's
account which aggravated his condition.

It happened on the fifth day of Methuen's confinement
to his room, that Anna, wandering in the
park from very restlessness of mind, met Adrian

Earle. Her first feeling was to avoid him, partly
from an instinctive feeling of guilt, as the cause
of the misfortune which had settled upon his
home, partly from her strong fear of infection; but
he besought her so urgently to stand still, even
if only at a distance, that she yielded to his
prayer. Also, she was eager for news from some
other source than the doctor's guarded lips.

"You need not be afraid," he said, understanding
her reluctance. " Our poor Honour is
quite isolated and hedged in with precautions.
No one member of the household has seen her
except my aunt, and she is equally cut off from
all the rest of the family. Anna, if this blow
fall, it will change life for every one of us."

Ah ! I remember ; you also loved Honour
in the old days." Anna's face was white and
threatening.

And as I loved her in the old days, I love
her still," he answered, "as a brother loves the
sister whose equal he has never met. Anna,
suffer me to come nearer  you cannot be
angry because I am sorry for Honour?"

No, no," she cried eagerly ; " keep your

distance ! I should shriek with terror if you
touched me. If this horrible disease were to
seize me, I should die of self-loathing alone !
But  she will not die ? "

*god forbid!" he said. "I know nothing
certainly. The doctors keep their own counsel
my aunt and the nurses we are not permitted
to see. A blight has fallen over Earlescourt :
my father has never gone off the premises since
Honour was stricken. He sits nearly all day
long in the library waiting  waiting for the end.
Oliver is beside himself : it almost seemed as if
we should have to use physical force to prevent
him from attempting to reach her room. I say
I know nothing, but  we all fear the worst."

Anna listened intently, with her hands crushed
together.

*' And none of you  no one  has any idea
how this happened?"

Yes ; she has told Farquhar she touched
the child of some beggar-woman, with the
disease upon it, whom she met on the Trichester
road. What punishment could equal the guilt
of that woman ? "

VOL. III. N

"Yes," said Anna, in a low tone, 'sit was a
great crime ! Does she suffer much ? "

He shuddered a little. " Terribly, I believe ;
but I dare not let my mind dwell upon it. Tomorrow
or the next day, they say, there must
be a change for better or for worse."

Anna turned very pale. " So soon ! " And
then she added, almost involuntarily  " I do not
think Philip knows that."

Adrian looked a little surprised. "I hear,"
he said coldly, " that he too has been very ill, 
Farquhar was talking to my father about him.
He was commending him highly, as all the world
commends your husband, Anna ! It seems that
he bears pain as no other man bears it, and is
grateful and patient under confinement. Are
you his nurse ? "

Do not talk of him," she said, " I cannot
bear it. Tell me  tell me something more
about Honour. Does she know that  that she
is so very ill ? "

"At intervals, I believe," he said sadly;
"but she has been for the most part delirious.
I do not like to let my mind rest

on the idea  the gracious, gentle creature !
Let me come and bring you my report tomorrow
! "

You may come," was the answer, " but I do
not promise to be here," and she turned and
walked slowly away, without vouchsafing another
word or backward glance.

It was the morning before Christmas Day;
but there was no seasonable brightness of spirit
possible, although the outside world was in
harmony with the time. The frozen snow lay
in undulating masses as far as the eye could
reach, the distant hills were tipped with it, and
a hard grey sky brooded over the earth, almost
without variation of its leaden line. A path of
some extent had been swept and cleared from
the grounds of Methuen Place to Anna's
favourite point in the park, in order that she
might take the daily constitutional exercise on
which Dr Farquhar strictly insisted.

She had been pacing it up and down when
she met Adrian Earle, and now that she had
dismissed him, and perceived that he was out of
sight, she did not go back to the house as she

had intended, but retraced her steps once more
when she had nearly reached it.

A profound sentiment of dissatisfaction filled
her mind. She had not meant to kill Honour.
Indeed, her revenge would have been more acceptable
had it taken the form of life, changed
and blighted, for its object. Death would mean
canonization of the victim. As long as Philip
drew the breath of life he would worship that
sweet memory, as devotee adores his tutelar
saint : the dead woman's shadow would stand
between them as her living presence had done.

It was disillusion  not immortal sorrow 
with which she had laid her account.

Presently, through the still heavy air, the
muffled sound of church bells reached her ears
ringing a merry peal : they were those of
Kensington, and were no doubt practising in
view of the next day's high religious festival.
A smile that would have been bitter but for its
intense sadness, touched Anna's lips. She remembered
that her cousins and their friends
would be busy now, adorning the village church
with the abundant evergreens and choice outhouse

blossoms placed by the faithful of all
degrees at their service, and animated by the
joy and hope which had made life sacred and
endurable to so many generations long since
past away, but which had no message for her.
There would be a spring of earthly joy, too,
welling up in Dolly's pure heart, and shining
through her blue eyes, scarcely less holy than
the spiritual,  while she ?

The passion of her sorrow and disappointment
was too much for her. An instinct scarcely
known to her before constrained her. She
turned back rapidly towards the house, and
made her way to the chapel. That, too, was in
high preparation for the next day's festival.
Anna thought the greenhouses must have been
emptied to furnish the wealth of white flowers
which she saw. And then again a closer glance
convinced her that Methuen Place could never
have provided them. She looked at the treasures
of art upon and above the altar ; at the
massive wax-candles which encumbered it ; atone
special crucifix wrought in ivory, which was
so consummate in execution as to chain her eyes

for a moment. And then the irony of some of
her father's hard speeches, as she had stood asa
child by his side in the Duomo of Florence,
passed over the surface of her mind and killed
her religious aspiration.

Instead of flinging herself on her knees and
pouring out her soul to the pitying Mother of
God, she shrank backwards with a sudden recoil,
and shook herself as if to throw off some unworthy
incubus.

At the same moment the young priest, Father
Cochran, entered the chapel, and bowed profoundly
on recognising the lady of the house.
He was greatly surprised also, but that sentiment
was held in respectful reserve.

'' Is all this," asked Anna, making an inclusive
movement towards the altar and church, " for
the benefit of the household servants and the
few stragglers from outside? Will you hold
high mass for them. Father?"

Lady Methuen forgets ! To-morrow is to
be a white day in our calendar  Father Florentines
himself will lead the services of the Church,
and Sir Philip Methuen proposes to be present

I have just returned from the honour of an
interview."

True, I had forgotten ; our guest is to arrive
to-night." And Anna turned and went away,
with a more courteous salute than her wont,
and without further comment.

As she crossed the stone passage which
divided the house from the chapel, she heard the
luncheon-bell ring. What a mockery the routine
of a large establishment seemed for a solitary
girl like herself ! She had hoped that Dr
Farquhar would have come in before this, and
been induced, as he sometimes was, to stay to
luncheon, but he had not arrived.

As she entered the house she saw that a man
on horseback had just ridden off from the side
entrance, and her heart beat violently, for she
recognised the Earle livery. Was it some special
notification of Honour's condition ? And if it
were, to whom was it addressed, and for what
end?

She went rapidly up-stairs, threw off her
things, and rang for her maid ; but before her
bell was answered she heard the door of her

husband's room open and Duncan's step on the
passage outside, as though he were in the act
of leaving it.
For a few moments she waited breathless,
asking herself what step she should take ; then
went up to the glass and looked at her pale face
and dilating eyes with a sense of self-contempt
at her own weakness. The next minute she
had crossed the passage and tried the door of
Methuen's room. It did not yield to her hand
it was locked  against her, she said to herself,
in her growing excitement.

"Philip, will you open? I must speak to
you ! " she cried, in a voice laden with passionate
excitement. And then it occurred to her that
he was necessarily alone, as she had heard Duncan
go down-stairs, and that in that case he must
rise and open the door to her, in direct contravention
of the doctor's orders. Then again it
darted across her mind that he must already have
defied these injunctions, in order to lock the door
upon himself. Her speculations were soon resolved.
A step, not to be mistaken, crossed the
floor of the room within, and the next moment

the key was turned, and she stood face to face
with Philip.

She started back in astonishment  he was
fully dressed, as if for going out. " What is the
meaning of this ? " she demanded. " Are you
mad ? Where are you going ? "

He hesitated a moment, then drew from the
breast-pocket of his coat a slip of paper, and
handed it to her.

It contained these words, in what she recognised
as Miss Earle's handwriting : " Honour
has asked for you urgently. It is for you to
decide whether you will see her once more before
she dies. They give us no more hope."

Anna's face grew almost as pale as the paper
she held, which shook perceptibly with the
violent trembling of the hand that grasped it ;
the pupils of her eyes darkened and dilated,
as she looked with a powerful effort towards
Philip, who was watching her with grave
attention.

He put out his left hand and touched her
shoulder.

I thank God," he said solemnly, " that you

have the grace to be sorry, Anna. Let me pass
there is no time to lose."

Then, as she had done once before, Anna flew
to the door and set her back against it.

You shall not go ! " she cried, in a voice
hoarse with conflicting passions ; " you shall
not go and risk your life and mine ! Let her
die with her last farewells unspoken  before she
has poisoned you with her kisses, and revenged
herself on me by taking from me what I refuse
to give up ! Philip  I beseech you  I am horribly
afraid  do not go ! "

Perhaps," he said, " your fear and horror
are natural ; but you may be quite sure I will
not divide any danger with you. There is no
possible precaution, Anna, that I will not take
on my return. But as for rejecting the prayer
of a dying creature, I would not do that under
any circumstances  at whatever cost."

Oh, be reasonable ! " she urged, and she
clasped her hands about his arm and hung upon
him to impede his movements. "Think that
you yourself have only just risen from a sickbed,
and are specially sensitive to this kind of

danger. I suppose what harm is possible to be
done to your hand is done already ?  that plea
will have no power. I tell you, Philip, you will
drive me wild if you persist in this madness.
Is my despair  my love  to be nothing, weighed
in the balance against her loathly embrace ? "

I cannot argue with you," he said, trying
to free himself, " and I cannot yield. Were
Honour Aylmer a stranger and an outcast, and
sent for me to her death-bed, I should obey the
summons. Let me go, Anna ! "

She released her hold of him, and stepped
away from the door. Her eyes shone in her
pale face with an unnatural light.

Go !" she answered, '' but do not go deceived.
You thought just now that I was sorry for her,
Jut you are mistaken. Had I felt sorry, her
wickedness in sending for you would have killed
the feeling. I am glad that she will die  I did
not mean it, but I am glad that she will die ! "

She looked defiantly into his whitening face.
He was gazing at her with a sort of stupefaction.

You have not courage to ask me what I
mean," she went on. "I will tell you. I have

done nothing  nothing to bring this misfortune
upon Earlescourt, and to rob you of the desire
of your eyes ; but I  I might have averted it.
I was with her when she took the beggar's brat
into her arms, and I knew what ailed it.
Simply, I held my tongue ! I meant to spoil
the beauty which had blighted my life, and to
wean you from your love by making her an
object of disgust. I see now she will never be
that to you, therefore  let her die ! Can you
hate me worse than you did before ? "

And she opened the door, and went out
swiftly.

CHAPTER XLIV.

Oh, I should fade  'tis willed so ! Might I save,
Gladly I would, whatever beauty gave
Joy to thy sense, for that was precious too.
It is not to be granted. But the soul
Whence the love comes, all ravage leaves that whole ;
Vainly the flesh fades ; soul makes all things new."

R. Browning.

There was a suite of rooms at Earlescourt
which went by the name of "My Lady's
Chambers," and had always been appropriated
to her own special service, by the ruling mistress
of the grand old mansion. They formed almost
a wing apart, and were shut in from the rest of
the house by huge folding-doors.

When Miss Earle came to Earlescourt, she
had naturally succeeded to this privilege, which
she shared with her little adopted daughter,
Honour Aylmer, from that day to the present,
when the circumstance of the complete isolation

of these apartments lent itself so favourably to
the precautions which had become necessary.

It was naturally a part of the house with
which Philip Methuen was least acquainted.
The man who admitted him led the way as far
as the wide corridor on which the rooms opened,
and then retired, explaining that he was forbidden
to proceed farther, and if Sir Philip
would have the goodness to wait where he was
for a few minutes, Dr Farquhar would come to
him immediately.

Almost before the servant had disappeared,
the heavy curtain which hung before the doors
on the inner side was rung back, one of their
leaves was stealthily opened, and the doctor
appeared in the issue, and beckoned to Philip
to advance.

Outside in the corridor where he had been
standing, the pale radiance of a wintry sunset,
enhanced by the dazzling whiteness of the snow-covered
earth, had raised the daylight to a
higher point than it had reached before that
day ; but as the doors closed and the curtain
dropped behind him, he seemed to enter on the

gloom of night. The air also was heavily
charged with the penetrating odour of modern
disinfectants.

Sit down a moment," said the doctor ; " weare
out of hearing of the patient and nurses,
and I have a word to say to you. This step is
outside my province, but for all that I desire to
enter my protest against it. These women here
are tender fools, but I look upon you as almost
guilty of a crime in abetting their folly. Your
duty to your wife should have kept you at
home. It is not yet too late to turn back. I
have warned Miss Earle that it was my intention
to expostulate with you."

You have discharged your conscience," was
Methuen's answer, " and I respect your motives ;
but my mind is quite made up. Shall we go in ? "
There was almost a mechanical composure about
his manner and speech. The doctor looked at
him with a sour dissatisfied expression, and
then raised the single gas jet which lighted the
little anteroom a trifle higher.

* So be it ! " he said. " I have done my duty,
and wash my hands of the consequences. You

have probably come here fasting, to make the
danger of infection doubly sure ? "

On the contrary, I ate a fair luncheon an
hour or so ago, and have fortified myself by
one or two measures in vogue in the hospitals
of Paris. I have watched by small-pox
patients before to-day, and one of them even
died in my arms. I took no hurt."

The doctor uttered a contemptuous snort.

"Don't repeat the experiment, Sir Philip
Methuen, on the strength of past immunity!
You were then in the heyday of youth,
health, and fanaticism, I conclude, and not
bound to the poor wretches you succoured by
the most intimate ties of sympathy, as seems
to be the case with this poor lady. But I
repeat I have done. I am on my way home.
Jenkyns is here, and spends the night again.
You will probably find him more civil."

He got up brusquely, then stopped a moment.

I am forgetting you are my patient. Allow
me to examine the position of your hand and
to rearrange the sling. Is this the best that
Duncan can do, after all my instruction ? But

it is a heaven-born gift vouchsafed to few.
That is better. Good-bye. As soon as Miss
Earle hears I am gone, she will come to

you."

Almost before Methuen had realised that he
was alone, Miss Earle entered from the room
beyond. She was dressed with her usual exquisite
precision in soft grey woollen garments,
and a black lace handkerchief was thrown over
her still beautiful fair hair, and knotted under
the delicate chin. She looked pale and worn,
and her eyes were heavy with sleepless care ;
but there was the same fine composure in speech
and manner, which was one of her most delightful
characteristics. It specially commended
itself to Methuen's approval. He advanced to
meet her, and raised her hand with tender
respect to his lips.

"Those who love her," he said, "can never
be grateful enough for your devotion."

She looked at him intently, and her eyes
softened almost to tears.

"You must not be too kind," she said, "for
I do not wish to break down  yet. I am sorry

VOL. III.

to see you look so very ill. Dr Farquhar tells
me we are doing wrong, and lie is right ; but I
confess I would even do wrong for lier dear
sake."

She paused a moment, then continued 

"Is it necessary to warn you against  against
being shocked? Have you ever seen a sick
person under this disease before ? Honour must
have great faith in your constancy to summon
you to her bedside "

Her voice shook a little.

He reassured her on this point, and waited
for what more she might choose to say, although
the tension of his anxiety was growing hard
to bear.

She has suffered terribly. I shall wonder
later how I endured to witness it, but to-day
she is quieter and more herself. She reproaches
herself now that she has sent for you. Throughout
her delirium  when I was able to follow it
it was always you and your troubles which
pressed upon her brain. It revived the bitterness
of my old feelings for you. She gave you
her whole heart, and you broke it "

He did not answer, and she paused to recover
her self-command.

Come ! " she said, when she spoke again.
I will take you to her, and leave you alone
for a quarter of an hour. This way  take
care ! we keep the rooms very dark  do not
desire to see her too plainly."

She led the way into another apartment,
which was only lighted by the blaze of the
large pine logs on the hearth, and the fading
light of the short December day.

On a small curiously carved antique bed,
covered by a purple silk coverlet, the sick girl
was lying. The room otherwise had all the
dainty appointments of a lady's sitting-room,
and beyond the strong medicated odours with
which it was permeated  scarcely qualified by
the huge bowls of violets placed here and thereon
the different surfaces  there was nothing to
offend the most fastidious senses. The position
of the bed was such that the occupant lay in
deep shadow.

Philip stood motionless by the door, while
Miss Earle went swiftly up to the couch and

bent over Honour, speaking in a low whisper.
He did not catch a sound in reply. When she
came back to him she said  " I think I can
trust your self-control. We are all in attendance
in the room beyond this, but not within
hearing. I trust to your honour not to exceed
the time named." And the next moment he
was alone with his lost and dying love.

*'My God I" he said to himself, "give me
the grace of self-containment." And then he
went nearer, but not close to the bed, standing
in the light and heat of the fire.

"Honour," he said gently, "you have sent
for me, and I am here ; but I should have come
if you had not sent for me  to say farewell, as
friends must on the eve of a long parting. My
dear, can I speak one word or do one thing
that wil make that parting easier?"

His eyes were fixed with strained attention
on the bed. He saw a slight quiver of her
limbs beneath the coverlet, and she made a
feeble movement of her head, as if to raise it
from the pillow. And it was not in his power to
take her in his arms and place her more at ease !

Come nearer ! " she answered, in a voice
pitifully changed and broken. " Were you willing
to run this risk for me ? I tried to be
content to die without seeing you, but  could
not ! Are you close to me, Philip ? Ah, God ! "
with a sudden wail as if the words were wrung
from her lips  " I cannot see him after all ! "

Then he knelt down beside her and gazed
for a few intense moments into the disfigured
face, her own so close to his that even her dim
and swollen eyes received the full impression
of it. For a moment love conquered every
other feeling, and she gazed at him till the
pure passion of her soul almost gave back the
old beauty to her face. Then a sudden spasm
shook her ; he saw the tears gather in her eyes,
and the quivering of her mouth. She put up
her hands and covered her face.

''I had forgotten! but of old I know you
could look at what others loathed and not loath
it. Can you bear to look upon me, Philip ? I
have not seen myself  tell me the truth ! Am
I  am I abhorrent in your sight  except for
pity's sake ? "

"I should like," lie said, in a low whisper,
"to take you in my arms and kiss you as I
have dared to kiss you in the old days, but I
will not do that. Not so much that it would bethought
by yourself and others a mad thing todo,
but because I would not insult your goodness
by passion which it is sin to indulge. Only
believe  I never loved you better than to-day ! "

He drew down the sheltering hands gently
from her face.

*' Just tell me," he continued quietly, " something
about what you have suffered  what you
have felt, and if the thought of separation from
all that you love is very hard to bear? Or
whether, saint as you are, God's will absorbs
your own, and you are willing to let go this
warm, familiar, engrossing life for the strange
glory of the beatific vision ? "

Ah ! " she whispered, " submission is easier
when life has been spoiled! I think for myself
I am content to die; but for others

Philip, will you always be good to Miss Earle
for my sake? No child ever owed a mother
half so much I "

He signified assent, and she went on, in a
weak disjointed way 

Be kind to poor Oliver, and forgive him ! I
know he has been ungrateful ; but it was out of
mistaken pity for me. Dear Philip, I want you
to believe that  that I have not been very unhappy
"

I can well believe it," he said, in a stifled
voice ; " the peace of God dwells with the pure
in heart. You go to receive your reward."

Not that ! I have never been tried like you.
Duty has always been made very easy to me."

Her face grew troubled : the thoughts which
pressed upon her brain she was too weak and
burdened to put into words. She put out her
hands towards him with a pathetic gesture.

Say  you are happier ; that is the comfort
I want."

My dear, be comforted," he answered.
The sort of happiness you mean was put out
of my reach when I lost the woman I adored ;
but it would have been a snare had it been
granted. I am at last content to have foregone
it. Wish for me now the peace that comes from

the surrender of will and desire, so that I maybe
able to do my daily work better in the
future than the past, and to consent to live on
and labour to the end, which seems so very far
off, when  when what I love has been taken
away."

*'Ah!" she murmured, "I cannot reach so
high as that ! God knows how happy I would
have been to have been happy, and could have
loved and served Him  better I think. But all
that is doubly past. Philip," she went on,
drawing her breath with difficulty, " I will
own the truth to you  I said just now I was
content to die ; but  I am terribly afraid of
dying!"

"And if you are," he answered, in tones
touched to the finest note of sympathetic comprehension,
" what is that but one more sacrifice
to the Divine Will ? Our weakness can
never reach the limits of God's mercy. Does
He who knows our frames and remembers that
we are but dust demand from us what is outside
or beyond humanity ? I believe that there
is not a pang that we feel but is accepted by

I

God, as on the same lines of sacrifice as the
supreme atonement of His son. Did the sword
that pierced the soul of Mary at the Cross,
wound less deeply than the nails and the
spear ? "

She put out her hand with an irresistible
impulse and touched his.

He paused a moment, and then took it deliberately
into his firm cool grasp.

Her eyelids were closed, and the tears were
slowly welling beneath them.

To see you  to hear you  breaks my heart !
I cannot bear it even as well as I thought.
Philip  tell me  that you believe that we shall
meet hereafter ? "

*' I believe it as firmly as that light succeeds
darkness and life is the outcome of death.
My love I my darling ! there are things I would
say but dare not, lest I should disturb the peace
of your soul. I  I trust you to that infinite
love we can neither measure nor exhaust. Our
spirits will meet before the mercy-seat of God,
this side of my own dismissal."

And then, as his inspired face was bowed over

her own, the strong yearning of her tender
woman's heart conquered her. She drew away
the hand he still held, and put both her arms
about his neck.

"How shall I consent to let you go?" she
murmured ; *' I have loved you more than you
knew. Kiss me once more, Philip ! "

Then she uttered a little cry and released him.

Ah, I forgot ! I ask too much."

Was anything else possible to him but to put
his lips to hers with the same ardour as when
they were soft and fragrant with the dews of
health ? and to close the eyes which sought his
so piteously by laying his tender kisses upon
the burning lids ? Even if love had failed,
religion would have sufficed.

A pause succeeded, during which she lay back
upon her pillows spent and speechless, and he,
aware that the allotted time had expired, rose
from his knees, and was standing by the bedside
in suspense of some word or movement on
her part, when there was a tap at the door and
Miss Earle entered.

She advanced anxiously towards the bed.

i

She is worse ?" she asked ; " but this was to
be expected. I must send you away. You have
not, I hope, left your farewells till the last
moment."

No," he answered, " we are prepared to part
now ; but I do not think she is worse, beyond
the pain and fatigue of the interview."

He bent over her and put the border of the
silken coverlet to his lips.

God give my beloved sleep ! " he whispered,
and then followed Miss Earle out of the room,
a sweet-faced nurse gliding into it at one door
as they left it by the other.

I will not keep you long," she said, when
they had reached the ante-room, " for you look
as if you ought to go home to bed yourself,
only  is she  is she so ill as you expected to
find her ? " She looked at him with a pathetic
wistfulness.

He hesitated. " It would be very presumptuous
for me to offer an opinion in a case like this,
and in contradiction to authority we are all
bound to respect, and I am still more reluctant
to raise a gleam of hope when you have ordered

your soul to submission, but  I do not think
your beloved Honour will die. God will give
her back to the ceaseless prayers which have
gone up in her behalf."

Miss Earle changed colour and trembled a
little.

Oh," she said in a stifled voice, " you try me
more than I can bear ! and yet you speak
like one  like one who knows  as if you had
received a revelation. But no cruelty will
equal yours if you are deceived."

*' I feel that deeply, and yet could not think
it right to be silent. Encourage her to believe
that she will recover," he continued ; " bribe her
fainting energies with your hope and expectation,
and she will conquer her weakness by the
strength of her desire to live  for your sake."

She looked at him with her fine penetrating
smile.

And have you no part or lot in the matter ?
You speak as if you stood outside these hopes."

Not so," he answered, almost with solemnity.
The possibility of Miss Aylmer's recovery has
lifted a load from my shoulders, that I do not

know whether I should have been strong enough
to bear. But I may as well tell you that,
under any circumstances, I have seen her for
the last time. Words are useless : simply, it
is better that it should be so. As soon as I
am fit to travel, Methuen Place will be shut up
and we shall go abroad. The house in South
Audley Street will be once more to let."

1 am very sorry," she said, looking at him
with a kindness which was almost tender ; but
he gave her no encouragement to further inquiry,
and she was too eager to return to the
sick-room to be anxious to detain him.

As she re-entered it, the nurse came softly
towards her with her finger on her lips.

"Is it a miracle ? " she said. " Miss Aylmer
is in a sweet sleep, and every symptom  skin,
pulse, temperature  is improved ! "

CHAPTEK XLV.

Jesu, Maria  I am near to death,

And Thou art calling me ; I know it now.

Not by the token of this faltering breath,

This chill at heart, this dampness on my brow, 

'Tis this new feeling, never felt before,

That I am going, that I am no more."

Dream of Grotius.

There was High Mass in the Methuen Chapel,
and a crowded audience on Christmas Day.
Father Florentius had arrived at the Place the
night before, and, assisted by the domestic chaplain
and the old Catholic vicar of Crawford, took
the chief part in the grand ceremonial, which
was conducted on the highest lines of ritualistic
observance. The perfection of the choir and
organ practice was such as to excite the unqualified
admiration and surprise of the former,
and the eulogium that he pronounced at the

close of the service bound boys and choir-master
to him for life.

Anna, who had assisted at the service, as
an imperative point of courtesy on the part
of the lady of the house, stood by his
side as he spoke, and smiled with a bitterness
which could not fail to attract his
observation.

As they returned to the house together, he
said, with the winning sympathetic manner
which was his distinguishing characteristic 

This is at once a proud and a sad day for
you, Lady Methuen. The chapel is perfect 
a witness to Sir Philip's zeal and devotion ; but
it is a cruel disappointment that he is not able
to be present to-day to rejoice in the work
which he has done."

Anna turned her large, luminous, pathetic
gaze upon him. " My heart is so sore," she said,
*' that if you would consent to receive my
confession, I am half disposed to unburden it,
or  I think it will burst ! "

My daughter," he answered, " it is my duty
as well as my pleasure to be at your service,

now, or at any other time you choose to
appoint."

Then it shall be some other time," she
returned, with a dreary smile ; " and when you
have unmoved will you come into my room and
talk to me a little ?  not as Father Florentius,
but as the man who won my gratitude for ever,
because he was kinder to me than any one else
on the day that I was married and stood in
such sore need of kindness."

A little later Anna received him in her ,
which was heated to almost a tropical
temperature, and was like a bower of enchantment,
from the profusion of exotic ferns and
blossoming plants that it contained. She herself,
dressed in a straight gown of ruby velvet,
and leaning over the mantel from an uncontrollable
feeling of restlessness, appeared to the
distinguished ecclesiastic as he entered, to be
without controversy one of the most beautiful
women he had ever seen.

At her request he took a seat which stood
opposite to her, and judging of her mood from
her face, waited in silence for her to open the

conversation. No courteous platitudes, however
graceful or-discreet, would be acceptable to one
who looked as she looked.

Philip still refuses to see you ? " she asked
presently.

"He refuses; but before I leave to-night I
shall insist upon seeing him, not in my character
of friend, whose safety he is bound to protect,
but of priest, whose duty it is to put merely
personal precautions on one side."

In that case, then, I shall be obliged to bid
you farewell before you see him, as the quarantine
he has established is so strict that he will
not let me see or speak to any one who has come
into contact with himself. I ask you, not as
priest, but as gentleman, is a man justified who
exposes himself to a risk so horrible as this, and
is also well aware that the separation and
anxiety will drive me mad ? "

Father Florentius made a slight deprecating
movement of head and hand.

Pardon me, dear Lady Methuen, but
although if you sought spiritual guidance and
relief, it would be my duty to hear whatever

VOL. III. p

you thought proper to reveal, yet as a personal
friend of your husband and his guest, I do not
feel at liberty to receive the honour of your
confidence."

Ah ! " she answered, '' it is always the same ;
I stand alone and have no friends. Priests are
always cowards ! "

He smiled without the slightest trace of
irritation.

I assure you it needed more courage to
refuse than accept what it was a personal distinction
to have offered ; but the wife of Philip
Methuen can never stand in need of friends, nor
of guidance, nor advice. The resolution which
keeps you apart is only one more proof of his
affectionate solicitude, and the circumstances

which have rendered it necessary " He

paused a moment, for she made a movement
of contemptuous impatience.

Ay ! " she broke in, " how do you propose
to defend them ? "

** They do not appear to me to need defence,"
he answered quietly. '* They were such as no
man's charity could have resisted."

Enoiiojli ! it is all a foregone conclusion I I
cannot bring myself to the humiliation of the
confessional. Excuse me a moment. I think
I hear Dr Farquhar's foot on the stairs, and
I must speak to him before he leaves the
house. He has been with Philip for more than
an hour, and we both want to hear what he
says."

She crossed the room and threw open the
door, calling to the doctor by name, and asking
him to come in and speak to her ; but he professed
to be in a hurry, and would have passed
on without stopping, if she had not stepped
forward and intercepted his passage.

'' What is the meaning of your treating mein
this way ? " she demanded. " Why have
you been so long up-stairs, and now seek to
avoid me ? "

For no other reason in the world. Lady
Methuen, than that I am anxious to get home
to my Christmas dinner," returned Dr Farquhar
good-naturedly. '* And I have been a longer
time than usual with Sir Philip, because the
dressing of his hand was a troublesome business

after  what shall we say?  after the unusual
exertions of yesterday."

"Has he done himself much harm?"

"Not so much as he ought; I mean such
indiscretions deserve punishment. The wounds
are now healing fairly well, by the second intention.
You will be glad to know the extreme
severity of the pain and all danger are over."

All ? " she repeated.

"All from this source. Once more, good
morning. Lady Methuen ; but I am forgetting
to give you the good news from Earlescourt.
Our patient has taken a good turn  we are full
of hope."

Anna turned deadly pale ; was it joy or grief
which gripped her heart ?

I am very glad ! " she said mechanically,
and allowed the doctor to pass on his way.

Father Florentius left by the evening mail ;
but he had a long interview with his host before
his departure, concerning which Anna of course
knew nothing, under the stringent regulations
which Philip had instituted.

So intolerable were the revolt and restlessness

of her mind, that unable either to sit still or to
find occupation, she left the warm sitting-room
and paced up and down the long gallery with a
fur garment thrown over her shoulders.

The moon was at its full, and flooded the floor
with its white light, producing weird effects of
light and shade, as its rays fell on panel and
picture. The air was full of the sound of church
bells for evening service, and the outside world,
radiant in its garniture of snow, showed with
what seemed to her preternatural distinctness.
She could catch the steely gleam of the sea in
the far distance, and even thought she could
detect the boom of the incoming tide.

It is a commonplace to say on how many
guilty and sorrowful creatures the cold moonlight
shone that Christmas evening, or even
what a succession of aching and despairing
hearts had throbbed and suffered within the
walls of the grey old mansion of which this
girl was mistress  only there is an inexhaustible
pathos in the thought of the measureless extent
and perennial flow of human frustration and
misery.

I am so beaten back and baffled' she said
to herself ; " the secrets of their meeting yesterday
I shall never know. Was she loathsome
in his sight? or did he consent to touch her,
and that is why he holds himself infected ?
God ! " she cried aloud in involuntary appeal,
I cannot bear what it is given to me to bear !
I seem to hear his voice, to see the look with
which he would greet this woman, plague-stricken
as she is. That is not enough ! now, if
never before, I wish that she were dead 1 "

And then she asked herself what madness
tempted her to tell him that she was guilty of
this crime which, otherwise, could never have
been known or suspected, and so place a barrier
between them that even his greatness of mind
could never overleap.

She might have tasted her revenge in silence,
drawing him to her, as had seemed possible of
late, by the resistless force of her own flawless
loveliness, as opposed to the scathed and
marred condition of her victim.

And then another thought dropped into her
mind, but her mind refused to hold it. If the

pit she liacl digged for her enemy should be set
for her own destruction ! if this man, the object
of her selfish but absorbing passion, was to lose
not his life, that was inconceivable  but the
bloom and glory of his manhood, because he
had chosen to drink out of the poison-cup she
had mixed for Honour Aylmer I

She put the horrible apprehension from her
with something of the same sense of physical
repulsion with which saints of old turned their
back upon the Satan who tempted them.

Shall I go to him," she asked herself, stopping
before his door, " and drop upon my
knees before him, and tell him that, cast out
of his favour, I cannot live ? May not the
hope of Honour's recovery have softened his
heart ? "

But this idea was abandoned. She durst not
defy his authority  planted on such sufficient
grounds ; nor could she bow her pride so low as
to crawl to his feet for pardon on the very
morrow of her defiance.

No ; what was left to her was to wait and
consume her heart.

When Philip Methuen returned from his visit
to Earlescourt the day before, he had set himself,
with the mental habit of his character,
seriously to consider and provide against the
consequences of the step he had taken.

While holding himself justified in risking his
own health and life in the service of his fellow-creatures,
he was solicitous almost to excess for
the safety and welfare of others. The danger
he had chosen to incur should at least not be
suffered to extend farther, if rigid precaution
could hinder it.

No member of the household, except the
faithful Duncan, who stoutly refused to be
dismissed, should come into contact with him
until the expiration of the time when his
technical knowledge taught him that anxiety
might be dismissed or confirmed. Any sacrifice
which this resolution entailed was not
of much account to a man who had made self-abnegation
the principle of his life ; and the
view he had taken of his duty was stoutly supported
by Dr Farquhar.

Methuen had suffered this purpose to be

overruled by Father Florentius, because he
did not consider himself at liberty either to
resist his authority or to oppose what was held
by the latter in the light of an act of religion,
besides the profound personal satisfaction he
derived from the exercise of the priestly functions
of his friend.

After this followed a painful interval.

The solitude to which he had condemned
himself left him ample time to consider and
reconsider the atrocious confession which his
wife had made to him in their last interview.
It was of a character to alter all their relations,
and to render the programme of devotion and
self-sacrifice which he had marked out for himself
impossible. But, accepting such as the
result, what then was the future to be? what
attitude was a man to assume towards the
woman who boldly avowed sentiments of diabolical
malice, and had carried them out to
their legitimate issue, and whose dormant
conscience seemed insusceptible of the saving
pangs of remorse and penitence? Linked in
irrefragable bonds with what his soul abhorred

SO that all former alienation was by contrast
union  what did religion and duty demand ?

His feelings in respect to Honour herself
were those of curious disengagement. She
would not die but live  of that he felt assured
 but she was henceforth dead to him;
and if happiness in the common meaning of
the word were out of her reach, the higher
grace of blessedness was hers. Sweet saint !
unwedded wife !  from whom his allegiance had
never swerved  here he set the final seal upon
their earthly fellowship.

Another point which occupied Philip's attention
was the final distribution of his property.
He had long since liberally provided for Anna
in the way of marriage settlements, but he had
made no will in view of the contingencies of
the future. He now set himself to do this.
He gave his wife a life - interest in Methuen
Place and in the town house in South Audley
Street, with a suitable addition to her income,
the administration of her affairs being placed
in the hands of trustees, and zealously guarded
against waste or abuse, though she was left

unshackled by any personal restriction. There
were benefactions of pictures and antique plate,
which were amongst the most precious possessions
of the Methuen family, to the Earl of
Sainsbury  "my beloved friend and master,"
as also to the seminary of St Sulpice ; and
legacies to servants and the many poor men
whom he counted amongst his friends, all carefully
regulated according to their respective
claims and wants. The bulk of his fortune,
both present and prospective, was devised to
the Church of his fathers and of his own deliberate
devotion, for the building and endowment
of a Catholic church, schools, and hospital,
in that quarter of East-end London where the
spiritual and temporal need was greatest ; the
decision and regulation of the fund being left,
under adequate safeguards, to the wisdom and
wide experience of Father Florentius.

It was a work of some labour and difficulty to
draw up the draft of so complex a testament, and
when he had concluded he sat for some time
longer before his writing-table, with his elbow
resting upon it and his hand shading his eyes.

Duncan, who had been of necessity his amanuensis,
and who had already received orders to
take the papers to Methuen's solicitors early
next morning, with injunctions for immediate
despatch, watched him with silent anxiety.

Presently Philip looked up.

My uncle's room, Duncan  has it been kept
in order, aired and so forth, since Mrs Gibson
left?"

I believe so. Sir Philip. I know she gave
strict orders on the point," and the man's hard
voice took, in spite of him, a changed inflection.

"I should like to have it prepared for my
occupation, so that I can sleep in it tomorrow
night. In case of sickness, it is further removed
from the rest of the household, and  I prefer
the room to any other."

Good God ! Sir Philip, you don't mean "

and the strong, gaunt old Scotchman stood up,
positively blanched and trembling.

I mean nothing but that I want a change
of apartments. This room is too near Lady
Methuen's, and I am weary of my confinement
in it : it is more than a week since I crossed its

threshold. You must look upon it, Duncan, as
the caprice of an invalid." And then he added
" My hand is much more painful to-night."

Duncan held his tongue, knowing his young
master's idiosyncrasies almost as well as he had
known those of the old baronet before him ;
but his heart grew cold within.

Philip had risen from his seat and begun to
pace the room. After a few minutes' interval,
he stopped at the unsheltered window, put back
the blind, and looked out into the night.

The moon is rising," he said, " and it is not
late. Suppose, Duncan, you ride in with the papers
to-night ? The office will be closed, but you
can leave them at Mr Chapman's private house."

*you will let me help you to bed first. Sir
Philip, and bring Dr Farquhar back with me ? "

I am not disposed for bed, and will wait up
at least until you return. As for Farquhar " 
he saw the man's countenance fall, and added
kindly  "yes ; call upon him if you like, and ask
him to come early in the morning. Also, give
instructions about the room to-night, but quietly
 to one maid only."

Dr Farquhar was at Methuen Place by daylight
on the following morning. He could learn
no particulars from Duncan, as the man had
found his master's door locked on his return
from Trichester, and had been told when he
applied for admission that his services were not
required.

When the doctor entered the room, Methuen
rose from the chair in which he was sitting, to
receive him. He had evidently not been in
bed all night ; both fire and lamp were burning
brightly.

Farquhar looked into his face for a moment,
held his hand a little longer, and shook his
head ; going on to apply the invariable medical
tests with as few words as possible. When he
had done and Philip had sat down again, he
said, chafing his hands before the fire and looking
away from him as he spoke 

I anticipated this when I saw you yesterday
morning, though I naturally held my tongue.
The progress of the fever is however much more
rapid than I expected  I speak to a man who
knows ;  you will be reasonable ? "

I hope SO  SO long as reason is left."

Farquhar glanced towards him sharply.

You are very bad ? It will be well to call
in Jenkyns at once."

I am very bad," was the deliberate answer,
and am deeply anxious to make the best of
my time. Call in on Chapman and Hurst on your
way home and urge the necessity of despatch
with the business they have in hand. You
can tell them how pressing it is. Perhaps
one of them, or at least a confidential clerk,
could come over this afternoon. For the rest,
summon the whole college of physicians, if it
will be any satisfaction to you or others ; but
personally I desire no other attendance than
your own."

He put his hand to his head.

Can you give me something to keep my
brain cool  a little longer  and to relieve the
faintness which I have found it almost impossible
to resist through the night?"

I will do my best. You have probably
been defying Nature, and she takes her revenges."
He glanced towards the little oratory

which led out from Philip's dressing-room, and
the door of which stood open  "I must order
you to bed."

*' Not till my uncle's room is prepared for me,
when I will no longer resist your authority.
I will sit up here till I have seen my lawyer  
the sooner the better."

"Is there anything else I can do? Shall I
send Cochran to you ? "

On no account. He is young and useful,
with all his life before him  he shall run no
risk. But send, if you will, a message to
Father Price : I love that old man, and he will
be willing to come for my uncle's sake. Also 
later on if needs be  telegraph to Father Florentines.
I have written as well as I was able to
him and the Abbe de Salve last night ; but it
is not safe for the letters to reach their hands
from mine. I thought you would be good
enough to disinfect and forward them?"

Farquhar nodded, and picked up the letters
from the writing-table.

Lord Sainsbury ? " he asked.

"I have decided to let that go. Did he

know of my illness he would come to me, and
that must be prevented at all costs. You will
keep it as close as possible?  I need not say
she must not know it." He paused, then added
" Wait a moment ! I have something else
to say  my wife "

Involuntarily the softened look passed out of
the doctor's face. Was she, the doting, beautiful
girl, this man's last consideration ?

"Yes," he repeated stiffly  "your wife. Sir
Philip?"

** I  I must leave it to your discretion to tell
her the truth ; only she must not, as a matter
of course, be allowed to see me."

"You mean you have decided to let that go
also ? Perhaps she will defy our precautions ? "

That," said Philip sternly, " it will be your
duty and the duty of my nurses to prevent.
Her safety must be absolutely secured  under
any difficulties. It would be better if you could
persuade her to leave the house, and go to the
Vicarage. But, forgive me, I think there will
be no difficulty."

** And you have no message for her ? "

VOL. III. Q

*'I have no message for her beyond the
earnest entreaty that she will regard my wishes
on this point."

Dr Farquhar proved his sympathy for Lady
Methuen by an act of undeniable cowardice.
When he left Philip's room, he made his way
out of the house down the back staircase, and
succeeded in reaching his carriage without his
early visit becoming known to her. He said to
himself he would see her on the occasion of his
next, which was timed for a few hours later.

CHAPTER XLVI.

Rouse thee, my fainting soul, and play the man
And through such waning span
Of life and thought as still has to be trod,

Prepare to meet thy God.
And while the storm of that bewilderment

Is for a season spent,
And, ere afresh the ruin on me fall,
Use well the interval."

Dream of Oerontius.

The marli of events during the next few days
was so rapid that it seemed to those concerned
more like some delirious dream than the ordinary
sequence of cause and effect.

Methuen preserved his faculties for the transaction
of affairs until the affairs he was so
anxious to conclude were accomplished, taking
careful precaution, by the lucidity and composure
of his speech and behaviour, to remove any
possible doubt on the part of the attached old
lawyer who attended him that he was mentally

qualified for the task he fulfilled. But the reaction
after such a protracted strain was necessarily
severe. In the evening of the same day
he removed into the room which had been
occupied by his late uncle, and was familiarised
to him by many a long and affectionate vigil,
and the look of poignant and tender recollection
on entering it, indicated almost the last conscious
exercise of his mind.

Later still, Dr Farquhar and Sir Wilfred
Jenkyns met by his bedside. Almost from
the first, every symptom pointed to a fatal
result, although the secret of his extremity
was sedulously kept.

The fever assumed the severest form of
typhoid, and delirium and stupor alternated,
the repulsive but salutary features of the primary
disease remaining suppressed, in spite of all the
resources of medical science.

So rapid was the cruel havoc of the disorder,
that, on the evening of the fifth day, almost all
hope of recovery was abandoned by the several
physicians who had been summoned by Anna's
exigence to wait helpless on his death-bed.

The old Catholic priest, who had loved this
young man with the fine ardour of spiritual
kinship, was kneeling by his side, as he had
knelt not so much more than a year ago by the
side of Sir Giles Methuen ; but the latter had
been a feeble life which had long fluctuated in
the socket, this was the violent rending of the
chord of a vigorous and beneficent existence.

An altar, on which the sacred elements were
set, had been prepared and placed several hours
before, in devout hopes of some change in the
condition of the sick man that would render
the conscious administration of the last rites
possible.

There was another man also who kept un-sleeping
watch by Methuen's pillow,  the
distinguished ecclesiastic we have known as
Father Florentius, who had been first introduced
to him by Lord Sainsbury two days before his
marriage, and had been his confessor ever since.

He had put aside every engagement of work
or pleasure on the receipt of Farquhar's telegram,
and had arrived at the place with a
despatch that astonished the latter. He had

listened with courteous attention to the representations
of risk and danger which the doctor
thought it his duty to make, but had practically
put them all on one side.

I have passed unscathed so often through
plague and pestilence' he said smiling, "that I
believe myself invulnerable ; but were it otherwise,
to succour this man's last moments I would
be willing to go down with him into the valley
of death."

"Ah!" returned the other, "you probably
know him better than I. The late baronet, his
uncle, doted upon him, I remember ; but with
me he has always seemed on guard  one I
never got close to."

As soon as Anna had known of the arrival of
Florentius, she had sent him a message beseeching
him to see her, if only for a few minutes,
before he went up-stairs to the sick-room ; a
request which was immediately complied with.

He was secretly startled by the change which
little more than forty-eight hours had made in
the beautiful defiant woman who had chilled
his sympathies at their last interview. This

pale stricken girl, in her clinging black garments,
and with the look of a wounded animal in her
wild dilating eyes, struck at once the chord
of reverent pity which was so finely strung in
this man's nature.

"Father," she said, going up to him and
taking his hand in both hers with a gesture
of humble but passionate appeal, '* they will
not let me see him !  think what that means !
I am trying to be quiet and reasonable, that
you may see that I am to be trusted. I will
not speak to him  I will promise not even to
touch him ; but  if you do not let me see him,
I shall go mad ! "

"My child," he said, "if words of mine
can avail, you shall see your husband."

Then she sank upon her knees and covered
his hands with her kisses, refusing to suffer him
to raise her from her posture of humiliation.

Hear me," she murmured, " while I have
courage to speak ! It is I who have killed him.
I vdn tell you all."

And then she sobbed out her confession :
the love which she had had for him, which

had been worth nothing in his sight ; the forced
marriage ; the cruel experiences of their union ;
her sudden discovery of his love for another
woman ; and her ignoble revenge, which had
recoiled upon her own head.

Ah ! " she said, as at length, spent and exhausted,
she rose from her knees, * it is not your
absolution that I want, but his. Bring me his
love and forgiveness, father, or  I will refuse to
live. Not that I believe that he is in danger."

And it was for this end, amongst others, that
Florentius sat and watched and waited, during
the long course of those terrible days.

Up to this time, he had failed in obtaining
leave for her admission to the sick-room ; for
so absolute had been Methuen's orders on this
point, and indeed so formidable was held to bethe
risk of admitting her, added to the bootless
pain that the sight of his condition would have
caused, that her frantic prayers and denunciations
had been of necessity  not disregarded,
for every man's heart ached for her  but firmly
put aside.

During these days, Anna neither ate nor

drank, except perhaps when Dr Farquhar forced a
glass of milk or morsel of bread upon her, and
scarcely slept ; and perhaps in few things did
her want of dignity and self-control appear
more strongly than in the vehement reproaches
she poured forth upon the insufficiency of her
husband's medical attendants to save him, so
soon as her mind admitted the horrible idea
that he might die. Hours of the day she spent
in wandering to and fro in the gallery at the
far end of which his room was situated, and
all through the watches of two long nights
she had sat in a chair outside his door, with
ear strained to catch the indistinct muttering
of his delirium, until Dr Farquhar had compelled
her to abandon her position.

There was no faculty of self-sustainment in
her nature. No devotee or cloistered nun ever
spent moments of more intense and agonised
supplication than did Anna Methuen at the
foot of the altar in the little chapel, offering
to the God she ignorantly worshipped such
bribes of future service and award as might
have made the angels weep for pity.

She was of the temper that would have made
a pilgrimage on her knees to any shrine whence
healing was to be drawn, or have stripped her
beauty of every jewel she possessed, to propitiate
the unseen powers ; but the ravings of her
passionate despair, and the submissive prayers
of the devoted friends who watched him, were
alike in vain. There was no voice, nor any
that answered.

And then, as the awful crisis grew, and
Farquhar's set face told her what he could
not bring his lips to speak, the hard rock of
her heart was so far smitten, that some drops
of compunction filtered through. She had
loved him  yes ; but she had spoilt his life.
She had extorted a sacrifice so great that death
itself would have been more tolerable, and exasperated
the original wrong until the hourly
offence and persistent outrage almost exceeded it.

He had paid back her selfishness and spite
with an all but invincible magnanimity, which
again in turn served no purpose but to stimulate
the restless ingenuity of her efforts to overcome
his forbearance.

Her unconscious feeling: had been that there
was a lifetime before her for reparation of the
sins and cruelties of the past, whenever it suited
her temper to repair them, and that she could
always count on his generosity to receive her
submission  little knowing that Fate stood in
ambush to set this seal upon her future, and
turn all that was left of life into one vain
cry of despair and remorse.

It was in this mood of mind that the miserable
girl was lying, face downwards, on a couch
in her dressing-room, still fighting desperately
that fiercest and most exhausting of all warfares
 the struggle of human impotence against
the Divine "Will  when the door was softly
opened, and Dr Farquhar came in. He had
knocked at the door, but she had not heard
him. It was late in the afternoon of the sixth
day of Methuen's declared illness, and the early
darkness had almost closed around her.

At the sound of the opening door, Anna
started to her feet, and her panic-stricken face
asked the question she could not put into words.

No, my dear," the doctor said, with a kindness

so intimate and tender, that it was like
that of a good brother towards a sister, "I am
not come to tell you the worst news of all. Let
me light a candle : we can scarcely see each
other."

As he did so, she observed that his hand shook,
and she herself began to tremble violently.
Then she said, in the sharp accent of intolerable
pain 

You mean  he is dying  but not yet dead ?
Doctor, if there be a God in heaven to swear
by, I swear I will see him once again  alive ! "

He caught the folds of her gown to detain
her, for she had turned suddenly towards the
door.

Not yet," he answered soothingly  " weare
not wanted yet. He has recovered consciousness,
and the priests are eager to secure
their chance  not more eager than himself, I
grant."

He stopped, for the scene he had just quitted
had been enough to shake the most rigid self-control
; then went on again 

I have engaged Father Florentius to summon

US when  when all that is over  and we
must wait a few minutes, patiently. He is to
be depended upon, and  of necessity  the viaticum
must be a brief one."

Mrs Sylvestre herself would have approved
the accent in which he muttered these last
words.

Anna waited, erect, panting, listening, like
a greyhound in the leash. She was not a
woman to be coaxed or petted, rather worshipped
or besought ; but to Farquhar's eyes
the eagerness of her face was exquisitely pathetic.
He could not help making some attempt
to relieve the terrible tension of her feelings.

"It is something," he said, "at such times
as these to know that we have loved withall
our heart and soul, and left no jot or tittle
of our duty unfulfilled."

He was going on with what soothing commonplaces
occurred to his mind, when she broke
from him with a sudden bitter cry.

For mercy's sake don't try to comfort me ! "
she said ; "it is like burning my flesh with
red-hot irons ! " And then she began to walk

up and down the room, wringing her hands
in a frenzy of despair that was terrible to
witness.

"There is no God!" she cried; "the world
is devil-governed, or no creature would be made
to bear such misery as mine ! Go back to him
it is a crime, a disgrace, to let him die !  these
priests are stealing our last chance ! "

Then, softening into appeal, and stopping
before him with clasped hands  " Oh ! if you
would let me see him he should not die ; I
would hold him so tight that his soul could
not escape. Philip ! "

As if in answer to the appeal, footsteps approached
the door. Anna flung it open, and
confronted Father Florentius.

At last ! " she cried. " You have come to
fetch me. Let us go ! " And then she looked
into his face, no longer sweet and benign, but
white and stern with restrained anguish, and all
the passionate intense life faded out of her own.

Do not speak ! " she said, and there was
something awful in the strained tension of her
woe  " do not speak ! I will not hear what you

have come to say. Let us go  I will see with
my own eyes. He is not dead ! "

She advanced a step towards the door, and
then nature failed. She threw up her arms
with a convulsive gesture, staggered, and would
have fallen to the ground, if the priest had not
sprung forward and caught her in his arms.

"It is a merciful oblivion," he said, as he
lifted the girl and placed her on the couch. " Do
not," he added, addressing Dr Farquhar, "be in
too great a hurry to bring her back to a knowledge
of her misery."

All is over ? " asked the doctor, huskily,
"and he did not mention her?"

All is over ! " answered the priest, crossing
himself, " and he did not mention her." He
stopped, and then added with an effort  "It
was evident there was something on his mind
he desired with intense anxiety to express, but
it was in vain ; he could not make himself
understood, and he endured God's will implicitly
 to the end."

His face worked for a moment with uncontrollable
feeling.

A light has gone out to-days' he said solemnly,
after he had recovered his firmness,
"which was set on a hill, and showed farther
than most men knew : also it has warmed many
hearts."

He turned towards the couch again, and
looked at Anna.

Poor soul ! It will be hard to comfort that
bruised heart ! "

Dr Farquhar projected his under lip and
remained silent, busying himself in applying
restoratives to the senseless girl. His sympathies
went out very strongly towards Lady
Methuen.

I leave her in safe hands," continued Florentius,
" and I return to town almost immediately.
I have an engagement tomorrow, early,
which must be met; but I come back for the
funeral. You will let me know in time?"

Farquhar nodded assent, his own voice not
being perfectly under control, and the two men
shook hands and parted.

Chapter XLVII.

Intervals in their succession
Are measured by the living thought alone,
And grow or wane with its intensity."

J. Newman.

Three days afterwards, that which remained
of Philip Methuen  the last scion of a now
extinct race  was laid beside his ancestors in
the vault beneath the chancel of the chapel.

The requiem mass was as solemn and impressive
as the skill, resources, and devotion
of Father Florentius could make it ; and the
church was filled to overflowing, not only with
personal friends of the dead man, but with a
mixed crowd of mourners from the neighbouring
towns and villages, whose unfeigned grief and
discouragement were convincing proofs of the
extent and value of his silent work amongst
them.

VOL. III. E.

When they had dispersed, Sir Walter Earle,
and a few other men who were more immediately
connected with the Methuen family, stood
for a few moments looking down into the vault,
which was filled to the level of the chancel
stones by flowers of exquisite beauty, woven
into the wreaths and crosses which are fast
becoming a point of mere conventional routine,
mixed with humble posies of laurustinus and
rue, or scanty bunches of snowdrops and Christmas
roses,  the heart-tribute of some of the
sorrowing poor. Immediately on the coffin-lid
itself had been laid a cross of white violets
of magnificent proportions, so admirably framed,
and the blossoms so firmly and closely welded
together, that it had almost the consistency of
stone.

It had only been received late that morning,
and was sent by the Abbe de Salve, from the
Seminary of St Sulpice  " To his dearly beloved
son in Christ  Philip Methuen."

It seems to me only the other day," said the
baronet, *that some of us here were first introduced
to Philip Methuen by his uncle. I

remember, as I daresay you all do, the old
man's covert pride and satisfaction in his new
heir, and I thought myself that a finer young
fellow, one better equipped, both in body and
mind, for the battle of life, I had never seen."

There was a low murmur of assent ; but
at the same moment Father Florentius approached
the group, to apologise, with that
winning courtesy which always conquered the
goodwill of strangers, for the lack of hospitality
in not asking them to return to the
house, but Lady Methuen's condition was such
that it was not desirable for any guest to cross
the threshold.

When they had left the chapel, being accompanied
by him to the door, Florentius returned
once more to the interior, and stood for a few
minutes looking down into the open vault. Perhaps
the men whose vocation cuts them off from
the most intimate relations of life which bind
others to the future of the race, are most
susceptible to the strong claims of friendship,
slaking a natural thirst at this well of consolation.
Any way, as this man looked into

Philip Methuen's grave, he acknowledged to
himself that when he turned away from it,
and faced the world again, it would be with a
deeper sense of pain and loss than had ever
come to him before  a secret anguish scarcely
to be appeased, although it might be transmuted
into incessant prayers and masses for the dead.

The sudden and unexpected sound of a footfall
on the steps entering the chapel, and approaching
in the direction where he stood,
caused him to start from his abstraction and
face round upon his intruder.

Father Florentius possessed the faculty of a
royal memory  he never forgot a face he had
once seen nor a name that he had heard  and
he recognised immediately in the tall, stiff,
black-robed figure before him the kinswoman
who had stood at the altar by Anna Trevelyan's
side upon her wedding-day. In spite of his
instinctive displeasure at what appeared to him
an unauthorised intrusion, some recognition was
necessary. He bowed stiffly.

I believe I have the honour of speaking to
Mrs Sylvestre ? " he said.

Mrs Sylvestre, standing rigidly erect, and
with her back towards the emblazoned altar,
on which the candles still burned in the lustrous
gloom, suffered her eyes to traverse his
dignified figure from head to foot with a certain
grim investigating discourtesy, and then
she glanced down into the open vault. He
observed that, as she did so, her face softened
a little.

*your memory serves you well," was her
answer ; " I am Mrs Sylvestre, and I have done
violence both to my feelings and my principles
in seeking you in  in this place. But I have
been turned back by lackeys from the door of
my niece's house, of which I am given to un-stand
that you are the provisional master. I
come, therefore, to ask you personally whether
you presume to deny me admission to Lady
Methuen ? "

"On the contrary," he said, " if you are
come, as no doubt you are, to try and console
the broken-hearted, and break down the barrier
of her despair, I wish you God-speed, and will
take you to her myself. Only  such is her

state of mind that it would tax the tenderness
of a mother, however tender."

I will do my best, and accept the doubt
you imply without resenting it. For I own
my heart has never been softened towards
Anna Trevelyan till now ; but the one saving
spot in her nature was that she loved a man
better than herself, and this man has lost his
life in a way that might well try the faith and
patience of the best amongst us."

Father Florentius remained silent.

You will not commit yourself to an opinion,"
she said. 'philip Methuen's death is a deplorable
event, and the onus of it lies heavily on the
head of those who invited and encouraged him
to put himself in the way of danger. If there
is one woman more miserable to-day than the
poor, desperate, widowed girl he has left behind
him, it must surely be Honour Aylmer ! She
might be forgiven, if she prayed God that she
might die."

They were slowly walking together towards
the house, Florentius listening with an air
of respectful attention to the intense incisive

speech of his companion, but still preserving
silence. Presently she stood still, and looked
him full in the face.

"You profess," she said, "to have been this
man's friend  under ties of special fellow-feeling
 have you no sense of resentment
against the selfishness and folly which have
brought him to an untimely grave ? "

"Untimely!" he repeated. "So we speak;
but do you think that the events of life take
God at the surprise ? or that the breath which
He breathes into our souls is ever surrendered
otherwise than at His command ? This young
man's course was fulfilled : the work accomplished
which had been given him to do.
When the soldier is called off the field, it is
because the battle is done."

She glanced at him curiously; his manner
was at once so quiet and convinced. "Short
service means short pay," was her answer ; " oris
the heavenly award the same for striplings as
for veterans ? "

He smiled. " That is a natural mistake weare
all apt to fall into  to suppose that time is

measured on the same lines in the immaterial
world as with us. Its standard of chronology
is according to the energy of thought  the
concentration of life  the resolution of purpose
and of will. In this sense Philip Methuen was
older than many old men."

Have you offered these consolations to his
widow ? "

Alas ! poor child, I should speak to her in
an unknown tongue. It will be for your woman's
wit to devise some word or thought of
alleviation."

When they had reached the door of Anna's
room, Florentius said, *' Knock, and enter without
waiting for permission, or she may refuse
to see you."

Mrs Sylvestre did as she was told, and in
another moment she was standing within the
darkened room, straining her eyes to distinguish
the figure of her niece. It was no
wonder that she did not see her at first, for
the windows were darkened, shutting out the
mild shining of the winter sun, and the girl
in her clinging black garments was lying on

her couch, with all the glory of her neglected
hair flowing loose about her shoulders. A
striking proof of the abandonment of her grief
lay in the fact that she was insensible to the
circumstances of personal discomfort and relief.
She had not taken off her clothes from the
hour when the news of her husband's death
struck her to the earth, nor had she suffered
a servant to enter her room to renew her fire
or bring her food.

The temperature struck cold even on Mrs
Sylvestre's well-trained perceptions, and the
aspect of Anna, wan, dishevelled, with the
gleam of despair, almost of frenzy, in her distended
eyes, as she sprang to her feet to resent
the unauthorised intrusion, produced an effect
on her mind such as she would scarcely have
believed it possible for her to experience.

You ! " cried Anna, and her voice was harsh
and unnatural, *' you ! are you come to mock
and insult me ?  to tell me that I am not more
miserable than I deserve ? "

My poor girl ! even I am not so hard as
that,"  her voice shook with the unaccustomed

strain of pity and sympathy  '' if sou will let
me, I will love you from this day forward !
As for comfort  God knows, I have none to
offer you ! "

Perhaps no words that she could have spoken
would have grated less on the sore exasperated
mind of her hearer, to whom consolation seemed
only an outrage and offence. The look of tenderness
in her aunt's face transformed it for a
moment into an expression that recalled the
beloved, never-to-be-forgotten father of her
childhood ; also she was ready to sink under
the protracted tension of her misery, and of
abstinence from food and rest.

There was a moment of instinctive doubt and
holding back, and then she had tottered forward
with a piteous little wail, to be caught for the
first time in Mrs Sylvestre's arms and pressed
against her breast.

It is difficult to gauge the depths of human
misery ; but perhaps even the grief of Anna
Methuen, with all its aggravations, was not
greater than that which bowed to the dust

the soul of Isabel Earle, as she watched the
gradual quickening of life and hope and tender
gratitude towards God and her friends in her
dearly beloved Honour.

Every step which she took towards recovery,
and every little indication of renewed interest
in the affairs of the outside world  her sweet
thankfulness, her winning cheerfulness  had each
and all the power of inflicting a separate pang.

How would it ever be possible to communicate
that terrible secret, which seemed to enclose
in it the very elements of destruction?
Would Honour, who was only just now retracing
her feeble steps from death's dark valley,
hear it and live ? At times Miss Earle felt an
almost despairing hope that the news might
reach her in some indirect way  as though
a bird of the air should carry the matter ; and
again, the fear seized her lest any chance word
or look should reveal that to which nothing
but her tenderness would be equal. One circumstance
made concealment easier, though it
seemed to her full of poignant pathos  Honour
never mentioned Philip Methuen. It was as

though she had accepted that solemn interview
as the seal of future separation ; but that
he was often in her thoughts, and even caused
the expressive changes of her sweet face  but
little marred by the disease through which she
had been so skilfully nursed  was evident to
Miss Earle's ceaseless and tender observation.
And in this way two months elapsed, and still
so close was the watch kept, and so great
the loyalty of all around  Miss Earle had succeeded
in keeping back from Honour Aylmer
the knowledge of Philip Methuen s death, and
each day and hour as it passed made the task
more difficult and the result more formidable.

Methuen Place was shut up, and Mrs Sylvestre
had gone abroad with Anna. Honour
was permitted to know the former fact, and
had naturally drawn from it her own sorrowful
but tenderly resigned conclusions, setting her
face with a firmness she had never attained
before to the idea of that complete renunciation
of all intercourse, which he had always
held as a duty.

But in spite of all precautions, the blow was

finally dealt at unawares, and not by Miss
Earle's careful hands.

Honour s convalescence was now so far confirmed,
that she had resumed most of her usual
habits. The spring was late and ungenial :
when the weather improved she, with Miss
Earle and Adrian, was going away for a
lengthened tour; but at present, Dr Farquhar
said, invalids were better off in their own
homes with all their comforts around them.

On the occasion of which we speak, she was
sitting as she used to sit of old, in Oliver's
room, sketching at a table with her back towards
him, and each was chatting to the other
with more of the old familiar kindness than
had marked their intercourse for some time
before her illness.

Oliver was talking with great animation of
a piece of music he had composed for the
piano  a funeral march  which had been received
with great acceptance by his friends,
so as to suggest to him the idea of publication.
But I own my weakness, Honour," he said,
with a forced laugh ; "I am afraid of the

critics ! If they mauled me, I should feel it
terribly. Had poor Methuen "  (death had destroyed
animosity)  and then he stopped with
a terrible abruptness, and a look of fear and
self-reproach in his face, which was alone a
revelation.

Poor Methuen ! " We all know the tone in
which the living vaunt their superiority over
the dead.

Honour had risen and turned upon him, and
the sight of her livid and stricken face brought
the miserable Oliver, with a painful effort, crawling
to her feet. His excitement and despair
left nothing for his trembling tongue to tell.

She did not swoon nor weep, but stood erect,
as rigid and motionless as if turned to stone ;
only the questions which fell like drops of
molten lead from her ashy lips  when, where,
and how  so wrought upon the brain of the
other, that he answered then with a mechanical
accuracy, as if under the pressure of the mesmeric
trance.

Had she been of another temper, the shock
might have turned her brain, and madness, or

death itself, supervened ; but her nature was
too chastened and tender for such extremity.
But her heart sank, with that profound, speechless,
unutterable weight which comes to those
whose power of resilience has received its deathblow.
The tide of renewed health, which had
been flowing through her veins, chilled and
slackened; and the pulses, which had almost
regained their former regular elastic beat, leaped
and fluctuated and faltered down to tremor and
feebleness.

That he had died by the visitation of God
would have taxed her fortitude to its utmost
reach, but still not have exceeded it ; but that he
had died at her hands  poisoned by her guilty
kisses, because she had not courage to forego
the sight of him when dying,  the burden of
that crime made life too hard to be borne.

She lived two years after the blow had fallen ;
but it was as much her death-blow as if it had
killed her instantaneously.

The chief part of the time was spent in that
weary search for health in other lands, under
warmer skies, which adds so much weariness and

disappointment to the sad business of protracted
dying; Miss Earle watching the sure decline
with a heart of agony beneath her steadfast
constancy.

As Honour's strength failed more and more,
she implored to be taken home to Earlescourt, a
request which was yielded to at once, with that
facility which means that hope has died out
even in our nearest and dearest. During the
interval that remained to her of life, her sweetness
and unselfishness, and constant care for
others in their relations with herself, never
failed, but rather shone brighter and brighter
towards the perfect day. And with all these
endearing qualities was mixed a humility infinitely
pathetic, as of one self-condemned and
utterly unworthy of the goodness of which she
was the object.

A few weeks before her death, she asked
Adrian if he would do her one last service, in
memory of the affection which had never failed
between them.

I would go to the ends of the earth for you,
Honour," was his answer.

''I do not wish you to go quite so far as
that," she said, with a little smile ; " but go far
enough to find Anna Methuen and bring her tome,
that I may confess and win her pardon
before I die.  I think I cannot die unless "

He had not much difficulty in his quest.
Anna was again abroad, but this time Mrs
Auchester was her travelling companion ; and
Adrian, who found them at Mentone, was welcomed
by that lady with a cordiality which he
owed to her knowledge of the fact that he had
been one of Philip Methuen's friends.

Adrian was sadly aware that if he were to
accomplish the object of his journey, he had no
time to lose, and yet he felt an almost invincible
repugnance to introduce or urge the matter
upon Anna's hard and indifferent attention.
At last he simply put it to her thus  "Honour
was dying, and earnestly desired to see her once
more. Would she not consent to come home ? "

And then as he looked at her his heart and
his glance quickened, and burning words of personal
suasion and appeal rose to his tongue ; but
he kept them under, though not without diffi-

VOL. III. s

cult. He had thought that as their eyes
encountered, a soft crimson flush passed over the
delicate smooth pallor of Anna's cheek. But
this was not the time to speak of love or hope.

I will not come home," she answered, and
her eyes darkened and narrowed as she spoke.
Honour Aylmer has been dying before to-day,
and I would not save her life, or ease her mind,
if I could do it by the lifting up of my right
hand. Tell her to give me back what she took
away  ah ! you are cruel  I will not bear it ! 
only say, she cannot be more miserable than I
would have her."

Was he to go home with such a message as
this, to crush the tender broken heart ? In his
perplexity and distress he applied to Lord Sainsbury,
who had lately joined his party, knowing
how very close and intimate the relations between
him and Philip Methuen had been.

I will speak to her," was Sainsbury's answer,
when Adrian, with great delicacy and tact, had
stated the case and besought his interference ;
"but it will probably have no effect, and  it
was an action which needs great magnanimity

to forgive. It made this world the poorer fora
great many of us."

The next day he fulfilled his promise.

Anna," he said, as they were pacing up and
down the sea-wall together in the clear brightness
of the early morning, " Adrian Earle told
me last night the business which has brought
him here. My dear, you must go back to
England, for no other purpose than to give
Honour Aylmer the forgiveness she wants."

Anna turned and looked at him, with her
eyes full of confused anger and pain.

As he seemed to wait for her answer, she
said at last, in a smothered voice, " You hurt
me ! do not speak of it. I will never forgive
her ! "

You must forgive her ! " he repeated. " You
cannot let her go down into the grave unhappy
this woman above all other."

"Above all other women, this is she whom I
would make miserable in life or in death ! "
was her low-breathed answer. " You do not
know ! "

I know more than you think, and can

understand the state of your mind ; but that
devil's whisper must be disregarded. Do this
thing as an act of grace to cover any sins of
which your secret heart may be aware  as
against your husband. We are all guilty of
such, even towards those we love better than
our life."

She made no answer, and for a few minutes
they walked in silence; then he resumed  "We
will all go home together. I, too, have found
it hard to forgive, but  I understand  it is the
sense of what she has done that has broken her
heart. She gives her life as forfeit for his  can
she do more ? "

Anna yielded so far under this pressure as
to consent to see Honour ; and her changed
aspect, both of body and mind, moved her
more than she had believed possible. Her
physical weakness and pathetic humility were
such as to be exquisitely distasteful to Anna
to witness, and she cut short the painful interview
as much as possible.

I will forgive you in a sense," she said,
standing beside Honour's bed, in the magna

few days afterwards Honour passed painlessly
out of life, and as soon as the first shock
of tender pain was over, Adrian resolved to
throw himself once more into the excitement
of adventurous travel. The look that he had
seen in Anna's eyes when she had last spoken
of Philip daunted him ; if she would ever consent
to come to him it would not be yet.

She was the last person to whom he went to
make his adieux.

You are really going away ? " she asked.
For how long ? " and she looked at him with
her proud direct gaze, in which there was nota
touch of embarrassment.

"How long?" he answered,  "for ever, I
think ; that is  till you bid me come home."

She got up from lier seat and began to
walk slowly up and down the room after a
habit she had adopted  it was the formal
colourless room of Kensington Vicarage, almost
unchanged from the hour when she had first
beheld it.

Anna had never yet returned to Methuen
Place : she said it would kill her to cross the
threshold of the door and enter one of the
familiar rooms.

Adrian sat and watched her in eager silence,
thinking of the time, two years ago, when she
had paced the floor as now, debating with her
conscience and her heart. Then what he had
dared to offer was shame, to be mitigated by
love and revenge ; now honour and bliss  the
wine and roses of life  were in his gift, would
she but believe it and put it to the proof. Even
now, when hope had grown weary and impatient,
was it possible that there was a chance
for him? that the proud, pale, forlorn-looking
woman  dearer and more beautiful than ever 
was once more hesitating if she should accept
his devotion ?

He rose and approached her, his face alight
with excitement.

*' Stop I " she said, stepping back and putting
her hands behind her, " let me speak first. You
still love me, you poor Adrian ? You would
like me to promise that I would be your wife ? "
Her eyes looked straight into his, but there was
no blush on her face.

I have loved you, Anna," was his answer,
since the first hour we met in Methuen Park,
and I shall love you to my last. Marry me if
you will, but if you refuse no other woman shall
ever be my wife."

I will be your wife," she said, quite gravely
and simply, "if you will have me on my own
terms. I do not love you, but I am grateful to
you for your faithfulness, and  I cannot live
alone ! They think I have forgotten, but  I
have not forgotten ! Often at nights I dash
myself on the floor, and lie there weeping and
groaning for Philip. He is before my eyes day
and night, till I could cry out to be relieved of
the thought of him." She put her hands before
her eyes, and when she removed them he saw

lier cheeks were wet with tears. " I  I would
forget Philip if I could," she added; "you will
help me to do this ? "

Adrian turned a little pale, and for a moment
he hesitated. Then he looked at her again, and
love conquered pain and misgiving. "What
you offer me, Anna, is an ordeal that a man
might well hesitate to accept ; but I will risk it
and take you, dear, even on your own hard
terms. You have not spared my feelings." He
did not approach her, though his heart yearned
to take her at last into his arms, but continued
to gaze at her with a touch of tender derision in
his face.

His pride and reticence produced their effect.
The colour came into her cheek, and she averted
her head.

"I have been too honest," she said; "you
would have liked better to have been deceived.
I ask you to take me and help me to conquer a
pain I cannot bear, and by which I am worn
out, but  you are not bound to help me, Adrian."

He was kneeling at her feet by this time,
with his arms about the tall, lithe, black-robed

figure, and his face raised passionately to hers.
I am bound, body and soul," he breathed.
"I cannot help myself  kiss me this once,
Anna, my own, at last ! "

She sighed profoundly, and turned away her
eyes from him, but without releasing herself
from his embrace. Then slowly turning again
towards him, she put both hands upon his
shoulders, bowed her superb head, and touched
his lips with hers.

