Chapter I.

The mansion-house of Dalrulzian stands on the lower
slope of a hill, which is crowned with a plantation of
Scotch firs. The rugged outline of this wood, and the
close-tufted mass of the tree-tops, stand out against
the pale East, and protect the house below and the
"policy," as the surrounding grounds are called in
Scotland ; so that though all the winds are sharp in
that northern county, the sharpest of all is tempered.
The house itself is backed by lighter foliage  a feathery
grove of birches, a great old ash or two, and some
tolerably well-grown, but less poetical, elms. It is a
house of distinctively local character, with the curious,
peaked, and graduated gables peculiar to Scotch rural
architecture, and thick walls of the roughest stone,
washed with a weather-stained coat of yellow-white.

VOL. I. A

Two wings, each presenting a gabled end to the avenue,
and a sturdy block of building retired between them,
all strong, securely built, as if hewn out of the rock,
formed the homely house. It had little of the beauty
which a building of no greater pretensions would probably
have had in England. Below the wings, and in
front of the hall-door, with its two broad flat stone
steps, there was nothing better than a gravelled square,
somewhat mossy in the corners, and marked by the
trace of wheels ; but round the south wing there swept
a sort of terrace, known by no more dignified name
than that of " The Walk," from which the ground
sloped downwards, broken at a lower level by the
formal little parterres of an old-fashioned flower-garden.
The view from the Walk was of no very striking beauty,
but it had the charm of breadth and distance  a soft
sweep of undulating country, with an occasional
glimpse of a lively trout-stream gleaming here and
there out of its covert of crags and trees, and a great,
varied, and ever-changing world of sky,  not a prospect
which captivated a stranger, but one which,
growing familiar day by day and year by year, was
henceforth missed like something out of their lives by
the people who, being used to it, had learned to love
that silent companionship of nature. It was the sort
of view which a man pauses, not to look at but to see,
even when he is pacing up and down his library

thinking of John Thomson's demand for farm improvements,
or, heavier thought, about his balance at his
bankers : and which solaces the eyes of a tired woman,
giving them rest and refreshment through all the
vicissitudes of life. People sought it instinctively in
moods of reflection, in moments of watching, at morning
and at twilight, whenever any change was going
on in that great exhaustless atmosphere, bounded by
nothing but the pale distance of the round horizon, 
and when was it that there was no change in that
atmosphere ?  clouds drifting, shadows flying, gleams
of light like sudden revelations affording new knowledge
of earth and heaven.

On the day on which the reader is asked first to
visit this house of Dalrulzian, great things were happening
in it. It was the end of one regime and the
beginning of another. The master of the house, a
.young man who had been brought up at a distance,
was coming home, and the family which had lived in
it for years was taking its leave of the place.

The last spot which they visited and on which they
lingered was the Walk. When the packing was over,
the final remnants gathered up, the rooms left in that
melancholy bareness into which rooms relapse when
the prettiness and familiarities of habitation have
been swept away, the remaining members of the family
came out with pensive faces, and stood together gazing

somewhat wistfully upon the familiar scene. They
had looked on many that were more fair. They were
going to a landscape of greater beauty further south 
brighter, richer, warmer in foliage and natural wealth ;
but all this did not keep a certain melancholy out of
their eyes. The younger of the party, Nora Barrington,
cried a little, her lip quivering, a big tear or
two running over. " It is foolish to feel it so
much," her mother said. " How is it one feels it so
much ? I did not admire Dalrulzian at all when
we came."

Out of perversity," said her husband ; but he did
not smile even at the cleverness of his own remark.

Nora regarded her father with a sort of tender rage.
It is all very well for you," she said ; " one place is
the same as another to you. But I was such a little
thing when we came here. To you it is one place
among many ; to me it is home."

"If you take it so seriously, Nora, we shall have
you making up to young Erskine for the love of his
house."

Edward," cried Mrs Barrington in a tone of reproof,
I feel disposed to cry too. We have had a great
many happy days in it. But don't let old Piolls see
you crying, Nora. Here he is coming to say good-bye.
When do you expect Mr Erskine, Rolls ? You must
tell him we were sorry not to see him ; but he will

prefer to find his house free when he returns. I hope
he will be as happy at Dalrulzian as we have been
since we came here."

Wherefore would he no' be happy, mem ? He is
young and weel off* : and you'll no' forget it's his own
house."

EoUs had stepped out from one of the windows to
take farewell of the family, whom he was sorry to lose,
yet anxious to get rid of. There was in him the satisfied
air of the man who remains in possession, and
whose habits are unaffected by the coming and going
of ephemeral beings such as tenants. The Barring-tons
had been at Dalrulzian for more than a dozen
years ; but what was that to the old servant who had
seen them arrive and saw them go away with the same
imperturbable aspect ? He stood relieved against the
wall in his well-brushed black coat, concealing a little
emotion under a watchful air of expectancy just
touched with impatience. Rolls had condescended
more or less to the English family all the time they
had been there, and he was keeping up his role to the
last, anxious that they should perceive how much he
wanted to see them off the premises. Mrs Barrington,
who liked everybody to like her, was vexed by this
little demonstration of indifference ; but the Colonel
laughed. *' I hope Mr Erskine will give you satisfaction,"
he said. " Come, Nora, you must not take root

in the Walk. Don't you see that Rolls wishes us
away ? "

"Dear old Walk !" cried Nora ; " dear Dalrulzian !"
She rolled the r in the name, and turned the z into a
y (which is the right way of pronouncing it), as if she
had been to the manner born ; and though an English
young lady, had as pretty a fragrance of northern
Scotland in her voice as could be desired. Rolls did
not trust himself to look at this pretty figure lingering,
drying wet eyes, until she turned round upon him suddenly,
holding out her hands : " The moment we are
off, before we are down the avenue, you will be wishing
us back," she cried with vehemence ; " you can't
deceive me. You would like to cry too, if you were
not ashamed," said the girl, with a smile and a sob,
shaking the two half-unwilling hands she had seized.

Me cry ! I've never done that since I came toman's
estate," cried Rolls indignantly, but after a suspicious
pause. " As for wishing you back. Miss Nora,
wishing you were never to go,  wishing you would

grow to the Walk, as the Cornel says " This was

so much from such a speaker, that he turned, and
added in a changed tone, " You'll have grand weather
for your journey, Cornel. But you must mind the twa
ferries, and no' be late starting,"  a sudden reminder
which broke up the little group, and made an end of
the scene of leave-taking. It was the farewell volley

of friendly animosity with which EoUs put a stop to
his own perverse inclination to be soft-hearted over
the departure of the English tenants. " He could not
let us go without that parting shot," the "Cornel"
said, as he put his wife into the jingling " coach" from
the station, which, every better vehicle having been
sent off beforehand, was all that remained to carry
them away.

The Barrington during their residence at Dalrulzian
had been received into the very heart of the rural
society, in which at first there had sprung up a half-grudge
against the almost unknown master of the
place, whose coming was to deprive them of a family
group so pleasant and so bright. The tenants themselves,
though their turn was over, felt instinctively
as if they were expelled for the benefit of our intruder,
and entertained this grudge warmly. " Mr Erskine
might just as well have stayed away," Nora said.
"He can't care about it as we do." Her mother
laughed and chid, and shared the sentiment. "But
then it's ' his ain place,' as old Rolls says." " And I
daresay he thinks there is twice as much shooting,"
said the Colonel, complacently : " I did, when we
came. He'll be disappointed, you'll see." This gave
him a faint sort of satisfaction. In Nora's mind there
was a different consolation, which yet was not a consolation,
but a mixture of expectancy and curiosity.

and that attraction which surrounds an unconscious
enemy. She was going to make acquaintance with
this supplanter, this innocent foe, who was turning
them out of their home because it was his home  the
most legitimate reason. She was about to pay a series
of visits in the country, to the various neighbours, who
were all fond of her and reluctant to part with her.
Perhaps her mother had some idea of the vague
scheme of match-making which had sprung up in some
minds, a plan to bring the young people together ; for
what could be more suitable than a match between
John Erskine, the young master of Dulrulzian, who
knew nothing about his native county, and Nora
Barrington, who was its adopted child, and loved the
old house as much as if she had been born in it?
Mrs Barrington, perhaps, was not quite unconscious of
this plan, though not a word had been said by any of
these innocent plotters. For indeed what manner of
man young Erskine was, and whether he was worthy
of Nora, or in the least likely to please her, were
things altogether unknown to the county, where he
had not been seen for the last dozen years.

Anyhow he was coming as fast as the railway could
carry him, while Nora took leave of her parents at the
station. The young man then on his way was not
even aware of her existence, though she knew all about
him  or rather about his antecedents ; for about John

Erskine himself no one in the neighbourhood had
much information. He had not set foot in the county
since he was a boy of tender years and unformed character,
whose life had been swallowed up in that of an
alien family, of pursuits and ideas far separated from
those of his native place. It almost seemed, indeed,
as if it were far from a happy arrangement of Providence
which made young John Erskine the master of
this small estate in the North ; or rather, perhaps, to
mount a little higher, we might venture to say that it
was a very embarrassing circumstance, and the cause
of a great deal of confusion in this life that Henry
Erskine, his father, should have died when he did.
Whatever might be the consequences of that step to
himself, to others it could scarcely be characterised but
as a mistake. That young man had begun to live an
honest, wholesome life, as a Scotch country gentleman
should ; and if he had continued to exist, his wife
would have been like other country gentlemen's wives,
and his child, brought up at home, would have grown
like the heather in adaptation to the soil. But when
he was so ill advised as to die, confusion of every kind
ensued. The widow was young, and Dalrulzian was
solitary. She lived there, devoutly and conscientiously
doing her duty, for some years. Then she went
abroad, as everybody does, for that change of air and
scene which is so necessary to our lives. And in

Switzerland she met a clergyman, to whom change had
also been necessary, and who was " taking the duty "
in a mountain caravansary of tourists. What opportunities
there are in such a position ! She was pensive
and he was sympathetic. He had a sister, whom she
invited to Dalrulzian, " if she did not mind winter in
the North ; " and Miss Kingsford did not mind winter
anywhere, so long as it was for her brother's advantage.
The end was that Mrs Erskine became Mrs Kingsford,
to the great though silent astonishment of little John,
now eleven years old, who could not make it out.
They remained at Dalrulzian for a year or two, for Mr
Kingsford rather liked the shooting, and the power of
asking a friend or two to share it. But at the end of
that time he got a living  a good living ; for events,
whether good or evil, never come singly ; and, taking
John's interests into full consideration, it was decided
that the best thing to be done was to let the house.
Everybody thought this advisable, even John's old
grand-aunt in Dunearn, of whom his mother was more
afraid than of all her trustees put together. It was
with fear and trembling that she had ventured to unfold
this hesitating intention to the old lady. "Mr
Kingsford thinks "  and then it occurred to the timid
little woman that Mr Kingsford's opinion as to the
disposal of Henry Erskine's house might not commend
itself to Aunt Barbara. " Mr Monypenny says," she

added, faltering ; then stopped and looked with alarm
in Miss Erskine's face.

What are you frightened for, my dear ? Mr Kings-ford
has a right to his opinion, and Mr Monypenny
is a very discreet person, and a capital man of business."

Tl;iey think  it would be a good thing for  John ;
for, Aunt Barbara, he is growing a big boy,  we
must be thinking of his education "

That's true," said the old lady, with the smile that
was the grimmest thing about her. It was very uphill
work continuing a laboured explanation under
the light of this smile.

And he cannot  be educated  here."

Wherefore no ? I cannot see that, my dear. His
father was educated in Edinburgh, which is what I
suppose you mean by lure. Many a fine fellow's been
bred up at Edinburgh College, I can tell you ; more
than you'll find in any other place I ever heard of.
Eh ! what ails you at Edinburgh ? It's well known to
be an excellent place for schools  schools of all kinds."

Yes, Aunt Barbara. But then you know, John : 
they say he will have such a fine position  a long
minority and a good estate  they say he should have
the best education that  England can give'*

You'll be for sending him to that idol of the
English," said the old lady, " a public school, as they
call it. As if all our Scotch schools from time immemorial

hadn't been public schools ! Well, and after
that "

"It is only an idea," said little Mrs Kingsford,
humbly  " not settled, nor anything like settled ; but
they say if I were to let the house "

Aunt Barbara's grey eyes flashed ; perhaps their were
slightly green, as ill-natured people said. But she fired
her guns in the air, so to speak, and once more grimly
smiled. " I saw something very like all this in your
wedding cards, Mary," she said. "No, no, no apologies.
I will not like to see a stranger in my father's house ;
but that's no-thing, that's no-thing. I will not say but
it's very judicious ; only you'll mind the boy's an
Erskine, and here he'll have to lead his life. Mind
and not make too much of an Englishman out of a
Scotch lad, for he'll have to live his life here."

Too much of an Englishman !" Mr Kingsford cried,
when this conversation was reported to him. " I am
afraid your old lady is an old fool, Mary. How could
he be too much of an Englishman ? Am / out of place
here ? Does not the greater breeding include the less ? "
he said, with his grand air. His wife did not always
quite follow his meaning, but she always believed in
it as something that merited understanding ; and she
was quite as deeply convinced as if she had understood.
And accordingly the house was let to Colonel Barrington,
who had not a " place " of his own, though his

elder brother had, and the Kingsfords " went South "
to their rectory, with which John's mother in particular
was mightily pleased. It was in a far richer country
than that which surrounded Dalrulzian,  a land flowing
with milk and cheese, if not honey,  full of foliage
and flowers. Mrs Kingsford, having been accustomed
only to Scotland, was very much elated with the luxuriant
beauty of the place. She spoke of " England " as
the travelled speak of Italy,  as if this climate of ours,
which we abuse so much, was paradise. She thought
the English " so frank, so open, so demonstrative. To
live in " the South " seemed the height of happiness to
her. Innocent primitive Scotch gentlewomen are prone
to talk in this way. Mr Kingsford, who knew better,
and who himself liked to compare notes with people
who winter in Italy, did what he could to check her
exuberance, but she was too simple to understand why.
John, her son, did not share her feelings at first.
John was generally confused and disturbed in his
mind by all that had happened. He had not got over
his wonder at the marriage, when he was carried off to
this new and alien home. He did not say much. There
was little opening by which he could communicate his
feelings. He could not disapprove, being too young ;
and now that Mr Kingsford was always there, the boy
had no longer the opportunity to influence his mother
as, young as he was, he had hitherto done  " tyrannise

over his mother," some people called it. All that was
over. Much puzzled, the boy was dropped back into
a properly subordinate position, which no doubt was
much better for him ; but it was a great change. Todo
him justice, he was never insubordinate; but he
looked at his mother's husband with eyes out of which
the perplexity never died. There was a permanent
confusion ever after in his sense of domestic relationships,
and the duty he owed to his seniors and superiors;
for he never quite knew how it was that Mr
Kingsford had become the master of his fate, though a
certain innate pride, as well as his love of his mother,
taught him to accept the yoke which he could not
throw off. Mr Kingsford was determined to do his
duty by John. He vowed when he gave the somewhat
reluctant, proud little Scotsman  feeling himself
at eleven too old to be kissed  a solemn embrace, that
he would do the boy " every justice." He should have
the best education, the most careful guardianship ; and
Mr Kingsford kept his word. He gave the boy an
ideal education from his own point of view. He
sent him to Eton, and, when the due time came, to
Oxford, and considered his advantage in every way ;
and it is needless to say, that as John grew up, the
sensation of incongruity, the wonder that was in his
mind as to this sudden interference with all the natural
arrangements of his life, died away. It came to be a

natural thing to him that Mr Kingsford should have
charge of his affairs. And he went home to the rectory
for the holidays to find now and then a new baby, but
all in the quiet natural way of use and wont, with no
longer anything that struck him as strange in his relationships.
And yet he was put out of the natural
current of his life. Boy as he was, he thought sometimes,
not only of special corners in the woods, and
turns of the stream, where he nibbled as a boy at the
big sports, which are the life of men in the country 
but above all, of the house, the landscape, the great
sweep of land and sky, of which, when he shut his
eyes, he could always conjure up a vague vision. He
thought of it with a sort of grudge that it was not
within his reach  keen at first, but afterwards very
faint and slight, as the boy's sentiments died away in
those of the man.

Meanwhile it was an excellent arrangement, who
could doubt, for John's interest  instead of keeping up
the place, to have a rent for it ; and he had the most
excellent man of business, who nursed his estate like
a favourite child ; so that when his minority was over,
and Colonel Barrington's lease out, John Erskine was ina
more favourable position than any one of his name
had been for some generations. The estate was small.
When his father died, exclusive of Mrs Erskine's
jointure, there was not much more than a thousand

a-year to come out of it ; and on fifteen hundred a-year
his father had thought himself very well off, and a
happy man. In the meantime, there had been accumulations
which added considerably to this income,
almost making up the sum which Mrs Kingsford enjoyed
for her life. And John had always been treated
at the rectory as a golden youth, happily exempted
from all the uncertainty and the need of making his
own way, which his stepfather announced, shaking his
head, to be the fate of his own boys. Her eldest son,
who was in 'such a different position," was a great pride
to Mrs Kingsford, even when it seemed to her half an
injury that her other children should have no share in
his happiness. But indeed she consoled herself by
reflecting, an eldest son is always in a very different
position ; and no elder brother could have been kinder
voluntarily undertaking to send Reginald to Eton,
which was a thing we never could have thought of
with no money," as soon as he came of age ; and in
every way comporting himself as a good son and
brother.

There were, however, points in this early training
which were bad for John. He acquired an exaggerated
idea of the importance of this position of his. He
was known both at school and college as a youth of
property, the representative of a county family. These
words mean more at Eton and Oxford than they require

to do at Edinburgh or St Andrews. And in
these less expensive precincts, Erskine of Dalrulzian
would have been known for what he was. Whereas in
the South " nobody knew anything about the dimensions
of his estate, or the limits of his income, and
everybody supposed him a young north - country
potentate, with perhaps a castle or two and unlimited
" moors,"  who would be an excellent fellow to
know as soon as he came into his own. This was
John's own opinion in all these earlier days of youth.
He did not know what his income was ; and had he
known, the figures would not have meant anything
particular to him. A thousand a-year seems to imply
a great deal of spending to a youth on an allowance
of three hundred ; and he accepted everybody's estimate
of his importance with pleased satisfaction.
After all the explanations which followed his coming
of age, he had indeed a touch of disenchantment and
momentary alarm, feeling the details to be less splendid
than he had expected. But Mr Monypenny evidently
considered them anything but insignificant  and a
man of his experience, the youth felt, was bound to
know. He had gone abroad in the interval between
leaving Oxford and coming " home " to take possession
of his kingdom. He was not dissipated or extravagant,
though he had spent freely. He was a good specimen
of a young man of his time  determined that every-vol.

I. B

thing about him should be in " good form," and very
willing to do his duty and be hon prince to his dependants.
And he anticipated with pleasure the life of a
country gentleman, such as he had seen it in his
mother's neighbourhood, and in several houses of his
college friends to which he had been invited. Sometimes,
indeed, it would occur to him that his recollections
of Dalrulzian were on a less extensive scale ; buta
boy's memory is always flattering to a home which
he has not seen since his earliest years. Thus it was
with a good deal of pleasant excitement that he set
out from Milton Magna, his stepfather's rectory, where
he had gone to see his mother and the children for a
week or two on his return from the Continent. The
season was just beginning; but John, full of virtue and*
hope, decided that he would not attempt to indulge in
the pleasures of the season. Far better to begin his
real life, to make acquaintance with his home and his
people," than to snatch a few balls and edge his way
through a few crowded receptions, and feel himself
nobody. This was not a thing which John much liked.
He had been somebody all his life. Easter had been
early that year, and everything was early. He stayed
in town a week or two, saw all that was going on at
the theatres, got all the last information that was to be
had at the club on parliamentary matters, waited a
day more " to see the pictures," and then set off on his

homeward way. He had everything a young man of
fortune requires, except a servant, for his habits were
independent. He had been "knocking about," and
there was no room at the rectory for such an appendage.
So he took his own ticket, and himself saw his
multifarious portmanteaus placed in the van which
was to go " through." There were a great many
mingled elements in his pleasure,  the satisfaction of
** coming to his kingdom ; " the pleasure of renewing
old associations, and taking his natural place ; the
excitement of novelty  for it would all be as new to
him, this home which he had not seen for a dozen
years, as if he had never been there before. From
thirteen to five-and-twenty, what a difference ! He
began to look about him with a new sensation as
the morning rose after that long night-journey, and
he felt himself approaching home.

CHAPTER 11.

Old Rolls had been butler at Dalrulzian since John
Erskine was a child. He had " stayed on " after Mrs
Erskine's second marriage with reluctance, objecting
seriously to a step-master at all, and still more to one
that was an " English minister ; " but the house had
many attractions for him. He liked the place; his
sister was the cook, a very stationary sort of woman,
who had the greatest disinclination to move. She was
a sort of human cat, large and smooth and good-natured,
almost always purring, satisfied with herself and all
who were moderately good to her ; and, as was natural,
she made the butler very comfortable, and was extremely
attentive to all his little ways. When Colonel
Barrington took the house, Rolls once more expressed
his determination to leave. " What for ? " said the
placid Bauby ; " the gentleman was keen to have a' the
servants  a' the servants that would bide." " A' the
servants ! there's so many of us," said Rolls, derisively.

There was indeed only himself, the cook, and one
housemaid ; the other, who had charge of John in his
earlier days, and still was attached to him more or
less, had gone with the family  and so, of course, had
Mrs Kingsford's maid. " We'll mak' a grand show in
the servants' hall  we're just a garrison," Rolls said.
We're plenty for a' the work there is the now," said
the mild woman, " and they'll bring some with them.
What ails ye to bide ? You're real well aff  and me
that kens exactly how you like your meat. Where
would you be studied as I study you ? You may just
be thankful it's in your power." " It was with the
Erskiness I took service," said Rolls. "I'm no sure
that I could put up with strangers, and them just travelling
English. Besides, I've never been clear that
service is my vocation. A kent family is one thing,
a foreign master another. Him and me would very
likely no get on  or them and me would no get on.
All went very well in the last reign. Hairy Erskine
was a gentleman, like all his forebears before him; but
how am I to tell who is this Cornel, or whatever they
ca' him  a man I never heard tell of before ? I'll give
them over the keys, and maybe I'll wait till they're
suited, but nobody can ask me to do more."

Hoot, Tammas ! " said his sister : which was the
highest height of remonstrance she ever reached. Notwithstanding
this, however, year after year Rolls had

stayed on." He was very distinct in pointing out to
the Cornel " the superiority of his native masters, and
the disadvantage to Scotland of having so many of the
travelling English' taking up the houses of the gentry;
but he was an excellent servant, and his qualities in
this way made up for his defects in the other  if, indeed,
those defects did not tell in his favour; for a
Scotch servant who is a character is, like a ghost, a
credit to any old and respectable house. The Barring-tons
were proud of old Rolls. They laid temptations
in his way and made him talk whenever they had
visitors; and his criticisms on the English, and the
opinions which he freely enunciated on all subjects,
had often kept the party in amusement. Rolls, however,
had not been able to defend himself against a
certain weakness for the children, specially for Nora,
who was very small when the family came to Dalrul-
tian, and whom he had brought up, as he flattered
himself, regretting much all the time that she was not
an Erskine and natural-born daughter of the house.
Rolls did not by any means see the departure of the
Barringtonss unmoved, notwithstanding that he hurried
them away. He stood for a long time looking after
the " coach," which was a sort of rude omnibus, as it
jolted down the avenue. The old servant stood in the
clear morning air, through which every creak of the
jingling harness and every jolt of the wheels sounded

SO distinctly, and the voice of Jock Beaton apostrophising
his worn-out horse, and watched the lingering
departure with feelings of a very mingled description.
There's cenis put to that chapter," he said to himself
aloud. " We're well rid of them." But he lingered as
long as the yellow panels could be seen gleaming
through the trees at the turn of the road, without any
of the jubilation in his face which he expressed in his
words. At that last turn, just when the "coach"
reached the highroad, something white was waved from
the window, which very nearly made an end of EoUs.
He uttered something which at first sounded like a sob,
but was turned into a laugh, so to speak, before it fell
into that tell-tale air which preserved every gradation
of sound. " It's that bit thing 1 " Rolls said, more sentimental
than perhaps he had ever been in his life. His
fine feeling was, however, checked abruptly. "You're
greeting' yourself, Tammas," said a soft round voice, interrupted
by sobs, over his shoulder. " Me greeting' ! "
he turned round upon her with a violence that, if
Bauby had been less substantial and less calm, would
have driven her to the other end of the house ; " I'm
just laughing' to see the nonsense you women-folk indulge
in : but it's pardonable in the case of a bit
creature like Miss Nora. And I allow they have a
right to feel it. Where will they find a bonnie place
like Dalrulzian, and next to nothing in the way of rent

or keeping up ? But I'm thankful myself' to see the
nest cleared out, and the real man in it. What are
you. whimpering about ? It's little you've seen of them,
aye in your kitchen." "Me seen little of them!"
cried Bauby, roused to a kind of soft indignation ;
the best part of an hour with the mistress every day of
my life, and as kind a sympathising woman ! There'll
be nae teddy now to order the dinners  and that's
a great responsibility, let alone anything else." " Go
away with your responsibility. I'll order your dinners,"
said Rolls. "Well," said Bauby, not without resignation,
" to be a servant, and no born a gentleman, you've
aye been awful' particular about your meat." And
she withdrew consoled, though drying her eyes, to
wonder if Mr John would be " awful' particular about
his meat," or take whatever was offered to him, after
the fashion of some young men. Meat, it must be explained,
to Bauby Rolls meant food of all descriptions
not only that which she would herself have correctly
and distinctly distinguished as " butcher's meat."
The house was very empty and desolate after all the
din and bustle. The furniture had faded in the quarter
of a century and more which had elapsed since Harry
Erskine furnished his drawing-room for his bride.
That had not been a good period for furniture, according
to our present lights, and everything looked dingy
and faded. The few cosy articles with which the late

tenants had changed its character had been removed :

the ornaments and prettiness were all gone. The gay
limp old chintz, the faded carpet, the walls in sad
want of renewal, obtruded themselves even upon the
accustomed eye of Kolls. The nest might be cleared,
but it looked a somewhat forlorn and empty nest. He
stood upon the threshold of the drawing-room, contemplating
it mournfully. A little of that " cheney and
nonsense " which he had been highly indignant with
Mrs Barrington for bringing, would have been of the
greatest consequence now to brighten the walls ; and
a shawl or a hat thrown on a chair, which had called
forth from old EoUs many a grumble in the past, would
have appeared to him now something like a sign of
humanity in the desert. But all that was over, and
the old servant, painfully sensible of the difference in
the aspect of the place, began to grow afraid of its
effect upon the young master. If, after all, John
should not be "struck with" his home ! if, terrible to
think of, he might prefer some house " in the South "
to Dalrulzian ! " But it's no possible," said Kolls to
himself. He made a survey of all the rooms in the
new anxiety that dawned upon him. The library was
better ; there were a good many books on the shelves,
and it had not to Rolls the air of desertion the other
rooms had. He lighted a fire in it, though it was the
first week in May, and took great pains to restore by

it an air of comfort and habitation. Then he took a
walk down the avenue in order to make a critical
examination of the house from a little distance, to see
how it would look to the new-comer. And EoUs
could not but think it a most creditable-looking house.
The fir-trees on the top of the hill threw up their
sombre fan of foliage against the sky; the birches
were breathing forth a spring sweetness  the thin
young foliage softly washed in with that tenderest of
greens against the darker background, seemed to appeal
to the spectator, forbidding any hasty judgment, with
the promise of something beautiful to come. The ash-trees
were backward, no doubt, but they are always
backward. In the wood the primroses were appearing
in great clusters, and the parterres under the terrace
were gay with the same. EoUs took comfort as he
gazed. The avenue was all green, the leaves in some
sunny corners quite shaken out of their husks, in all
bursting hopefully. " It's a bonnie place," Rolls said
to himself, with a sigh of excitement and anxiety.
Bauby, who shared his feelings in a softened, fat, comfortable
way of her own, was standing in the doorway,
with her little shawl pinned over her broad chest, and
a great white apron blazing in the light of the morning
sun. She had a round face, like a full moon, and a
quantity of yellow hair smoothed under the white cap,
which was decorously tied under her chin. She did

not take any of the dignity of a housekeeper-cook
upon her, but she was a comfortable creature to behold,
folding her round arms, with the sleeves rolled
up a little, and looking out with a slight curve, like a
shadow of the pucker on her brother's brows, in her
freckled forehead. She was ready to cry for joy when
Mr John appeared, just as she had cried for sorrow
when the Barringtonss went away. Neither of these
effusions of sentiment would disturb her greatly, but
they were quite genuine all the same. Rolls felt that
the whiteness of her apron and the good-humour of her
face lit up the seriousness of the house. He began to
give her her instructions as he advanced across the
open space at the top of the avenue. "Bauby," he
said, " when ye hear the wheels ye'll come, and the
lasses with you ; and Andrew, he can stand behind ;
and me, naturally I'll be in the front : and we'll have
no whining, if you please, but the best curtsey you
can make, and ' We're glad to see you home, sir,' or
something cheery like that. He's been long away, and
he was but a boy when he went. We'll have to take
care that he gets a good impression of his ain house."

"That's true," said Bauby. "Tammas, I've heard
of them that after a long absence have just taken a
kind o' scunner "

Hold your tongue with your nonsense. A scunner
at Dalrulzian ! " cried Rolls ; but the word sank into

the depths of his heart. A scunner  for we scorn a
footnote  is a sudden sickening and disgust with an
object not necessarily disagreeable  a sort of fantastic
prejudice, which there is no struggling against. But
Rolls repeated his directions, and would not allow himself
to entertain such a fear.

It was not, however, with any sound of wheels,
triumphal or otherwise, that young Erskine approached
his father's house. It was all new and strange to him;
the hills  the broad and wealthy cases through which
he had passed  the noble Firth, half sea half river,
which he had crossed over in his way,  all appeared
to him like landscapes in a dream, places he had seen
before, though he could not tell how or when. It was
afternoon when he reached Dunearn, which was the
nearest place of any importance. He had chosen to
stop there instead of at the little country station a few
miles farther on, which was proper for Dalrulzian.
This caprice had moved him, much in the same way
as a prince had sometimes been moved to wander
about incognito, and glean the opinions of his public
as to his own character and proceedings. Princes in
fiction are fond of this diversion ; why not a young
Scotch laird just coming into his kingdom, whose
person was quite unknown to his future vassals ? It
amused and gently excited him to think of thus
arriving unknown, and finding out with what eyes he

was looked upon : for he had very little doubt that he
was important enough to be discussed and talked of,
and that the opinions of the people would throw a
great deal of light to him upon the circumstances
and peculiarities of the place. He was curious about
everything,  the little grey Scotch town, clinging to its
hillside  the fresh less of the spring colour  the width
of the wistful blue sky, banked and flecked with white
clouds, and never free, with all its brightness, from a
suspicion of possible rain. He thought he recollected
them all like things he had seen in a dream ; and that
sense of travelling incognito and arriving without any
warning in the midst of a little world, all eagerly
looking for his arrival, but which should be innocently
deceived by his unpretending appearance, tickled his
fancy greatly. He was five-and-twenty, and ought to
have known better; but there was something in the
circumstances which justified his excitement. He
skimmed lightly along the quiet country road, saying
to himself that he thought he remembered the few
clusters of houses that were visible here and there, one
of them only big enough to be called a village, where
there was "a merchant's" shop, repository of every
kind of ware, and a blacksmith's smithy. Two or
three times he stopped to ask the way to Dalrulzian
out of pure pleasure in the question ! for he never lost
sight of that line of fir-trees asjainst the horizon, which

indicated his native hill; but after he had put this
question once or twice, it must be added that young
Erskine's satisfaction in it failed a little. He ceased
to feel the excitement of his incognito, the pleasure of
entering his dominions like a young prince in disguise.
The imagination of the women at the village doors,
the chance passengers on the way, vere not occupied
with the return of John Erskine ; they were much
more disposed to think and talk of the others who
had no right, it seemed to him, to occupy their
thoughts.

"Dalrulzian! you'll find nobody there the day,"
said a countryman whom he overtook and accosted on
the road. "The family's away this morning, and a
great loss they will be to the country-side."

The family ! " said John, and he felt that his tone
was querulous in spite of himself. " I did not understand
that there was a family."

"Ay was there, and one that will be missed sore;
both gentle and simple will miss them. Not the real
family, but as good, or maybe better," the man said,
with a little emphasis, as if he meant offence, and knew
who his questioner was.

The young man reddened in spite of himself. This
was not the kind of popular report which in his
incognito he had hoped to hear.

The laird is what they call in Ireland an absentee!'

said his companion. " We're no minding muckle in
Scotland if they're absentees or no ; they can please
themselves. But there's nae family of the Erskiness 
nothing but a young lad ; and the Cornel that's had
the house was a fine, hearty, weel-spoken man, with a
good word for everybody ; and the ladies very kind,
and pleasant, and neighbour-like. Young Erskine
must be a young laird past the ordinary if he can fill
their place."

But, so far as I understand, the estate belongs to
him, does it not ? " Erskine asked, with an involuntary
sharpness in his voice.

Oh ay, it belongs to him ; that makes but indifference
Ye're no bound to be a fine fellow," said
the roadside philosopher, with great calmness, " because
ye're the laird of a bit sma' country place "

"Is it such a small place?" cried the poor young
prince incognito, appalled by this revelation. He felt
almost childishly annoyed and mortified. His companion
eyed him with a cool half satirical gaze.

"You're maybe a friend of the young man? Na,
I'm saying nae ill of the place nor of him. Dalrul-
tian's a fine little property, and a' in good order, thanks
to auld Monypenny in Dunea.rn. Maybe you're from
Dunearn? It's a place that thinks muckle of itself;
but nae doubt it would seem but a poor bit town to
you coming from the South ? "

How do you know I come from the South ? " said
John.

Oh, I ken the cut of ye fine," said the man. " I'm
no easy deceived. And I dour to say you could tellus
something about this new laird. There's different
opinions about him. Some thinks him a lad with
brains, that could be put up for the county and spite
the Earl. I've no great objection myself to the Earl
or his opinions, but to tak' another man's nominee, if
he was an angel out of heaven, is little credit to an
enlightened constituency. So there's been twa-three
words. You'll no know if he has ony turn for politics,
or if he's a clever lad, or "

You don't seem to mind what his politics are," said
the unwary young man.

His new friend gave him another keen glance.
The Erskiness," he answered quietly, " are a' on the
right side."

Now John Erskine was aware that he did not himself
possess political opinions sufficiently strenuous to
be acknowledged by either side. He agreed sometimes
with one party, sometimes with another, which, politically
speaking, is the most untenable of all positions.
And so ignorant was he of the immediate traditions of
his family, that he could not divine which was " the
right side" on which the Erskiness were sure to be.
It was not a question upon which his mother could

have informed him. As Mr Kingsford's wife, an orthodox
Church of England clergyman, she was, of
course, soundly Conservative, and thought she hated
everything that called itself Liberal  which word she
devoutly believed to include all kinds of Radical, revolutionary,
and atheistical sentiments. John himself
had been a good Tory too when he was at Eton, but at
Oxford had veered considerably, running at one time
into extreme opinions on the other side, then veering
back, and finally settling into a hopeless eclectic, who
by turns sympathised with everybody, but agreed
wholly with nobody. Still it was whimsical not even
to know the side on which the Erskiness were declared
with so much certainty to be. It pleased him at least
to find that they had character enough to have traditionary
politics at all.

You must excuse me as a stranger," he said, " if I
don't quite know what side you regard as the  right
side."

His friend looked at him with a sarcastic gaze  a
look John felt which set him down not only as devoid
of ordinary intelligence, but of common feeling. " It's
clear to see you are not of that way of thinking," he
said.

As he uttered this contemptuous verdict they came
opposite to a gate, guarded by a pretty thatched
cottage which did duty for a lodge. John felt his

VOL. I. c

heart give a jump, notwithstanding the abashed yet
amused sensation with which he felt himself put down.
It was the gate of Dalrulzian : he remembered it as if
he had left it yesterday. A woman came to the gate
and looked out, shielding her eyes with her hand from
the level afternoon sun that shone into them. " Have
you seen anything of our young master, John Tam-son
? " she said. " I'm aye thinking it's him every
sound I hear."

There's the road," said the rural politician, briefly
addressing John ; then he turned to the woman at the
gate. " If it's no him, I reckon it's a friend. Ye had
better pit your questions here," he said.

John Thomson," said John, with some vague gleam
of recollection. " Are you one of the farmers ? " The
man looked at him with angry, the woman with astonished,
eyes.

My friend," said John Thomson, indignantly, *' I
would wonder but you have plenty of book-learning;
but you're an ignorant young fop for a' that, if
you were twenty times the laird's friend."

John for his part was too much startled and amused
to be angry. "Am I an ignorant young fop?" he
said. "Well, it is possible  but why in this particular
case "

"Noo, noo," said the woman, who left the lodge,
coming forward with her hands spread out, and a tone

of anxious conciliation. " Dear bless me ! what are
you bickering about ? He's no a farmer, but he's just
as decent a man  nobody better thought of for miles
about. And, John Tamsou, I'm astonished at you !
Can you no let the young gentleman have his joke without
taking offence like this, that was never meet?"

I like nae such jokes," said John Tamson, angrily;
and he went off swinging down the road at a great
pace. John stood looking after him for a moment
greatly perplexed. The man did not touch his hat nor
the woman curtsey as they certainly would have done
at Milton Magna. He passed her mechanically without
thinking of her, and went in at his own gate  not
thinking of that either, though it was an event in his
life. This little occurrence had given an impulse in
another direction to his thoughts.

But the woman of the lodge called after him. She
had made a slightly surprised objection to his entrance,
which he did not notice in his preoccupation. " Sir,
sir ! " she cried  " you're welcome to walk up the
avenue, which is a bonnie v/alk ; but you'll find nobody
in the house. The young laird, if it was him you
was wanting to see, is expected every minute ; but
there's no signs of him as yet  and he canna come
now till the four o'clock train."

Thank you. I'll walk up the avenue," said John,
and then he turned back. " Why did you think I was

making a joke? and why was your friend offended
when I asked if he was one of the farmers ?  it was
no insult, I hope."

He's a very decent man, sir," said the woman ;
but I would just take it upon me to say that he
was my friend."

That's not the question ! " cried John, exasperated
and he felt some gibe about Scotch caution trembling
on the tip of his tongue ; but he remembered intime
that he was himself a Scot and among his own
people, and he held that unruly member still.

Weel, sir," said the woman, " if ye will ken  but,
bless me ! it's easy to see for yourself. The farmers
about here are just as well put on and mounted and a'
that as you are. John Tamson ! he's a very decent
man, as good as any of them  but he's just the joiner
after a', and a cotter's son. He thought you were
making a fool of him, and he's not a man to be made
a fool o'. We're no so civil-like  nor may be so
humble-minded, for anything I can tell  as the English,
sir. Faith the Cornel and his lady used to tell
me that."

It was with a mixture of irritation and amusement
that John pursued his way after this little encounter.
And an uncomfortable sensation, a chill, seemed to
creep over his mind, and arrest his pleasurable expectations
as he went on. The avenue was not so fine a

thing as its name implied. It was not lined with
noble trees, nor did it sweep across a green universe of
parks and lawns like many he had known. It led
instead up the slope of the hill, through shrubberies
which were not more than rosewood in some places,
and under lightly arching trees not grand enough or
thick enough to afford continuous shade. And yet it
was sweet in the brightness of the spring tints, the
half-clothed branches relieved against that variable yet
smiling sky, the birds in full-throated chorus, singing
welcome with a hundred voices,  no nightingales
there, but whole tribes of the " mavis and the merle,"
north-country birds and kindly. His heart and mind
were touched alike with that half-pathetic pleasure,
that mixture of vague recollections and forgetfulness,
with which we meet the half-remembered faces, and
put out our hands to meet the grasp of old friends still
faithful though scarcely known. A shadow of the
childish delight with which he had once explored
these scanty yet fresh and friendly woods came breathing
about him : " The winds came to me from the fields
of sleep." He felt himself like two people : one, a
happy boy at home, familiar with every corner; the
other a man, a spectator, sympathetically excited,
faltering upon the forgotten way, wondering what lay
round the next curve of the road. It was the strangest
blending of the known and the unknown.

But when John Erskine came suddenly, as he turned
the corner of that great group of ash-trees, in sight of
his house, these vague sensations, which were full of
sweetness, came to an end with a sharp jar and shock
of the real. Dalrulzian was a fact of the most solid
dimensions, and dispersed in a moment all his dreams.
He felt himself come down suddenly through the magical
air, with a sensation of falling, with his feet upon
the common soil. So that was his home ! He felt ina
moment that he remembered it perfectly,  that there
had never been any illusions about it in his mind,  that
he had known all along every line of it, every step of the
gables, the number of the little windows, the slopes of
the grey roof But it is impossible to describe the keen
sense of disenchantment which went through his mind
as he said this to himself It was not only that the
solid reality dispersed his vision, but that it afforded a
measure by which to judge himself and his fortunes,
till now vaguely and pleasantly exaggerated in his
eyes. It is seldom indeed that the dim image of what
was great and splendid to us in our childhood does not
seem ludicrously exaggerated when we compare it with
the reality. He who had felt himself a young prince
in disguise, approaching his domains incognito, in order
to enjoy at his leisure the incense of universal interest,
curiosity, and expectation ! John Erskine blushed
crimson though nobody saw him, as he stood alone at

the corner of his own avenue and recognised the mistake
he had made, and his own unimportance, and all
the folly of his simple over-estimate. Fortunately,
indeed, he had brought nobody with him to share in
the glories of his entry upon his kingdom. He thanked
heaven for that, with a gasp of horror at the thought
of the crowning ridicule he had escaped. It was quite
hard enough to get over the first startling sensation
of reality alone.

And yet it was the same house upon which the
Barringtonss had looked back so affectionately a few
hours before  which the county regarded with approval,
and which was visited by the best families. It .
would be hard to say what its young master had
expected,  a dream-castle, a habitation graceful and
stately, a something built out of clouds, not out of old
Scotch rubble-work and grey stone. It was not looking
its best, it must be added. The corps du logis
lay in gloom, thrown into shade by the projecting
rustic gable, upon th other side of which the setting
sun still played ; the yellowish walls, discoloured here
and there by damp, had no light upon them to throw
a fictitious glow over their imperfections. The door
stood open, showing the hall with its faded fittings,
gloomy and unattractive, and, what was more, deserted,
as if the house had been abandoned to dreariness and
decay  not so much as a dog to give some sign of life.

When the young man, rousing himself with an effort,
shook off the stupor of his disappointment and vexation,
and went on to the open door, his foot on the gravel
seemed to wake a hundred unaccustomed echoes : and
nobody appeared. He walked in unchallenged, un-welcomed,
going from room to room, finding all equally
desolate. Was there ever a more dismal coming home ?
When he reached the library, where a little fire was
burning, this token of human life quite went to the
young fellow's heart. He was standing on the hearth
very gloomy, gazing wistfully at the portrait of a gentleman
in a periwig over the mantelpiece, when the
door was pushed open and old Rolls appeared with his
coat off, carrying a basket of wood. Rolls was as much
startled as his master was disappointed, and he was
vexed to be seen by a stranger in so unworthy an
occupation. He put down his basket and glanced at
his shirt-sleeves with confusion. " I was expecting nobody,"
he said in his own defence. " And wha may
ye be," he added, "that comes into the mansion-house
of Dalrulzian without steering permission, or ringing
a bell, or chapping at a door ? " John smiled at the
old man's perplexity, but said nothing. " You'll be a
friend of our young master's ? " he said, tentatively ;
then after an interval, in a voice with a quiver in it,
Your no meaning, sir, that you're the laird himself ? "
For want of a better," said John, amused in spite

of himself. "And you're old Rolls. I should have
known you anywhere. Shake hands, man, and say
you're glad to see me. It's like a house of the dead."

"Na, sir, no such things; there's no death here.
Lord bless us ! wha was to think you would come in
stealing like a thief in the night, as the Bible says ? "
said Rolls, aggrieved. He felt that it was he who was
the injured person. " It was all settled how you were
to be received as soon as the wheels were heard in the
avenue,  me on the steps, and the women behind, and
Andrew,  the hall household, to wit. If there's any
want of respect, it's yourain fault. And if you'll just
go back to the avenue now and give us warning, I'll
cry up the women in a moment," the old servant said.

CHAPTER III.

That night dispersed illusions from the mind of John
Erskine which it had taken all his life to set up.
He discovered in some degree what his real position
was, and that it was not a great one. He got rid of
many of his high notions as he walked about the
pleasant, comfortable, but somewhat dingy old house,
which no effort of the imagination could make into a
great house. He made acquaintance with the household.
Mrs Rolls the cook, who curtseyed and cried
for pleasure at the sight of him, and two smiling, fair-haired
young women, and old Andrew the gardener 
a quite sufficient household for the place, he felt, but
very different from the army of servants, all so noiseless,
punctilious, carefully drilled, whom he had seen
at country-houses, with which he had fondly hoped
his own might bear comparison. What a fool he had
been ! These good honest folk have little air of being
servants at all. Their respect was far less than their

interest in him; and their questions were more like
those of poor relatives than hired attendants. " I
hope your mamma is well, Mr John," Bauby the
cook had said. " Let the master alone with your Mr
Johns," Rolls had interrupted ; " he's come to man's
estate, and you must learn to be more respectful.
The women, sir, are all alike ; you can never look
for much sense from them." "Maybe you're right,
Tammas," said Bauby ; " but for all that I cannot
help saying that its an awful' pleasure to see Mr John,
that was but that height when I saw him last, come
home a braw gentleman like what I mind his father."
John could do nothing but stand smiling between
them, hearing himself thus discussed. They made it
very clear that he had come home where he would betaken
ample care of  but how different it was from
his thoughts ! He thought of the manor-house at
Milton Macna, and laughed and blushed at the ridiculous
comparisons he had once made. It was a keen
sort of self-ridicule, sharp and painful. He did not
like to think what a fool he had been. Now he came
to think of it, he had quite well remembered Dalrul-
tian. It was not his youthful imagination that was
to blame, but a hundred little self-deceits, and all the
things that he had been in the habit of hearing about
his own importance and his Scotch property. His
mother had done more than any one else to deceive

him, he thought ; and then he said to himself, " Poor
mother ! " wondering if, perhaps, her little romance
was all involved in Dalrulzian, and if it was a sacred
place to her. To think that the Kingsford household
was prose, but the early life in which she had been
Harry Erskine's wife and little John's mother, the
poetry of her existence, was pleasant to her son, who
was fond of his mother, though she was not clever,
nor even very sensible. John thought, with a blush,
of the people whom he had invited to Dalrulzian
under that extraordinary mistake  some of his friends
at college, young fellows who were accustomed to
houses full of company and stables full of horses.
There was nothing in the stables at Dalrulzian but
the hired horse which had been provided by Rolls
in a hired dog-cart to bring him up from the station ;
and as he looked round upon the room in which he
sat after dinner, and which was quite comfortable
and highly respectable, though neither dignified nor
handsome, poor John burst into a laugh, in which
there was more pain than amusement. He seemed to
himself to be stranded on a desert shore. What
should he do with himself, especially during the
long summer, when there could be no hunting, no
shooting,  the summer which he had determined to
occupy, with a fine sense of duty, in making acquaintance
with his house and his surroundings, and

in learning all his duties as a country gentleman and
person of importance ? This thought was so poignant,
that it actually touched his eyelids with a sense of
moisture. He laughed  but he could have cried.
There would turn out, he supposed, to be about three
farms on this estate of his ; and Scotch farmers were
very different people from the small farmers of the
South. To talk about his tenants would be absurd.
Three pragmatical Scotchmen, much better informed
in all practical matters at least than himself, and
looking down upon him as an inexperienced young
man. What a fool he had been ! If he had comedown
in August for the shooting,  if there was any
shooting,  and let his friends understand that it was
a mere shooting-box  a "little place in Scotland,"
such as they hired when they came to the moors,
all would have been well. But he had used no
disparaging adjectives in speaking of Dalrulzian. He
had called it "my place" boldly, and had believed
it to be a kind of old castle  something that probably
had been capable of defence in its day. Good
heavens ! what a fool he had been !

He had thought he would be glad to get to bed,
and felt pleased that he was somewhat tired with his
journey; but he found that, on the contrary, the
night flew by amidst these thoughts,  fathomless
night, slow and dark and noiseless. Rolls had made

repeated attempts to draw him into conversation in
what that worthy called the fore-night; but by ten
o'clock or so, the house was as still as death, not a
sound anywhere, and the hours passed over him while
he sat and thought. A little fire crackled and burned
in the grate, with little 2i'i'llements and bursts of flame.
There were a good many books on the shelves ; that
was always something : and Mrs Rolls had given him
an excellent dinner, which he ought to have considered
also as a very great alleviation of the situation, John
scarcely knew what hour it was when, starting suddenly
up in the multitude of his thoughts, he threw
open the window which looked upon the Walk, and
gazed out moodily upon the night. The night was
soft and clear, and the great stretch of the landscape
lay dimly defined under a half-veiled poetic sky, over
which light floating vapours were moving with a kind
of gentle solemnity. There was not light enough to
distinguish the individual features of the scene, save
here and there a pale gleam of water, a darkness of
wood, and the horizon marked by that faint silvery
edge which even by night denotes the limit of human
vision. The width, the freshness, the stillness, the
dewy purity of the air, soothed the young man as he
stood and looked out. What was he, a human unit
in the great round of space, to be so disconcerted by
the little standing-ground he had ? He felt abased

as he gazed, and a strange sense of looking out upon
his life came over him. His future was like that 
all vague, breathing towards him a still world full
of anticipations, full of things hidden and mysterious
his, and yet not his, as was the soil and the fields.
He could mortgage it as he could his estate, but he
could not sell it away from him, or get rid of what
was in it, whether it carried out his foolish expectations
or not. Certainly the sight of this wide scenery,
in which he was to perform his part, did him good,
though he could not see it. He closed the window,
which was heavy, almost with violence, as he came
back to the ascertained,  to the limited walls with
their books, the old-fashioned original lamp, and
crackling fire.

But this sound was very unusual in the house in
the middle of the night. Bauby, whose room was
next her brother's, knocked upon the wall to rouse
him. " D'ye hear that, Tammas ? There's somebody
trying to get into the house." Her voice came to
Rolls faintly muffled by the partition between. He
had heard the noise as well as she, but he did not think
fit to answer save by a grunt. Then Bauby knocked
again more loudly. " Tammas ! Man, will ye no put
on your breeks and go down and see what it is?"
Rolls, for his part, was already in the midst of a calculation.
So much plate as there was in the house

lie had brought up with him to his room. " They
cannot steal tables and chairs," he said to himself;
and as for the young laird, if he's not able to take
care of himself, he'll be none the better of me for a
defender." Audibly he answered, " Hold your tongue,
woman. If the master likes to take the air in the
sma' hours, what's that to you or me ? " There was
a pause of dismay on Bauby's part, and then a faint
ejaculation of "Lord bless us! take the air!" But
she was less easily satisfied than her brother. When
John went up-stairs with his candle, he saw a light
glimmering in the gallery above, and a figure in white,
far too substantial to be a ghost, leaning over the
banisters. " Eh, sir ! is it you, Mr John ? " Bauby
said. " I was feared it was robbers ; " and then she
added in her round, soft, caressing voice, "but you
mustna take the air in the middle of the night : you'll
get your death of cold, and then, what will your
mamma say to me, Mr John?" John shut himself
up in his room, half laughing, half affronted. It was
many years since he had been under the sway of his
mamma " in respect to his hours and habits ; and
nothing could be more droll than to go back to the
kind annoyance of domestic surveillance just at the
moment when his manhood and independence were
most evident. He laughed, but the encounter brought

him back, after he had been partly freed from it, to
a consciousness of all his limitations once more.

But things were better in the morning. Unless you
have something bitter to reproach yourself with, or
some calamity impending over you, things are generally
better in the morning. John looked about him
with more hopeful eyes. He had an excellent, a
truly Scotch, breakfast, which, at five-and-twenty, puts
a man in good-humour with himself; and there were
one or two features about Dulrulzian which, in the
morning sunshine, looked more encouraging. The
stables were tolerably good, made habitable, and furnished
with some of the latest improvements by
Colonel Barrington ; and " the policy " was in admirable
order,  the turf faultless, the shrubberies flourishing,
the trees  well, not like the trees at Milton Magna,
but creditable performances for the North. John's
countenance cleared as he inspected everything. Rolls
led or followed him about with great importance, introducing
and explaining. Had he been an English
butler, John would have dismissed him very summarily
to his pantry; but it was part of the natural mise
en scene to have a Caleb Palmerston attached to an
old Scotch house. He was half proud of this retainer
of the family, though he threatened to be something
of a bore; even Bauby, and her care for his health,

VOL. L D

and her sense of responsibility to his " mamma," was
tolerable in this light. When one is born a Scotch
laird, one must accept the natural accompaniments
of the position ; and if they were sometimes annoying,
they were at least picturesque. So John put up
with Rolls, and "saw the fun" of him with a kind
of feeling that Dalrulzian was a Waverley novel, and
he himself the hero. He had been seeing things so
much through the eyes of his problematical visitors,
that he was glad to see this also through their eyes.
To them, these servants of his would be altogether
characteristic," and full of " local colour." And then
the subtle influence of property began to affect the
young man and modify his disappointment. " A poor
thing, sir, but mine own," he said to himself. These
were " my plantations " that crested the hill ; the
fishing on the river was said to be excellent, and
belonged to Dalrulzian ; the moorland on the eastern
side of the hill was ''my moor." Things began to
mend. When he went back again after his examination
to the room from which he had started, John
found a luncheon spread for him, which was not
inferior to the breakfast, and Rolls, in his black coat,
having resumed the butler, and thrown off the factotum,
but not less disposed to be instructive than
before.

You may as well," young Erskine said, eating an

admirable cutlet, " tell me something about my neighbours,
Rolls."

I'll do that, sir," said Rolls, with cordiality ; and
then he made a pause. " The first to be named is no
to call a neighbour ; but I hope, sir, you'll think far
mair of her than of any neighbour. She's your ain
best blood, and a teddy with a great regard for Dal-russian,
and not another friend so near to her as you.
It came from Dalrulzian, and it'll come back to Dal-russian
with careful guiding," said Rolls, oracularly;
not to say that blood's thicker than water, as the
auld Scots byword goes."

This address gave John some sense of perplexity ;
but after an interval he discovered what it meant.
It is my old Aunt Barbara of whom you are speaking,"
he said. " Certainly, I shall see her first of all."

She is an excellent lady, sir ; careful of her money.

It will be real good for the estate when But, bless

me ! I wadna have you to be looking forward to what
may never come,  that is to say, that auld Miss
Barbara, being real comfortable, sir, in this life, will
not go out of it a moment sooner than she can help :
and for a' that we ken o' heaven,, I would blame
her ; for, grand as it may be, it will aye be a strange
place. There's nobody more thought upon in the
county than Miss Barbara Erskine at Duuearu. Weel,
sir, and the neighbours. There's the Earl of Lindores

r:tsn.oniuNu>s

first of a'. We maun give him the paw, as the French
say. Maybe you've met with some of the family in
London ? You'll see plenty and hear plenty of them
here. The Earl he is a very pushing man. He would
like to take the lead in a' the county business ; but
there's many of the gentry that are not exactly of that
opinion. And my lady Countess, she's of the booky
kind, with authors, and painters, and that kind of
cattle aye about the place. I'm not that fond of the
instructed eddies. Weemen are best no to be over
clever, in my poor opinion. Young Eintoul, that's the
son, is away with his regiment ; I ken no-thing of him:
and there's two young eddies "

Now I remember," said John. " You are the most
concise of chroniclers, Rolls. I like your style. I
once knew some of the Lindores family  cousins, I
suppose. There were young ladies in that family too.
I knew them very well." Here he paused, a smile
stealing about the corners of his mouth.

I ken no-thing about their relations," said Rolls.
It was an awful' melancholy story ; but it's an ill
wind that laws nobody good. The late Earl was
liked by everybody. But I'm saying no-thing against
this family. One of the young daughters is married,
poor thing ! The other one at hame, my Lady Edith,
is a bonnie bit creature. She was great friends with
ooT young lady. But if you were to ask my opinion,

sir  which is neither here nor there' said Rolls, in
insinuating tones  " I would say there was not one
that was fit to hold the candle to Miss Nora. We had
our bits of tiffs, the Cornel and me. There were some
things he would never see in a proper light ; but they
were much thought o', and saw a' the best company.
When you let a place, it's a grand thing to have
tenants that never let down the character of the
house."

You mean the Barringtonss," said John. He was
not much interested in this subject. They had been
unexceptionable tenants; but he could scarcely help
regarding them with a little jealousy, almost dislike,
as if they had been invaders of his rights.

And they were awful' fond of it," said Rolls, watching
his young master's countenance. "Miss Nora
above a'. You see she's grown up at Dalrulzian. It
was all they could do to get her away from the Walk
this last morning. I thought she would have grown
billet. If you and Miss Nora was ever to meet,"
the old servant added, in his most engaging tones,
''I cannot but believe you would be real good 
friends "

"I see you have provided for every contingency,"
said the young laird, with a laugh. His Caleb Balder-stone,
he said to himself, was almost better, if that was
possible, than Scott's. But John's mind had been set

afloat on a still more pleasant channel, and he let the
old man maunder on.

"It's true she's English," said Rolls; "but that
matters no-thing in my opinion, on what they call the
side of the distaff. I'll no say but it's offensive in a
man : putting up so long with the Cornel and his ways
of thinking, I'm no a bad authority on that. But
weemen are a different kind of creatures. A bit discrepancy,
if ye may so call it  a kind of a different
accent, so to speak, faith in the soul and the tongue,
is just a pleasant variety. It gives new life to a family
sometimes, and mends the breed, if you'll no think me
coarse. A little of everything is good in a race. And
besides being so good and so bonnie. Miss Nora will
have a little silver of her ain, which spoils nothing.
Not one of your great fortunes, but just a little
silver  enough for their greens and rubbish  of
her ain."

Here, however, the pleasant delusion with which
Nora's humble champion was delighting himself was
suddenly dispersed by a question which proved his
young master to be thinking nothing about Nora. " I
used to know some of the Lindores family," John
repeated, "a brother of the Earl. I wonder if they
ever come here ? "

I ken no-thing about their relations, sir," said
Rolls, promptly. " It's thought the Earl's awful' ambitious.

They're no that rich, and he has an eye to
everything that will push the family on. There's one
of them married, poor thing ! "

"I am afraid you are a fierce old bachelor," said
John, rising from the table ; " this is the second time
you have said ' poor thing.' "

That's my Lady Caroline, sir," said Rolls, with a
grave face, " that's married upon Torrance of Tinto, far
the richest of all our neighbour gentlemen. You'll no
remember him ? He was a big mischievous callant
when you were but a little thing, begging your pardon,
sir, for the freedom," said the old servant, with a little
bow of apology ; but the gravity of his countenance
did not relax. " It's not thought in the country-side
that the teddy was very fain of the marriage  poor
thing ! "

"You are severe critics in the country-side. One
must take care what one does, Rolls."

Maybe, sir, that's true ; they say public opinion's
a grand thing : whiles it will keep a person from going
wrong. But big folk think themselves above that,"
Rolls said. And then, having filled out a glass of
wine, which his master did not want; he withdrew.
Rolls was not quite satisfied with the young laird.
He betook himself to the kitchen with his tray and a
sigh, unburdening himself to Bauby as he set down
the remains of the meal on the table. '' 1 would

wonder," he said, shaking his head, " if he turned out
mair English than the Cornel himsel."

Hoot, Tammas ! " said Bauby, always willing to
take the best view, "that's no possible. When ye
reflect that he was born at Dalrulzian, and brought up
till his thirteenth year "

Sic bringing up ! " cried old EoUs ; " and a stepfather
that never could learn so much as to say the
name right o' the house that took him in ! "

Meanwhile John, left alone with his own thoughts,
found a curious vein of new anticipations opened to
him by the old man's talk. The smile that had lighted
on the corners of his mouth came back and settled
there, betraying something of the maze of pleased
recollections,' the amused yet tender sentiment, which
these familiar yet half-forgotten names had roused
again. Caroline and Edith Lindores ! No doubt they
were family names, and the great young ladies who
were his neighbours were the cousins of those happy
girls whom he remembered so well. The Lindores had
been at a Swiss mountain inn where he and some of
his friends had lived for six weeks under pretence
of reading. They had made friends on the score of
old family acquaintance " at home ; " and he never
remembered so pleasant a holiday. What had become
of the girls by this time? Carry, the eldest, was
sentimental and poetical, and all the young men were

of opinion that Beaufort the young University Don,
who was at the head of the party, had talked more
poetry than was good for him with that gentle enthusiast.
Beaufort had gone to the Bar since then,
and was said to be getting on. Had they kept up
their intercourse, or had it dropped, John wondered,
as his own acquaintance with the family had dropped ?
They were poor people, living abroad for economy
and education, notwithstanding that Mr Lindores was
brother to an earl. Surely sometimes the Earl must
invite his relations, or at least he would be sure to
hear of them, to come within the circle of their existence
again. Young Erskine had almost forgotten, to
tell the truth, the existence of the Lindores ; yet when
they were thus recalled to him, and the possibility of
a second meeting dawned on his mind, his heart gave a
jump of pleasure in his bosom. On the instant there
appeared before him the prettiest figure in short frocks,
with an aureola of hair about the young head  a child,
yet something more than a child. Edith had been
only sixteen, he remembered -, indeed he found that he
remembered everything about her as soon as her image
was thus lightly called back. What might she be
now, in her grown-up condition ? Perhaps not so
sweet, perhaps married  a contingency which did not
please him to think of And what if he should be on
the eve of seeing her again !

The smile of pleasure, of amusement, even of innocent
vanity with which in this airy stage a young man
contemplates such a possibility, threw a pleasant light
over his face. He went out with that smile half hidden
under his fair moustache, which gave it a kind of
confidential character between him and himself so to
speak. As he had nothing else to do, it occurred to
him to take a walk on the road to Dunearn, where he
had seen the French-Scotch tourellcs of Lindores Castle
through the trees the day before, and "take a look at"
the place  why, he did not know  for no particular
reason, merely to amuse himself. And as he went
down the avenue, that old episode came back to him
more and more fully. He remembered all the little
expeditions, the little misadventures, the jokes, though
perhaps they were not brilliant. Carry lingering behind
with Beaufort, talking Shelley, with a flush of
enthusiasm about her : Edith always foremost, chidden
and petted, and made much of by everybody, with her
long hair waving, and those fine little shoes which
he had tied once  thick mountain shoes  but such
wonderful Cinderella articles ! All these recollections
amused him like a story as he went down the avenue,
taking away his attention from external things ; and it
was not till he was close upon the gate that he was
aware of the presence of two ladies, who seemed to
have paused on their walk to speak to Peggy Burnet,

the gardener's wife, who inhabited the lodge. His ear
was caught by his own name, always an infallible
means of rousing the most careless attention. He
could not help hearing what Peggy was saying, for her
voice was somewhat high-pitched, and full of rural
freedom. " Oh ay, my teddy ; the young maister,
that's Mr John, that's the laird, came hame yestreen,"
Peggy was spying, "before he was expected. The
carriage  that's the bit dog-cart, if you can ca' it a
carriage, for there's nothing better left, nor so much asa
beast to draw it that we can ca' or ain  was sent
to the station to meet him. When, lo ! he comes linking
along the road on his ain twa legs, and no so much
as a bag or a portman behind him, and asks at the
gate, Is this Dalrulzian ? kenning nothing of his ain
house ! And me, I hanna the sense to think, This is
him ; but just let him in as if he had been a stranger.
And no a creature to take the least notice ! Mr Polls
was just out o' himsel, with vexation, to let the young
maister come hame as if he had been ony gangrel
body ; but it could be called my fault."

Surely it could not be your fault ; if he wanted a
reception, he should have come when lie was expected,"
said a softer voice, with a little sound of laughter.
Surely, John thought, he had heard that voice before.
He hurried forward wondering, taking off his hat instinctively.
Who were they ? Two ladies, one elder,

one younger, other and daughter. They looked up
at him as he approached. The faces were familiar, and
yet not familiar. Was it possible ? He felt himself
redden with excitement as he stood breathless, his hat
off, the blood flushing to the very roots of his hair, notable
to get out a word in his surprise and pleasure.
They on their side looked at him smilingly, not at all
surprised, and the elder lady held out her hand. " After
so long a time you will scarcely know us, Mr Erskine,"
she said; "but we knew you were expected, and
all about you, you see."

Know you ? " cried John, almost speechless with
the wonder and delight. " Mrs Lindores ! The thing
is, can I venture to believe my eyes 1 There never was
such luck in the world ! I think I must be dreaming.
Who would have expected to meet you here, and the
very first day ? "

Peggy Burnet was much disturbed by this greeting.
She pushed forward, making an anxious face at him.
Sir ! sir ! you maun say my teddy," she breathed, in a
shrill whisper, which he was too much excited to take
any notice of, but which amused the ladies. They casta
laughing look at each other. " Didn't you know we
were here?" the mother said. "Then we had the
advantage of you. We have been speculating about
you for weeks past  whether you would be much

changed, whether you would come at once to Lindores
to renew old acquaintance "

That you may be sure I should have done," said
John, " as soon as I knew you were there. And are
you really at Lindores ? living there ? for good ? It
seems too delightful to be true."

They were both changed. And he did not know
why they should look at each other with such a laughing
interchange of glances. It made him somewhat
uncomfortable, though his mind was too full of the
pleasure of seeing them to be fully conscious of it. It
was Edith, as was natural, who was most altered in
appearance. She had been a tall girl, looking more
than her age ; and now she was a small, very young
woman. At that period of life such changes happen
sometimes ; but the difference was delightful, though
embarrassing. Yes, smaller, she was actually smaller,
he said to himself,  "as high as my heart," as Orlando
says: yet no longer little Edith, but an imposing
stately personage at whom he scarcely ventured
to look boldly, but only snatched shy glances at,
abashed by her soft regard. He went on stammering
out his pleasure, his delight, his surprise, hardly
knowing what he said. " I had just begun to hope
that you might come sometimes, that I might have a
chance of seeing you," he was saying ; whereupon

Edith smiled gravely, and her mother gave a little
laugh aloud.

I don't believe he knows anything about it, Edith,"
she said.

I was sure of it, mamma," Edith replied ; while
between them John stood dumb, not knowing what to
think.

Chapter IV.

The explanation which was given to John Erskine on
the highroad between Dalrulzian and Lindores, as it
is still more important to us than to him, must be
here set forth at more length. There are some happy
writers whose mission it is to expound the manners
and customs of the great. To them it is given to
know how duchesses and countesses demean themselves
in their moments perdus and they even catch as
it flies that airy grace with which the chit-chat of
society makes itself look like something of consequence.
Gilded salons in Belgravia, dainty boudoirs
in Mayfair, not to speak of everything that is gorgeous
in the rural palaces, which are as so many centres of
light throughout England  are the scenery in which
they are accustomed to enshrine the subjects of their
fancy. And yet, alas ! to these writers when they
have done all, yet must we add that they fail to satisfy
their models. When the elegant foreigner, or what is

perhaps more consonant with the tastes of the day,
the refined American, ventures to form his opinion of
the habits of society from its novels, he is always met
with an amused or indignant protestation. As if these
sort of people knew anything about society ! Lady
Adeline says. It is perhaps as well, under these circumstances,
to assume a humility, even if we have it
not; and indeed the present writer has always been
shy of venturing into exalted regions, or laying profane
hands upon persons of quality. But when a family
of rank comes in our way by necessity, it would be
cowardice to recoil from the difficulties of the portraiture.
Should we fail to represent in black and white
the native grace, the air noble, the exalted sentiments
which belong by right to members of the aristocracy,
the reader will charitably impute the blame rather to
the impression made upon our nerves by a superiority
so dazzling than to any defect of goodwill. Besides,
in the present case, which is a great aid to modesty,
the family had been suddenly elevated, and were not
born in the purple. Lady Lindores was a commoner
by birth, and not of any very exalted lineage  a
woman quite within the range of ordinary rules and
instincts ; and even Lady Edith had been Miss Edith
till within a few years. Their honours were still
new upon them : they were not themselves much
used to these honours any more than their humble

chronicler; with which preface we enter with diffidence
upon the recent history of the noble house of
Lindores.

The late earl had been a man unfortunate in his
children. His sons by his first marriage had died
one after another, inheriting their mother's delicate
health. His second wife had brought him but one
son, a likely and healthy boy ; but an accident, one
of those simplest risks which hundreds are subject to,
and escape daily, carried this precious boy off in a
moment. His father, who had been entirely devoted
to him, died afterwards of a broken heart, people said.
The next brother, who was in India with his regiment,
died there almost at the same time, and never knew
that he had succeeded to the family honours. And
thus it was that the Honourable Eobert Lindores, a
poor gentleman, living on a very straitened income, ina
cheap French town, with his wife and daughters,
and as little expecting any such elevation as a poor
curate expects to be made Archbishop of Canterbury,
became Earl of Lindores and the head of the family,
without warning or preparation. It does not perhaps
require very much preparation to come to such advancement
; and the new earl was to the manner born.
But Mrs Lindores, who was a woman full of imagination,
with nerves and ideas of her own, received a
considerable shock. She had no objection to being a

VOL. L E

countess ; the coronet, indeed, was pleasant to her as
it is to most people. She liked to look at it on her
handkerchiefs : there is no such pretty ornament.
But it startled her mind and shook her nerves just at
first. And it made a great, a very great, change in
the family life. Instead of strolling about as they had
done for years, with one maid for the mother and
daughters, and a shabby cheap French servant, who
was valet and factotum ; going to all kinds of places ;
living as they liked ; and though, with many a complaint,
getting a great deal of pleasure out of their
lives : there was an immediate shaking of themselves
together  a calling in of stray habits and fancies,  a
jump into their new place, as of an inexperienced and
half-alarmed rider, not at all sure how he was to get
on with his unaccustomed steed. This at least was
the mood of Lady Lindores. The Earl knew all
about it better than she did. Even to be merely the
honourable " had fluttered her senses a little ; and it
had never occurred to her that anything further was
possible. The family was poor  still poor, even when
thus elevated as it were to the throne ; but the poverty
of the Honourable Eobert was very different from that
of the right honourable Earl. In the one case it was
actual poverty, in the other only comparative. To
be sure it was, when one had time to think, distressing
and troubling not to have money enough to refurnish

the Castle (the taste of the late lord had been execrable)
and make many improvements which were
quite necessary. But that was very different from
not having money enough to possess a settled home
of your own anywhere, which had been their previous
condition. The Earl took his measures without a
moment's delay. He dismissed the servants who had
followed them in their poverty, and engaged others in
London, who were more proper to the service of a noble
family. They travelled quite humbly, indeed, in their
old half Bohemian way, until they reached London,
and then all at once cast their slough. The ladies
put on their clothes, which they had stopped to procure
in Paris, and suddenly blossomed out (though in
deep mourning) into the likeness of their rank. It
was a thing to make the steadiest heart beat. Young
Kobin was at Chatham, a lieutenant in a marching
regiment  a young nobody, pleased to be noticed even
by the townsfolk ; and lo ! in a moment, this insignificant
lieutenant became Lord PJntoul. It was like
a transformation scene ; he came to meet his people
when they passed through London, and they could
scarcely speak to each other when they met in their
mutual wonder. " Poor little Eintoul, all the same,
poor little beggar!" Robin Lindores said. To think
of the poor boy, cut off in a moment, whose death had
purchased them all these honours, affected the young

people with a strange awe, and almost remorseful
pain. They felt as if somehow, without knowing it,
they had been the cause of that terrible sudden removal
of all the hopes that had rested on their little
cousin's head. Lady Lindores herself declared that
she dared not think of her predecessor, the mother of
that poor boy, " the dowager," alas ! poor lady. The
dowager was younger than her successor in the family
honours, having been a second wife. They were
all silent with respectful awe when her name was
mentioned ; but the Earl said pshaw ! and thought
this superfluous. He was more used to it; he had
been born in the purple, and now that he had come,
though unexpectedly, to his kingdom, he knew how to
fill that exalted place.

The Earl was a man of a character which never, upto
this time, had been estimated as it deserved. He
had been quite an easy-going sort of person in his
former estate. In his youth he was said to have been
extravagant. Since his marriage  which had been an
imprudent marriage, in so far that he might perhaps
have got a richer wife had he tried, but which was
wise so far that the income upon which they lived
chiefly came from that wife  he had let himself go
quietly enough upon the current, there being no
motive to struggle against it. The very best that
they could make of it was simply to " get along ; " and

get along they did without putting any force upon
their inclinations. He was always able to secure his
comforts, such as were indispensable ; and as he
liked the easier routine of a wandering life, he did
not object, as he said, to make a sacrifice for the
education of his children and their amusement, by
living in places where the pleasures were cheap and
there was no dignity to keep up. He had in this sense
been very complying, both as a husband and a father,
and had allowed himself to be guided, as his family
thought, by their wishes quite as much, at least, as by
his own. He had not in these days been in the least
a severe father, or shown marks of a worldly mind.
What was the use ? The girls were too young as
yet to have become valuable instruments of ambition,
and he had not learnt to think of them as anything
but children. But when this extraordinary change
came in their existence, the easy dilettante  whose
wants were limited to a few graceful knick-knacks,
an elegant little meal, good music, when procurable,
and a life undisturbed by vulgar cares  altered his
very nature, as his family thought. Hitherto his wife
and his girls had done everything for him, aided by
the ubiquitous, the handy, the all-accomplished Jean
or Francois, who was half-a-dozen men in one 
cook, valet, footman, pattern man-of-all-work. They
arranged the rooms in every new place they went to,

SO that the fact that these rooms were those of a hotel
or lodging-house should be masked by familiar
prettiness, carried about with them. They gave a
careful supervision to his meals, and arranged everything,
so that papa should get the best out of his
limited existence, and none of its troubles. And as
there was nothing against Mr Lindores  no bad
repute, but with an honourable at his name  every
English club, every cercle, was open to him. He
always dressed carefully; now and then he helped
a wealthier friend to a bargain in the way of art. He
saw a great deal of society. On the whole, perhaps,
for a man without ambition, and upon whom neither
the fate of his children nor the use of his own life
pressed very heavily, he got as much satisfaction out
of his existence as most men ; and so might have
lived and died, no man knowing what was really in
him, had not poor young Eintoul broken his neck
over that fence, and drawn his father with him into
the grave. From the moment when the letter, placed
calmly by Mr Lindores's plate at breakfast, as though
it meant nothing particular, had its black seals broken,
he was another man. How distinctly they all recollected
that scene !  a lofty French room, with bare
white walls and long large windows, the green
Persians closed to keep out the sunshine, one long
line of light falling across the polished floor, where

one of these shutters had got unfastened ; the spacious
coolness in the midst of heat, which is characteristic
of such houses, like the atmosphere in M. Alma
Tadema's pictures ; the white-covered table with its
flowers and pretty arrangements ; the girls in their
white cool dresses ; and Francois lifting the small
silver cover from his master's favourite dish. All the
composure and quiet of this interior had been broken
in a moment. There had been a sudden stifled cry,
and Mr Lindores, pushing the table from him, disordering
the dishes, over-setting his heavy chair ashe
sprang to his feet, had finished reading his letter
standing upright, trembling with excitement, his face
flushed and crimson. " What is it ? " they had all
cried. " Robin ? " Naturally, the son who was
away was the first thought of the women. For a
minute the father had made no reply, and their
anxiety was beyond words. Then he put down the
letter solemnly, and went to his wife and took her
hand. "There is nothing wrong with Robin," he
said; "but it come by trouble to others, if not tous.
My dear, you are the Countess of Lindores." It
was some minutes before the real meaning of this
communication penetrated their astonished minds ;
and the first proof of understanding which the new
Lady Lindores gave was to cover her face and cry
out, " Oh, poor boy ! oh, poor Jane, poor Jane I " with

a pang at her heart. It was not all grief for the
other  could any one expect that ?  but the poignant
state of emotion which this strange terrible good
fortune caused her, had a sharpness of anguish in
it for the moment. The girls went away hushed and
silenced, unable to eat their breakfasts, to find some
black ribbons instead of the bright ones they wore.
They wept a few tears as they went to their rooms
over poor young Eintoul ; but they had known very
little of the boy, and the strange excitement of the
change soon crept into their veins. Lady Caroline
and Lady Edith ! instead of the humble Miss Lindores.
No wonder that it went to their heads.

And from that moment the new Earl was a different
man. He threw off all his languor, took everything
into his own hands. Those little economies which it
had been so necessary to insist upon yesterday were
now absurd, notwithstanding that the Earls of Lindores
were far from rich  comparatively. The family came
home rapidly, as has been said; pausing in Paris to
get their dresses, to dismiss the faithful servants of
their poverty, who would be of no use, the Earl decided,
in the change of circumstances. He behaved
very well, everybody said, to poor Lady Lindores, his
brother's young widow, who had thus been left at
once widowed and childless. He showed " every consideration
; " would not allow her to be hurried ;

waited her convenience and her pleasure in every
way. But, naturally, that poor lady was glad to take
refuge with her own family in her desolation ; and
within a few months, the wandering exile family,
familiar with all the cheap watering-places and centres
of genteel emigration on the Continent, were settled
in the greatness of their new position, as if they had
never known any less elevated circumstances. There
was a great deal of excitement in the change ; and
though it was sad at first, no doubt there was a
pleasure in hearing Robin addressed b} the name of
Eintoul, and accustoming themselves to their ladyships.
But yet, when all was over, it was not perhaps
to the girls so great an improvement as it appeared
on the old life. They were not dull  oh no  but
still there was a great deal less to do and to see than
there used to be ; and though they felt, as their
mother said, that girls with so many resources ought
to be occupied and happy wherever they went, still
the calm of the Castle was very different from the
stir and movement t6 which they had been used.

Up to this time, however, nothing had happened to
them except that which was determined by another
will than theirs, the inevitable result of other events.
But they had not been long settled in their new and
elevated life when it became apparent that other
changes had happened which were not evoked by

any external fate, and which were yet more profoundly
to affect their life. That Swiss holiday had
been more important to Carry than any one out of
the family knew. It had ended in a kind of vague
engagement, only half sanctioned, yet only half opposed
by her family, and which it was possible, had
Mr Beaufort been rich enough to marry, would not
have been opposed at all. Had he possessed income
enough or courage enough to make the venture, the
result in all likelihood would, years before, have been
out of the reach of evil fate ; but while it remained
only an engagement, Mr Lindores had refused his
official sanction to it. And it had seemed to Carry,
in whose mind the first conscious thought after the
news of this extraordinary change was to communicate
it to Edward, that from that very day her father's
aspect had changed towards her. He had met her
running out to the post with her letter in the afternoon,
and had given a suspicious glance at it, and
stopped her, telling her it was not fit she should go
out on a day so serious. ISTot a word had been said
for weeks and even months after, but she knew very
well that things were not as before. All reference to
Beaufort was somehow stopped ; even her mother
managed to arrest upon her lips all mention of her
lover. She was herself too timid to open the subject,
and gradually a chill certainty that he was to be

ignored and pushed aside out of her life, came upon
the poor girl. How it was that further dangers
dawned upon her, it would be hard to tell; but it is
certain that she had divined a something  a tightening
coil about her helpless feet, a design upon her
freedom and happiness  before the family had been
long at Lindores. One of the consequences of their
great honour and increased stateliness of living was,
that the two sisters were partially separated, as they
felt, from each other. They no longer occupied the
same room as they had done all their lives. They
had now what with their foreign habits they called
an a'p'partement  a suite of rooms set apart for them ;
and as Edith was full of curiosity and excitement
about the new life, and Carry was discouraged and
depressed, and felt it odious to her, they fell a little
apart without any mutual intention or consciousness.
It was in the beginning of their first winter, when
the dark days were closing in, that this semi-estrangement
first became apparent to the younger sister.
She awoke all at once to the consciousness that Carry
was pale ; that she shut herself up very much, and
more than ever devoted herself to her writing; that
she composed a great many little poems (for she was
the genius of the family), and often had a suspicion
of redness about her eyes. This discovery was instantaneous.
Edith had never been awakened to any

but the most simple troubles of life, and it had not
occurred to her to imagine that there was anything
beneath the headache which her sister so often took
refuge in. But her mind, when it began to act, was
rapid and keen. It became apparent to her that she
had been losing sight of Carry, and that Carry was
not happy. The progress from one step to another
of her solicitude for her sister was rapid as lightning.
She remembered everything in a moment,
though these causes of sorrow had been altogether
out of her thoughts before. She remembered that
not a word had been said of Mr Beaufort for months ;
that Carry had ceased altogether to speculate as to
anything that might happen in the future; that all
this was as a closed book between them nowadays.
As soon as she arrived at this conviction, Edith found
herself ready to interfere for good or evil. She went
into the room where Carry was writing her little
poetries, with something of the effect of a fresh light
wind, carrying refreshment, but also a little disturbance,
with her. She stooped over her sister with a
caressing arm round her neck, and plunged at once
into the heart of the subject. It was a still, dull
afternoon of early winter, and nobody was by.
Carry," she said, all at once  " Carry, it is so long
since we have said anything to each other ! I wanted
to ask you about  Edward ! " Upon this, for all

answer, Carry fell a-crying, but after a while sobbed
forth, " I will never give him up ! "

Give him up ! " cried Edith, surprised. She had
what her mother called a positive nature, much less
romantic, much less sensitive, than her sister. The
idea of giving up had never entered her mind. " Give
him up !  no, of course not. I never thought of such
a thing ; but I am afraid it will be harder than ever
with papa."

"Oh, Edith, it will be impossible'' Caroline said.
And then the two sisters looked at each other  the
one astonished, indignant, full of resistance; the
other pale, drooping, without vigour or hope.

What does impossible mean ? " said' the younger,
not with any affectation or grandiloquence ; for probably
she had never heard of any heroic utterance on
the subject. "You mean very, very hard. So it will
be. I have wanted to speak to you since ever we
came here. I want to know what he says himself,
and if papa has said anything, and what mamma
thinks. We don't seem to live together now," she
added, with a clouded countenance. "It's always, 'Oh,
Lady Caroline has gone out,' or, ' Her ladyship is in
the library with my lord.' It seemed very nice at
first, but I begin to hate ladyships and lordships withall
my heart."

So do I," said Caroline, with a sigh.

If you marry a man without a title, couldn't you
give it up? Perhaps one wouldn't like that either,
now," said the girl, candidly. 'rit was far, far nicer,
far more natural, in the old days; but perhaps one
wouldn't like to go back."

I suppose not," said Carry, drearily. She was nota
beautiful girl, as in her romantic position she ought
to have been. Her nose was too large ; her complexion
deficient ; her eyes were grey, sweet, and thoughtful,
but not brilliant or shining. Her figure had the willowy
grace of youth, but nothing more imposing. She
had a very sweet radiant smile when she was happy ;
this was the chief attraction of her face : but at present
she was not happy, and her pale gentle countenance
was not one to catch the general eye.

But I hope you are going to make a stand, Carry,"
said the energetic little Edith. " You won't, surely 
you can't be so Idche as to give in ? / would not ! 
not if it cost me my life ! "

'' Ah, if it was a question of one's life ! but no one
wants your life," said Carry, shaking her head. " No
one wil touch us, or lock us up, or any of these old-fashioned
things. If they only would ! The poets say
I could die for you,' as if that was difficult ! Oh no,
it is far harder, far harder to live."

Carry ! you have been thinking a great deal about
it, then ? "

"What else could I think about? Since the first
moment papa looked at me that day  you remember
that day ?  I knew in a moment what he meant. He
gave me just one glance. You know he never said
that he would consent."

Edith's youthful countenance gathered a sympathetic
cloud. " Papa has been so changed ever since'
she said.

He never would allow that he had consented even
before,  and while we were all poor, what did it
matter ? So long as he does not ask me to "

"To what?" Edith asked, with a wondering perception
of the shudder which ran over her sister's slight
figure. " Are you cold, Car ? "

"To  marry some one else," cried poor Caroline,
with a heavy sigh,  so heavy that it was almost a
groan.

Edith sprang to her feet with indignant vehemence.
That is not possible ; nobody could be so cowardly,
so cruel, as that," she said, clasping her hands together.
"Carry, you speak s if papa was a bad man; you
slander him ; it is not true, it is not true ! "

He would not think it cruel," said Caroline, shaking
her head sadly. " He would not mean any harm ;
he would say to himself that it was for my good."

Her despondency quenched the passion and energy
of the younger girl. Carry's drooping head and heavy

eyes were enough to damp even the liveliest courage.
Are you thinking of  any one in particular ? " Edith
said in hushed and tremulous tones.

Carry put out her hands as if to push some spectre
away. " Oh, don't ask me, don't ask me 5 I don't
know ; I can't tell you," she cried.

What could Edith say? she was appalled. The
fresh inexperienced heart received a first lesson in the
mysterious evils of life. She who had fretted aud
chafed so at the partial separation that had arisen
between them, she was glad of a pretext to leave her
sister. She could scarcely believe this to be possible,
and yet so it was. Astor did she wish to run to her
mother with her discovery, to appeal to her against
Carry's misconception, against the monstrous character
of the suggestion altogether, as would have been her
first impulse in any other case. No ; she was convinced
of the reality of it, little as she desired to be
convinced. A gleam of painful light seemed to fall
across the new tenor of their life. She thought fora
moment that she saw the very earth, solid and
unyielding, break into dangerous pits and chasms
before her feet. The pain of this discovery was twofold
 both poignant, yet one worse than the other.
To think that her father, whom she had hitherto loved
and trusted, not with any excess of devotion, but yet
with an honest confidence that he would ask nothing

wrong, nothing unreasonable from his children, should
thus threaten to become a domestic tyrant, an enemy
of truth, was terrible ; but still more terrible was the
conviction which overwhelmed the girl that Carry,
with all her imagination and feeling  Carry, the poet
of the family, the first one to have a romance and a
lover  would not have strength to resist any attempted
coercion. Oh, if it had only been me ! Edith said to
herself, clenching her hands tight. But then she had
no Edward, no romance  she was fancy free : even
were it possible to force her into any connection she
disliked (which Edith did not think it would be), at
all events she could not be made false to another.
But Carry  Carry, who was all heart  to force her to
deny that heart would be doubly cruel. Little Edith
woke out of her careless youth to see this wonderful
and great danger at her very side, with all that bewilderment
of feeling which attends the first disclosure
of the evils in life. She could not believe it, and
yet she knew it was true. She remembered tones in
her father's voice, lights in his eyes, which she never
seemed to have understood before. Was this what
they meant ? that when his time and opportunity came,
he would be a tyrant, a remorseless and unfaltering
ruler, suffering no rebellion ? Edith trembled a little.
Perhaps she, too, might fall under that despotism one
day. But she did not feel afraid of herself. Oh, if it

VOL. I. F

had only been me ! she said, ungrammatical, as excitement
generally is. It would be hard to say what
ground she had for her self-confidence. Carry was the
genius of the family, and little Edith only the youngest,
the household pet, whom nobody regarded as in a
position to make decisions or form opinions for herself.
Why was it to her eyes that this sudden insight had
been given ? It is not usually a happy gift. Blessed
are they, we may rather say, who can deceive themselves
 whose eyes are made blind, and not more
fatally clear, by love. Edith hastened out of doors,
out of sight or speech of any one, to try if she could
escape from this revelation which had opened upon
her, so much against her will. It was a misty dull
day, with a great deal of moisture in the air  moisture
which seemed to communicate itself to Edith's eyes,
and get into her throat. She hastened down the path
which wound through the birches, the poetical " birds
of Lindores," to the river lying far below, and already
sending a soft sound of running water to soothe her.
About half-way down was a great beech-tree, round
which a seat had been placed. Here there was a view,
not of the wide champaign, like that at Dalrulzian,
but of a portion of the highroad, just where it began
to mount the hill towards the Castle. On the other
side lay the river, visible at the foot of the bank, and
running somewhat strong and wild under the cliffs on

the opposite side, which threw it into deep shadow.
But it was not the river, though so much the more
beautiful of the two, it was the highroad which attracted
Edith's attention. As she stood looking out
upon it, some one passed, riding slowly along, but
turning his head to catch the first glimpse of the
Castle. His appearance seemed to throw a sudden
light upon her thoughts. He was a heavy, large man,
upon a powerful black horse,  an apparition big
enough to be identified, even at that distance. The
ladies had all been very free in their remarks upon
this representative of their county neighbours. They
had not given him a very encouraging reception, yet
he had repeated his visits, too stolid, they had thought,
to perceive that he was not wanted. As Edith stood
and gazed at him, with the blood curdling about her
heart, it flashed upon her that her father had given no
countenance to their criticisms. He had told them
that Mr Torrance was one of the richest commoners in
Scotland, and Tinto such a house as any one might be
proud to possess. She had paid little attention to
these words at the time, but they seemed to repeat
themselves in the very air now. It was a day of
revelation to Edith. She saw all that it meant, and
foresaw all it was comines to, with a clean of terrible
insight. Oh no, no ! she moaned to herself in a kind
of helpless protest against fate.

CHAPTER V.

Mr Torrance of Tinto was the representative of an old
county family, but he would not have been the richest
commoner in Scotland if he had been no more than
this. A variety of other circumstances, however, had
combined to bring about this effect, and elevate a
man who was no better, at the best that could be
said for him, than a rude yeoman-sportsman at soul,
into a person of the greatest local importance and
almost national notability. The previous Torrance of
Tinto, a man of some rough practical power, had
allied himself to some degree in business, and to a
much greater degree in life, with a great railway contractor
 one of the men who, coming from nothing,
have made colossal fortunes, and found admittance
for their children, if not for themselves, into the foremost
ranks of society. Mr Torrance married this
man's daughter, and all the money which the original
navvy had quarried out of the bowels of the earth,

or gathered from its surface, went to increase the
lands and the power of Tinto, where this daughter,
his only child, a woman with the magnificent ideas of
expenditure which enormous wealth so naturally brings
along with it, disposed herself to reign like a princess,
making her husband's old house the centre of a new
palace, fit for a duke at least. The old man, her
father, always thrifty and sparing in his own person,
would have her stinted in nothing; and perhaps, had
she lived long, her husband would have had little
enough left him of the huge fortune which she had
brought into the family. But fortunately (for the
family), after she had alarmed him beyond measure by
unbounded expenditure for a few years, and had completed
the new house and filled it with costly furniture,
in all of which her father encouraged her, the
death of both within a year of each other relieved the
owner of Tinto of his fears, and left him free to complete
the training of his son as he pleased. He made
him much such a man as he had himself been, but
without the brains, which are not transmitted so easily
as money. Patrick Torrance had indeed been sent
to Oxford to have the regulation mark stamped upon
him as an educated man : but those were days in
which so much as this meant was easier than now ;
and it is not very hard even now, as may be seen.
He came back more horsey, more doggy than he had

been before, if possible,  a man without an intellectual
taste or higher instinct, bored to death, as he himself
avowed, with the grand house, full of pictures, and
statues, and marble, and porcelain, which the taste
of his mother had accumulated. Never was such a
magnificent place in the quietude of such a homely
country. The daughter of the railway man was as
extreme in her taste for art as the daughter of one
of her father's navvies might have been in dress.
There was not a wall, not a passage or staircase, that
was not laden with decoration. Great artists had
designed the chimney-pieces and cornices. The velvet,
the satin, the embroidery, were all the most costly,
and, according to the lights of that period, the most
correct that money could buy. The old man, whose
money had bought all this, went about the gorgeous
rooms rubbing his hands with a continual chuckle
of satisfaction so long as he lived; and the poor
woman who had created the luxurious house swept
through in dresses to correspond, with satisfaction not
less than if she had been a daughter of the Medici,
who, to be sure, made their money in business too.
But when that fine Renaissance lady died, and all
her friends were scattered, and the place fell back
into the possession of the commonplace country laird
and his boy, coming in ruddy from the fields or damp
from the hill, afraid to tread in their shooting boots

on the luxurious carpets or throw themselves down
in the satin chairs, the incongruity of the establishment
was manifest to every eye. Mr Torrance, the
father, had been deeply impressed by the cost of
everything his wife had bought and planned. He had
been horrified and indignant in the first instance ; but
when it had been proved that he had no power to
resist, and that the money must be expended for all
these luxuries, he had taken what satisfaction he could
from the price. " Do you know what she gave for
that?" he would say; "it's all dash'd extravagance.
I cannot away with it ; but it was her doing, aud as
she had plenty, she had to please herself." It was
in this way that he spoke of his wife. And when she
died, the splendid house she had built was shut up, 
not from sentiment, but because the set of rooms still
remaining, which belonged to the old house of Tinto,
was much more in harmony with the habits of the
master of the house.

Now that he too was dead, his son followed his
example in preferring the old den of the race. But
he had more appreciation of the dignity of owning a
house such as no one in the country could " hold a
candle " to. The fine decorations had not all stood
the neglect of twenty years, but still there was enough
of magnificence to overawe the district ; and Patrick
Torrance had enough of his mother's blood in him

to enjoy the consciousness of so much luxury and
costliness. He lived in the old library, which was
low and dingy, and looked out upon the dark bit of
shrubbery behind the house and the road that led to
the stables ; but periodically he threw the grand empty
rooms open, and had a great dinner-party or a ball,
which excited all the gentry for miles round. It would
be vain to say that there was not on these occasions
more excitement than was natural solely in view of
a great entertainment. While society is constituted as
it is, it will not be possible that a great matrimonial
prize, such as Mr Patrick Torrance unquestionably
was, should thus be shown, as open to public competition,
without a certain excitement. If a great post
worth thousands a-year could be won by the most
attractive and brilliant appearance in a ball-room,
what a flutter there would be among the golden youth
of society ! and the master of Tinto was more valuable
than most of the very finest appointments. He
was as good as a Viceroy ship of India without the
necessity of expatriation. Consequently it is not to
be supposed that the young ladies of the neighbourhood
could prepare for their appearance in these gilded
if somewhat tarnished halls of his without a good deal
of agitation, or that the mothers, or even the fathers
of possible competitors, could escape some share of the
same excitement. Some of the girls, let us do them

the justice to say, were as much alarmed lest Pat
Torrance, as he was called, should cast his big projecting
eyes upon them, as others were anxious for that
notice. He was not in himself much adapted to please
a maiden's eye. He was very dark, strongly bearded,
with large eyes a fleur dc tete and somewhat bloodshot.
His friends maintained that he had " a good figure," and
it certainly was tall and strong. His voice was as large
as his person, and somewhat hoarse  a deep bass,
which made a vibration in the air. He was an excellent
shot, and hunted indefatigably, though it was beginning
to be said, notwithstanding his youth, that Pat
was too heavy for distinction in the hunting-field.
With all these qualities he had an eye to his interest,
rich though he was ; and, though not clever, was said
to be very fortunate in his investments, and to keep
a careful hand over his money. Now and then he
would be lavish, outdoing all that was known in these
parts in the way of extravagance ; but for the most
part he lived as his father had done before him, in
the old rooms of the old mansion-house of Tinto,
where not a carpet or a curtain had been removed
since the time of his grandfather. There was perhaps
a touch of humour, somehow struck out by the contact
of the two races, which made the contrast of these
two manners of living pleasant to his fancy and to
his rude and elementary pride; or perhaps it was

mere instinct, and had no meaning in it at all  the
habits of the limited and uncultured countryman,
diversified by that delight in an occasional " blow
out," which is the compensation of the navvy for
his rude toils. There was no doubt that from the
time of his father's death, which occurred when he
was about twenty-eight, Pat Torrance had made up
his mind to marry. And he had inspected all the
marriageable girls in the country with a serious intention
which disgusted some and amused others, and
filled a few with breathless hope. In the latter class
were ladies of very different pretensions indeed, from
Miss Webster of Thrums, who was the greatest rider
in the country, and never wanting when anything was
going on, down to the bold, handsome, black-eyed
daughter of the landlord of the Bear at Dunearn,
which was the inn Mr Torrance used when he went
into the county town. He was just as likely, people
thought, to make such a match as any other ; his style
of courtship was more in harmony with a bar-room
than a drawing-room. This conviction made the balls
at Tinto less exciting to the feminine community
generally as time went on ; but still there is never
any telling what caprice may sway a sultan's choice.
And alas ! it is a fact that, whether by their own
will or by that of their parents, Pat Torrance might
have married almost any lady in the county. He

was not himself to them, but such a cluster of
worldly advantages as scarcely any mortal woman
could resist. He was, as we have said, far beyond
in value the best of the appointments for which
they could not, and their brothers could try. He
meant a fine position, a magnificent house, a great
fortune. To be sure there was a drawback to this,
which only a few acknowledged. When Mrs Spill
pointed out to her daughter Agnes, whom he had
honoured with some passing notice, that in case she
married him she would have '' everything that heart
could desire  at least everything that money could
buy,"  Agnes, who was a clever girl, put forth a
condition. "I should have just as much as Pat
Torrance thought proper of the things that money
can buy," the young woman said, with sudden insight.
I am afraid, however, that Agnes Sempill would have
married him all the same, her family being so poor,
if he had put himself at her disposal. But he did
not, and she was glad. Indeed he made himself
of all the greater importance in the county that he
came to no decision, but went on giving his balls
three or four times a-year, and examining with a critical
eye every girl who appeared on the horizon,
every new debutante. And he was asked everywhere
in those days. His importance was fully recognised.
This was the condition in which things were when

the new family came to the Castle. Mr Torrance
was one of the first callers, partly because his pride
as at once the head of an old family and the richest
man in the county made him eager to assert his
position with the new Earl as a leader of the local
society  a position which not even the chances
their daughters might have of sharing it would have
prevailed on the other county magnates to permit
him,  and partly because of the new candidates for
his favour who were to be found in the family of
Lindores. Notwithstanding the prevalent idea that
Bessie Eunciman at the Black Bear in Dunearn
had just as good a chance for the prize as any competitor,
nothing could be further from the fact or
the intentions of the hero. His determination all
along had been to procure himself a wife who should
be in harmony, not so much with himself as with
the grandeur of his house and what he believed
to be his position; and the hunting lady and the
publican's daughter had been equally out of the
question. For himself, he might have liked either
of them well enough ; but as a matter of fact, it was
not too much refinement, but not refinement enough,
which this rude squire found among his country
neighbours. None of them was fine enough for
Tinto. He wanted somebody who would be at home
in the grand rooms overloaded with decoration  who

would be, if possible, superior to the killing splendour
which made himself feel so small. And no woman
yet had impressed Pat as sufficiently magnificent for
this purpose. He wanted some one more imposing,
a lady of Tinto who might, as he desired in his
heart, receive the Prince of Wales on occasion, or
even the Queen herself. When he paid his first visit
to Lindores, the Earl alone received him, and he had
no chance of inspecting the daughters of the house ;
but he had met them as he rode home again, coming
back from their drive in the little pony-carriage, of
which they had just become possessed. Edith, new
to all these delights, was driving her sister ; and her
bright little face, full of life and smiles, turned curiously
upon him as he stood aside on his big black
horse to let them pass. But that was not what
caught his eye. Beside her was a pale and gentle
countenance, unlike anything which had hitherto
been presented to his notice. Pat's heart, if he had
a heart, or the big pulse that did service for it, gave
a bound as he looked. It seemed to him at the first
glance that this new face was more aristocratic, more
distinguished, for not being pretty. The lilies and
roses of the other were familiar to him. Bright eyes
and fine complexions were by no means rare in the
county. They were to be found everywhere, in
the cottages as well as in the castles. He was

not impressed by them. The smiles and animation
were common things; but Lady Caroline with her
gentle paleness, her slim form pliant and bending,
even her nose, which was a little too long, was
the impersonation of refinement and rank, and fine
superiority. His imagination, if he had an imagination,
took fire. He thought he could see her
moving about with languid grace through his fine
salons, far more fine than they, lending them an air
of delicacy and importance which they had never
possessed before. He felt himself to be " struck " by
Lady Caroline as he never had been "struck" till
now. That was rank, he said to himself admiringly.
To be sure, rank was what he had wanted ; he had
never realised it before, but now he perceived it as
plain as daylight. He had been wiser than he was
aware of in his fastidiousness; and now he saw
suddenly presented before him the very object of
which he had been in search. Lady Caroline Torrance
!  that was what it was.

This chance meeting, and the instant conviction
that followed, had taken place some time before the
interview between the sisters which we have described.
How it was that the suitor communicated his wishes
to the Earl, or the Earl to poor Carry, it is impossible
to tell  or if, indeed, up to this time, any communication
had been made on the subject. Most

likely there had been no communication; but the
proposal, which turned the light into darkness for
Carry, was in the air, overshadowing everything.
Her father saw it in the dark face of Pat Torrance,
and she surmised it in her father's eyes. Before a
word had been said she knew her fate, struggling
dumbly against it like a creature fascinated and
magnetised in the grip of a monster, but without
any possibility or hope of escape. There was something
more terrible in this silent certainty than there
would have been in any conflict. She felt herself
sucked in as to a whirlpool, overpowered,  all her
forces taken from her in the giddy rush with which
the days and hours were carrying her on, irresistible,
to that climax. It was this fatal consciousness which
made her cry out, " I will never give him up ; " which
was the cry, not of resolution, but of despair. All
that she could do in her sick and failing soul was
to grasp at and cling to the weeds on the bank,
while the current carried her wildly on, plucking
them out of her hands. Edith, who was of so different
a nature, stood by appalled, astonished, not
knowing how to account for her sister's helplessness.
She was positive, as her mother said, not visionary,
incapable either of divining what was going to
happen or of yielding to it. Why Carry could not
simply make up her mind to refuse, to stand fast, to

resist whatever powers might be brought to bear upon
her, was a thing which Edith could not understand.

And stranger still, Lady Lindores had not even
found it out. She disliked Mr Torrance, and made
no secret of her dislike. " If that is your type of
a Scotch laird, I cannot say I like the species,"
she said, eliciting a soft, " Oh, mamma 1 " from
Edith, who remembered very well a statement of
an entirely contrary character which her mother
had once made. "If young Erskine is a type of
a young Scotch laird, I am disposed to fall in love
with the class," was what Lady Lindores had then
said. Edith remembered it distinctly, but gave her
tongue a little malicious bite, and would not recall
it to her mother's mind ; for was not young Erskine
coming back? But Lady Lindores's feeling about
Torrance was more than passive. She took care tolet
him see that he was not a favourite in the house.
She wondered audibly, even after the eyes of Edith
had been opened, what that odious man wanted here ;
and indeed did all but refuse to ask him to a diner
intime, at which her husband desired his presence.
"Torrance of Tinto," she cried, with a cloud on her
face ; " why Torrance of Tinto ? He has already dined
here. Why should we have him again?"

Why not ? " said the Earl, with a still deeper
shadow on his face. Lady Lindores saw very clearly

when her attention was aroused ; but she was a high-minded
woman, slow to be awakened to suspicion,
and scorning to think evil. It seemed to her an
evidence of a poor nature to suppose any one else
capable of an act you would not have done yourself.


"Why not? I think that jumps at the eyes," she
said. It was Lady Lindores's weakness to employ
idioms which, being translated idioms, sounded very
strange to ordinary ears. This was so far comprehensible
because she had lived abroad the greater
part of her life, and she thought the polyglot chatter
which is so common, especially among the English
abroad, vulgar ; so she translated her French, and
thought it less objectionable. "That jumps at the
eyes," she said ; " he is not a friend of the house 
only a recent acquaintance  and he has dined here
already. Why have him again? He is not an
attractive person. You cannot care for him, Robert ;
and he is no favourite with the girls."

"The girls must learn to receive the people I
approve of," said the Earl, " or we shall quarrel.
You must make them aware of that."

Quarrel ! for the sake of Mr Torrance ! That is
carrying clanship a great way."

"There is no clanship in it. You ought to know
better, my dear. Your English fallacies are quite

VOL. I. G

out of place here. If I had a clan (which I have
not  we are purely Norman, not Celtic at all), Pat
Torrance could have had as little to do with it as
John Smith."

"My dear Eobert," said Lady Lindores, for she
had not learned to address her husband by his title,
you take it very seriously. I meant your kindness
for your own people. But for a kind prejudice, which
I admire and respect, for your old neighbours, you
never would put up with a being like this Tinto, as
they call him,  a rich fox-hunter, with the mind of
a ploughman."

"You will oblige me, Mary," said her husband,
coldly, "by restraining your opinion  at all events
until you have a better right to express it. What
do you know of Pat Torrance ? I should very much
prefer that you did not commit yourself on the subject.
You might regret it after."

Commit myself!  regret it ! " Lady Lindores gazed
at her husband with consternation. She had absolutely
no guide to what he could mean ; but as he stood to
his point and would not yield, and as one must certainly
yield when such a question arises, she found
herself unwillingly obliged to give in. She was behind
her children in comprehension, strange as it seems to
say so. Lady Lindores had not been unfavourable to
Beaufort's claims when first he made his suit to Carry ;

but she had been perhaps a little disappointed in him
as the years passed on. He had not shown the energy,
the determination, which a man in such circumstances
ought to show. He had made no passionate effort to
obtain his bride, such as Carry's mother felt her child
was worth. And it was a long time now since Lady
Lindores had taken any notice of the lingering engagement
which her husband had never positively sanctioned,
but which had lingered on for a year or two,
coming to nothing. She had thought it best not to
interfere. Perhaps Mr Beaufort might think it his duty
to release Carry, now that her position was so much
changed. The mother did not feel that she could ask
him to do so ; but if anything had happened to the tardy
lover  had he been ill, or died, or proved fickle, she
would have felt that Providence was interfering on
their behalf. In the meantime, she thought it the best
policy to say nothing about it. And it was this reticence
which she intended for wisdom, which prevented
any explanation between them, and kept her ignorant
of what even Edith knew. It did not occur to her to
connect her child, so delicate and refined, with the
rough and coarse squire, whom she could not tolerate.
How her husband could put up with him Lady Lindores
could not conceive. He certainly meant something by
it, she thought ; but what did he mean ? Was it some
scheme of tactics in respect to the next election? which

already, she knew, gave Lord Lindores great concern.
Perhaps the Earl, who had a devouring ambition, now
that he found an opening for it, thought it well to
have the richest man in the county under his influence.
This was all that she had yet divined. " Your father
insists upon having that Mr Torrance," she said to the
girls. "What he can see in him, I cannot imagine.
But that does not look at us. We are not called upon
to make martyrs of ourselves for papa's political
friends."

Carry looked up eagerly as her mother spoke.
Political ! " she said, with a quiver of hopeful eagerness
in her voice. " Is that the reason ? " This eager
tone and broken question would have made Lady
Lindores wonder had she not been full of the subject
from her own point of view.

What else ? " she said. " You cannot suppose a
man like your father can find anything else in Mr
Torrance to attract him. Politics are very entrancing,
but, like necessity, they bring you acquainted with
strange bedfellows. Papa thinks, no doubt, that he
ought to turn his influence to account."

Oh, if that is the reason ! " said Carry, clasping her
hands together, with something like an ecstasy of
prayer and thankfulness in her face. Lady Lindores,
though she thought the emotion excessive  but then
Carry was always visionary  understood that her

daughter's delicate soul had been wounded by her
father's regard for so unattractive a person. She patted
her child upon the cheek tenderly.

You must not consider yourself responsible for all
the things we do in the prosecution of our several
parts," she said. " I feel, for my own part, that I take
a great deal too much notice of old Gardener. I am
getting much too fond of him. This is more innocent,
I allow, than your father's fancy for Mr Torrance ; for
I don't insist on asking old Gardener to dinner."

That I never should object to ! " cried Carry, kissing
her mother with sudden enthusiasm. She was
cheered beyond measure by the comparison, and by
Lady Lindores's absolute ignorance of any other pretension
on the part of Torrance. Perhaps she had been
deceiving herself, and attributing to her father intentions
that had never entered his mind. Carry was too
thankful to think that this might be how it was. But
Edith, the clear-sighted, avoided her sister's eye. She
made no comment on what her mother said. Edith
felt that, however others might be deceived, she knew.

CHAPTER VI.

Alas ! it was not very long before everybody knew.
The demeanour of Pat Torrance at the dinner, to which
Lady Lindores had been so reluctant to ask him, gave
much occasion for thought to the other guests who
knew the man and his ways. These said to each other
that Pat had put his foot in it at last  that he had
made his choice, and thrown his handkerchief at almost
the only woman in the county, who was not sure to
respond to it. Nothing could have been colder or more
repellent than Lady Caroline was to this great matrimonial
prize  the idol whom they all bowed down
to, though some with minds which rebelled against
the rude and godlike divinity. Among these interested
lookers-on were some who rejoiced to see that he
was likely to be made " to see his place " and submit
to the humiliation of refusal; and some who, conscious
that in their own families there were worshippers
who would not have refused to bow down, were angry

with poor Carry for " setting up " to be so much better
than her neighbours. The most sagacious of these,
however, reserved their judgment. There was something
in the demonstration with which the Earl brought
Pat forward and patted him on the back  something,
too, of pain in poor Lady Carry's mild eyes, which
made these more profound observers pause. The
Lindores were poor. There were two daughters to
provide for ; and it was not a matter to be settled so
easily, or which the parents would allow to turn entirely
on a young girl's fancy. And then she was not
even pretty, and she had got into the twenties  not a
mere girl, with all the world before her. The wise
would not give any opinion on the subject. They
shook their heads and refused to commit themselves.
But this was exactly what Pat Torrance did. He was
so satisfied that here at last he had got everything
he wanted, that he displayed his decision in Carry's
favour from the first day. He made a spectacle of
himself to the whole county, looking on with the keenest
attention ; and oh, how pleased society would have
been in the district" had he been once for all made an
example of, made a fool of, as they said, held up to
public scorn and ridicule as a rejected suitor ! As the
wooing went on, the desire for such a consummation 
the anticipation of it grew daily in intensity ; and it
was not very long doubtful. One of the usual great

balls was given at Tinto, which was specially in honour
of the new-comers, and took place as soon as they were
out of their mourning. It was evidently a crisis in the
life of the master of the house, and to the greater part
of the guests all the interest of a highly exciting drama
was mingled with the milder impulses of amusement.
Lady Caroline, everybody said, had never looked less
well. She was very pale ;  it was even said that
freckles, caused by her sinful exposure of her face to
all the elements during the summer, diminished the
sheen of her ordinarily white forehead  her nose was
longer than ever. But all this only increased, to her
admirer, the charm of her presence. She was independent
of beauty. Though she was very simply
dressed  too simply for a lady of rank  yet the air
with which she moved about these fine rooms was (Pat
thought) such as no one else who had ever been there
had possessed. She was superior to them, as she was
superior to the lilies and the roses, the wreathed smiles
and shining eyes of the other girls. He followed her
about with demonstrations of devotion which no one
could mistake. He would have danced with nobody '
but her, in the most marked abandonment of all his
duties as host, would she have permitted him. Even
when he danced with others his eyes followed her, and
the only talk he vouchsafed to his partners was about
Lady Car, as he called her, with offensive familiarity

and a sort of intoxication. As for poor Lady Caroline
herself, it was apparent to every one that she retreated
continually into out-of-the-way corners  hiding herself
behind the old maids and dowagers, who were never
left out of such gatherings, and liked to come and look
on and criticise the girls, and tell how things had been
done in their day. Several of these old ladies, distressed
to see a girl not dancing, had betrayed poor
Carry's hiding-place by their kind efforts to get her a
partner ; and the result had been two or three times
that she was thus delivered over into the very clutches
of the wolf

Mr Patrick," one of those kind ladies said, rising
from her seat and taking hold of his arm as he prowled
about, wondering where Carry could have disappeared
to, " do you no think it's discreditable to the county
that a young teddy newly come among us, and a
person of rank  and, what is better, a sweet young
creature  should be left sitting down the whole night
and get no dancing ? "

It was on this occasion that Miss Barbara Erskine
won the heart of the persecuted girl. She said to her
in a strong whisper which went through Carry's ear
like a  skewer (the simile is undignified, but suits the
fact)  " My dear, there's that eediot, Jean Sempill,
drawing attention to you. If you want to get out of
the way, slip away behind me ; there's a door there

that leads into the corridor, and so you can get back
to your mother. Stay by your mother  that's your
safest way." Thus Carry was delivered for the
moment. But, alas ! her mother could not protect
her effectually. When Pat Torrance came boldly up
with his dark face glowing, and his projecting eyes
ready, as a spectator remarked, to jump out of his head,
and said, " This is our dance," what could any one do
for her? Lady Lindores had become alarmed, not
knowing what to make of Carry's agitation ; but even
a mother in these circumstances can do so little. " I
am afraid she is tired, Mr Torrance," Lady Lindores
said; but Carry's arm was already in his. She had
not presence of mind even to take the advantage of
such an excuse.

When he brought her back, however, to her mother's
side, nobody could have helped seeing that something
had happened. Poor Carry was as white as her dress :
she seemed scarcely able to hold herself upright, and
sank down by her mother's side as if she neither saw
nor heard anything that was going on round her. On
the other hand, Pat Torrance was crimson, his eyes
were rolling in his head. He said almost roughly 
You were right, Lady Lindores. Lady Car is tired ; 
but I make no doubt she will be herself again tomorrow."
It was a curious speech to make, and there
was a tone of threatening and anger in his somewhat

elevated voice which roused the liveliest displeasure in
the mind of Lady Lindores ; but he was gone before
she could say anything. " What is the matter ? " she
said, taking her daughter's hand. "House yourself,
Carry ; everybody is staring. What has happened ? "
Oh, nothing, nothing ! Oh, mamma, let us go home,"
the poor girl cried. Her lips, her very eyelids, trembled.
She looked as if she were about to faint. Lady
Lindores was glad to see her husband approaching;
but he too had a threatening and stern look. She
called him to her, and begged him to ask for the
carriage. " Carry is quite ill," she said. " If you will
stay with Edith, I can send it back for you ;  but poor
Car has looked like a ghost all night." " She has looked
much more like a fool  as she is," said her father,
between his set teeth; but at last he consented that
she should be taken home, seeing the state of collapse
in which she was. He took her down-stairs, supporting
her on his arm, which was necessary, as she could
scarcely walk; but when they skirted the dance, in
which the master of the house was performing, talking
loudly and laughing with forced merriment all the time
the Earl, though he was a well-bred man, could not
help giving his daughter's arm a sharp pressure, which
hurt her. " I might have known you would behave like
a fool," he said in a low undertone, which nobody
but Carry could hear. She wavered for a moment, like

a young tree in the wind, but clung to him and hurried
past replying nothing. Lady Lindores following, formed
her own conclusions, though she did not hear what her
husband said. She took her child into her arms when
they were safe in the carriage, rolling along the dark
roads in the dimness of the summer night, and Carry
cried and sobbed on her mother's breast. " I understand
that you have refused him," Lady Lindores said.
"But what then? Why should you be so wretched
about it, Carry ? It is a kind of vanity to be so sorry
for the man. You may be sure Mr Torrance will get
over it, my love."

Then Carry managed to stammer forth the real
source of her terror. She was not thinking of Mr Torrance,
but of papa. What would he say to her ? would
he ever forgive her ? And then it was Lady Lindores's
turn to be amazed. " My darling, you must compose
yourself," she said ; " this is greater nonsense than the
other. Papa ! What can it matter to your father ?
He will never force your inclinations ; and how can
this coarse bumpkin interest such a man as he is ? "
She became almost angry at the sight of Carry's tears.
Allow me to know your father a little better than
you do," she cried. " Mr Torrance 1 who is Mr Torrance
? I can't believe that he would favour such a
suitor for a moment. But supposing that he did so, 
supposing he thought, as people are apt to do, that

money covers a multitude of sins  your father is nota
worldly-minded man, Carry ; he is ambitious, but
not for money,  supposing just for the sake of argument
Anyhow, my dear, that could only be if

the man happened to please you in his own person. We
might like the match better because the pretender was
rich, nothing more. Can you really think that papa
would be a tyrant to you,  that he would compel you
to marry any one ? Carry, my love, you have got an
attack of the nerves ; it is your good sense that has
given way."

Carry wept abundantly while her mother thus
talked to her, and the agitation which she had so
long shut up in her heart calmed down. Every word
Lady Lindores said was perfectly reasonable, and to
have represented her kind father to herself as a domestic
tyrant was monstrous, she felt ; but yet  she
could not tell her mother all the trifling circumstances,
the tones, the looks which had forced that conviction
upon her. But she was willing, very willing, to allow
herself to be persuaded that it was all a mistake, and
to accept the gentle reproof and banter with which
Lady Lindores soothed her excitement. " To refuse a
man is always disagreeable," she said, philosophically,
especially as one must always feel one is to blame
in letting him come the length of a proposal, and self-esteem
whispers that he will find it hard to console

himself. No, my Carry, no; don't distress yourself
too much. I don't want to be cynical ; but men of
Mr Torrance's type soon console themselves. Men
have died and worms have eaten them, but not for
love."

"It is not that, it is not that," Carry protested
among her tears.

But her mother would hear of nothing more alarming.
" It is a wrong to your father to think he would
take up the cause of such a man," she said, indignantly;
"and I should have been horribly disappointed
in you, Carry, if you had thought of him
for a moment." Carry was so soothed, so comforted,
so almost happy in her trouble, that the inmost doors
of her heart opened to her mother. "Whatever he
had been, oh, mother, do you think I could forget
Edward?" she said. His name had not been mentioned
between them for months before.

Edward," said Lady Lindores, shaking her head ;
and then she kissed the pleading expectant face, which
she could only feel, not see. " He should have showed
more energy, Carry. Had he been worthy of you, he
would not have left this question unsettled till now."

What could he do ? " cried Carry, roused out of
her prostration ; " he could not invent business for
himself." Again Lady Lindores shook her head; but
by this time they had reached their own door, and

in the fervour of her defence and championship of
her lover, Carry got out of the carriage a very different
creature from the prostrate and fainting girl
who had been put into it at Tinto. She went with
her mother to her room, feverish and anxious to
plead the cause of Edward. Lady Lindores was a
romantic woman, who believed in love, and had
taught her children to do the same. But she was
disappointed that her daughter's lover had not been
inspired by his love ; that he had not found success,
and secured his own cause beyond the power of evil
fortune. Arguing against this adverse opinion, and
defending Edward on every question, Carry recovered
her courage and her composure. She felt able to fight
for him to her last gasp when she left her mother,
shaking her head still, but always well disposed to
every generous plea; for the moment she had forgotten
all the nearer dangers which had seemed so
terrible to her an hour before.

Lady Lindores sat up in her dressing-gown till her
husband and Edith came back. He was very gloomy,
she excited and breathless, with a feverish sparkle in
her eyes, which her mother noticed for the first time.
She wondered if little Edith was in the secret too 
that secret which she had herself scarcely thought of
till to-night ; and her husband's aspect filled her with
strange anxieties. Was it possible that she, who had

known them so long, her husband for all the most
important time of his life, her child since her first
breath, should have discoveries to make in them now ?
The thought was painful to her, and she tried to
dismiss it from her mind. "Carry is better," she
said, with an attempt to treat the subject lightly.
It was the glare of these rooms, I suppose. They
are very handsome, but there was too much heat and
too much light."

I hope it is the last time we shall have any such
scenes from Carry," said the Earl. "You ought to
speak to her very seriously. She has been behaving
like a fool."

"Dear Eobert," said Lady Lindores, "it is trying
to a girl of any feeling to have a proposal made to
her in a ball-room, and I daresay Mr Torrance was
rude and pressing. It is exactly what I should have
expected of him."

Since when," said the Earl, sternly, " have you
studied Mr Torrance so closely as to divine what maybe
expected of him ? "

Eobert ! I have not studied him at all, nor do I
attempt to divine. Carry's agitation, her fright, her
panic, if I may call it so "

Were simply ridiculous, ridiculous ! " cried Lord
Lindores. " I always thought her sentimental, but I
never suspected her to be a fool."

Carry is no fool," cried her mother, indignantly ;
"you know very well she has both spirit and sense,
and more than sense. She is not a common girl.
She ought not to be treated as one. And this man,
this fox-hunter, this vulgar laird "

As he will probably be your son-in-law, you will
do well to avoid epithets," Lord Lindores said.

My son-in-law ! " said his wife, in a suppressed
shriek. " But Carry has refused him," she added,
with relief.

"To-night  being flurried, and not knowing her
own mind; but she will know better tomorrow."

Robert ! for heaven's sake, when she has been so
distressed by this most hateful proposal, you surely
will not suffer it to be repeated ! "

"Why should it be a hateful proposal?" he said.

Why ? " Lady Lindores did not know how to
answer; if he did not see it, if it did not jump at his
eyes, as she said to herself, what explanation would
make it clearer ? She tried to smile and approach
him on another side. " Dear Eobert," she said, tremulously
 "to think of you taking the part of such a
man ! He must have some fine qualities, I am sure,
or you never could have endured the outside of him,
or his manners, or his talk. He is so unlike you, so
unlike anything the girls have ever been taught to
care for." If this was flattery, surely it may be for-vol.

I. H

given to the anxious mother. She was anxious too,
as a wife, that her husband should not come down
from the pedestal on which it had been her pride to
keep him for so many years.

That is all very well," he said, impatiently ; " but
I never set myself up as a model of what my children
were to like. Yes; he has fine qualities, golden
qualities. Do you know that he is the richest commoner
in Scotland, Lady Lindores ? "

"I know," she said, with quick offence, the tears
starting suddenly to her eyes, "that my name is
Mary, and that I hate this wretched title, which I
shall never get used to, and never tolerate if my husband
calls me by it. We~are all, all, put asunder, all
changed, and finding each other out since we came
here."

This little outburst was partly real and partly a
half-conscious art to find an outlet for her excitement.
Her husband was more touched by it than if it had
been more serious. The complaint was fantastic, yet
it was one which love might be excused for making.
My love," he said, " of course I meant nothing unkind.
There have been times when I called you Mrs
Lindores in jest, as I did just now. But, seriously,
you must see what I am thinking of  you must give
me your support. We are poor. If Eintoul is to take
the position to which he is entitled after me "

"You mean Robin? I tell you I hate those new
names ! " she cried.

This is foolish, Mary. If he is to enter upon life
when his time comes weighted with a heavy provision
for his sisters  consider ; there is poor Jane. She is
quite young ; she may outlive us all : and if I were
to die, there would be two jointures besides Car and
Edith."

Let me be struck off the list' cried Lady Lindores.
I will never be a burden on my son. Eobert, God
forgive you; for a distant evil like this, would you
bring that man into our family, and force an unwilling
marriage on your child ? But no, no ; I am doing you
wrong ; your thoughts have never gone so far."

The Earl made no reply. His face was like a
thunder-cloud, lowering and heavy  a darkness from
which, at any moment, fire and flame might burst
forth.

No, no," said the mother. " I understand what
you have thought. I did so once myself when  you
remember  young Ashestiel came in our way. I
thought if they would but take to each other ; if they
would only see what a natural harmony they would
make ! Yes, yes, I remember, I was provoked beyond
measure that they would not see it ; and when he
went away, I did not know how to contain myself.
I was angry with my innocent Carry for not caring.

I understand you, Eobert. If by any chance her
fancy had been taken by this young millionaire ; but
dear, how could it ? You would yourself have thoughtless
of Carry had she liked such a man. Acknowledge :
he is not much better than a boor  with, perhaps, a
boor's virtues."

She looked up when she had got so far, and stopped
in sheer amazement at the sight of her husband's face.
She had never seen any indication before of what she
now found in it. Age with difficulty smothered ;
a determined intention to follow his own way; an
uneasy shame turning to bitterness and passion. His
voice was quite hoarse with the effort to contain himself.
" I thought," he said, " that at least you were not
one of the silly women who speak of things they
don't understand. But I was mistaken. You will
rather encourage a foolish girl in a piece of unworthy
romance, than show her her duty  her duty! But
neither you nor she, by shall hold me up to ridicule
! She shall take this husband I choose for her, or

by " Here he became aware how much he was

committing himself. He stopped, gazed at her defiantly
for a moment, then began to pace up and down
the room in great confusion. " The short and the long
of it is," he said, " that I can't suffer Carry, for a girlish
prejudice, to throw away such a position. He might
be the first man in the county," Lord Lindores said.

He has twice as much as we have, and no title to
keep up ; no encumbrance of any kind. She might bea
sort of princess. I cannot allow all this to be thrown
away for a mere fancy. If she does not like him, she
must learn to like him. What would she have ? He
is not a petit maitre, certainly ; but he is a man,
every inch of him  his family good, his health good, a
magnificent house; what could any woman want more?
She will have everything that heart can desire."

Lady Lindores made no immediate reply. All this
was so new to her  a revelation of things unthought
of It took away her breath ; it took away her
courage. Is there any shock, any pang that life can
give, equal to that of suddenly perceiving a touch of
baseness, a failure of honour, a lower level of moral
feeling, in those who are most dear to us ? This is
what shatters heaven and earth, and shakes the pillars
of existence to the beholder. It filled this woman with
a sudden despair impossible to describe. She tried
to speak, and her very voice failed her. What was
the use of saying anything ? If he thought thus,
could anything that was said affect him? Despair
made her incapable of effort. See was like Hamlet,
paralysed. At the end she managed to falter forth a
word of protestation. " There are some," she said,
faintly, '* who are content with so much less, Eobert 
and yet how much more !  you and I among the rest."

"A woman always answers with a personal example,"
he said.

And Lady Lindores was dumb. She did not know
what to say to the new man who stood beside her, in
the familiar aspect of her husband, expressing sentiments
which never before, had come from the lips of
Eobert Lindores. He had been self-indulgent in the
old days  perhaps a little selfish  accepting sacrifices
which it was not right for him to accept. But there
had been a hundred excuses for him ; and she and the
girls had always been so ready, so eager, to make those
sacrifices. It had been the pleasure of their lives to
make his as smooth, as graceful, as pleasant as possible.
There was no question of anything of this kind now.
He who had been dependent on their ministrations for
half the comfort of his life, was now quite independent
of them, the master of everybody's fate,  judging
for them, deciding for them, crushing their private
wishes. Lady Lindores was confused beyond measure
by this discovery. She put her hand to her head unconsciously,
as if it must be that which was wrong.
A vague hope that things might not look so terrible in
the morning came into her mind. It was very late,
and they were all tired and worn with the agitation of
the evening. "I think I am not in a condition to
understand to-night," she said, drearily. " It will be
better, perhaps, to put off till tomorrow."

It is a pity you sat up," lie said coldly ; and thus
the strange conference ended. It was already morning,
the blue light stealing in through the closed shutters.
Things, as well as faces, look ghastly in this unaccustomed
light. Lady Lindores drew the curtains closer
to shut it out, and lay down with her head aching,
turning her face to the wall. There are circumstances
in which the light of heaven is terrible ; and darkness,
darkness, oblivion of itself, the only things the soul
cares for. But though you can shut out the light, you
cannot shut out thought. There was not much rest
that night in Lindores. The Earl himself had a consciousness
of the strange discovery of him which his
wife had made ; and though he was defiant and determined
to subdue all opposition, yet he was hurt and
angry all the same that his Mary should think less
well of him. He seemed to himself of late to have
done a great deal for her and her children. No idea
of the elevation she had now reached had been in her
mind when they married. There were three brothers
then between him and the title, besides the children
of the elder. And now that things had so come about,
as that Mary was actually Countess of Lindores, he
could not but feel that he had done a great deal for
her. Yet she was not grateful. She looked at him
with those scrutinising, alarmed eyes. She turned
away from him with painful wonder; with  there

was no doubt of it  disapproval. And yet all he
wanted was the advancement of the family  the real
good of his daughter. Who could doubt what his
motive was ? or that it was for Carry's good to have a
noble establishment, a fortune that a princess might
envy ? Could there be any comparison between that
and the marriage with a poor barrister, upon which, in
her first folly, she had set her heart ? It was unreasonable
beyond measure, ungrateful, that his quite
legitimate determination, judging for the real advantage
of his daughter, should be thus looked upon by
Lady Lindores.

But it would be vain to attempt to describe the
struggle that followed : that domestic tragedy would
have to be told at length if told at all, and it included
various tragedies ; not only the subjugation of poor
Carry, the profanation of her life, and cruel rending of
her heart, but such a gradual enlightening and clearing
away of all the lovely prejudices and prepossessions of
affection from the eyes of Lady Lindores, as was
almost as cruel. The end of it was, that one of these
poor women, broken in heart and spirit, forced into a
marriage she hated, and feeling herself outraged and
degraded, began her life in bitterness and misery with
a pretence of splendour and success and good fortune
which made the real state of affairs still more deplorable
; and the other, feeling all the beauty of her life

gone from her, her eyes disenchanted, a pitiless cold
daylight revealing every angle once hid by the glamour
of love and tender fancy, began a sort of second existence
alone. If Torrance had been determined before
to have Lady Caroline for his wife, he was far more
determined after she had put his pride to the humiliation
of a refusal, and roused all the savage in him.
From the night of the ball until the moment of the
wedding, he never slackened in his pursuit of the
shrinking unhappy girl, who, on her side, had betrayed
her weakness to her sister on the first mention of the
hateful suitor. Edith was disenchanted too, as well asher
mother. She comprehended none of them. "I
would not do it," she said simply, when the struggle
was at its bitterest ; " why do you do it ? " Eintoul,
for his part, when he appeared upon the scene, repeated
Edith's positivism in a different way. " I think
my father is quite right," he said. " What could
Carry look for? She is not pretty; she is twenty-four.
You ought to take these things into consideration,
mother. She has lost her chance of any of the
prizes ; and when you have here the very thing, a
man rolling in money  and not a tradesman either,
which many girls have to put up with  it is such a
chance as not one in a thousand ever gets. I think
Car ought to be very grateful to papa." Lady Lindores
listened with a gasp  Robin too ! But she did not call

him Robin for a long time after that day. He was
Eintoul to her as to the rest of the world, his father's
heir, very clearly alive to the advantage of having,
when his time came, no provision for his sister hanging
like a millstone round his neck. His sympathy
and approval were delightful to his father. " Women
are such queer cattle, you never know how to take
them," the experienced young man said. A man is
not in a crack regiment for nothing. He had more
knowledge of the world than his father had. " I
should have thought my mother would have been
delighted to settle Carry so near home."

Thus it was a very strange divided house upon the
eve of this marriage. To add to the confusion, there
was great squabbling over the settlements, which Pat
Torrance, eager though he was to secure the bride,
whom his pride and self-will, as well as what he believed
to be his love, had determined to have at all
costs, was by no means so liberal about as the Earl
thought necessary. He fought this out step by step,
even venturing to hint, like the brute he was, that it
was no beauty or belle whom he was marrying, and
cutting down the requirements of her side in the most
business-like way. Lady Lindores had been entirely
silenced, and looked after the indispensable matters of
her daughter's trousseau without a trace of the usual
cheerful bustle attending wedding preparations ; while

Carry seemed to live in a dream, sometimes rousing
up to make an appeal to her father's pity, but mostly
in a sort of passive state, too heart-broken to be excited
about anything. Edith, young and curious,
moved about in the midst of it all in the activity of
her independence, as yet touched by none of these
things. She was a sort of rebellion impersonated,
scarcely comprehending the submission of the others.
While Carry wept she stood looking on, her face
hushed, her eyes brilliant. " I would not do it," she
said. These words were constantly on her lips.

How could you help doing it ? " poor Carry cried,
turning upon her in the extremity of her despair.
Oh, have a little pity upon me, Edie ! What can I
do ? I would sooner die. If there is anything you
can think of  anything ! But it is all past hope now.
Papa will not even listen to me. Eintoul tells me I

am a fool. He " but here Carry's voice was

broken with a shudder. She could not speak of her
bridegroom but with a contraction of her heart.

I don't know what I should do, but I should not
do this," said Edith, surveying her sister from the
height of untried resolution. " Nobody can force you
to say Yes instead of No ; nobody can make you do a
thing you are determined not to do. Why do you doit
? you can't want not to do it at the very bottom of
your heart."

Carry gave her a look of anguish which brought the
girl to her knees in compunction and remorse. " Oh,
forgive me, Car! but why, why do you do it?" she
cried. Lady Lindores had come softly in to give her
child her good-night kiss. It was within a few days
of the wedding. She stood and looked at the group
with tears in her eyes  one girl lying back white,
worn, and helpless in her chair ; the other, at her feet,
glowing with courage and life.

Speak to her, mamma," cried Edith, " as long as
there is any hope."

What can I say ? " said the mother ; " everything
has gone too far now. It would be a public scandal.
I have said all that I could. Do not make my poor
child more unhappy. Carry, my darling, you will do
your duty whatever happens : and everything becomes
easier when it is duty "

But how is it duty ? " said rebellious Edith. " I
would not do it ! " she cried, stamping her foot on the
floor.

Edith, Edith ! do not torture your sister. It is
easy to say such things, but how are you to do them ?
God knows, I would not mind what I did if it was only
me. I would fly away with her somewhere  escape
from them all. But what would happen ? Our family
would be rent asunder. Your father and I"  Lady
Lindores's voice quivered a little  "who have been

always so united, would part for ever. Our family
quarrels would be discussed in public. You, Edith 
what would become of you ? Your prospects would all
be ruined. Carry herself would be torn to pieces by
the gossips. They would say there must be some
reason. God knows, I would not hesitate at any
sacrifice."

Mamma, do not say anything more ; it is all over.
I know there is nothing to be done," said Carry, faintly.
As for Edith, she could not keep still ; her whole frame
was tingling. She clenched her small fists, and dashed
them into the air.

I would not do it ! I would just refuse, refuse I
I would not do it ! Why should you do it ? " she
cried.

But between these two there was no talking. The
younger sister flew to her own room, impelled by her
sense of the intolerable, unable to keep still. She met
her brother by the way, and clutched him by the arm,
and drew him with her within her own door. " I
would not do it, if I were Carry," she said, breathless.
You might drag mee to church, if you liked, but even
there I would not consent. Why, why does she doit
? " Edith cried.

Because," said Eintoul the experienced, " she is not
such a fool as she looks. She knows that after the
first is over, with plenty of money and all that, she will

get on first-rate, you little goose. Girls like something
to make a fuss about."

Oh, it is a great deal you know about girls ! " cried
Edith, giving him a shake in the violence of her
emotion. But he only laughed, disengaging himself.

"We'll see what you'll do when it comes to your
turn," he said, and he went off along the passage
whistling. It did not matter to him that his sister was

o

breaking her heart. But why, why, oh why does she
do it ? Edith dozed and woke again half-a-dozen times
in the night, crying this out into the silence. To refuse,
surely one could do that. Papa might scold, there
might be scenes and unhappiness, but nothing could
be so unhappy as this. She was incapable of understanding
how there could be any difficulty in the case.
The marriage took place, however, in spite of these
convulsions, and several years had elapsed since that
event. It was an old affair when John Erskine, newly
arrived, and full of curiosity and interest, had that
encounter with Lady Lindores and her daughter at his
own gate, where something of the outline of this story
was communicated to him  the facts of it at least.
The ladies did not linger upon Carry's marriage in
their narrative. He was told of it briefly as an event
long over, and to which everybody had got accustomed.
And so it was. The most miserable of events settle
down into the routine of life when a few years have

elapsed. Carry herself long ago had accepted lier fate,
trying to persuade herself that an unhappy marriage
was nothing out of the common, and taking such comfort
as was possible in poetry and intellectual musings.
Her husband, who neither knew nor cared for anything
above his own rude external world, yet felt her poetry
to enhance the delicacy of her being, and to raise Lady
Car more and more to that height of superiority
which was what he had sought in her  was all the
better satisfied with his bargain, though all the more
separated from any possible point of junction with her.
The neighbourhood was very well aware of all the
circumstances ; and though Lady Lindores entered
into no explanations, yet there was a sigh, and a tone
in her voice, as she spoke of her daughter, which
suggested sorrow. But to tell the truth, young John
Erskine, suddenly finding such friends at his very
door, suddenly readmitted into the old intimacy, and
finding the dull country life to which he had been
looking forward flash into sunshine and pleasure, made
few inquiries into this darker chapter of the family
history ; and in reality cared for nothing much but to
convince himself that the Lindores family were really
his next neighbours ; that they were quite willing to
receive him on the old footing; and that, demurely
walking along the same road on the other side of her
mother, saying little but touching the entire atmosphere

with a sense of her presence, was Edith Lindores.
Perhaps, had he actually been by her side, the sensation
being more definite would have been less entrancing.
But her mother was between them, animated and
pleased by the meeting, ready to tell him all that had
happened, and to hear his account of himself, with
friendly interest ; while beyond her ample figure and
draperies, the line of a grey dress, the occasional flutter
of a ribbon, the putting forth of a small foot, made the
young man aware of the other creature wrapped in soft
silence and maidenly reserve, whom he could image
to himself all the more completely that he saw no more
of her. He scarcely heard her voice as they walked
along thus near yet separated ; but a great many
things that Lady Lindores said were confused by the
sound upon the road of her daughter's step  by the
appearance of that bit of ribbon, with which the sunny
wind did not hesitate to play, floating out in advance
of her, catching the young man's eye. Thus all at
once, on the very first day after his return, another
new existence began for John Erskine on the road
between Dalrulzian and Lindores.

CHAPTER VII.

There are few things in human affairs more curious
than the structure of what is called society, wherever
it is met with, whether in the most primitive of its
developments or on the higher levels. The perpetual
recurrence of a circle within which the sayings and
doings of certain individuals are more important than
anything else in earth or heaven, and where the conversation
persistently rolls back, whatever may be its
starting-point, to what this or that little knot of
people are doing, to the eccentricities of one and the
qualities of another, to some favourite individual
scene of tragedy or comedy which forms the centre
of the moral landscape  is always apparent to the
observer, whether his observations are made in Kamt-
chatka or in London, among washerwomen or princesses.
But under no circumstances is this so evident
as to a new-comer in a region where all the people
know each other. The novelty and freshness of his

VOL. I. I

impressions perhaps make him congratulate himself
for a moment that now at last he has got into a
society fresh and original, with features of its own ;
but half-a-dozen meetings are enough to prove to him
that he has only got into another round, a circle as
little extended, as much shut up in its own ring, as
all the rest. This was what John Erskine found, with
a little amusement and a little disgust, almost as soon
as he got settled in his unknown home. Any addition
to their society was interesting to the country folks,
especially in May, when there is not much doing 
when those who can indulge themselves in the pleasures
of the season have gone to London, and those
who cannot are bound to bring forth their philosophy
and prove that they enjoy the country in the early
summer, even though there is nothing to do. But a
young man unencumbered and alone, with all his life
before him, and all his connections to form, is perhaps
of all others the most interesting human creature who
can come into a new sphere. All the world is curious
about him  both those whose lives he may influence,
and those to whom he can contribute nothing but the
interest, perhaps of a new drama, perhaps only of a
new face. He who will enact his own story publicly
before the eyes of his neighbours, falling in love, wooing,
marrying, or, still better, carrying on these processes

with interruptions of non-success and threatening
of postponement, what a godsend he is ! and perhaps
scarcely less he who brings in darker elements
into the placid tenor of the general history, and ruins
himself for our instruction, while we all look on with
bated breath. To the country-side in general, John
Erskine, while as yet' unknown, was a new hero. He
was the beginning of a romance with all the more
fascination in it that the most interested spectator fora
long time could form but little idea how it was to
turn. As soon as he was known to be at home, his
neighbours came down upon him from all quarters
with friendly greetings, invitations, offers of kindness
on all sides. The first to appear was Sir James Montgomery,
a sunburnt and cheerful old soldier, whose
small estate of Chiefs wood "marched" on one side with
Dalrulzian, and who was disposed to be very friendly.
He came in beaming with smiles over all his brown
jovial countenance, and holding out a large cordial
hand.

"Well, young man, so this is you at last. You're
heartily welcome home. I've been long away myself,
and you've never been here, but we're old neighbours
for all that, and I take it upon me to call myself an
old friend."

You are very kind," John said, suffering his hand

to be engulfed in that kind, warm, capacious grasp.
The old soldier held him at arm's length for a moment,
looking at him with friendly eyes.

"I remember your grandfather well," he said; "not
so much of your father, for he came to man's estate,
and died, poor lad, when I was away ; but I see some
features of the old man in you, my young friend, and
I'm glad to see them. You'll seldom meet with a better
man than your grandfather. He was very kind to meas
a young lad at the time I got my commission.
They were ill able to afford my outfit at home, and
I'm much mistaken if old Dalrulzian did not lend a
helping hand ; so mind you, my lad, if young Dalrul-
tian should ever want one  a day in harvest, as the
proverb goes "

You are very kind, sir," said John Erskine again :
he was touched, but half amused as well. It seemed
so unlikely that he should require the old general's
helping hand. And then they talked of the country,
and of their previous lives and diverse experiences.
Sir James was one of those primitive men, much more
usual a generation ago than now, whose knowledge of
life, which to his own thinking was profound and extensive,
left out the greater part of what in our days is
known as life at all. He knew Scotland and India,
and nothing more. He was great in expedients for
dealing with the natives on one hand, and full of a

hundred stories of village humour, fun, and parkinson
the other. To hear him laugh over one of these
anecdotes till the tears stood in his clear, warm blue
eyes, which were untouched by any dimness of time,
was worth all the witticisms ever printed ; and to see
him bend his fine old brows over the characteristics
of his old subjects in India, and the ameliorations
of character produced by British rule, firmness, and
justice, was better than philosophy. But with that
which young John Erskine knew as life he had no
acquaintance. Save his own country and the distant
East, the globe was wrapped in dimness to him. He
had passed through London often, and had even transacted
business at the Horse Guards, though an Indian
officer in those days had little to do with that centre
of military authority ; but he had a mingled awe and
horror of " town," and thought of the Continent as of
a region of temptation where the devil was far more
apparent than in other places, and sought whom he
might devour with much more openness and less hindrance
than at home. And when our young man, who
flattered himself a little on his knowledge of society
and the world, as he understood the phrase, unfolded
himself before the innocent patriarch, their amazement
at each other was mutual. Old Sir James contemplated
John in his knowledge with something of the same
amused respect which John on his side felt for him in

this ignorance. To each there was in the other a mixture
of a boy and a sage, which made them each to
each half absurd and half wonderful. An old fellow,
who must have seen so much to have seen so little !
and a mere bit of a lad, Sir James said to himself, who
knew nothing about India or anything serious, yet had
seen a vast deal, and had very just notions, and spoke
like a man of the world when you came to talk to
him I It was thus the senior who did most justice to
the junior, as is usually the case.

I am afraid," Sir James said, " that you'll find our
country-side but dull after all you've seen. "We're
pleased with ourselves, as most ignorant people are;
we think we're good enough company on the whole,
but music, or the play, or art, or that kind of thing,
you'll find us wanting in. I'm afraid they find us very
wanting at Lindores ; but as for a kind welcome, whenever
you like and however you like, and a good Scotch
dinner, and sometimes a dance, if that will content you
in the way of company "

I should be hard to please if that would not content
me," said John. "I hope you will give me the
chance."

''That we will  that we will," said Sir James,
heartily ; and then he added, " we have no young
people about us  Lady Montgomery and me. Our
two children are as far from children now as their

father and mother. They are both in India, and their
families grown up and gone out to them. So we have
nothing young of our own about the house ; but don't
go too fast, we're not without attraction. In a week,
I think, we're expecting a visitor that will make the
place bright  Miss Barrington  Nora Barrington ;
you'll have heard of her by this time. She's a great
favourite in the country. We are all keen to have her
and to keep her. I'm not afraid that a young man
wil find us dull when we've Nora in the house."

Here John, who had become suspicious of the name
of this girl whom everybody insisted on recommending
to him, eagerly protested that he should want no foreign
attraction to the house in which the kind old
general was.

Foreign ! No, she's not foreign," said Sir James ;
far from that. A bonnie English girl, which, after a
bonnie Scotch lassie, is by far the best thing going.
We must stand up for our own first," said the old soldier,
laughing ; " but nothing foreign  nothing foreign :
if you want that, you'll have to go to Lindores."

John felt  he could scarcely tell why  slightly
irritated by these references to Lindores. He said,
somewhat elaborately, " They are the only people I
really know in the county. I met them long ago  on
the Continent."

"Ah!  ay; that's just what I say  for anything

foreign, you'll have to go to the Castle," said Sir James,
a little doubtfully. " But," he added, after a moment's
pause, " I hope you'll take to us and your own
country, and need no 'foreign aid of ornament,' eh?
You must forgive me. I'm an old fellow, and old-fashioned.
In my time it used to be thought that
your French and Italians were  well, no better than
they should be. Germans, they tel me, are a more
solid race ; but I know little difference  I know little
difference. You'll say that's my ignorance," said this
man of prejudice, beaming upon his companion with a
smile in which there was a little deprecation, but a
great deal of simple confidence. It was impossible
not to condone the errors of a censor so innocent.

If you knew them, you would not only see a great
deal of difference, but I think you would like them a
great deal better than you suppose," John said.

"Very likely  very likely," cried Sir James. It
occurred to him suddenly that if his young friend had
indeed, poor lad, been brought up among those " foreign
cattle," an unfavourable opinion of them might
hurt his feelings ; and this was the last thing the
old man would have done  even to a foreigner in
person, much less to a son of the soil temporarily
seduced by the wiles of strangers. And then he repeated
his formula about being an old fellow and old-fashioned.
"And you'll mind to expect nothing but

broad Scotch at Chiefswood," he cried, laughing and
waving his hand as he rode away, after the hearty invitation
with which every visitor ended. " You'll get
the other at Lindores."

And the door had scarcely closed upon this new
acquaintance when the Earl made his appearance, with
the smile of an old friend, quite willing to acknowledge
old relationships, but not too familiar or enthusiastic
in his claim. He was no longer the languid
gentleman he had been in the old wandering days, but
had the fresh colour and active step of a man who
lived much out of doors. " The scene is very different,"
he said, with kindness but dignity. " We are
all changed more or less ; but the sentiments are the
same." He said this with something of the air of a
prince graciously renewing acquaintance with a friend
of his exile. " I hope we shall see you often at the
Castle. We are your nearest neighbours; and when
you have been as long here as we have, you will have
learned to shudder at the words. But it is a relief to
think it is you who will now fill that role'' Could a
benevolent nobleman say more ? And it was only
after a good deal of friendly talk that Lord Lindores
began to speak of the county business, and
the advantage it would be to him to have support in
his attempts to put things on a better footing.

'nothing can be more arriere,'' he said. "We are

behind in everything; and the prejudices I have to
struggle with are inconceivable. I shall have you
now, I hope, on my side : we are, I believe, of the
same politics."

I scarcely know what my politics are," said John.
Some one told me the other day that the Erskiness
are always on the right side ; and, if you will not
be disgusted, I am obliged to confess that I don't
know what was meant. I know what it would be at
Milton Magna. I imagine dimly just the opposite
here."

The Earl smiled benignly on the young inquirer.
The Erskiness have always been Liberal," he said. " I
know there is no counting upon you young men. You
generally go too far on one side or the other : if you
are not Tories, you are Radicals. My Liberalism, hen
entendu, does not go that length  no Radicalism, no
revolutionary sentiments. In short, at present my
politics mean county hospitals and drainage more than
anything else." Then he paused, and added somewhat
abruptly, " I don't know if you ever thought of Parliament
 as a career for yourself ? "

At this John's pulses gave a sudden jump, and the
blood rushed to his cheeks. Had he thought of it ?
He could scarcely tell. As something he might come
to, when he had learned the claims of life upon him,
and the circumstances of the country, which as yet he

barely knew  as an object to look forward to, something
that might ennoble his future and afford him the
finest occupation that a man can have, a share in the
government of his country  yes ; no doubt he had
thought of it  at a time when he thought more highly
of Dalrulzian and of his own pretensions. But the demand
was very sudden, and he had all the modesty of
youth. "Parliament!" he faltered forth. "I  don't
know that I have thought of it. I fear I know too

little of politics  I have too little experience "

And here he paused, expecting nothing less than
that he should be kindly urged to think better of
it, and persuaded that it was his duty to serve his
generation so.

Ah," said the Earl, " you give me just the assurance
I wanted. I need not hesitate to tell you, in that case,
that my great desire is to push Eintoul for the county.
If you had thought of it yourself, it would have been a
different matter ; but otherwise everything points to
him,  his position, our circumstances as the natural
leaders, and the excellent chance he would have withall
parties  better than any one else, I believe. You
could be of the utmost use to us, Erskine, if it does
not interfere with any plans of your own."

Now John had no plans; but this sudden check,
after the sudden suggestion which roused all his ambition,
was too much like a dash of cold water in his

face to be pleasant to him. But he had time to collect
himself while Lord Lindores was speaking, and to call
Tip a sort of smile of assent, though it gave him a
twinge of ludicrous pain. It was poetic justice. He
had faltered and said No, in order to be encouraged and
made to say Yes, and his vanity and false modesty, he
thought, had got their reward. And all this for Rintoul !
He remembered Rintoul well enough when he was not
Eintoul at all, but Robin Lindores  a poor little
lieutenant in a marching regiment. And now he was
in the Guards, and the heir of an earldom. The change
of position was so great, that it took away John's
breath. In the days of their former acquaintance, there
could not have been the smallest doubt which was the
more important personage  young Lindores, who had
nothing at all, or John Erskine, with a good estate
which everybody accepted as much better than it was.
But now he had gone down, and the other up. All
this went through his mind ruefully, yet not without
a sense of amusement in his own discomfiture. He
had not much confidence in his own abilities or enlightenment,
but it was not much to brag of that he had
more of both than young Lindores. However, he had
nothing to do in this sudden concatenation but to listen
respectfully yet ruefully as the Earl went on, who
seemed to have grasped him, present and future, in his
hands.

It is a wonderful comfort to be able to calculate
upon you," he said. "My son-in-law  for of course
you have heard of Carry's marriage  would have a
great deal of influence if he chose to exert it ; but he
has his own notions  his own notions. You will
understand, when you make his acquaintance, that
though a sterling character, he has not had ,all the
advantages that might have been wished, of acquaintance
with men and knowledge of the world. But you,
my dear Erskine, you know something of life. By the
by," he said, as he rose to go away, " Lady Lindores
charged me to engage you to come to us tomorrow.
We are going away to town, but not for more than a
month. The ladies insist that they must see you
before they go. We all look forward to seeing a great
deal of you," the Earl added, with that manner which
was always so fascinating. " Between you and me, our
dear neighbours are a set of prejudiced old rustics,"
he said, with a confidential smile, as he went out ; " but
it will be strange if you and I together cannot make
them hear reason." Could anything be more flattering
to a young man ? And it was the father of Edith who
grasped his hand thus warmly  who associated him
with himself in a conjunction so flattering. John forgot
the little wrench of theoretical disappointment 
the ludicrous ease with which he had been made to
give place to Rintoul. After all, something must be

sacrificed, he allowed, to the heir of an important
family  and the brother of Edith Lindores !

But this was not his last visitor on this eventful
afternoon. The Earl had scarcely disappeared when
Rolls once more threw open the door of the library, in
which John usually sat, and announced with much
solemnity Mr Torrance of Tinto. The man whom the
Earl, though vouching for him as *'a sterling character,"
had allowed to be wanting in knowledge of the world,
came striding in with that air of taking up all the
space in the room and finding it too small for him,
which wealth and a vulgar mind are so apt to give.
That John should dislike him instinctively from the
moment he set eyes upon him, was nothing remarkable;
for was not he the owner of the most obnoxious
house in the neighbourhood ? the man to whom Carry
Lindores had been sacrificed ? John Erskine felt, as he
rose to meet the new-comer, a sense of the shabbiness
and smallness of his own house, such as, even in the
first evening of disenchantment, had scarcely affected
him so strongly before. When his visitor cast round him
that bold glance of his big, projecting, light-blue eyes,
John saw through them the insignificance of the place
altogether, and the humility of his own position, with
a mortification which he could scarcely subdue. Torrance
was tall and strong  an immense frame of a man,
with very black hair and dark complexion, and something

insufferably insolent, audacious, cynical, in those
large, light eyes, a fleur de tete. His insolence of nature
was sufficiently evident ; but what John did not see
was the underlying sense of inferiority which his new
visitor could not shake off, and which made him doubly
and angrily arrogant, as it were, in his own defence.
It sailed him to recognise better manners and breeding
than his own  breeding and manners which perhaps
he had found out, as John did the inferiority of
his surroundings, through another's eyes. But Torrance's
greeting was made with great show of civility.
He had heard much of John as a friend of the family
at Lindores, he said.

Not but what I should have called, anyhow," he
explained, " though Tinto really belongs to the other
side of the county, and Dalrulzian is rather out of the
way for me ; but still civility is civility, and in the
country we're a kind of neighbours. I hope you like
it, now you are here 1 "

"Pretty well," was all that John said.

It's a nice little place. Of course you knew what
it was  not one of the great country places ; but it
stands well, and it looks fine at a distance. Few places
of its size look better when you're a good bit away."

This tried the young man's patience, but he did his
best to smile. " It is well enough," he said ; " I expected
no better. It is not imposing like Tinto.

Wherever one goes, it seems to me impossible to get
out of sight of your big house."

Yes, it's an eyesore to half the county ; I'm well
aware of that," said Torrance, with complacency.
There's far more of it than is any good to me. Lady
Car  I hear you knew Lady Car before we were married,"
he said, fixing John almost threateningly with
those light eyes  " fills it now and then ; and when I
was a bachelor, I've seen it pretty full in September ;
but in a general way it's too big, and a great trouble
to keep up."

I hope Lady Caroline is quite well ? " John said,
with formal gravity.

She is well enough. She is never what you call
quite well. Women get into a way of ailing, I think,
just as men get into a way of drinking. You were
surprised to hear she was married, I suppose ? " he
asked abruptly, with again the same threatening, offensive
look, which made John's blood boil.

"I was surprised  as one is surprised by changes
that have taken place years before one hears of them ;
otherwise it is no surprise to hear that a young lady
has married. Of course," John added, with serious
malice, "I had not the advantage of knowing you."

Torrance stared at him for a moment, as if doubtful
whether to take offence or not. Then he uttered,
opening capacious jaws, a fierce laugh.

I am very easy to get on with, for those that know
me," he said, " if that's what you mean. We're a
model couple, Lady Car and I : everybody will tell
you that. And I don't object to old friends, as some
men do. Let them come, I always say. If the difference
is not in favour of the present, it's a pity  that's
all I say."

To this John, not knowing what answer to make,
replied only with a little bow of forced politeness, and
nothing more.

I suppose they were in a very different position
when you used to know them ? " said Torrance ; " ina
poor way enough  ready to make friends with
whoever turned up ? "

"It would be very bad policy on my part to say
so," said John, " seeing that I was one of the nobodies
to whom Lady Lindores, when she was Mrs Lindores,
was extremely kind  as it seems to me she always is."

Ah, kind ! that's all very well : you weren't nobody
 you were very eligible  in those days," said
Torrance, with a laugh, for which John would have
liked to knock him down ; but there were various
hindrances to this laudable wish. First, that it was
John's own house, and civility forbade any aggression;
and second, that Tinto was much bigger and stronger
than the person whom, perhaps, he did not intend to
insult  indeed there was no appearance that he meant

VOL. I. K

to insult him at all. He was only a coarse and vulgar-minded
man, speaking after his kind.

The fact is, if you don't mind my saying so, I'm
not very fond of my mamma-in-law," said Torrance.
Few men are, so far as I know : they put your wife
up to all sorts of things. For my part, I think there's
a sort of conspiracy among women, and mothers hand
it down to their daughters. A man should always
part his wife from her belongings when he can. Shea
great deal better when she has nothing but him to
look to. She sees then what's her interest  to please
him and never mind the rest. Don't you think I'm
complaining  Lady Car's an exception. You never
catch her forgetting that she's Lady Caroline Torrance
and has her place to fill. Doesn't she do it, too 1
She's the sort of woman, in one way, that's frightened
at a fly  and on the other the queen wouldn't daunt
her ; that's the sort of woman I like. She's what you
call a grand damn  and no mistake. Perhaps she
was too young for that when you knew her ; and had
nothing then to stand on her dignity about."

Here John, able to endure no longer, rose hastily
and threw open the window. "The weather gets
warm," he said, "though it is so early, and vegetation
is not so far behind in Scotland as we
suppose."

"Behind! I should like to know in what we're

behind!" cried his guest: and then his dark countenance
reddened, and he burst into another laugh.
Perhaps you think I'm desperately Scotch," he
said; 'but that's a mistake. I'm as little prejudiced
as anybody can be. I was at Oxford myself. I'm
not one of your local men. The Earl would like me
to take his way and follow his lead, as if I were a
country bumpkin, you know. That's his opinion of
every man that has stuck to his own country and
not wandered abroad ; and now he finds I have my
own way of thinking, he doesn't half like it. We
can think for ourselves down in the country just as
well as the rest of you." After he had given vent to
these sentiments, however, Torrance got up with a
half-abashed laugh. "If you come over to Tinto,
Lady Car and I will be glad to see you. We'll show
you some things you can't see every day  though weare
in an out-of-the-way corner, you're thinking," he
said.

"I have already heard of the treasures of Tinto,"
said John, glad that there was something civil to say.

Pat Torrance notched his head with much self-satisfaction.
"Yes, we've got a thing or two," he said.
"I'm not a connoisseur myself. I know they've cost a
fortune  that's about all I'm qualified to judge of. But
Lady Car knows all about them. You would think
it was she and not I they belonged to by nature.

But come and judge for yourself. I'm not a man to
be suspicious of old friends."

And here lie laughed once more, with obvious offensive
meaning; but it took John some time to make
out what that meaning could be. His visitor had
been for some time gone, fortunately for all parties,
before it burst upon him. He divined then, that it
was he who was supposed to have been poor Carry's
lover, and that her husband's object was the diabolical
one of increasing her misery by the sight of the man
whom she had loved and forsaken. Why had she
forsaken Beaufort for this rude barnyard hero ? Was
it for the sake of his great house, which happily was
not visible from Dalrulzian, but which dominated half
the county with gingerbread battlements, and the flag
that floated presumptuous as if the house were a
prince's ? Had Carry preferred mere wealth, weighed
by such a master, to the congenial spirit of her former
lover? It fretted the young man even to think of
such a possibility. And the visitors had fretted him
each in some special point. They neutralised the
breadth of the external landscape with their narrow
individuality and busy bustling little schemes. He
went out to breathe an air more wholesome, to find
refuge from that close pressure of things personal, and
circumscribed local scenery, in the genial quietness
and freshness of the air outside. How busy they

all were in their own way, how intent upon their own
plans, how full of suspicion and criticism of each
other! Outside all was quiet  the evening wind
breathing low, the birds in full chorus. John refreshed
himself with a long walk, shaking off his
discouragement and partial disgust. Peggy Burnet
was at her door, eager to open the gate for him ashe
passed. She had just tied a blue handkerchief
about the pot containing her " man's " tea, which her
eldest child was about to carry. As he sauntered up
the avenue, this child, a girl about ten, tied up so far
as her shoulders were concerned in a small red-tartan
shawl, but with uncovered head and bare legs and
feet, overtook him, skimming along the road with
her bundle. She admitted, holding down her head
shyly, that she was little Peggy, and was carrying her
father his tea. " He's up in the fir-wood on the top
of the hill. He'll no' be back as long as it's light."

But that is a long walk for you," said John.

It's no' twa miles, and I'm fond, fond to get into
the woods," said Peggy. She said " wudds," and there
was a curious sing-song in the speech to John's unaccustomed
ears. When she went on she did not
curtsey to him as a well-conditioned English child
would have done, but gave him a merry nod of her
flaxen head, which was rough with curls, and sped
away noiseless and swift, the red shawl over her

shoulders, which was carefully knotted round her
waist and made a bunch of her small person, showing
far off through the early greenness of the brushwood.
When she had gone on a little, she began to sing like
a bird, her sweet young voice rising on the air as if it
had wings. It was an endless song that Peggy sang,
like that of Wordsworth's reaper 

' Whate'er the theme, the maiden sang
As if her song could have no ending. "

It went winding along, a viewless voice, beyond the
house, along the slopes, away into the paleness of the
hill-top, where the tall pine-trunks stood up like
columns against the light. It was like the fresh scent
of those same pines  like the aromatic peat-smoke in
the air  a something native to the place, which put
the troubles and the passions he had stumbled against
out of the mind of the young laird. He was reconciled
somehow to Scotland and to nature by little
Peggy's love for the "wudds," and the clear ringing
melody of her endless song.

CHAPTER Viii.

In the midst of all the attentions paid him by his
neighbours and the visitors who followed each other
day by day, there was one duty which John Erskine
had to fulfil, and which made a break in the tide of
circumstances which seemed to be drifting him towards
the family at Lindores, and engaging him more
and more to follow their fortunes. When a life is as
yet undecided and capable of turning in a new direction,
it is common enough, in fact as well as in allegory,
that a second path should be visible, branching off
from the first, into which the unconscious feet of the
wayfarer might still turn, were the dangers of the
more attractive way divined. There is always one
unobtrusive turning which leads to the safe track ;
but how is the traveller to know that, whose soul is
all unconscious of special importance in the immediate
step it takes ? John Erskine contemplated his ray-procurement
to the Lindores with the greatest complacency

and calm. That it could contain any dangers,
he neither knew nor would have believed : he wanted
nothing better than to be identified with them, to
take up their cause and be known as their partisan.
Nevertheless Providence silently, without giving him
any warning, opened up the other path to him, and
allowed him in ignorance to choose. If he had known,
probably it would not have made the least difference.
Young heroes have never in any known history obeyed
the dictates of any monitor, either audible or inaudible,
who warned them against one connection and in
favour of another. Nevertheless he had his chance,
as shall be seen. The morning after his first dinner
at the Castle, which had been the reopening of a delightful
world to him, he decided that he had put off
too long his visit to his only relative, and set off
through the soft May sunshine, for it was beautiful
weather, to pay his respects to his old aunt at
Dunearn.

The house of Miss Barbara Erskine at Dunearn
opened direct from the street. It was one of the same
class of homely Scotch houses to which Dalrulzian
itself belonged ; but whereas Dalrulzian, being a
mansion-house, had two gables, Miss Barbara's Lodging,
as she liked it to be called, had but one, stepping
out into the broad pathway, not paved, but composed
of sand and gravel, which ran along one side of the

South Street. This gable was broad enough to give
considerable size to the drawing-room which filled the
upper story, and which had windows every way, commanding
the street and all that went on in it, which
was not much. The house was entered by an outside
stair, which gave admission to the first floor, on which
all the rooms of "the family" were, the floor below
being devoted to the uses of the servants, with the
single exception of the dining-parlour, which was
situated near the kitchen for the convenience of the
household. Behind there was a large fragrant old-fashioned
garden full of sweet-smelling flowers, interspersed
with fruit-trees, and going off into vegetables
at the lower end. Notwithstanding that it was so far
north, there were few things that would not grow in
this garden, and it was a wilderness of roses in their
season. Except one or two of the pale China kind 
the monthly rose, as Miss Barbara called it, which is
so faithful and blows almost all the year round  there
were no roses in May ; but there was a wealth of
spring flowers filling all the borders, and the air was
faintly sweet as the old lady walked about in the
morning sunshine enjoying the freshness and stir of
budding life. She was a portly old lady herself, fresh
and fair, with a bright complexion, notwithstanding
seventy years of wear and tear, and lively hazel eyes
full of vivacity and inquisitiveness. She was one of

the fortunate people who take an interest in everything,
and to whom life continues full of excitement
and variety to the end. She walked as briskly as
though she had been twenty years younger, perhaps
more so ; for care does not press upon seventy as upon
fifty, and the only burden upon her ample shoulders
was that of years. She had a soft white Indian shawl
wrapped round her, and a hood with very soft blue
ribbons tied over her cap. She liked a pretty ribbon
as well as ever, and was always well dressed. From
the garden, which sloped downwards towards the
river, there was an extensive view  a prospect of
fields and scattered farmhouses spreading into blue
distance, into the outline of the hills, towards the
north ; at the right hand the tower of Dunearn Church,
which was not more handsome than church towers
generally are in Scotland ; and to the left, towards the
setting sun, a glimpse of Tinto arrogantly seated on
its plateau. Miss Barbara, as she said, "could not
bide" the sight of Tinto House. She had planted
it out as well as she could ; but her trees were perverse,
and would separate their branches or die away
at the top, as if on purpose to reveal the upstart.
On this particular morning of early May, Miss Barbara
was not alone : she had a young lady by her
side, of whose name and presence at this particular
moment the country was full. There was not a

house in the neighbourhood of any pretensions which
she was not engaged to visit ; and there was scarcely
a family, if truth must be told, which was not involved
more or less in an innocent conspiracy on her
behalf, of which John Erskine, all unconscious, was
the object. His old aunt, as was befitting, had the
first chance.

You need not ask me any more questions," Miss
Barbara was saying, " for I think you know just as
much about the family, and all the families in the
country-side, as anybody. You have a fine curiosity,
Nora; and take my word for it, that's a grand gift,
though never properly appreciated in this world. It
gives you a great deal of interest in your youth, and
it keeps you from wearying in your old age  though
that's a far prospect for you."

"My mother says I am a gossip born," said Nora,
with her pretty smile.

Never you trouble your head about that  take you
always an interest in your fellow-creatures. Better
that than the folk in a novelle. Not but what I like
a good novelle myself as well as most things in this
life. It's just extending your field. It's like going
into a new neighbourhood. The box is come from
the library this morning," said Miss Barbara in a
parenthesis.

Oh yes, I opened it to have a peep. There is

Middlemarcli ' and one of Mr Trollope's, and several
names I don't know."

No ' Middlemarcli ' for me," said Miss Barbara,
with a wave of her hand. " I am too old for that.
That means I've read it, my dear,  the way an experienced
reader like me can read a thing  in the air, in
the newspapers, in the way everybody talks. No, that's
not like going into a new neighbourhood  that is
getting to the secrets of the machinery, and seeing how
everything, come the time, will run down, some to ill
and harm, but all to downfall, commonplace, and
prosiness. I have but little pleasure in that. And
it's pleasure I want at my time of life. I'm too old
to be instructed. If I have not learned my lesson by
this time, the more shame to me, my dear."

But, Miss Barbara, you don't want only to be
amused. Oh no : to have your heart touched, sometimes
wrung even  to be so sorry, so anxious that
you would like to interfere  to follow on and on to
the last moment through all their troubles, still hoping
that things will take a good turn."

And what is that but amusement ? " said the old
lady. " I am not fond of shedding tears ; but even
that is a luxury in its way  when all the time you
are sure that it will hurt nobody, and come all right
at the end."

"Lydgate does not turn out all right at the end,"

said Nora, " nor Rosamond either ; they go down and
down till you would be glad of some dreadful place
at last that they might fall into it and be made an
end of. I suppose it is true to nature," said the girl,
with a solemnity coming over her innocent face, " that
if you don't get better you should go on getting worse
and worse  but it is dreadful. It is like what one
hears of the place  below."

"Ay, ay, we're not fond nowadays of the place 
below; but I'm afraid there must be some truth in
it. That woman has found out the secret, you see."
Miss Barbara meant no disrespect to the great novelist
when she called her " that woman." There was even a
certain gratification in the use of the term, as who
should say, " Your men, that brag so much of themselves,
never found this out "  which was a favourite
sentiment with the old lady. "That's just where
she's grand," Miss Barbara continued. " There's that
young lad in the Italian book Teeth  what d'ye call
him ? To see him get meaner and meaner, and falser
and falser, is an awful picture, Nora. It's just terrible.
It's more thai I can stand at my age. I want
diversion. Do ye think I have not seen enough of
that in my life ? "

People are not bad like that in life," said Nora ;
they have such small sins,  they tell fibs  not big
lies that mean anything, but small miserable little

fibs ; and they are ill-tempered, and sometimes cheat
a little. That is all. Nothing that is terrible or
tragical "

Here the girl stopped short with a little gasp, as if
realising something she had not thought of before.

What is it, my dear ? " said Miss Barbara.

Oh  only Tinto showing through the trees : is that
tragedy ? No, no. Don't you see what I mean ? don't
you see the difference ? He is only a rough, ill-tempered,
tyrannical man. He doesn't really mean
to hurt or be cruel : and poor Lady Car, dear Lady
Car, is always so wretched; perhaps she aggravates
him a little. She will not take pleasure in anything.
It is all miserable, but it is all so little. Miss Barbara ;
not tragedy  not like Lear or Hamlet  rather a sort
of scolding, peevish comedy. You might make fun
of it all, though it is so dreadful ; and that is how life
seems to me  very different from poetry," said Nora,
shaking her head.

"Wait," said Miss Barbara, patting her on the
shoulder, "till the play is played out and you are
farther off. The Lord preserve us ! I hope I'm nota
prophet of evil ; but maybe if you had known poor
Lear fighting about the number of his knights with
that hard-faced woman Began, for instance (who had
a kind of reason, you'll mind, on her side : for I make
no doubt they where very unruly  that daft old man

would never keep them in order), you would have
thought it but a poor kind of a squabble. Who is
this coming in upon us, Nora? I see Janet at the
glass door looking out.

It is a gentleman, Miss Barbara. He is standing
talking. I think he means to come out here."

"It will be the minister," said the old lady, calmly.
"He had far better sit down in the warm room, and
send us word, for he's a delicate creature  no constitution
in him  aye cold and coughs, and "

Indeed it is not Mr Stirling. He is quite young
and  and good-looking, I think. He won't listen to
Janet. He is coming here. Miss Barbara, shall I run

"O

away ? "

"Why should you run away? If it's business,

we'll go in ; if it's pleasure Ah ! I've seen your

face before, sir, or one like it, but I cannot put a name
to it. You have maybe brought me a letter? Preserve
us all ! will it be John Erskine come home to
Dalrulzian ? "

"Yes, aunt Barbara, it is John Erskine," said the
young man. He had his hat in one hand, and the sun
shone pleasantly on his chestnut locks and healthful
countenance. He did not perhaps look like a hero of
romance, but he looked like a clean and virtuous
young Englishman. He took the hand which Miss
Barbara held out to him, eagerly, and, with a little

embarrassment, not knowing what else to do, bent
over it and kissed it  a salutation which took the old
lady by surprise, and, being so unusual, brought a
delicate colour to her old cheek.

Ah, my man ! and so you're John Erskine ? I
would have known you anywhere, at the second glance
if not at the first. You're like your father, poor fellow.
He was always a great favourite with me. And
so you've come back to your ain at last ? Well, In
very glad to see you, John. It's natural to have a
young Erskine in the country-side. You'll not know
yet how you like it after all this long absence. And
how is your mother, poor body ? She would think my
pity out of place, I don't doubt ; but I'm always sorry
for a young woman, sore hidden down with a sma'
family, as we say here in the North."

I don't think she is at all sorry for herself," said
John, with a laugh, " but it must be allowed there is a
lot of them. There are always heaps of children, you
know, in a parson's house."

And that is true ; it's a wonderful dispensation,"
said Miss Barbara, piously, " to keep us down and
keep us humble-minded in our position in life. But
I'm real glad to see you, and you must tell me where
you've come from, and all you've been doing. We'll
take a turn round the garden and see my flowers, and
then we'll take you in and give you your luncheon.

You'll be ready for your luncheon after your walk ; or
did you ride ? This is Miss Nora Barrington, that
knows Dalrulzian better than you do, John. Tell
Janet, my dear, we'll be ready in an hour, and she
must do her best for Mr John."

While this creating went on, Nora had been standing
very demurely with her hands crossed looking on.
She was a girl full of romance and imagination, asa
girl ought to be, and John Erskine had long been
something of a hero to her. Nora was in that condition
of spring-time and anticipation when every new
encounter looks as if it might produce untold consequences
in the future, still so vague, so sweet, so
unknown. She stood with her eyes full of subdued
light, full of soft excitement, and observation, and
fun ; for where all was so airy and uncertain, there
was room for fun too, it being always possible that
the event, which might be serious or even tragic,
might at the same time be only a pleasantry in life.
Nora seemed to herself to be a spectator of what was
perhaps happening to herself. Might this be hereafter
a scene in her existence, like " the first meeting
between "  say Antony and Cleopatra, say Romeo and
Juliet? Several pictures occurred to her of such
scenes. At one time there were quite a number of
them in all the picture-galleries. "First meeting of
Edward lY. with Elizabeth Woodville : " where all un-vol.

I. L

conscious, the fair widow kneels, the gallant monarch
sees in his suppliant his future queen. All this was
fun to lora, but very romantic earnest all the same.
The time might come when this stranger would say to
her  "Do you remember that May morning in old
aunt Barbara's garden ? " and she might reply  " How
little we imagined then ! " Thus ISTora, with a shy
delight, forestalled in the secret recesses of her soul
the happiness that might never come, and yet made
fun of her own thoughts all in the same breath.
John's bow to her was not half so graceful or captivating
as his salutation to Miss Barbara, but that was
nothing; and she went away with a pleasant sense of
excitement to instruct Janet about the luncheon and
the new-comer. Miss Barbara's household was much
moved by the arrival. Janet, who was the housekeeper,
lingered in the little hall into which the 
opened, looking out with a curiosity which
she did not think it necessary to disguise ; and Agnes,
Miss Barbara's own woman, stood at the staircase-window,
half-way up. When Nora came in, those two
personages were conversing freely on the event.

''He's awful' like the Erskiness ; just the cut of them
about the shoulders, and that lang neck "

Do you ca' that a lang neck ? nae langer than
is very becoming. I like the head carried high. He
has his father's walk," said Agnes, pensively ; " many's

the time I've watched him along the street. He was
the best-looking of all the Erskiness ; if he hanna
married a bit handless creature "

Handless or no' handless," said Janet, " matters
little in that condition o' life."

'eh, but it mattered muckle to him. He might
have been a living man this day if there had been a
little mair sense in her head. She might have made
him change his wet feet and all his creeping things
when he came in from the hillside. It was the planting
of yon trees that cost bonnie Johnny Erskine his
life. The mistress was aye of that opinion. Eh, to
think when ye have a man, that ye should be able
to take care of him !" said Agnes, with a sort of admiring
wonder. She had never attained that dignity
herself. Janet, who was a widow, gave a glance upward
at the pensive old maiden of mingled condescension
and contempt.

And if ye had a man, ye would be muckle made
up wi' him," she said. " It's grand to be an auld
maid, for that  that ye aye keep your faith in the
men. This angell be for a wife, too, like a' the rest.
I could gie him a word in his ear "

"It will be something for our young misses to
think about. A fine young lad, and a bonnie house.
He'll have a' our silver, besides his ain,  and that will
be a grand addition "

If he behaves himsel' ! " said Janet. " The mistress
is a real sensible woman. You'll no' see her
throw away her silver upon a prodigal, if he were an
Erskine ten times over."

And wha said he was a prodigal ? " cried Agnes,
turning round from the landing upon her fellow-servant,
who was at once her natural opponent and
bosom friend. Nora was of opinion by this time that
she had listened long enough.

"Miss Barbara says that her nephew will stay to
luncheon, Janet. You are to do your best for him.
It is Mr Erskine, from Dalrulzian," Nora said, with
most unnecessary explanation. Janet turned round
upon her quietly, yet with superior dignity.

''By this time of day, Miss Nora," said Janet, "I
think I ken an Erskine when I see him ; and al-so,
when a visitor enters this door at twelve o'clock at
noon, that he'll stay to his lunch, and that I maun do
my best."

"It is not my fault," cried the girl, half amused,
half apologetic. " I tell you only, Janet, what Miss
Barbara said. Perhaps it was to get rid of me, to
send me indoors out of the way."

Nothing more likely," said the housekeeper.
She canna be fashed with strangers when her ain are
at her hand."

"Woman!" cried Agnes, from the landing, "how

dare you say sae of my mistress ? You'll never mind,
Miss Nora. Come up here, my bonnie 3"0ung teddy,
and you'll have a grand sight of him among the trees."

'' Ay, glower at him," said Janet, as she went away.
You would be so muckle ta'en up with them if ye
kent as much about men as me."

Na, you'll pay no attention," said Agnes anxiously;
"it's no' real malice  just she thinks she has mair experience.
And so she has mair experience  the only
married woman in the house. There's your mamma,
with a bonnie family, takes nothing upon her, no
more than if she was a single person ; but Janet has
it a' her ain way. Stand you here, Miss Nora, at this
corner, and you'll have a grand sight of him. He's
behind the big bourtree-bush ; but in a moment  in a
moment "

I don't want to see Mr Erskine," said Nora, laughing.
" I have seen him ; most likely I shall see him
at lunch. He is just like other people,  like dozens
of gentlemen "

Eh, but when you think that you never ken what
may happen  that yo7i may be the man, for all we ken !"

When Agnes thus put into words the idea which
had (she would not deny it to herself) glanced through
Nora's own mind, she was so hypocritical as to laugh,
as at a great piece of absurdity  but at the same time
so honest as to blush.

I believe you are always thinking of  that sort of
things," she said.

Awful' often, Miss Nora," said Agnes, unabashed, 
especially when there's young folk about ; and after
a', is there anything that's sae important? There's
me and the mistress, we've stood aloof from a' that ;
but I canna think it's been for or happiness. Her
it was her ain doing ; but me  it's a very strange
thing to say : I've kent many that were far from my
superiors  as far as a person can judge  that have
had twa-three offers ; but me, I never had it in my
power. You'll think it a very strange thing, Miss
Nora ? "

I know," said ISTora ; " and you so pretty. It is
quite extraordinary." This was the reply that Agnes
expected to her favourite confession. She was pretty
still at fifty,  slim and straight, with delicate features,
and that ivory complexion which we associate with
refinement and good blood; and the old waiting-woman
knew how to faire valoir her fine person and
features. She was dressed delicately in a black gown,
with a white kerchief of spotless net  like a lady,
everybody said. She shook her head with a smile
of melancholy consciousness.

It's no' looks that does it," she said ; " it's

Well, I canna tell. It's when you ken how to
humour them and flatter them. But bless me, there's

Janet, a woman that never flattered man nor woman
either ! I canna understand it,  it's beyond me. But
you mustna follow the mistress. Miss Nora. She's a
happy woman enough, and a bonnie woman for her
age, coming up there under her ain trees,  just look
at her. But if that young lad had been her son, instead
of just a distant cousin "

Oh, but boys give a great deal of trouble," said
Nora, seriously. " Dear Miss Barbara, I like her best
as she is."

"But you manna follow her example, my bonnie
teddy,  you manna follow her example. Take a
pattern by your ain mamma. I ca' her a happy
woman, young yet, and a good man, and a bonnie
posse of bairns. Eh ! I ca' her a happy woman.
And takes no-thing upon her ! " said Agnes,  " nothing
upon her. You'll come up the stair. Miss Nora,
and look at yourself' in the glass. Oh no, there's
no-thing wrong with your bonnie hair. I like it just
so,  a wee blown about in the morning' air. Untidy !
bless me, no' the least untidy! but just  give a lookin
the glass, and if you think another colour would be
more becoming, I have plenty ribbons. Some folk
thinks yellow's very artistic ; but the mistress canna
bide yellow. She's owe fair for it, and so are you."

"Why should I change my ribbon? It is quite
tidy," said Nora, almost with indignation, standing

before Miss Barbara's long cheval-glass. Agnes came
and stood behind her, arranging her little collar and
the draperies of her dress with caressing hands. And
to tell the truth, ISTora herself could not shut out from
her mind an agreeable consciousness that she was
looking " rather nice ;  for me," she added, in her
own mind. The morning breeze had ruffled an incipient
curl out of the hair which she had brushed,
demure and smooth, over her forehead in the morning.
It was a thing that nobody suspected when she was
fresh from her toilet, but the wind always found out
that small eccentricity, and Nora was not angry with
the wind. Her ribbon was blue, and suited her far
better than the most artistic yellow. All was fresh
and fair about her, like the spring morning. " Na ;
I would change a thing," Agnes said, looking at
her anxiously in the glass, where they made the
prettiest picture, the handsome old maid looking like
a lady-in-waiting, her fine head appearing over the
girl's shoulder,  a lady-in-waiting anxiously surveying
her princess, about to meet for the first time with
King Charming, who has come to marry her. This
was the real meaning of the group.

Nora did not change her ribbon or her own appearance
in any way, but she gave a glance to the table
set out for luncheon, and renewed the flowers on it,
watching all the while the other group which passed

and repassed the large round window of the diningroom,
their voices audible as they talked. Miss Barbara
had taken John's arm, which was a proof that
he had found the way to her favour ; and she was
evidently asking him a hundred questions. Snatches
of their talk about his travels, about his plans, something
which she could not make out about the Lindores,
caught the ear of Nora. They saw her seated
near the window, so there could be no reason why she
should stop her ears. And Nora thought him " very
nice"  that all-useful adjective. She could scarcely
help letting her imagination stray to the familiar
place which she had known all her life  her " dear
Dalrulzian," which she had lamented so openly, which
now she felt it would no longer be decorous to
lament. He looked very like it, she thought. She
could see him in imagination standing in the kindly
open door, on the Walk, looking the very master the
place wanted. Papa had been too old for it. It

wanted a young man, a young AVell  she

laughed and coloured involuntarily  of course a
young wife too. In all likelihood that was all settled,
the young wife ready, so that there was no reason to
feel any embarrassment about it. And so he knew
the Lindores ! She would ask Edith all about him.
There was no doubt he was a very interesting figure
in the country-side, " something for the misses to

think about," as Agnes said, though it was somewhat
humiliating to think that "that dreadful man
at Tinto " had roused a similar excitement. But
the oftener John Erskine passed the window, the
more he pleased Nora Barrington. He was "very
nice," she was sure. How kind and careful he was
of Miss Barbara ! How frank and open his countenance
! his voice and his laugh so natural and cheerful!
Up to this time, though Nora's imagination had not
been utterly untouched, she was still free of any
serious inclination, almost if not entirely fancy-free.
It could not be denied that when the new Rintoul
became known in the country-side, he, too, had been
the object of many prognostications. And he had
been, she felt, " very nice " to Nora. Though he had
pretensions far above hers, and was not in the least
likely to ally himself to a family without fortune,
his advances had been such as a girl cannot easily
overlook. He was the first who had paid Nora
"attention," and awakened her to a consciousness of
power. And she had been flattered and pleased,
being very young. But Nora now felt herself at
that junction of the two roads, which, as has been
said, is inevitable in the experience of every young
soul. She was standing in suspense, saying to herself,
with a partial sense of treachery and guilt, that
;Mr Erskine was still more nice than Lord Eintoul.

John Erskine of Dalrulzian; there was something
delightful in the very name. All this, it is true, was
entirely visionary, without solid foundation of any
kind ; for they had exchanged nothing but two shy
bows, not a word as yet  and whether he would be
as "nice" when he talked, Nora did not know.

Her decision afterwards, made with some mortification,
was, that he was not nearly so nice when he
talked. He showed no wish to talk to her at all,
which was an experience quite out of Nora's way.
She sat and listened, for the most part, at this simple
banquet, growing angry in spite of herself, and altogether
changing her opinion about Lord Eintoul. If
she had been a little girl out of the nursery, John
Erskine could scarcely have taken less notice of her.
Miss Barbara and he continued their talk as if Nora
had no existence at all.

I always thought it a great pity that you were
brought up so far from home," the old lady said.
"You know nothing about your own place, or the
ways of the country-side. It will take you a longtime
to make that up. But the neighbours are all
very kind, and Lindores, no doubt, will be a great
resource, now there's a young family in it. Fortunately
for you, John, you're not grand enough nor rich
enough to come into my lord's plans."

Has my lord plans ? For county hospitals and

lunatic asylums. So he told me ; and he wants my
help. To hear even so much as that astonished me.
When I knew him he was an elegant hypochondriac,
doing nothing at all "

He does plenty now, and cares much, for the
world and the things of the world," said Miss Barbara.
I think I have divined his meaning ; but we'll wait
and see. You need not sit and make those faces at
me, Nora. I know well enough they are not to blame.
A woman should know how to stand up for her own
child better than that; but she was just struck helpless
with surprise, I say nothing different. Speak of
manoeuvring mothers ! manoeuvring fathers are a great
deal worse. I cannot away with a man that will
sacrifice his own flesh and blood. Fiegh ! I would
not do it for a kingdom. And the son, you'll see, will
do the same. Hold you your tongue, Nora. I know
better  the son will do the very same. He will be
sold to some grocer's daughter for her hogsheads. Perhaps
they're wanted; two jointures to pay is hard
upon any estate, and a title will always bring in money
when it's put up for sale in a judicious way. But you
must have your wits about you now, if you have any
dealings with your elegant hypochondriac, John, my
man. You're too small  too small for him ; but if
you had fifty thousand a-year, you would soon  soon
be helpless in his hands "

Oh, Miss Barbara," cried Nora, " you are unjust to
Lord Lindores. Remember how kind he has been tous,
and we have not fifty thousand, nor fifty hundred
a-year."

You're not a young man," said Miss Barbara ;
but John, take you care of dangling about Lindores.
I am not naming any names ; but there may be heartaches
gotten there  nothing more for a man of your
small means. Oh ay ! perhaps I ought to hold my
tongue before Nora ; but she will be well advised if
she takes care too ; and besides, she knows all about
it as well as I do myself."

I hope," said. John, courteously  for he saw that
Nora's composure was disturbed by these last warnings,
and he was glad of a chance to change the
subject  "I hope I may be so fortunate as to see
Colonel Barrington before he leaves the country. He
has done so well by Dalrulzian, I should like to thank
him for his care."

This made Nora more red than before. She could
not get over that foolish idea that Dalrulzian was far
more to her than to this stranger, who could not care
for it as she did. She felt that his thanks were an
offence. " Papa has gone, Mr Erskine," she said, with
unusual stateliness. " 1 am left behind to pay some
visits. Everybody here has been so good to us."

That means we are all fond of her bit bright face,"

said Miss Barbara ; " but we'll say no more on that
subject, ISTora. Human nature's selfish in grain. The
like of me will take no trouble for lad or lass that is
not sweet to see, and a comfort to the heart."

I never heard such a pretty apology for selfishness
before," said John. And Miss Barbara took his compliment
in good part. But he and Nora made no
further approach to each other. Those praises of her
made him draw back visibly, she thought, and embarrassed
herself beyond bearing. To be praised before
an unsympathetic, silently protesting audience  can
anything be more humiliating ? Nora was conscious
of something like dislike of John Erskine before he
went away.

And yet his state of feeling was natural enough.
He believed that the young lady, so dangerously suitable
for him, the very wife he wanted, was being
thrust upon him on every side, and the thought revolted
him. No doubt* he thought, if she were conscious
of it, it must be revolting to her too ; and in
such a case the highest politeness was to be all but
rude to her, to show at once and conclusively that
schemes of the kind were hopeless. This sentiment
was strengthened in the present case by the irritation
caused by Miss Barbara's warning about Lindores, and
the heartache which was all that a man of his means
was likely to get there. He laughed at it, yet it made

him angry. He who had been always used to feel
himself a person of importance  he for whom, even
now, the whole country was taking the trouble to
scheme  to have himself suddenly classified with
other small deer as quite beneath the consideration of
the Lindores family, too small for my lord's plans !
It was scarcely possible to imagine anything more
irritating. After all, a Scotch lord was no such grand
affair ; and John could not be ignorant that, five years
ago, neither father nor mother would have repulsed
him. Now ! but the doubt, the risk, did not induce
the young man to be wise  to put Lady Edith out of
his imagination, and turn his thoughts to the other,
just as pretty, if that were all, who was manifestly
within his reach. What a pity that young people are
so slow to see reason in such matters, that they will
never take the wiser way ! Thus John had his opportunity
offered to him to escape from a world of
troubles and embarrassments before he had committed
himself to that dangerous path ; and distinctly refused,
and turned his back upon it, not knowing  as indeed
at the real turning-point of our fortunes we none of us
know.

But as he set out on his homeward walk, his eyes
caught that great house of Tinto, which from Dunearn
was the central object in the landscape  an immense
house, seated on a high platform of rock, dominating

the river and the whole country, with scarcely wood
enough about it to afford any shadow; an ostentatious
pile of building, with that spot of audacious red
against the grey sky  the flag always flying (set him
up ! Miss Barbara said) when the master was at home,
which was, so to speak, the straw which broke the
camel's back, the supreme piece of vanity which the
county could not tolerate. Pat Torrance to mount a
flag upon his house to mark his presence ! What
more could Sacred Majesty itself do ? John Erskine
felt as if some malicious spirit had thrown a stone at
him out of the clouds as his eye was caught by that
flaunting speck of red. He felt all the local intolerance
of the man, without a claim but his money to
crow thus over his neighbours. And then he thought
of Carry Lindores and her poetry and enthusiasm.
That was how the Earl disposed of his daughters. A
thrill ran through John's frame, but it was a thrill of
defiance. He raised his stick unawares and waved it,
as if at the big bully who thus scorned him from afar.

Chapter IX.

Lady Caroline Torrance was in her morning-room
with her children when her husband came to tell
her of his visit to Dalrulzian. He had kept it for
twenty-four hours, in order to have an opportunity
of telling it at his leisure, and making it as disagreeable
to her as possible ; for indeed he was fully convinced
in his own mind that John had been the man
about whom his broken-hearted bride had made a
confession to him. The confession had not disarmed
or moved him to generosity : not that his delicacy was
wounded by the thought of his wife's engagement to
some one else before she saw him  no such fantastical
reason moved him; but that he was furious at
the thought that this unseen personage still remained
agreeable to her, and that in secret she could retire
upon the recollection of some one whom she had
once preferred, or perhaps did now prefer, to himself.
This was insupportable to him. He did not care

VOL. I. M

very much for filling her heart himself ; but he meant
that she should belong to him utterly, and not at
all, even in imagination or by a passing thought, to
anybody else. Lady Car's morning-room was the last
of a gorgeous but faded suite of rooms opening off the
drawing-room, from which it was separated by heavy
velvet curtains. Everything was heavy and grand
even in this sanctuary, where it was supposed the lady
of the house was to find her refuge when no longer
on duty, so to speak  no longer bound to sit in state
and receive her visitors. It was furnished like the
rest, with gilded chairs, a table of Florentine mosaic,
and curtains of ruby velvet, looped and puckered into
what the upholsterer of the late Mrs Torrance's time
thought the most elegant and sumptuous fashion.
The gilding was a little tarnished, the velvet faded ;
but still it was too fine for anything less than a royal
habitation. It is supposed that princesses, being used
to it, like to knock their elbows against ormolu ornaments,
and to put down their thimbles and scissors
(if they ever use such vulgar implements) upon marble ;
but poor Lady Car did not. She was chilly by nature,
and she never had got over her horror of these additional
chilliness. The Florentine marble made her
shiver. It was far too fine to have a cover over it,
which she had ventured once to suggest, to her husband's
horror. " What ! cover it up, as if it were plain

mahogany  a thing that was worth no one could tell
how much !" So she gave it up, and shivered all the
more. It was a chilly day of May, which the fresh
foliage outside, and a deceitful sun not strong enough
to neutralise the east wind, made only a little less
genial, and Lady Car sat very close to the fire, in a
chair as little gilt as could be found, and with a little
table beside her covered with a warm and heavy cover,
as if to make up for the naked coldness of the
rest. The room had three large windows, looking,
from the platform upon which the house stood, over
the wide country  a great landscape full of greening
fields and foliage, and an infinite blue and white
sky, the blue somewhat pale but very clear, the clouds
mounting in Alpine peaks into the far distance and
lying along the horizon in long lines. The windows,
it need not be said, were plate-glass, so that an impression
of being out of doors and exposed to the full
keenness of the breeze was conveyed to the mind.
How often had poor Lady Car sat and shivered, looking
over that wistful sweep of distance in her loneliness,
and knowing that no one could ever come out
of it who would bring joy to her or content ! She had
never been beautiful, the reader is aware. She was
plain now, in the absence of all that sunshine and
happiness which beautifies and brightens homely faces.
And yet her face was not a homely face. The master

of Tinto had got what he wanted  a woman whose
appearance could never be overlooked, or whom anyone
could undervalue. Her air was full of natural
distinction though she had no beauty. Her slight,
pliant figure, like a long sapling bending before every
breeze, had a grace of gentle yielding which did not
look like weakness ; and her smile, if perhaps a little
timid, was winning and gracious. But her nose and
her uDper lip were both too long, and the pretty
wavering colour she had possessed in her youth was
gone altogether. Ill-natured people called her sallow;
and indeed, though it is not a pretty word, it
was not, at this state of her existence, far from the
truth.

Her two children were playing beside her on the
carpet. Poor lady ! here was perhaps the worst circumstance
in her hard lot. As if it were not enough
to be compelled to take Pat Torrance for her husband,
it had been her melancholy fate to bring other
Torrancess, all his in temper and feature, into the
world. This is an. aggravation of which nobody would
have thought. In imagination we are all glad to
find a refuge for an unhappy wife in her children,
whom instinctively we allot to her as the natural
compensation  creatures like herself and belonging
to her, although the part in them of the obnoxious

father cannot be ignored. But here the obnoxious
father was all in all; even the baby of two years
old on the rug at her feet, the little girl who by all
laws ought to have been like her mother, showed in
her little dark countenance as small relationship to
Lady Caroline as to any stranger. They were their
father's children : they had his black hair, a peculiarity
which sometimes is extremely piquant and attractive
in childhood, giving an idea of unusual development
; but, on the other hand, sometimes is  not.
Little Tom and Edie were of those to whom it is not
attractive, for they had heavy fat cheeks, and the same
light, large, projecting eyes which were so marked a
feature in their father's face. Poor Lady Car thought
they fixed their eyes upon her with a cynical gaze
when she tried to sing to them  to tell them baby-stories.
She tried her best, but that was perhaps too
fine for these children of a coarser race. They scrambled
down from her lap, and liked better to roll upon
the floor or break with noisy delight the toys which
were showered upon them, leaving the poor young
mother to gaze and wonder, and feel as much rebuffed
as if these two infants of two and three had been
twenty years older. They screamed with delight when
their father tossed them up in his arms, but they
escaped from their mother's knee when she would

have coaxed them to quiet. Poor Lady Car ! they were
a wonder and perplexity to her. She was half afraid
of them though they were her own.

Torrance had come in from the woods, which he had
been inspecting with his forester, and perhaps something
had crossed him in this inspection, for he was a
tyrant by nature, and could not tolerate a contrary
opinion ; whereas the officials, so to speak, of a great
estate in Scotland, are much given to opinions, and by
no means to be persuaded to relinquish them. The
forester had objected to something the master suggested,
and the agent had taken the forester's part. The
master of Tinto came in fuming. To give in was a
thing intolerable to him, and to give in to his own
servant ! But here was another servant whom he
need not fear bullying, who could not throw up her
situation and put him to inconvenience, who was
forced to put up with as much indignity as he chose
to put upon her. This thought gave his mind a
welcome relief; he strode along through all the gilded
rooms with a footstep which meant mischief. Lady
Caroline heard it afar off, and recognised the sound.
What could it be now? Her mind ran hurriedly
over the recent occurrences of the day, to think what
possible offence she could have given him. Nothing
or at least she could think of nothing. It did not
require a very solid reason for the transference to her

shoulders of the rage which he did not think it expedient
to bestow upon some one else. He came in
kicking out of the way the toys with which the children
were playing.

"These monkeys' he said, "would ruin a Jew if
they grow up the way you are breeding them, my
lady. That cost a pound or two yesterday, and now
it's all in bits. If your family could stand such extravagance,
mine can't. Tom, my lad, if you break
your fine toys like this, I'll break your head. But
it's not the children's fault," he added, " it's the way
they're bred."

It is very wrong of Tommy," said poor Lady Car,
but you laughed and clapped your hands yesterday
when I found fault."

I won't have the boy's. spirit broken  that's another
thing. Breeding's an affair of day by day ; but it
can't be expected that you should take such trouble,
with your head full of other things."

"What other things?" cried Lady Car. "Oh, Pat,
have a little pity ! What else have I to think of ? I
may not understand the children, but they are my
only thought."

Here he gave a mocking, triumphant laugh. " No, I
daresay you don't understand them. They're of my
side of the house," he said. It was a pleasure to him,
but not an unalloyed pleasure, for he would have liked

to secure in his daughter at least some reflection of her
mother's high-bred air, which had always been her
attraction in his eyes. "As for other things," he
added, " there's plenty : for instance, I have just been
visiting your old friend."

My old friend ? " Lady Caroline looked at him
with wondering eyes.

"Oh, that is the way, is it? pretend you don't
understand ! I went expressly for your sake. You
see what a husband I am : not half appreciated  ready
to please his wife in every sort of way. I don't think
much of your taste though : under size," said Torrance,
with a laugh,  " decidedly under size."

Lady Car looked at him with a momentary elevation
of her slender, drooping throat. The action was
one that had a certain pride in it, and this was what
her husband specially admired in her. But she did
not understand him, nor was there any secret in her
gentle soul to be found out by innuendoes. She
shook her head gently, and drooped it again with her
habitual bend.

I do not know what you mean. It must be some
mistake," she said.

It is no mistake, Lady Car. That's not my way
to make mistakes. It suits you not to know. That
makes me all the more certain. Oh, I'm not afraid of
you. We're not in Italy or any of these places. And

you're a great deal too proud to go wrong : you're too
cold, you have not got it in you."

Lady Caroline raised lier head again, but this time
in sheer surprise. "Pat," she said, faltering, "all I
know is, that you mean to insult me. I know nothing
but that. What is it ? Do not insult me before the
children."

Pshaw ! how should the children understand ? "

Not what you mean ; but neither do I understand
that. The children know as well as I do that you
mean to hurt me. What is it ?  what have I done ? "

By Jove ! " he said, looking at her, " to see you
there with your white face, one would think you never
had done anything but good all your life. You look
as if butter would not melt in your mouth. Not the
sort of woman to look down upon  her husband and
count him a savage, and keep thinking of a nice,

smooth, soft-spoken You would never tell me his

name, and I was a fool, and didn't insist upon it ; but
now he has come back to be your ladyship's neighbour,
and see you every day."

She did not answer immediately. She looked at
him with a curious light stealing into her soft grey
eyes, raising her head again. Then she said slowly,
I think you must mean Mr Erskine of Dalrulzian.
If so, you have made a great mistake. I think he is
y younger than I am. He was not much more than a

boy when 1 knew him. He never was anything  but
an acquaintance."

"It's likely you'll get me to believe that," cried
Torrance, scornfully. He jumped up from his seat,
and came and stood in front of the fire, with his back
to it, brushing against her dress, so close to her that
she had to draw back out of his way. " An acquaintance
! There are different meanings to that word.
I've been to see him on your account, my lady. I've
asked him to come here. Oh, I'm not afraid of you,
as I tell you. You're too cold and too proud to go
wrong. You shall see him as much as you like  I
have every confidence in you  see him, and talk to
him, and tell him what you think of your husband.
It will be a nice sentimental amusement for you ; and
as for me, I'll always be by to look on."

He laughed as he spoke, angrily, fiercely, and glared
down upon her from under his eyelids with a mixture
of fury and satisfaction. She pushed her chair back a
little with a shiver, drawing away her dress, upon
which he had placed his foot.

"If it was as you suppose," she said, trembling,
what misery you would be planning for me ! It makes
me cold indeed to think of such cruelty. What! you
would put me in such a strait ! You would force me into
the society of one Oh, Pat, surely you are doing

yourself wrong ! You could not be so cruel as that ! "

He laughed again, striding across the fireplace, ever
encroaching more upon her corner. His face had
grown red with wrath. He was not without feeling,
such as it was, and this which he supposed his wife's
acknowledgment that his cruel device could indeed
wound her, gave himself a start of self-reproach and
alarm, though there was pleasure in the power he
felt he had acquired of causing pain.

Ah, I've caught you, have I ? I've caught you
at last ! " he cried, with a tone of triumph.

You could not do it ! " cried Lady Caroline, her
pale face flushed. " No ! do not say you made such
a cruel plan  no, no !  to entrap the poor woman who
is your wife  alas ! dio never did you harm  to rend
her heart in two, and make her life more miserable.
No, no ! do not tell me you have this cunning as
well as  all the rest ; do not tell me 1 You would
not do it, you could not do it. There is no such
cruelty in man."

It's a satisfaction," he cried, his face burning and
glowing, " to think I have you in my grip, Lady Car."

She breathed quick and hard, pushed back in her
corner, gazing up at him with a look from which a
stronger tremor had taken all the timidity. It was
some time before she could speak. " Do not think'*
she said, " that I am afraid of you. I am only horrified
to think  but I might have known. Mr Erskine,

by whom you think you can make me more unhappy,
is nothing to me  nothing, nothing at all, nothing
at all ! He is not the gentleman I thought it right
to tell you about  no, no ! a very different person. I
do not want to see him, because I should not like 
old friends to know ; but Mr Erskine is nothing tome
 nothing !"

Whether he would have been convinced by the
vehemence with which she said this alone, cannot be
known  for at that moment the carefully festooned
velvet curtains were disturbed in the regulated folds
which nobody at Tinto had ever ventured to alter,
and Edith suddenly appeared with an anxious and
pale countenance. She had heard the raised voices
as she approached, and her sister's " nothing to me,
nothing ! " had been quite distinct to her as she came
in. She could not imagine what it was that could
have excited poor Carry so much, and Edith had a
nervous dislike of any scene. She could not drawback,
having with difficulty sent away the servant who
was conducting her punctiliously to her sister's presence,
and she felt herself compelled to face the quarrel,
which was evidently a serious one. Edith was
fastidious and sensitive, with all the horror of a girl
who had never seen anything like domestic contention
or the jars of family life. Lord Lindores and his wife
had not always agreed since his recent elevation 

indeed they had disagreed bitterly and painfully on
the most serious questions ; but such a thing as a
quarrel had been unknown in their household. To
Edith it seemed such an offence against good taste
and all the courtesies of life, as nothing could excuse
petty and miserable, as well as unhappy and wrong.
She was annoyed as well as indignant to be drawn
into it thus against her will. Carry had hitherto concealed
with all her might from her young sister the
state of conflict in which she lived. Her unhappiness
she did not hide ; but she had managed to keep silent
in Edith's presence, so that the girl had never been
an actual witness of the wrangling of the ill-matched
pair. But poor Lady Car for once was moved out
of her usual precautions. She was too much excited
even to remember them. She appealed to her sister
at once, hailing her appearance with eagerness, and
without pausing to think.

Edith," she cried, " you have come in time. Tell
Mr Torrance that Mr Erskine, who has just come
home, was not a  special friend of mine. You can
speak, for you know;. Mr Torrance says  he thinks

here Lady Car came to herself, perceiving the

disturbed looks of her sister, and remembering her
own past reserve. She paused, and forced herself into
a miserable smile. "It is not worth while entering
into the story," she said ; " it does not  matter much.

It is only a mistake, a  a difference of opinion. You

can tell Mr Torrance "

"I don't want any information' said Torrance,
sulkily. He, too, felt embarrassed by the sudden introduction
of Edith into the discussion. He moved
away from the fire with a rude attempt at civility.
Edith, in her youthful absolutism, and want of toleration
or even understanding of himself, overawed him a
little. She was not, he thought, nearly so aristocratic
in appearance as his wife ; but he was slightly afraid
of her, and had never been at his ease in her presence.
What was the opinion of this little chit to him ? He
asked himself the question often, but it did not divest
him of that vague perception of his own appearance
in her eyes, which is the most mortifying of all reflections.
No caricature made of us can be so disconcerting.
Just so Human must have seen himself, a
wretched pretender, through the eyes of that poor
Jew in the gate. Torrance saw himself an exaggerated
boor, a loud-speaking, underbred clown, in the clear
regard, a little contemptuous, never for a moment overawed
by him, of Edith Lindores. He had perhaps
believed his wife's denial in respect to John Erskine
while they were alone, but he believed her entirely
when she called Edith to witness. He was subdued
at once  he drew away from before the fire with sulky
politeness, and pushed forward a chair. " It's a cold

day," he said. The quarrel died in a moment a natural
death. He hung about the room for a few minutes,
while Edith, to lessen the embarrassment of the situation,
occupied herself with the children. As for Lady-car,
she had been too much disturbed to return at
once to the pensive calm which was her usual aspect.
She leant back in her chair, pushed up into the
corner as she had been by her husband's approach,
and with her thin hands clasped together. Her breath
still came fast, her poor breast heaved with the storm
she said nothing to aid in the gradual restoration
of quiet. The spell being once broken, perhaps she
was not sorry of the opportunity of securing Edith's
sympathy. There is a consolation in disclosing such
pangs, especially when the creator of them is unbeloved.
To tell the cruelties to which she was subject,
to pour out her wrongs, seemed the only relief
which poor Carry could look forward to. It had not
been her will to betray it to her sister ; but now that
the betrayal had taken place, it was almost a pleasure
to her to anticipate the unburdening of her heart. All
that she desired for 'the moment was that he would
go away, that she might be free to speak. The words
seemed bursting from her lips even while he was still
there. Perhaps Torrance himself had a perception
of this ; but then he did not believe that his wife had
not a hundred times made her complaint to Edith

before. And thus there ensued a pause which was
not a pleasant one. Neither the husband nor the wife
spoke, and Edith's agitated discourses with the children
were the only sounds audible. They were not
prattling, happy children, capable of making a diversion
in such circumstances ; and Edith was not so
fond of the nephew and niece, who so distinctly belonged
to their father, as she ought to have been. The
situation was relieved by a summons to Torrance to
see some one below. He went away reluctantly, jealously,
darting a threatening look at his wife as he
looked back. Edith was as much alarmed for what
was coming as Torrance was. She redoubled her
attentions to the children, hoping to avert the disclosure
which she, too, saw was so near.

It is their time to  go back to the nursery," said
Carry, with a voice full of passion, ringing the bell ;
and the children were scarcely out of hearing when
the storm burst forth : " I have borne a great deal,
oh, a great deal  more, far more, than you can ever
know ; but think, think ! what he intended for me.
To invite John Erskine here, thinking he was  someone
else ; to bring us into each other's company day
after day ; to tempt me to the old conversations, the
old walks. Don't contradict me  he said so : that I
might feel my misery, and drink my cup to the last
dregs."

Carry, Carry ! you must be mistaking him ; he
could not wish that ; it would be an insult  it would
be impossible."

That is why it pleases him," cried the poor wife ;
he likes to watch and make sure that I suffer. If I
did not suffer, it would do him no good. He says I
am too proud and too cold to  go wrong, Edith !
That is how he speaks to your sister ; and he wishes
to show me  to show me, as if I did not know  what
I have and what I have lost ! "

Carry, you must not. Oh, don't let us even think
of what is past now ! "

"It is easy for you to say so. I have tried  oh,
how I have tried !  never to think of the past  even
now, even to-day. Think, only think ! Because he
supposed that, he went expressly to see John Erskine,
to ask him to come here, planning to torture me,  no
matter to him, because he was sure I was too proud
to go wrong. He wanted to watch the meeting  to
see how we would look at each other, what we would
say, how we would behave ourselves at such a moment.
Can you believe it, Edith ? Was there ever anything
in a book, in the theatre, so cruel, so terrible? Do
you suppose one can help, after that, thinking of the
past, thinking of the future too ?  for suppose it had

been  Edward Oh no, no ! I don't want to name

his name ; but suppose it had been  he. Another
VOL. L N

time it may be he. He may come to visit John
Erskine. We may meet in the world; and then I
know  I know what is before me. This man  oh, I
cannot call him by any name !  this man, whom I
belong to, who can do what he pleases with my life 
I know now what his pleasure will be,  to torture
me, Edie !  for no purpose but just to see me suffer 
in a new way. He has seen me suffer already  oh,
how much !  and he is Uas6 ! he wants something
more piquant, a newer torture, a finer invention to get
more satisfaction out of me. And you tell me I must
not think of the past ! "

Carry, Carry ! " cried Edith, trembling ; " what can
I say ? You ought not to bear it. Come home ; come
back to us. Don't stay with him, if this is how you
feel about him, another day."

Carry shook her head. " There is no going back,"
she said ; " alas ! I know that now, if never before.
To go back is impossible : my father would not allow
it; my mother would not approve it. I dare not
myself. No, no, that cannot be. However dreadful
the path may be, all rocks or thorns, and however
your feet may be torn and bleeding  forward, forward
one must go. There is no escape. I have learned
that."

There was a difference of about six years between
them  not a very great period ; and yet what a

difference it made ! Edith had in lier youthful mind
the certainty that there was a remedy for every evil,
and that what was wrong should not be permitted to
exist. Carry knew no remedy at all for her own
condition, or indeed, in the reflection of her own
despair, for any other. Nothing was to be done that
she knew of ; nothing could do any good. To go back
was impossible. She sat leaning back in her chair,
clasping her white thin hands, looking into the vacant
air,  knowing of no aid, but only a little comfort in
the mere act of telling her miseries  nothing more ;
while Edith sat by her, trembling, glowing, impatient,
eager for something to be done.

Does mamma know ? " the girl asked, after a
pause.

Carry did not move from her position of quiet
despair. "Do you think," she said, "it is possible
that mamma, who has seen so much, should not
know?"

To this Edith could make no reply, knowing how
often the subject had been discussed between her
mother and herself, with the certainty that Carry was
unhappy, though without any special explanation to
each other of the manner of her unhappiness.

But if my father were to speak to him, Carry ?
My father ought to do it ; it was he who made you 
it was he who "

Into one can say anything ; no one can do anything.
I am sorry 1 told you, Edie; but how could I help it?
And it does me a little good to speak. I must complain,
or I should die."

Oh, my poor Car, my poor Car ! " Edith cried,
throwing herself upon her knees beside her sister.
Die! she said, within herself; would it not be better
far better  to die? It was living that seemed to
her impossible. But this was another of the sad
pieces of knowledge which Carry had acquired : that
you cannot die when you please, as the young and
untried are apt to suppose  that mortal anguish does
not always kill. It was Edith who was agitated and
excited, seeking eagerly for a remedy  any remedy 
even that heroic and tragical one ; but Carry did not
feel that even in that there was any refuge for her now.

This was by no means John Erskine's fault. He
was as innocent of it, as unconscious of it, as any man
could be ; but Edith, an impatient girl, felt a sort of
visionary rage against him, in which there was a
certain attraction too. It seemed to her as if she must
go and tell him of this sad family secret, though he
had so little to do with it. For was not he involved,
and his coming the occasion of it ? If she could but
have accused him, confided in him, it would have given
her mind a certain relief, though she could not well
tell why.

CHAPTEK X.

After the strange scene in which she had been made
a party to her sister's wretchedness, it was inevitable
that Edith should return to Lindores so completely
occupied with this subject that she could think of
nothing else. It was some time before she could
get her mother's ear undisturbed; but as soon as
they were alone, after various interruptions which
the girl could scarcely bear, she poured forth her
lamentable story with all the eloquence of passion
and tears. Edith's whole soul was bent upon some
remedy.

"How can there be any doubt on the subject?
She must come hole  she must go away from him.
Mother ! it is sacrilege, it is profanation. It is  I
don't know any word bad enough. She must come
away "

Lady Lindores shook her head. " It is one of the
most terrible things in the world ; but now that it

is done, she must stand to it. We can do nothing,
Edith "

I cannot believe that," cried the girl. " What !
live with a man like that,  live with him like that 
always together, sharing everything  and hate him?
Mother 1 it is worse wickedness than  than the
wicked. It is a shame to one's very nature. And to
think it should be Carry who has to do it ! But no
one ought to be compelled to do it. It ought not to
be. I will speak to papa myself if no one else will 
it ought not to be "

Again Lady Lindores shook her head. "In this
world, in this dreadful world," she said, '' we cannot
think only of what is right and wrong alas ! there
are other things to be taken into consideration. I
think till I came home I was almost as innocent as
you, Edith. Your father and I were very much
blamed when we married. My people said to me, and
still more his people said to him, that we should repent
it all our lives ; but that once having done it, we
should have to put up with it. Well, you know what
it used to be. I suppose I should be ashamed to say
that I found it very easy to put up with. It was a
strange sort of wandering life "

Oh, how much happier than now ! " cried Edith.
Oh, poor little Rintoul ! poor uncle ! if they had but
lived and flourished, how much better for us all ! "

I would not say that," said Lady Lindores. " I
think now that when we were all so happy your father
felt it. He did not say anything, but I am sure he
felt it. See how different he is now ! Now he feels
himself in his right place. He has room for all his
talents. Edith, do not put on that look, my dear
child."

Edith's face was soft and young ; but as her mother
spoke, it hardened into an expression which changed
its character entirely. Her upper lip closed down
tight upon the other; her eyes widened and grew
stern. Not her father himself, not the old ancestors
on the panels, looked more stern than this girl of
twenty. She did not say anything, but the change in
her face was answer enough.

Edith ! you must not form such strong opinions ;
you must not make yourself the judge "

Then I must not be a human creature, mamma ;
and that I am, grown up, and obliged to think for myself.
Sometimes I wish I did not. If I could only
believe that all that was done was well, as some
people do. Here .all is wrong  all is wrong ! It
ought not to have been at all, this marriage,  and now
it ought not to continue to be "

My darling ! " said Lady Lindores, appealing to
her child with piteous eyes, " I am to blame too. I
ought to have resisted more strongly ; but it is hard,

hard  to set one's self against one's husband, whom
one has respected, always respected, and who has
seemed to know best."

Edith's face did not relax. " Let us not talk of
that," she said. " It makes one's heart sick. I think
every one was wrong. Neither should you have done
it, mamma  forgive me ! nor should Carry have done
it. She ought never, never, to have consented. I
could not believe till the last moment that it was
possible. Some one should have stopped it. I hoped
so till the last moment ; but when once it was done,
as you say, one thought at least that he loved her.
Why did he want to marry her if he did not love her ?
But he can't love her, since he behaves so. No love
at all, either on one side or the other ; and yet the
two bound together for their lives. Was there ever
anything so horrible ? It ought not to be ! It ought
not to be ! "

Lady Lindores took her daughter in her arms to
soothe her; but Edith, drying the hot tears from her
eyes, was almost impatient of her mother's caresses.
What were caresses ? Well enough, sweet in their
way, but setting nothing right that was wrong. Yes,
it was true the mother should not' have permitted it,
any more than the daughter should have done it.
Two human creatures, grown up (as Edith repeated
to herself), able to judge  they ought not to have

allowed themselves to be swept away by the will of
another. This was how the resolute girl put it. Her
father she gave up  she would not judge him, therefore
she preferred not to think of him at all. He had
done it determinedly, and of distinct purpose ; but the
others who submitted, who allowed themselves to be
forced into ill-doing, were they less to blame? All
this she had gone over at the time of Carry's marriage,
and had suppressed and forced it away from her.
But now the current turned again. She withdrew herself
from her mother's arms. Here was the most
hideous thing in the world existing in their sight, her
sister at once the victim and the chief actor in it, and
all that could be given her in her eager attempt to
set things right was a kiss ! It seemed to Edith
that the shame on her cheeks, the fire in her eyes,
dried up her tears. She turned away from Lady
Lindores. If she should be doomed too, by her father's
will, would her mother have no better help to give
her than a kiss ? But when this idea passed through
the girl's mind, she tossed back her head with an
involuntary defiance. Never should such a doom
come upon her. Heaven and earth could not move
her so far. Obedience ! This was such obedience as
no one of God's creatures had any right to render
to another  neither wife to husband, nor to her
parents any child !

After this there was a long pause in the conversation
between the mother and daughter. Lady Lindores
divined Edith's thoughts. She understood every
shade of the repugnance, disgust, disapproval, that the
young upright spirit, untouched as yet by the bonds
and complications of life, was passing through. And
she shrank a little from Edith's verdict, which she
acknowledged to be true. But what could she have
done, she asked herself ? Who would have approved
her had she opposed her husband's wishes, encouraged
her daughter to keep to a foolish engagement made
under circumstances so totally different, and to refuse
a match so advantageous ? She had done everything
she could ; she had remonstrated, she had protested :
but when Carry herself gave in, what could her mother,
in the face of the universal disapproval of the world,
at the risk of an absolute breach with her husband,
do? But none of these things did Edith take into
account  Edith, young and absolute, scorning compromises,
determined only that what was right should
be done, and nothing else. Lady Lindores withdrew
too, feeling her caress rejected, understanding even
what Edith was saying in her heart. What was a kiss
when things so much more important were in question
? It was perfectly true. She felt the justice of
it to the bottom of her heart, and yet was chilled astounded
by the tacit condemnation of her child. She

went to her work, which was always a resource at
such a moment, and there was a silence during which
each had time to regain a little composure. By-and-by,
when the crisis seemed to have passed, Lady Lindores
spoke.

"We must have young Erskine here," she said,
almost timidly. " Your father has asked him ; and in
the circumstances, as we saw so much of him before,
it is quite necessary. I think, as this unpleasant
suggestion has been made  now, Edith, do not be unreasonable,
we must do what we can in this world,
not what we would,  as this has taken place, I will
ask Carry and her husband to meet him. It will
show Mr Torrance at least "

Mother !" Edith burst out" mother ! I tell you
of a thing which is wickedness, which is a horror to
think of, and you speak of asking people to dinner !
Do you mean to turn it all into ridicule ?  oh, not me,
that would not matter  but all purity, all fitness ? To
ask them to  meet him "

My dear, my dear ! " cried Lady Lindores, half
weeping, half angry, appealing and impatient at once.
She did not know what to say to this impracticable
young judge. "We cannot resort to heroic measures,"
she cried. " It is impossible. We cannot take her
away from him, any more than we can make of him
a reasonable man. Carry herself would be the first

to say no  for the children's sake, for the sake of her
own credit. All we can do is to make the best of
what exists. Mr Torrance must be shown quietly how
mistaken he is  how much he is in the wrong."

Mr Torrance ! I would show him nothing, except
how much I scorn him," Edith cried. " A man who
dares to torture my sister  a man  who is not worthy
to take her name into his lips, with his insolent doubts
and his ' Lady Car,' which I cannot endure to hear !"

*' But who is her husband, alas ! I cannot bear to
hear it either ; but what can we do ? We can take no
notice of his insolent doubts ; but we must prove, all
the same, to all the world "

Mother ! But if it did so happen  who can tell ?
that it had been  poor Edward ? "

Hush ! " cried her mother, almost fiercely ; and
then she added, " God forbid, Edith God forbid !"

But who could have divined that such preliminaries
were necessary to procure the assembling of the little
party which met a few evenings later at Lindores, past
on the eve of the departure of the family to London
for their short enjoyment of the season ? John Erskine
had been told that it would be merely a family party
his old friends, as Lady Lindores, with kind familiarity
and a smile so genial and so charming that the
young man must have been a wizard had he seen
anything beneath it, assured him. It never occurred

to him to think of anything beneath. The Earl had
been as cordial, as friendly, as could be desired; and
though it gave him a disagreeable sensation to meet,
when he entered the room, the stare of Torrance, whose
big light eyes seemed to project out of his face to
watch the entrance of the stranger, yet he speedily
forgot this in the pleasure with which he found himself
greeted by the others. Carry walked across the
room with a gentle dignity, which yet was very unlike
the shy brightness of her old girlish aspect, and held
out to him a thin hand. " I think you scarcely remember
me," she said, with a soft pathetic smile. She
was not, as many women would have been, confused
by the recollection that her husband was there jealously
watching her looks and her tones : this consciousness,
instead of agitating her, gave her a kind of
inspiration. In other circumstances, the very sight of
one who had been a witness of her brief romance
might have disturbed her, but she was steeled against
all tremors now.

John could scarcely make her any reply. The
change in her was so great that he was struck dumb.
Her girlish freshness was gone, her animation subdued,
the intellectual eagerness quenched in her eyes. A
veil of suffering and patience seemed to fall about
her, through which she appeared as at a distance, in
another sphere. " Indeed," he said, hesitating, " I

should scarcely have known you," and murmured something
about his pleasure in seeing her  at which she
smiled again sadly, saying nothing more. This was
all their greeting. Edith stood by with an unusually
high colour, and a tremor of agitation in her frame,
which he perceived vaguely with surprise, not knowing
what it could mean ; and then the little incident
was over, half of the company seeing nothing whatever
in it but a mere casual encounter of old acquaintances.
Besides the family, there were present the
girl whom John Erskine began within himself to call
that everlasting Miss Barrington," and the minister
of the parish, a man carefully dressed in the costume
adopted during the last generation by the Anglican
priesthood, who was one of the " new school," and had
the distinction of having made himself very alarming
to his presbytery as, if not a heretic, yet at least " a
thinker," given to preaching about honest doubt, and
trifling with German philosophy. These two strangers
scarcely afforded enough of variety to change the
character of the family party. Torrance devoted himself
to his dinner, and for some time spoke but
little. Lady Caroline occupied herself with Dr Meldrum
with something of her old eagerness. It was
evident that he was her resource, and that vague
views upon the most serious subjects, which everybody
else thought high-flown, found some sympathy in this

professional thinker, who was nothing if not heretical.
As for John, he was wholly occupied by Lady Lindores,
who talked to him with a fluency which was
almost feverish.

We shall find you here when we come back," she
said, " with all your arrangements made ? And I
hope Eintoul will' return with us. Certainly he will
be here in August, and very thankful to find a neighbour
like you, Mr Erskine, with whom he will have
so much in common."

That's a compliment to the rest of us," said Torrance,
who sat on the other side. " Eintoul, I suppose,
doesn't find much in common with us ignorant clowns
in the county,"  this he said without looking at anyone,
with his head bent over his plate.

I did not say so. Eintoul is not so much with us
as I could wish  he has his duty to attend to. To be
sure, they get a great deal of leave ; but you young
men have so many places to go to nowadays. You
spend so very little time at home. I wonder if it is a
good thing or the reverse," said Lady Lindores, with a
little sigh. " A mother may be pardoned for not admiring
the new way, when our sons come home, not
for us, but for the shooting."

"1 think I am scarcely able to judge," said John:
'home  perhaps was a little different to me: my
mother has so many claiming a share in her. And

now my home is here in Dalrulzian, which is merely
a house, not a home at all," he said with something
between a laugh and a sigh.

You must marry," Lady Lindores said ; " that is
what the county expects of you. You will disappoint
all your neighbours if you do not accomplish this duty
within a year. The question is, whether the lady is
already found, or whether we are to have the gratification
of seeing you go through all the preliminaries,
which is a great amusement, Mr Erskine ; so I hope
you have your choice still to make."

It was accident, of course, which directed her eyes
to Nora, who sat by Torrance  accident only ; for a
kind woman, who was herself a mother, would not
have willingly done anything to light up the sudden
colour which flamed over the girl's face. Nora felt as
if she could have sunk into the earth. As for John,
it seemed almost an insult to her that he should look
at her coldly across the table with studious unconsciousness.


1 am afraid I cannot undertake to furnish amusement
for the county," he said, "in that way  and
Dalrnlzian is not big enough for two people. I had
no idea it was so small. It is a bachelor's box, a
lodge, a sort of chambers in the country, where one
can put up a friend, but nothing more."

Here Nora found a way out of her embarrassment.

Indeed," she cried, " you wrong Dalrulzian, mr
Erskine. We found it sufficient for our whole family,
and the most delightful place to live in. You are not
worthy of Dalrulzian if you talk of it so."

I think Erskine is quite right," said Torrance,
between two mouthfuls; "it's a small little bit of a
place."

So is Lindores," the Countess said, eagerly ; " there
are quantities of small rooms, but no sort of grandeur
of space. We must go to Tinto for that. You have
not yet seen Tinto, Mr Erskine ? We must not be
jealous, for our old nests are more natural. If we were
all rich enough to build sets of new rooms like a little
Louvre, there would be none of the old architecture
left."

"You are speaking about architecture, Lady Lindores,"
said Dr Meldrum. He had just returned
from his first expedition " abroad," and he was very
willing to enlighten the company with his new experiences
: besides, just then Lady Caroline was pressing
him very hard upon a point which he did not wish
as yet to commit himself upon. " Stone and lime are
safer questions than evolution and development," he
said, turning to her, in an undertone.

Safer perhaps, but not so interesting. They are
ended and settled  arrange them in what form you
please, and they stand there for ever," said Lady Caro-vol.

I.

line, with brightening eyes ; but not so the mind :
not so a single thought, however slight it may be.
There is all the difference between life and death."

My dear Lady Caroline ! you will not call the
Stones of Venice dead  or St Peter's, soaring away
into the skies? Though they are but collections of
stones, they are as living as we are."

"I begin to recognise her again," said John, innocent
of all reason why he should not fix his attention
upon poor Carry, as her pale face lighted up. He felt
too pitiful, too tender of her, to speak of her formally
by her new title. " She used to look like that in the
old days."

Yes' said Lady Lindores, with a sigh. " Poor
Carry ! visionary subjects always pleased her best."

Torrance had raised his head from his plate, and
was lending an eager ear. " It's confoundedly out of
place all that for a woman," he said. " What has she
to do with politics, and philosophy, and nonsense?
She has plenty to think of in her children and her
house."

Lady Lindores made him a little bow, but took no
further notice. She was exasperated, and scarcely
under her own control ; but Nora, on the other side,
was glad to have the chance of breaking her lance on
some one. If Pat Torrance was not worth her steel,
there was at least another opposite whose opinions she

had no clue to, whom she would have liked to transfix
if that had been possible. " It does us poor girls good
to have the benefit of a gentleman's real opinion," she
said. " Would you like Lady Caroline to make your
puddings ? It is so good to know what is expected of
us  in all ranks."

"Why not?" said Torrance, over his plate. "A
woman's business is to look after her house  that was
always considered the right thing. I hope you are
not one of the strong-minded ones. Miss Barrington.
You had much better not. No man ever looks at
them."

"And what a penalty that would be !" cried Nora,
with solemnity.

You wouldn't like it, that I'll promise you. I tell
you, they are all the ugly ones. I once saw a lot of
them, one udder than the other  women that knew
no man would ever look at them. They were friends
of Lady Car's, you may be sure, all chattering twenty
to the dozen. They want to get into Parliament 
that is at the bottom of it all ; and then they would
make a pretty mess  for us to set right."

But, Mr Torrance, you could not set it right, for
you are not in Parliament any more than I am," said
Nora, pointedly. He gave her a look out of his big
eyes which might have killed her had looks such
power. The Earl had complained that his son-in-law

was not amenable in this matter. But nobody knew
that it was a very sore point with the wealthy squire,
whom no one had so much as thought of for such a
dignity. Much poorer, less important persons than
himself, had been suggested, had even sat for the
county. But Torrance of Tinto, conscious that he
was the only man among them who could afford to
throw away a few thousands without wincing  of him
nobody had thought. He had declaimed loudly on
many occasions that nothing would induce him to
take the trouble; but this slight had rankled at his
heart.

Mr Torrance would not like London life," Lady
Lindores said, coming to his aid ; turning night into
day is hard upon those who are accustomed to a more
natural existence."

"You speak as if I had never been out of the
country," said her ungracious son-in-law. "I know
that's the idea entertained of me in this house : but
it's a mistake. I've seen life just as much as those
who make more fuss about it."

And you, Mr Erskine, have you seen life ? " said
Lady Lindores, turning to him with, a smile.

"Very little," said John  "in London at least."

It's a wonderful idea to me, though most people
seem to hold it," said Dr Meldrum, coming in, in a
pause of that conversation with Lady Caroline, which

sometimes alarmed him by its abstracted and elevation,
"that life is only to be seen in London, or in
Paris, or some of those big centres. Under correction,
Lady Lindores, and not to put my small experience
above the more instructed "

"That is an alarming beginning," cried Edith.
"Dr Meldrum means to show us how ignorant we
all are."

"That's what I never can show any one in this
house," said the minister, with old-fashioned politeness
; " but my opinion is, that life in a great metropolis
is the most conventional  ay, you'll acknowledge
that  the most contracted, the most narrow, the most
Well, well, if you'll not let a man speak "

The hubbub of contradiction and amusement made
the party more genial, more at ease, than it had yet
been.

"If you make that out. Doctor, you will give us
something new to think of," the Earl said.

And poor Lady Caroline, who found in the good
minister her chief intellectual resource, prepared to
listen to his argument with all the attention of a
hearer who believes fully in the abilities of her guide.
I think I can see what Dr Meldrum means," lie
said.

I am sure you will see what I mean," the Doctor
said, gratefully. " In the first place, it's far too big

to make society general  you'll allow that? Well,
then, the result is, that society, being so vast, breaks
itself up into little coteries. It's liker a number of
bits of villages just touching each other, like a long
thread of them, every one with its own little atmosphere.
That's just London to me. You meet the
same people as if you were in a village ; then go out
of that clique to another, and you meet the same
people again, but another set. There was one day,"
said the minister, with a certain pride, "that T was
very dissipated. I went out to my lunch, and then
to a party in the afternoon, and then to my dinner,
and to two places at night. It was a great experience.
Well, if you'll believe me, I was wearied with seeing
the same faces, in a great society like London, the
chief place in the world. There was scarcely one I
did not meet three times in the course of that day.
In the country here, you could not do more. There's
as much variety as that in Dunearn itself."

*' I see what Dr Meldrum means," said Carry. '' No
doubt it was a special society into which he had been
introduced, and people were asked to meet him because
they were distinguished  because they were people
whom it was a pleasure to meet."

"That's a great compliment to me, but I cannot
take it to myself. They were, many of them, persons
that it was no pleasure to meet. Some with titles, and,

SO far as I could see, little more. Some that were
perhaps rich  I hope so, at least, for they were nothing
else."

"This is cynicism," said Lord Lindores; "and I,
who have lived in the opinion that Dr Meldrum was
the most benignant, the most tolerant of men "

One can understand entirely," repeated Lady
Caroline, standing by her friend, " what he means.
I have thought so myself The same faces, the same
ideas, even the same words that mean so little "

"I didn't know you were so well up in London
society, Lady Car," said her husband, who had been
trying for some time to strike into the melee, and
whose lance was specially aimed at her of all the
talkers. And then there was a general flutter of
talk, instinctive, all round the table ; for when a
man stretches across to say something disagreeable
to his wife, everybody present is upon their honour
to quench the nascent quarrel. The ladies left the
table soon after ; and the conversation of the men
did not afford the same risks, for after one or two
contradictions, which the Earl put aside with well-bred
ease and a slight but unanswerable contempt,
Torrance sank into sulky silence, taking a great deal
of wine. At such moments a little poetic justice and
punishment of his sins towards his daughter was inflicted
even upon Lord Lindores.

CHAPTEK XL

Do you like him, Nora ? "

This is a question that means nothing in most
cases, nor Avould it have meant anything now save for
Nora's special sense of having been presented to John
Erskine in something like the light of a candidate
for his favour.

"I don't think I like him at all' she said, with
some petulance. " He looks at us all as if we were
natives of an undiscovered country. He is very
cautious, not intending to make us proud by too
much notice. Oh, it is different with you. You
knew him before  you are not one of the barbarous
people. As for me, I am jaundiced, I am not a fair
judge ; because he is determined, whatever happens,
that not a single glass bead, not a cowrie or a bangle,
or whatever you call them, will he give to me."

That is not what he means, Nora. He is a little
bewildered. Fancy coming into an entirely new

place, which you know nothing about, and realising
all at once that you belong to it, and that here is
your place in the world. That happened to us too.
I sympathise with him. We felt just the same when
we came to Lindores."

'but you were not afraid of the natives, Edith.
Young men, however," said Nora, with an air of grave
impartiality, "are to be pitied in that way; they
think themselves so dreadfully important. If they
speak to a girl, they suppose immediately that they
may be putting false hopes into her head and making
her think  and then that frightens them. Well, it
is natural it should frighten them. Suppose that Mr
Erskine, by merely speaking civilly to me, should
run the risk of breaking my heart  is not that something
to be afraid of? for he is quite nice, I am sure,
and would not, if he could help it, break any girl's
heart."

"You are talking nonsense, Nora. How did you
get so much acquaintance with the conceits of young
men ? "

"I see them through the boys. Jamie and Ned
are like a pair of opera-glasses ; you can see through
them what that kind of creature thinks."

I am sure," said Edith, with some heat, " Rintoul
is not like that."

"Oh, I was not thinking of Lord Eintoul," cried

JSTora, precipitately. She blushed, and Edith observed
it, making her own conclusions. And thereupon
she on her side had something to say.

Eintoul, when he was only Robin, was a delightful
brother. He never was clever  even I was cleverer
than he was; and Carry, of course, was always
ever so far above us both. But now that he is Ein-soul,
he is a little changed. One is fond of him, of
course, all the same. But it is different ; he has ideas
of money, of getting on in the world, of people
making good marriages, and that sort of thing. I
think we have had enough of that in our family,"
Edith added, with a sigh ; " but Eintoul has got corrupted.
To be heir to anything seems to corrupt
people somehow. It is not so very much : but he
has got ideas  of what his rank demands  that sort
of thing. Because there is a title, he must marry
for money. Well, perhaps not quite so broad as
that : but he must not marry where there is no
money. I cannot put up with it," Edith cried.

And it was true that she could not put up with
it. Yet there was a certain intention, too, even in
this little outburst. One girl cannot chatter with
another without meanings, without secret intimations
of dangers in the way. Nora's countenance clouded
over, the blush on her cheek grew deeper; but she
laughed, putting a little force on herself

Is not that quite right ? I have always been
taught so. Not to marry for money. That is putting
it a great deal too broadly, as you say  but
only when you are going to marry, that it should
not be a penniless person. It is so much better for
both parties, mamma always says."

I wonder if you mean to conform to the rule ? "
her friend asked, with an impulse half of mockery,
half of curiosity.

I don't mean to conform to any rule," said Nora.
One has to wait, you know, when one is a girl, till
somebody is kind enough to fall in love with one ;
and then you are allowed to say whether you will
have him or no. Don't you remember what Beatrice
says ?  ' It is my cousin's duty to make courtesy and
say, " Father, as it please you," ' only with that little
reservation, ' Let him be a handsome fellow, or else
make another courtesy

It is worse than that," said Edith, very gravely.
"You say some things are hard upon young men;
but oh, how much, much harder upon girls ! It is
in town that one feels that. There was something,
after all, to be said for Carry marrying in the country,
without going through the inspection of all these
men. If I speak to any one or dance with any one
who would be a good match, they will say immediately
that mamma has got her eye upon him  that

lie is trying to catch him for me  that she means
to make up a marriage. My mother," cried Edith,
with an inference in the very emphasis with which
she uttered the word ; " as if she were not more
romantic than I am a hundred times, and more intolerant
of scheming ! The fatal thing is," added the
girl, with her serious face, "that, if a crisis should
come, mamma would give in. Against her conscience
she will try to find reasons for doing what my father
wishes, whether it is right or wrong."

But isn't it a woman's duty to do what her
husband wishes 1 " said Nora. " I have always heard
that, too, at home."

These two young women belonged to their period.
They considered the subject gravely, willing to be
quite impartial ; but neither she who suggested that
conjugal obedience was a duty, nor she who objected
to it in her mother's case, felt the question to be in
the least beyond discussion.

It is in the Bible," said Edith  " one cannot deny
that; still there must be distinctions. A woman
who is grown up, and a reasonable creature, cannot
obey like a slave. It is still more distinct that a child
should obey its parents ; but at my age, it is not
possible I could just do everything I am told, like
a little girl. If papa were to order me to do as poor
Carry did, I should not think twice ; I should refuse,

plainly. If it is wrong, I cannot help it; it could
not be so wrong as to obey. I would not do it, 
nothing in the world," cried the mrl, in her ardour
striking her hands together, " would make me do it ;
and with far more reason a mother should  judge for
herself. You will never convince me otherwise,"
Edith said, holding her head high.

Nora pondered, but made no reply. She had never
arrived at any great domestic question on which
the rules of her life had been out of accord with her
happiness. She had never thought of orders from one
or the other of her parents, insisted upon against
her will. They had never compelled her to do anything,
so far as she could remember. And indeed,
cruel parents are little known to the children of the
present day. She would not have believed in them
but for this great and evident instance of Carry Lindores.
The Earl was no tyrant either. He had never
been known in the character imtil that temptation
came in his way. Had he forced his daughter to compliance
? Nobody could say so. He had not locked
her in her room, or kept her on bread and water, or
dragged her to the altar, according to old formulas.
He had insisted, and she had not been strong enough
to stand out. Was it not her fault rather than his ?
Open as a nineteenth-century mind is bound to be to
all sides of the question, Nora was not sure that there

was not something to be said for the father too 
which was a great instance of candour in a representative
of youth.

I do not understand being forced to do anything,"
she said, contemplatively. "How is it when you are
forced ? One might yield of one's own will. If I was
asked to do anything  I think anything  for the sake
of my father and mother, I should do it, whatever it
was."

"Almost anything," Edith said, correcting her
friend; "but not that, for instance  certainly not
that."

I don't know what you mean by that'' said Nora,
petulantly ; though indeed this was not exactly true.
Both speaker and listener knew that it was not exactly
true, and no explanation followed. The girls had been
wandering in the woods which covered the sloping
bank on the summit of which the castle stood. Its
turrets were visible far above them, among the green
of the early foliage. The trees were still thinly but
brightly clad, the leaves not wholly unclosed, the
beeches just loosening their spring finery out of its
brown sheath. The river was still some way below.
They were seated full in the afternoon sunshine, which
was not warm enough to incommode them, upon a
knoll covered half with grass, half with moss, through
which penetrated here and there the brownness of

the twisted roots, and of bits of rock and boulder. All
about in the hollows, under every projection, at the
root of every tree, nestling in the crevices of the brown
banks, and on the edges of the rocks, were clumps
of primroses, like scattering of palest gold. The
river made a continuous murmur in the air ; the birds
were busy overhead in all their sweet afternoon chatter,
flitting about from branch to branch, paying their
visits, trying over their notes. It was only through
a checkered screen of leaves that the sky was visible
at all, save in this little opening, where all was light
and brightness, the centre of the picture, with these
two young figures lending it interest. They were not
either of them beauties to make a sensation in a
London season, but they were both fair enough to
please any simple eye  two fair and perfect human
creatures in their bloom, the very quintessence of
the race, well-bred, well-mannered, well-educated,
well-looking, knowing a little and thinking a little,
and perhaps, according to the fashion of the time,
believing that they knew less and thought more than
was at all the case. Both Edith and Nora despised
themselves somewhat for knowing no Latin, much
less any Greek. They thought the little accomplishments
they possessed entirely trivial, and believed
that their education had been shamefully neglected 
which was an unnecessary reproach to their parents

who had done the best they could for the girls, and
had transmitted to them at least an open and bright
intelligence, which is more pleasant than learning.
On the other hand, these young things believed that
they had inspirations unknown to their seniors, and
had worked out unaided many problems unsolved by
their fathers and mothers  which perhaps was also a
mistaken view. They liked to raise little questions
of delicate morality, and to feel that there were
more things in heaven and earth than had been
thought of in any previous philosophy. They were a
little alike even in appearance ; the one a little fairer
than the other  not any piquant contrast of blue eyes
with brown, after the usual fashion of artistic grouping.
They might even have been mistaken for sisters,
as they sometimes were  a mistake which pleased
them in their enthusiasm for each other.

Both these girls had been affected more or less by
the intellectual tastes of poor Lady Caroline, whom
they devoutly believed to be a genius, though wanting
(as persons of genius are supposed generally to be)
in some ordinary qualities which would have been
good for her. Their speculations, their loves and
likings, especially in the matter of books, were more
or less moulded by her; and they copied out her
verses, and thought them poetry. Perhaps in this
respect Nora, who was the more intellectual, was at

the same time the less independent of the two.
Edith was in all things the representative of the
positive, as they were all fond of saying  the realist,
the practical person. Such was the pretty argot of
this thoughtful circle. But on the whole, as they sat
there together musing and talking as became their
visionary age, the eye could not have lighted upon,
nor the heart been satisfied with, any spectacle more
pleasant than that of these two slim and simple girls
exchanging their thoughts in the temperate spring
sunshine, among the spring buds and flowers. A
little silence had fallen upon them : they were sitting
idly together, each one following out her own thoughts
thoughts which bore somehow, who could doubt,
upon the opening life before them, and were more
than mere thinking, dreams, and anticipations all in
one  when suddenly there drifted across their path
a very simple, very ordinary embodiment of fate, yet
distinctly such, a young man in fishing costume, with
his basket over his shoulder, coming towards them by
the winding path from the river. The sound of his
step in the silence of the woods  which were not
silent at all, yet thrilled to the first human sound as
if all the rest of creation were not worth reckoning
caught their attention at once. They saw him
before he was aware of their presence, and recognised
him with a slight sensation. It is to be doubted
VOL. L r

whether the sudden apparition of a pretty girl flitting
across the vision of two young men would not have
produced a greater emotion for the moment, but it
would have been of a different kind. Both Nora
and Edith recognised in the approach of the new-comer
the coming in of a new influence  a something which,
for aught they knew, might be of far more importance
in their lives than all the echoes of the woods or
influences of the fresh spring skies. The character
of the scene changed at once with his appearance. Its
tranquillity lessened ; it became dramatic, opening up
an opportunity for all the complications of life. Nora
was the one whom these romantic possibilities affected
the most, for she was the most imaginative, seeing a
story in everything. Since that morning at Miss
Barbara's house in Dunearn, she had withdrawn from
the contemplation of John Erskine as in any way
capable of affecting herself. For a moment she had
been offended and vexed with fate ; but that feeling
had passed away, and Nora now looked upon him
with a philosophical eye with a reference to Edith,
not to herself. From all she had ever seen or heard,
it did not appear - likely to Nora that two girls and a
young man could go on meeting familiarly, constantly,
as it was inevitable they should do, without something
more coming of it than is written in the
trivial records of every day. Perhaps young men,

being more immediately active agents of their own
fate, are less likely to think of the dramatic importance
of any chance meeting. John did not think about
the future at all, nor had he made any calculation as
to what was likely to result from continual meetings.
He was pleased, yet half annoyed at the same time,
his heart giving a jump when he recognised Edith,
but falling again when he saw 'that eternal Miss
Barrington " beside her. " Am I never to see her by
herself? " he muttered, half angrily. But next moment
he came forward, quickening his pace; and after a
little hesitation, to see whether it were permissible, he
threw himself at their feet, making the pretty picture
perfect.

Have you caught any fish, Mr Erskine ? But isn't
it too bright ? "

I have not been trying to catch any fish. These
things," said John, laying down his rod and loosening
his basket from his shoulder, " are tributes paid to the
genius of the place. I don't want to kill the trout.
I daresay they are of more use, and I am sure they
have more right tp be where they are, than I."

"Who can have a better right than you?" said
Nora, always moved by the idea of the home from
which she had felt herself ousted to make room for
this languid proprietor. " You are the real owner of
the place."

I am a fish out of water as yet' said the young
man: he added the last words in deference to the
eager remonstrances and reproaches which were evidently
rushing to their lips.

"You had better come with us to town. Would
you be in your element there ? Men seem to like
that do-nothing life. It is only we girls that are
rising up against it. We want something to do."

"And so do I/' said John, ruefully. "Tell me
something. Nobody that I can see wants me here.
Old Rolls, perhaps ; but his approval is not enough to
live for  is it? He would make out a code for me
with very little trouble. But imagine a poor fellow
stranded in a fresh country  altogether new to me,
Miss Barrington, notwithstanding my forefathers  no
shooting, no hunting, nothing to do. You may laugh,
but what is to become of me  especially when you go
away ? " he said, turning to Edith, with a little heightening
colour. This acted sympathetically, and brought
a still brighter flush to Edith's face. Nora looked on
in a gentle, pensive, grandmotherly sort of way, observing
the young people with benignity, and saying
to herself that she knew this was how it would be 
because it is not so suitable, and Lord Lindores
will never consent, she added, with a private reflection
aside upon the extreme perversity of human
affairs.

No shooting, no hunting, no Then you will

be happy, Mr Erskine, in September."

"Happier. But I don't want to wait so long. I
should prefer to be happy now."

In the way of amusement, Mr Erskine means,

Edith. That is all boys 1 beg your pardon  I was

thinking of my brothers. That is all gentlemen mean
when they speak of something to do."

Well  unless I had a trade, and could make shoes
or chairs, or something. The people are all too well
off, too well educated, to want me. They condescend
to me as a foolish individual without information or
experience. They tell me my family has always been
on the right side in politics, with a scornful consciousness
that I don't know very well what they mean by
the right side. My humble possessions are all in admirable
order. There are not even any trees to cut
down. What am I to do ? Visit the poor ? There
are no poor "

Oh, Mr Erskine ! " cried both the girls in a breath.

'' I poveri vergognosi, who require to be known and
delicately dealt with, perhaps  fit subjects for your
delicate hands, not for mine."

If you begin talking of delicate hands, you defeat
us altogether : the age of compliments is over," said
Edith, with some heat ; while Nora cast a furtive
glance at the hands both of herself and her friend.

They were both sufficiently worthy of the name 
ladies' hands which had known no labour, neither in
themselves nor their progenitors. Edith's were the
better shaped  if the tapering Northern fingers are
to be considered better than the blunter Greek  but
Nora's the whiter of the two. This reflection was
quite irrelevant; yet how much of our thinking
would be silenced if all that was irrelevant was put
out of account ?

I mean no compliment. Suppose that I were to
go into the nearest village and offer charity  that
would be my brutal way of proceeding. What would
they do to me, do you think? Pitch me into the
river ! tar and feather me ! No ; if there is anything
to be done in that way, it must be done with knowledge.
It is in vain you mock me with reproaches for
doing nothing  I am a man out of work."

"So long as they do not ask for money," said
Nora, demurely, " mamma says every man should be
helped to get work. And then we ask, what is his
trade ? "

Ah ! that is the question,  if the wretch hasn't got
one ? "

"It is very difficult in that case. Then he must
take to helping in the garden, or harvest-work, or  I
don't know  hanging on (but that is so very bad for
them) about the house."

Clearly that is what I am most fit for. Do you
remember how you used to engage me reading aloud ?
They all made sketches except myself, Miss Barrington.
Beaufort  do you recollect what capital drawings
he made ? And I read  there's no telling how
many Tauchnitz volumes I got through : and then the
discussions upon them. I wonder if you recollect as
well as I do?" said John to Edith, with a great deal
of eager light in his eyes.

Nora had a great mind to get up and walk away.
She was not at all offended, nor did she feel left out,
as might have happened. But she said to herself
calmly, that it was a pity to spoil sport, and that she
was not wanted the least in the world.

I remember very well ; but there are reasons," said
Edith, dropping her voice, and bending a little towards
him, " why we don't talk of that much. Oh, it does
not matter to me ! but mamma and Car  have a 
feeling. Don't say anything to them of these old
times."

So long as I may talk of them now and then 
to you," said John in the same undertone. He was
delighted to have this little link of private recollections
between them ; and the pleasure of it made
his eyes and his countenance glow. At this Nora felt
actually impelled to do what she had only thought
of before. She rose and wandered off from them on

pretence of gathering some primroses. " How lovely
they are ! and nobody sees them. Will you lend me
your basket, Mr Erskine, to carry some home ? " She
took it up with a smile, bidding them wait for her.
She felt gently benignant, protecting, patronising, like
a quite old person. Why should not they have their
day? Edith, too, rose hastily, following her friend's
example, as if their easy repose was no longer practicable.
She had a sense, half delightful, half alarming,
of having suddenly got upon very confidential
terms with John Erskine. She rose up, and so did
he. But it would have been foolish to copy Nora's
whim and gather primroses, or even to follow her, as
if they were afraid of each other. So Edith stood still,
and John by her side.

I cannot forget that summer," he said, in the same
low tone, which was now totally unnecessary, there
being nobody at hand to overhear.

I remember it too," said Edith, softly, " almost
better than any other. It was just before  anything
happened : when we were so poor. I have my little
grey frock still that I used to wear  that I went everywhere
in. What expeditions we had  Car and I !
I daresay you thought us very wild, very untamed.
That was what mamma always used to say."

"I thought you," John began hurriedly  then

stopped, with a little unsteady laugh. "You might
object if I put it into words. It was my first awakening,"
he added a moment after, in a still lower
tone.

Edith gave him a curious, half-startled glance. She
thought the word a strange one. Awakening ! What
was the meaning of it ? But he said no more ; and
they stood together in the sweet silence, in that
confusion of delightful sound which we call silence,
because our human voices and noises have nothing todo
with its harmony. There were birds singing, one
would have said, on every twig, pouring forth their
experiences with a hundred repetitions, flitting from
one branch to another telling their several tales. On
every side were mysterious depths of shadow, cool
hollows, and long withdrawing vistas  a soft background,
where nature tenderly looked on and watched,
around that centre of life and brightness and reawakening.
It was a scene for any painter: the brown banks
and spring foliage, all breathing new life ; the sunny
opening all full of the warmth of the present sunshine;
Nora a pretty attendant figure on the grass
among the trees, all flushed with light and shadow,
stooping to gather handfuls of primroses, while the
others stood diffident, charmed, shy of each other, lingering
together. It seemed to John the new world in

which all life begins again ; but to Edith it was only
a confusing, bewildering, alarming sort of fairy land,
which all her instincts taught her it was right to flee
from. " Look at JSTora with her basket full," she cried,
hurriedly, " and we doing nothing ! Let us go and
help her."

CHAPTER XII.

It was a rainy morning when the Lindores went
away. They were not rich enough to command all the
delights of the London season, and had no house in
town, nor any position to keep up which demanded
their presence. The Earls of Lindores were merely
Scotch lords. They had no place in Parliament, no
importance in the realm. Hitherto a succession of
unobtrusive but proud country gentlemen, not fond
of appearing where their claims were not fully recognised,
had borne the name, and contented themselves
with their dignity at home, which no one questioned,
if perhaps it was never very reverentially regarded.
It was enough to them to make a visit to London now
and then, to comment upon the noise and bigness of
town, to attend a levee and a drawing-room, and to
come home well pleased that they had no need to bind
themselves to the chariot-wheels of fashion. The late
Earl had been entirely of this mind ; and the consequence

was, that nobody in these busy circles which
call themselves Society knew anything about the Lindores.
But the present bearer of these honours was
of a very different intention. It galled him to be so
little though he was so much  the representative of a
great race (in his own thinking), and yet nobody, made
of no account among his own class. Perhaps Lord
Lindores thought all the more of his position that it
had not come to him in easy natural succession, but
by right of a great family catastrophe, and after his
life had been long settled on a different and much
humbler basis. It is certain that he had no mind to
accept it as his predecessors had done. He meant to
vindicate a position for himself, to assert his claim
among the best. What he intended in his heart was
to turn his old Scotch earldom into a British peerage
by hook or crook, and in the meantime to get himself
elected a representative peer of Scotland, and attain
the paradise of hereditary legislatorship by one means
or another. This was his determination, and had been
so from the moment when the family honours came to
him. In the very afternoon of the solemn day when
he heard of the death of his brother, and his own
entirely unlooked-for elevation, this is what he resolved
upon. He had withdrawn to his own room to be
alone  to consider the wonderful revolution which had
taken place, and, if he could, to expend a tear upon the

three ended lives which had opened up that position
to him  when this intention first rose in his mind. Asa
matter of fact, he had been sad enough. The extinction
of these lives, the transference to himself of
the honours which, for aught he knew, might be taken
from him tomorrow, was too startling to be otherwise
than sad. He had retired within himself, he had
compelled himself to think of the poor boy Eintoul
dead in his bloom, of the heart-broken father who had
followed him to the grave, and to represent to himself,
with all the details most likely to move the heart, that
terrible scene. And he had been satisfied to feel that
he was sad,  that the natural fulness of this spectacle
had moved him enough even to counterbalance
the tremor and elation of this extraordinary turn of
fortune. But his very sadness and overwhelming sense
of a visible fate working in the history of his family,
gave him an impulse which was not ungenerous. On
the instant, even while he solicited the moisture in
his eyes to come the length of a tear, the thought leapt
into his mind that if he was spared, if he had time
to do anything, it should not be merely a Scotch earldom
that he would transmit to his son. At last Lindores
had come into the possession of one who knew
what he wanted, and meant to obtain it. His family,
which had suffered so much, should no longer be
pushed aside among the titled nobodies. It should

have its weight in the councils of the sovereign and
in the history of the kingdom. " The house shall not
suffer because I have come to the head of it," he cried.
He felt that he could compensate it for the series of
misfortunes it had endured, by adding importance and
dignity to the name. He made up his mind, then, that
when his son succeeded him it should be as a peer
of the realm. And it was to this end and with this
inspiration that so great a change had come upon him.
For this he had set his heart upon making his county
a model for every shire in England. To this end he
had determined to wrest the seat from the Tory representative,
and put in his son in the Liberal interest.
A seat so important gained, an influence so great
established, what Ministry could refuse to the representative
of one of the oldest families in the
North the distinction which ought to have been his
long before ?

Nobody suspected the Earl's meaning in its fullest
extent. Old Miss Barbara Erskine was the only one
who had partly divined him ; but of all the people
who did not understand his intention, the wife of his
bosom was the first. To her high mind, finely unsuspicious
because so contemptuous of mean motives, this
little ambition would perhaps have seemed pettier
than it really was ; for if nobility is worth having at
all, surely it is best to possess all its privileges. And

perhaps, had Lady Lindores been less lofty in her
ideal, her husband would have been more disposed to
open his inmost thoughts to her, and thus correct any
smaller tendency. It was this that had made him
insist upon Carry's marriage. He wanted to ally
himself with the richest and most powerful people
within his reach, to strengthen himself in every way,
extending the family connection so that he should
have every security for success when the moment
came for his great coup. And he was anxiously alive
to every happy chance that might occur for the two
of his children who were still to marry  anxious yet
critical. He would not have had Eintoul marry a
grocer's daughter for her hogsheads, as Miss Barbara
said. He would have him, if possible, to marry the
daughter of a Minister of State, or some other personage
of importance. He intended Eintoul to bea
popular Member of Parliament, a rising man altogether,
thinking he could infuse enough of his own
energy as well as ambition into the young man to
secure these ends. And this great aim of his was the
reason why he underwent the expense of a season,
though a short one, in town. He was of opinion that
it was important to keep himself and his family in
the knowledge of the world, to make it impossible for
any fastidious fashionable to say, " Who is Lord Lindores
? " The Earl, by dint of nursing this plan in

his mind, and revealing it to nobody, had come to
think it was a great aim.

It was, as we have said, a rainy morning when the
family left Lindores. They made the journey from
Edinburgh to London by night, as most people do.
But before they reached Edinburgh, there was a considerable
journey, and those two ferries, of which
EoUs had reminded Colonel Barrington. Two great
firths to cross, with no small amount of sea when the
wind is in the east, was no such small matter. Lady
Caroline had driven over in the morning to bid her
mother good-bye, and it was she who was to deposit
ISTora Barrington at Chiefswood, where her next visit
was to be paid. There had been but little conversation
between the mother and daughter on the subject of
that scene which Edith had witnessed, but Lady Lindores
could not forbear a word of sympathy in the
last half-hour they were to spend together. They
were seated in her dressing-room, which was safe from
interruption. " I do not like to leave you, my darling,"
Lady Lindores said, looking wistfully into her
daughter's pale face.

It does not matter, mother. Oh, you must not
think of me, and spoil your pleasure. I think perhaps
things go better sometimes when I have no one
to fall back upon," said poor Lady Caroline.

Oh, Carry, my love, what a thing that is to say ! "

Carry did not make any reply at first. She was
calm, not excited at all. " Yes ; I think perhaps I am
more patient, more resigned, when I have no one to
fall back upon. There is no such help in keeping
silence as when you have no one to talk to," she
added, with a faint smile.

Her mother was much more disturbed in appearance
than she. She was full of remorse as well as sympathy.
"I did not think  I never knew it was so
bad as this," she said, faltering, holding in her own
her child's thin hands.

What could it be but as bad as this ? " said Carry.
"We both must have known it from the beginning,
mother. It is of no use saying anything. I spoke to
Edith the other day because she came in the midst of
it, and I could not help myself. It never does any
good to talk. When there is no one to speak to, I
shall get on better, you will see."

In that case, it is best for us to be away from you
Carry, my darling ! " Lady Lindores was frightened
by the wild energy with which her daughter
suddenly clutched her arm.

Oh no, no ! don't think that. If I could not look
across to Lindores and think there was some one there
who loved me, I should go out of my senses. Don't
let us talk of it. How curious to think you are going
away where I used always to wish to go  to London !

VOL. L Q

No, don't look so. I don't think I have the least wish
to go now. There must be ghosts there  ghosts everywhere,"
she said, with a sigh, "except at home.
There are no ghosts at Tinto ; that is one thing I
may be thankful for."

I don't think," said her mother, with an attempt
to take a lighter tone, " that London is a likely place
for ghosts."

Ah, don't you think so ? Mother," said Carry
suddenly, "I am afraid of John Erskine. He never
knew of what happened  after. What so likely as
that he might have people to stay with him  people
from town ? "

Nobody  whose coming would make any difference
to us  would accept such an invitation. Carry.
Of that you may be sure."

Do you think so, mother ? " she said ; then added,
with some wistfulness, "But perhaps it might bethought
that no one would mind. That must be the
idea among people who know. And there might be,
you know, a little curiosity to see for one's self how
it was. I think I could understand that without any
blame."

No, I do not think so  not where there was any
delicacy of mind. It would not happen. A chance
meeting might take place anywhere else; but herein
our own country, oh no, no ! "

You think so ? " said Lady Caroline : perhaps
there was a faint disappointment as well as relief in
her tone. "I do not know how or why, but I am
afraid of John Erskine," she said again, after a pause.

My dearest ! he brings back old associations."

It is not that. I feel as if there was something
new, some other trouble, coming in his train."

You were always fanciful," her mother said ; " and
you are* feverish, Carry, and nervous. I don't like to
leave you. I wish there could be some one with you
while we are away. You would not ask Nora ? "

I am better without company," she said, shaking
her head. "In some houses guests are always inconvenient.
One never knows  and indeed, things
go better when we are alone. Don't vex yourself
about me. There is the carriage. And one thing
more  take care of Edith, mother dear."

Of Edith ? But surely ! she will be my constant
companion. Why do you say take care of Edith,
Carry ? "

I think I have a kind of second-sight  or else it is
my nerves, as you say. I feel as if there were schemes
about Edith. My father will want her  to marry, 
that is quite right, I suppose ; and in town she will
see so many people. I am like an old raven, boding
harm. But you will stand by her, mother, whatever
happens ? "

Oh, Carry, my darling, don't reproach me ! " cried
her mother ; " it breaks my heart ! "

"Reproach you! Oh, not for the world! How
could I reproach my dearest friend  always my best
support and comfort? No, no, mamma  no, no. It
is only that I am silly with sorrow to see you all go
away. And yet I want you to go away, to get all
the pleasure possible. But only, if anything should
happen,  if Edith should  meet any one  you will
be sure to stand by her, mamma ? "

Are you ready ? Are you coming ? The carriage
is waiting," said Lord Lindores at the door.

Carry gave a little start at the sound of his voice,
and her mother rose hastily, catching up a shawl from
the sofa on which she had been sitting  a sort of
excuse for a moment's delay. " Let me see that we
have got everything," she said, hurriedly ; and coming
back, took her daughter once more into her arms.
'' Take care of yourself  oh, take care of yourself, my
darling ! and if you should want me  if it should
prove too much  if you find it more than you can
bear "

I can bear anything for a month," said Lady Caroline,
with a smile ; " and I tell you, things go better
and you will be all the better of forgetting me for a
while, mother dear."

As if that were possible, Carry ! "

No, no ; thank God, it is not possible ! But I
shall do very well, and you will not have my whiteface
for ever before your eyes. There is my father
calling again. Good-bye, mother dear  good-bye ! "
and as they kissed. Carry breathed once more that
prayer, " Take care of Edith ! "  in which Lady Lindores
read the most tender and heartrending of all
reproaches  in her mother's ear.

They drove to the little station, a large party. Lady
Caroline, who was the element of care and sadness
in it, made an effort to cast her troubles behind her
for the sake of the travellers. As they all walked
about on the little platform waiting the arrival of the
slow-paced local train, it was she who looked the
most cheerful  so cheerful, that her mother and sister,
not unwilling to be deceived, could scarcely believe
that this was the same being who had been " silly with
sorrow " to part from them. Between Lord Lindores
and his daughter there had always been a certain
shadow and coldness since her marriage ; but to-day,
even he seemed to miss the tacit reproach in her look,
and to feel at his ease with Carry. Before the train
arrived, John Erskine, too, appeared on the platform
to say good-bye to his friends. John was by far the
most downcast of the party. " I shall vegetate till
you come back," he said to Lady Lindores, not venturing
to look at Edith, who listened to him with a

smile all the same, mocking his sentiment. She was
not afraid of anything he could say at that moment.

Come and meet us this day month," she said, " and
let us see if you are in leaf or blossom, Mr Erskine."

John gave her a reproachful glance. He did not
feel in the humour even to answer with a compliment
with a hint that the sunshine which encourages
blossom would be veiled over till she came back,
though some dovelike conceit of the kind had floated
vaguely through his thoughts. When the travellers
disappeared at last, the three who remained were left
standing forlorn on the platform, flanked by the entire
strength of the station (one man and a boy, besides
the stationmaster), which had turned out to see his
lordship and her ladyship off. They looked blankly
at each other, as those who are left behind can scarcely
fail to do. Nora was the only one who kept up
a cheerful aspect. " It is only for a month, after
all," she said, consoling her companions. But Carry
dropped back in a moment out of her false courage,
and John looked black as a thunder-cloud at the well-meant
utterance. He was so rude as to turn his back
upon the comforter, giving Lady Caroline his arm to
take her to her carriage. With her he was in perfect
sympathy  he even gave her hand a little pressure
in brotherly kindness and fellow-feeling: there was
nothing to be said in words. Neither did she say

anything to him ; but she gave him a grateful glance,
acknowledging that mute demonstration. At this
moment the stillness which had fallen round the little
place, after the painful puffing off of the train, was
interrupted by the sound of horse's hoofs, and Torrance
came thundering along on his black horse. Lady
Caroline made a hurried spring into the carriage, recognising
the sound, and hid herself in its depths
before her husband came up.

Holloa ! " he cried. " Gone, are they ! I thought
I should have been in time to say good-bye. But
there are plenty of you without me. Why, Car, you
look as if you had buried them all, both you and
Erskine. What's the matter? is she going to faint?"

I never faint," said Lady Caroline, softly, from the
carriage window. "T am tired a little. Nora, we
need not wait now."

And you look like a dead cat, Erskine," said the
civil squire. " It must have been a tremendous parting,
to leave you all like this. Hey ! wait a moment ;
don't be in such a hurry. When will you come over
and dine, and help Lady Car to cheer up a bit?
After this she'll want somebody to talk to, and she
don't appreciate me in that line. Have we anything
on for Tuesday, Car, or will that suit ? "

Any day that is convenient for Mr Erskine," said
Carry, faltering, looking out with pitiful deprecation

and a sort of entreaty at John standing by. Her
wistful eyes seemed to implore him not to think her
husband a brute, yet to acknowledge that he was so
all the same.

Then we'll say Tuesday," said Torrance. " Come
over early and see the place. I don't suppose you
have so many invitations that you need to be asked
weeks in advance. But don't think I am going to
cheat you of your state dinner. Oh, you shall have that
in good time, and all the old fogeys in the county.
In the meantime, as you're such old friends, it's for
Lady Car I'm asking you now." This was said with
a laugh which struck John's strained nerves as the
most insolent he had ever heard.

T need not say that I am at Lady Caroline's disposition
 when she pleases," he replied, very gravely.

Oh, not for me  not for me," she cried, under her
breath. Then recovering herself  " I mean  forgive
me ; I was thinking of something else. On Tuesday,
if you will come, Mr Erskine  it will be most kind
to come. And, Nora, you will come too. To Chiefs-wood,"
she said, as the servant shut the door, falling
back with a look of relief into the shelter of the carriage.
The two men stood for a moment looking
after it as it whirled away. Why they should thus
stand in a kind of forced antagonism, John Erskine,
at least, did not know. The railway forces looked on

vaguely behind ; and Torrance, curbing his impatient
horse, made a great din and commotion on the country
road.

Be quiet, you brute ! We didn't bargain for Nora
eh, Erskine ? she's thrown in," said Torrance, with
that familiarity which was so offensive to John. " To
be sure, three's" no company, they say. It's a pity
they play their cards so openly  or rather, it's a great
thing for you, my fine fellow. You were put on your
guard directly, I should say. I could have told them,
no man was ever caught like that  and few men
know better than I do all the ways of it," he said,
with a laugh.

"You have the advantage of me," said Erskine,
coldly. " I don't know who is playing cards, or what
I have to do with them. Till Tuesday  since I have
Lady Caroline's commands," he said, lifting his hat.

Confound " the other said, under his breath ;

but John had already turned away. Torrance stared
after him, with a doubt in his eyes whether he should
not pursue and pick a quarrel on the spot; but a
moment's reflection changed his plans. " I'll get more
fun out of him yet before I'm done with him," he said,
half to himself. Then he became aware of the observation
of Sandy Struthers the porter and the boy who
had formed the background, and were listening calmly
to all that was said. He turned round upon them

quickly. " Hey, Sandy ! what's wrong, my man ?
Were you waiting to spy upon Mr Erskine and me ? "

Me  spying ! No' me ; what would I spy for ? "
was the porter's reply. He was too cool to be taken
by surprise. "What's that to me if twa gentlemen
spit and scratch at ilk other, like cats or women folk,"
he said, slowly. He had known Tinto " a' his days,"
and was not afraid of him. A porter at a little roadside
station may be pardoned if he is misanthropical.
He did not even change his position, as a man less
accustomed to waiting about with his hands hanging
by his side might have done.

You scoundrel ! how dare you talk of spitting and
scratching to me ? "

'Deed, I dour mair than that," said Sandy, calmly.
'You'll no' take the trouble to complain to the Directors,
Tinto, and I'm feared for nobody else. But
you should quarrel  gentlemen should quarrel.
It sets a bad example to the country-side."

Quarrel ! nothing of the sort. That's your imagination.
I was asking Mr Erskine to dinner," said
Tinto, with his big laugh.

Weel, it looked real like it. I would gang to
your dinner, Tinto, if you asked me like that."

Perhaps you wouldn't take a shilling if I tossed it
to you like that."

It's a'thegither different," said Sandy, catching the

coin adroitly enough. " I see nae analogy atween the
twa. But just take you my advice and quarrel name,
sir, especially with that young lad : the Erskiness area
dour race."

You idiot ! I was asking him to dinner' Torrance
said. He was on friendly terms with all the common
people, with a certain jocular roughness which did not
displease them. Sandy stood imperturbable, with all
the calm of a man accustomed to stand most of his
time looking on at the vague and quiet doings of the
world about him. Very little ever happened about
the station. To have had a crack with Tinto was
a great entertainment after the morning excitement,
enough to maintain life upon for a long time, of having
helped the luggage into the van, and assisted my
lord and my lady to get away.

I wish," cried Nora, as they rolled along the quiet
road, " that you would not drag me in wherever John
Erskine is going, Car ! "

They all called him John Erskine. It was the
habit of the neighbourhood, from which even strangers
could scarcely get free.

I drag you in ! Ah, see how selfish we are without
knowing ! " said Carry. " I thought only that
between Mr Torrance and myself  there would belittle
amusement."

Amusement ! " cried Nora  " always amusement !

Is that all that is ever to "be thought of even at a
dinner-party ? "

Carry was too serious to take up this challenge.
Dear Nora," she said, " I am afraid of John Erskine,
though I cannot tell you why. I think Mr Torrance
tries to irritate him : he does not mean it,  but they
are so different. I know by my own experience that
sometimes a tone, a look  which is nothing, which
means nothing  will drive one beside one's self That
is why I would rather he did not come ; and when
he comes, I want some one  some' one indifferent  to
help me to make it seem like a common little dinner
like every day."

Is it not like every day ? Is there  anything ?
If you want me, Carry, of course there is not a word
to be said." Nora looked at her with anxious, somewhat
astonished eyes. She, too, was aware that before
Carry's marriage  before the family came to Lindores
there had been some one else. But if that had been

John, how then did it happen that Edith Nora

stopped short, confounded. To her young imagination
the idea, not so very dreadful a one, that a man who
had loved one sister might afterwards console himself
with another, was a sort of sacrilege. But friendship
went above all.

I do not think I can explain it to you, Nora," said
Lady Caroline. " There are so many things one cannot

explain. Scarcely anything in this world concerns
one's very self alone and nobody else. That always
seems to make confidences so impossible."

"Never mind confidences," cried Nora, wounded.
I did not ask why. I said if you really wanted me,
Carry "

I know you would not ask why. And there is
nothing to tell. Mr Torrance has had a mistaken
idea. But it is not that altogether. I am frightened
without any reason. I suppose it is as my mother
says, because of all the old associations he brings
back. Marriage is so strange a thing. It cuts your
life in two. What was before seems to belong to someone
else  to another world."

Is it always so, I wonder ? " said Nora, wistfully.

So far as I know," Carry said.

Then I think St Paul is right," cried the girl,
decisively, " and that it is not good in that case to
marry; but never mind, if you want me. There is
nothing to be frightened about in John Erskine. He
is nice enough. He would not do anything to make
you uncomfortable. He is not ill-tempered nor ready
to take offence."

I did not know that you knew him so well, Nora."

Oh yes  when you have a man thrust upon you
as he has been  when you have always heard of him
all your life ; when people have said for years,  in

fun, you know, of course, but still they have said it
* Wait till you see John Erskine ! ' "

Nora's tone was slightly aggrieved. She could
not help feeling herself a little injured that, after
so much preparation and so many indications of fate,
John Erskine should turn out to be nothing to her
after all.

Lady Caroline listened with an eager countenance.
Before Nora had done speaking, she turned upon her,
taking both her hands. Her soft grey eyes widened
out with anxious questions. The corners of her mouth
drooped. " Nora, dear child, dear child ! " she said,
*' you cannot mean  you do not say "

Oh, I don't say anything at all," cried Nora, half
angry, half amused, with a laugh at herself which was
about a quarter part inclined to crying. "No, of
course not. Car. How could I care for him  a man
I had never seen ? But just  it seems so ludicrous,
after this going on all one's life, that it should come
to nothing in a moment. I never can help laughing
when I think of it. ' Oh, wait till you see John
Erskine ! ' Since I was fifteen everybody has said
that. And then when he did appear at last, oh, 
I thought him very nice  I had no objection to
him  I was not a bit unwilling,  to see him
calmly turn his back upon me, as he did to-day
at the station ! "

Nora laughed till the tears came into her eyes ; but
Lady Caroline, whose seriousness precluded any admixture
of humour in the situation, took the younger
girl in her arms and kissed her, with a pitying tenderness
and enthusiasm of consolation. " My little Nora!
my little Nora ! " she said. She was too much moved
with the most genuine emotion and sympathy to say
more ; at which Nora, half accepting the crisis, half
struggling against it, laughed again and again till the
tears rolled over her cheeks.

Lady Car ! Lady Car ! it is not for sorrow ; it is
the fun of it  the fun of it ! " she cried.

But Carry did not see the fun. She wanted to
soothe the sorrow away.

"Dearest Nora, this sort of disappointment is only
visionary," she said. ' It is your imagination that is
concerned, not your heart. Oh, believe me, dear, you
will laugh at it afterwards ; you will think it nothing
at all. How little he knows ! I shall think less of
his good sense, less of his discrimination, than I was
disposed to do. To think of a man so left to himself
as to throw my Nora away ! "

He has not thrown me away," cried Nora, with a
little pride ; " because, thank heaven, he never knew
that he had me in his power ! But you must think
more, not less, of his discrimination, Carry; for if he
never had any eyes for me, it was for the excellent

good reason that lie had seen Edith before. So my
pride is saved  quite saved," the girl cried.

Edith ! " Carry repeated after her. And then her
voice rose almost to a shriek  " Edith ! You cannot
mean that ? "

But I do mean it. Oh, I know there will be a
thousand difficulties. Lord Lindores will never consent:
that is why they go and do it, I suppose.
Because she was the last person he ought to have
fallen in love with, as they say in the ' Critic ' "

"Edith!" repeated Carry again. Nora was half
satisfied, half disappointed, to find that her own part
of the story faded altogether from her friend's mind
when this astonishing peace of intelligence came in.
Then she whispered in an awe-stricken voice, " Does
my mother know ? "

"Nobody knows  not even Edith herself. I saw

it because, you know And of course," cried Nora,

in delightful self-contradiction, "it does not matter at
all when I meet him now ; for he is not thinking of
me any longer, but of her. Oh, he never did think
of me, except to say to himself, * There is that horrid
girl again ! ' "

This time Nora's laugh passed without any notice
from Carry, whose thoughts were absorbed in her
sister's concerns. " Was not I right," she said, clasping
her hands, " when I said T was frightened for John

Erskine? I said so to my mother to-day. What I
was thinking of was very different: that he might
quarrel with Mr Torrance  that harm might come in
that way. But oh, this is worse, far worse ! Edith !
I thought she at least would be safe. How shortsighted
we are even in our instincts ! Oh, my little
sister ! What can I do, Nora, what can I do to save
her?"

Nora received this appeal with a countenance trembling
between mirth and vexation. She did not think
Edith at all to be pitied. If there was any victim 
and the whole matter was so absurd that she felt it
ought not to be looked at in so serious a light,  but
if there was a victim, it was not Edith, but herself
She could only reply to Carry's anxiety with a renewed
outbreak of not very comfortable laughter.
"Save her! You forget," she said, with sudden
gravity, " that Edith is not one to be saved unless she
pleases. And if she should like Mr Erskine "

My father will kill her ! " Lady Caroline cried.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER XIII.

Lord Eintoul made his appearance in the house
which his parents had hired in Eaton Place on the
day before their arrival, with a mixture of satisfaction
and anxiety. He was pleased, for he was a good
young fellow on the whole, and fond of his mother
and sister ; but he was anxious, for he was a Guardsman
 a young man about town, "up," as he modestly
hoped, to most things  and they were people from
the country, who in all probability were not quite
dressed as they ought to be, or prepared for the
duties of their position. These mingled sentiments
were apparent in the young man's face as he walked
into the room in which Lady Lindores and Edith
were sitting together, working out on their side a
programme of the things they were going to do.
Notwithstanding Carry, they were both tolerably
cheerful, looking forward to the excitement of this
unaccustomed life with a little stir of anticipation ;

for neither mother nor daughter was Baste, and the
thrill of quickened existence, in a place where human
pulses beat more rapidly and the tide runs fuller
than elsewhere, moved them in spite of themselves.
Lady Lindores would have said, and did say, that
her heart was not in it  and this in perfect good
faith; yet when she was actually in London, though
her daughter's pale face and lonely life were often
present with her, the impression was less strong than
when that white face, as poor Carry said, was constantly
before her eyes. She was a handsome woman
of forty-five, with a liking for all that was beautiful,
a love of conversation and movement, much repressed
by the circumstances of her life, but always existing ;
and when thus free for a moment from habitual cares,
her heart rose almost in spite of herself, and she
was able to believe that things would set themselves
right somehow, even though she did not see from
whence the alleviation was to come. She was discussing
with Edith many things that they had
planned and thought of, when Eintoul arrived. Their
plans embraced various matters which were not within
the range of that golden youth's ideas. When they
had been in London before, they had vexed his soul
by the list of things they had wanted to see. The
sights of London ! such as country people of the
lower orders went staring about ; Westminster Abbey,

the Houses of Parliament, even St Paul's and the
Tower !  things which he had never seen nor thought
of seeing himself, though he often passed the former,
not taking any notice, thinking it was "bad form"
to show any rustic curiosity. His mother and the
girls had scoffed at all he said about " bad form ; "
but now they were accustomed to their change of
circumstances, and everything was different. Would
they be reasonable, and acknowledge that there were
certain matters in which he was an authority now ?

Eintoul himself had made, he was conscious, immense
progress since he first stepped upon that platform
of rank to which he was now accustomed. At
first the elevation had made him a little giddy. Young
Robin Lindores, of the 120th, had been on the whole
a very simple young fellow, pleased to feel that he
had the benefit of "good connections," and an uncle
who was an Earl, though they had never been of any
use to 'him. Even in that innocent stage he was,
as is natural to a young man, vaguely critical of the
proceedings of his "people." He thought it was a
pity they should live abroad. Were they at home,
it appeared certain to him that he would now and
then have been invited to Lindores for the shooting,
and been taken some notice of. But on the other
hand, he acknowledged that to live abroad was cheap,
and that it was better for him on the whole to say

My people are abroad," than to be obliged to acknowledge
that they were living in a little country
cottage somewhere, or in Brighton or Cheltenham,
or some shabby-genteel place. And he did his duty
very cheerfully, and kept tolerably well within his
allowance, and took such pleasures as came in his way,
without any very clear outlook towards the future,
but always with some hope of active service and
promotion. So long as he had "something to doa
little cricket or boating, a tolerable amount of
parties  he neither looked too closely into the pedigree
of his entertainers, nor gave himself any airs on the
subject of his own birth and connections. For what
was he, after all?  not even an Honourable himself,
but the son of an Honourable  plain Mr Lindores,
no more than Mr Smith or Mr Jones. It never
occurred to him that his position demanded anything
of him in those days ; for what position had he but
that of a lieutenant in the 120th? In society, though
he would pretend now and then, like the rest, to
talk of this and that girl as having money  or " tin,"
as it was more usually called  such a prudential consideration
never went beyond the mere light flutter
of talk ; and he liked to dance, not with the heiresses,
but with the prettiest girls and the best dancers, as was
natural and befitting  to marry anybody being entirely
out of his rule. He knew himself to be wiser

than his mother, and to know more of life than even
the governor himself, who (no fault of his) was growing
an old fogy in the course of nature ; but on the
whole, he was respectful enough to these old persons
when he was with them, and in his way fond of them
all, and even proud of little Edith's prettiness, and the
distinguished looks of Carry, who was always like a
princess though she was not pretty. When, however,
that sudden and unlooked-for advancement came, and
Kobin Lindores at one bound became Lord Eintoul,
the change that passed over him was something wonderful.
It was as great a revolution as that which
had converted the gentle and fastidious dilettante
of former years into the energetic, ambitious Scotch
Earl, who kept his family in awe and wonder* Kobin
changed as much, or almost as much, as his father
had changed. He left his simple regiment, and
all its little garrison gaieties, and became a Guardsman,
and was introduced into society. He learned
the chatter of the drawing-rooms and clubs, and
to talk familiarly about everybody, and to think
he understood all the motives (almost always supposed
to be bad ones) which swayed their conduct.
Perhaps it was his familiarity with these
tales which drove the young man into such an alarmed'
state of susceptibility as to the risk of encountering
in his own person, or in his family, a similar freedom

of comment. He said to himself that he knew " how
fellows talked," and he could not bear that his sister
should be pulled to pieces among them, and known
as a rustic or an exalt  one of the strong-minded
sisterhood on the one hand, or a foolish bread-and-butter
girl on the other. And Eintoul had become
fully possessed by the idea that to get Edith "off"
was the first duty of the family. He felt that his
pride would be touched if she did not secure a good
marriage before the end of the season. "Fellows
would talk : " they would say that she had been a
failure ; that it was no good Lady Lindores hawking
her daughter about ; that she had tried very hard for
this man, or flung herself at the other's head, but it
was no use. He knew that he had heard such things
said a hundred times  perhaps been moved to echo
them himself on the very slightest warrant ; but the
blood rushed to his face when it occurred to him that
his sister in her turn might be subjected to such
comments. And the only way for her to escape them
was to succeed. Therefore it was with a conviction
of the importance of the crisis, which affected every
nerve in his body, as well as all the powers of his
mind, that Rintoul appeared in the little morning-room
at Eaton Place. Every girl was said to throw
herself at somebody's head  to make a dead set atone
man or another. Without that purpose no one

was supposed to go into society. "When she succeeded,
and the man was secured, her triumph, it is
true, was always discussed in the same way; but that
was once for all, and the matter was done with.
Therefore it was evident to Eintoul that Edith must
succeed. She must secure somebody before the season
was out. He could not bear to have it said of her
that she was hawked about. At the same time, this
anxious young man saw the difficulties. His "people"
had not a very large acquaintance. His mother was
not half up to her duties as a mother. Edith herself,
though a very pretty girl, was not a beauty of the
undeniable and all-conquering sort. So much the
more grave were all the difficulties of the situation,
and so much the more important all the expedients
that could be adopted, all the precautions that Rintoul
perhaps, he felt, the only one of the family who
fully perceived them  must take. Their appearance,
their gowns and bonnets, the places they intended to
appear in,  all these were of the utmost consequence
a consequence, he was afraid, which the real head of
the party, she who ought to be the chief mover in
the matter, could scarcely be got to understand, much
less to take into earnest consideration as she ought.

This was why his pleasure in seeing his people
was shadowed by so much anxiety. His smile was
only on the lower part of his face  all the rest was

clouded with an almost fretful disquietude. He did
not even know whether he could make them understand
the importance of the crisis. They would receive
him, he felt sure, with levity, with minds
directed to things of no consequence whatever; and
it was natural that this sense, that he was the only
person who understood the gravity of the situation,
should make Eintoul's countenance serious. As he
kissed his mother and sister, he looked them all overtaking
in every detail of their appearance, and uttered
a mental thanksgiving, and felt an enormous relief to
find that there was little to remark upon. "They
would not look amiss anywhere," he said to himself.
But this gleam of contentment was soon dimmed by
the reflection that you never can know how a woman
will look till you have seen her in her outdoor costume.
'The bonnet is such a test ! Most likely they
wore impossible bonnets. So the contraction returned
to his forehead once more.

So here you are," he said. " I am mighty glad to
see you. I thought everything worth while would be
over before you came."

And what is there that is worth while that is not
over ? " said his mother. " We defer to your superior
knowledge. We in our ignorance were thinking of
the concerts, and the pictures, and the new play."

"Ah, that's all very well. They're not over, of

course, nor will be so long as the season lasts," said
Eintoul, carelessly. "I was thinking of more important
things. I think I've got you cards for the
next Chadwick fete. It wanted diplomacy. I got
Lady Weston, who is an mieux with Archly Chanter,
to get them for you; but you must have very nice
toilets for that. The new Irish beauty went to the
last a perfect fright in poplin and Limerick lace,
all native product, and was the talk of the town.
Thank heaven there's nothing but tartan indigenous
to Scotland ! "

Let us go in tartan, mamma," said Edith. " It
would be a graceful way of showing our nationality,
and please the people who are going to elect Robin
for the county."

"If you think it would please the county," said
the Countess, with much gravity, which almost paralysed
Eintoul; but she added, shaking her head,
"Alas! the county is not Highland at all, and
scoffs at the tartan. We must try some other
way."

I wish you wouldn't speak nonsense to aggravate
me," cried the young man. " How am I to know
when you're in earnest, and when you are laughing ?
But one thing I can tell you : unless you are well
dressed, you need never think of going at all. Old-fashioned
gowns that do well enough for the country

though even in the country I don't think you ought
ever to be careless of your dress "

You seem to be an authority," said Edith, laughing.
"You will have to tell us if our gowns are
old-fashioned."

Well, I don't suppose I am an authority : I don't
understand details ; but I can tell on the whole, as
well as another, whether a woman looks as she ought
when she's got up."

Gomme il faut. I thought the phrase was untranslatable,
but Robin has mastered it," said Lady
Lindores.

"You need not laugh at me, mother; and I wish
you wouldn't, all of you, call me by that absurd
name. I feel like a shepherd boy in a pastoral 
the hero, you know,  like Fidelia or Cherubim.
Oh, I don't say you are to call me Eintoul  that if
you like; but I don't mind Bob "

Bob ! " the mother and sister cried in one breath.
They had all been secretly proud of that pet name
of Robin, which he had borne from a child.

It's not worth talking of," he said carelessly,
feeling something of ridicule involved; for though
he was not clever, he was sufficiently sympathetic
to be conscious of the sentiment in the minds of the
others. "The real question is, what you are going
to do while you are in town. I have told everybody

you were coming ; but, mamma, I hope you won't balk
everything by going on about theatres and pictures,
and so forth. Society is a hundred times more important.
It is not only amusing ourselves we have
got to think of. It is all very well to laugh," he
said, with the most solemn air of offended dignity,
"but anybody who knew the world would tell you
the same thing."

"My dear boy, I thought I knew a little about
the world; but I daresay I am mistaken. I hope,
however, you will permit us to amuse ourselves a
little now and then. Edith wants to see something
and hear something while she is in London. She
has not had your advantages "

My advantages don't count for very much," said
Eintoul, half irritated, half flattered, " and it's just
Edith I'm thinking of. There is more to be taken into
consideration for her than either amusement or what
you call improving her mind. Edith is the entire question.
It is to do her justice that is my whole thought."

Edith, on hearing this, laughed out, yet flamed
crimson, with mingled ridicule and suspicion. " In
what respect am I to have justice?" she said.

"You needn't fire up. All that I want is your
good. You ought to be seen: you ought to have
your chance like the rest. How are you ever to
have that if my mother and you fly about skylarking

in all sorts of unlikely places, and keep out of the
way of  every opportunity ? "

Eintoul, though carried away by his feelings to
the point of making this plain statement, was rather
alarmed when he had said it, and stopped somewhat
breathless. It was alarming to be confronted by
his sister's indignant countenance and the angry
sparkle in her eyes.

"Do you know what he means, mother? " she cried.
"Did you bring me to London to market? That's
what he means. Did you come to set up a booth
in Vanity Fair? If you did, you must find other
wares. Eintoul would make such a good salesman,
it is a pity to balk him. But I am not going to
be put up to auction," cried the girl, springing to
her feet. Then she laughed, though she was so
angry. "I am going to get ready for a walk," she
said. " I think that delightful bonnet that Miss
Magister in Dunearn made for me will be the very
thing for the Park "

Heaven above ! do you let her have bonnets from
Miss Magister in Dunearn?" cried Eintoul, dismayed,
as his sister disappeared. "Even in the
country I would never consent to that."

You must not pour too much wisdom upon us all at
once," said his mother, " especially upon Edith, who is
not used to it." Lady Lindores could not take it all

seriously. She was vexed at the bottom of her heart,
yet could not but smile at the oracle who had so short
a time before been simple Robin  her nice, kind, silly,
lovable boy. He had not ceased to be lovable even in
his new development as Mentor and man of the world.

That is all very well, mother ; but if you make
a joke of it, what is the good of coming to town at
all ? " cried Eintoul, with his serious face  too serious
to be angry. "Edith may flare up if she pleases 
she doesn't know any better; but surely you must
understand she has never had her chance. Who is
to see her down in the country ? There was Torrance
of course, but Carry snapped him up."

"Robin," said his mother, her countenance changing,
" I desire you will not speak in that heartless,
vulgar way. Yes, my boy, it is vulgar, though
you. think it so wise. Poor Carry, to her sorrow,
has snapped up, as you say, a most unsuitable husband
and a miserable life. I wish I was free of
blame in that matter. We must make the best of it
now, since there's no remedy; but to speak as if
Carry's marriage was something to be envied "

"Well, Torrance is rather a brute," Eintoul acknowledged,
somewhat subdued ; " but what a place
and what a position ! Carry's boy, with our connection
and all that money, may be  anything she chooses
to make him "

Carry's boy is not half so much to me as Carry
herself," said Lady Lindores, gravely; "but that is
done, and we must make the best of it," she added,
with a sigh.

"A girl may pick up a bad husband anywhere,"
said Eintoul, regaining his confidence. " It just as
often happens in a hot love-match as in anything else.
There's Lily Trevor, old Lord Warsaw's daughter,
would never rest till they had let her marry Mothers
of the Blues  and they say he beats her. Charley
Floyd says there never was such a wretched manage;
and she might have married half-a-dozen fellows,
every one a better match than Mothers. There's no
accounting for these sort of things. But, mamma,
unless we're all mad together, we must give Edith her
chance. By Jove, when you think of it, she's past
her first bloom ! " (" and that's mostly the thing that
fetches," he added parenthetically, under his breath)
"she's twenty-one, mother! The moment she's
seen anywhere, people will begin to calculate when
she came out : and it's three seasons back ! That
does a girl more harm than anything. There's always
a little added on to every one's age, and I shouldn't
wonder in the least if they made her out to be thirty !
She doesn't look it, fortunately ; but what are looks,
when half the women one sees are made up like
pictures? But mind my words, mother  you will

repent it all your life if you don't make up your
mind now to give Edith one real good chance."

Lady Lindores made no reply. She began to lose
her sense of amusement, and to feel vexed and humiliated,
sore and wroth, as parents do when their
children parade before them sentiments which are
unworthy. Perhaps a woman cannot be quite just in
such a predicament. It may be all an unconscious
fiction, this atrocious precocious cynicism and worldliness
of youth. Nothing is ever so cruelly conventional,
so shamelessly egoistical, as the young disciple
of social philosophy, who is possibly hiding a quivering
and terrified youthful heart beneath that show
of abominable wisdom. But it is hard for a mother
whose whole heart is bent on finding excellence and
nobleness in her child, to be tolerant of what appears
to be such apparent and unmistakable unworthiness.
Lady Lindores felt, while her son was speaking, as if
some barbarous giant had got her heart in his hand
and crushed it, clinching his cruel grasp. She did
not look at him while he pleaded that Edith might
have her chance, nor answer him when he had
spoken. What could she say to the boy who could
thus discourse to her like an old man learned in all
wickedness? There was a poignant sting of injured
pride, too, in the sensation with which she listened
to him. This from the boy she had trained, to whom

she must have given his first conception of life, of
women and their ways ! Had it been her example,
against her will, unconscious of any such possibility,
that had taught him to despise them ? She looked at
the young face so dear to her, and which was now
full of all the gravity of conviction, endeavouring to
enforce its doctrines upon her mind, with a mixture
of hot impatience and hopeless toleration. Poor boy !
this was what he really thought, honestly believed,
though he was her son ! His eyes were quite impressive
in their sincerity. " She ought to see people,"
Rintoul said; "she ought to be seen. She has never
been hawked about like other girls, so it does not
matter so much that this isn't her first season. People
may forget it if we take no notice. But in another
year, mother, if she does not have her chance now
in another year," cried the anxious brother, with
threatening solemnity, "it will be quite another
matter. She has kept her bloom pretty well, but
it will be gone by that time ; and when it's gone,
she'll not have half the chance. A girl must make
hay while the sun shines," he added, more and more
dogmatically : " we all of us ought to remember that,
but for a girl it's imperative  there is nothing that
tells like the first bloom."

Still Lady Lindores did not make any reply.

I wonder at you, mother," he cried, exasperated.
VOL. L s

I should have thought it would be your first object
to see Edith happily settled. And when you think
how difficult it is  how many there are always ready,
waiting to snap up any fellow with money ! I believe,"
he said, with a sort of prophetic wrath, a
visionary anger at what might have been,  " I believe
if my father had not interfered, Carry was as likely
as not to have married that Professor fellow. By the
way, isn't Erskine at Dalrulzian ? and I daresay you
have had him up at Lindores ? "

Certainly, we have had him up at Lindores. What
is your objection to that ? " said Lady Lindores,
quietly.

And now it was Eintoul's turn to sigh and shake
his head with hopeless impatience. Was it impossible
to get her to understand 1 " I don't know what you
people are thinking of," he said, with a kind of quiet
despair. " Though you know what mischief happened
before, you will have that fellow to the house,
you will let him be with Edith as much as he
pleases."

Edith ! " cried Lady Lindores : and then she
stopped short, and added with a laugh, " I assure you,
Kobin, there's no danger in that quarter. The entire
county has made up its mind that John Erskine is
to marry Nora Barrington, and nobody else, whatever
other people may say."

Now it was Rintoul's turn to be red and indignant.
He was so much startled, that he sprang to his feet
with an excitement altogether without justification.
Nora Barrington ! " he cried ; " I would like to
know what right any one has to mix up the name of
an innocent girl  who never, I am certain, had either
part or lot in such wretched scheming "

The same kind of scheming  but far more innocent
 as those you would involve your sister in,"
cried Lady Lindores, rising too, with a deep flush upon
her face.

"Nothing of the kind, mother  besides, the circumstances
are entirely different," he cried, hotly.
Edith must marry well. She must marry to advantage,
for the sake of the family. But Nora  a girl
that would never lead herself to  to  that never had
a thought of interest in her head  that doesn't know
what money means "

I am glad there is somebody you believe in, Robin,"
his mother said.

The young man saw his inconsistency, but that
mattered little. It is only in other people that we
find consistency to be necessary. The consciousness
made him hotter and less coherent perhaps, but no
more. "The cases are entirely different. I see no
resemblance between them," he said, with resentment
and indignation in every tone. Lady Lindores would

have been more than human if she had not followed
up her advantage.

"Yes," she said, "in Nora's case even I myself,
though I am no match maker, feel disposed to aid in
the scheme. For nothing could be more entirely suitable.
The same position, the same class, the same
tastes ; and the Barringtonss are poor, so that it would
be a great comfort to them to see their girl in a nice
house of her own ; and she is very fond of Dalrulzian,
and much liked in the neighbourhood. I can see
everything in favour of the plan  nothing against
it."

Except that it will never come to anything," cried
young Eintoul. " Good heavens ! Nora  a girl that
one never could think of in any such way,  that never
in her life  I'll answer for it  made any plans about
whom she was to marry. Mother, I think you might
have so much respect for one of your own sex as to
acknowledge that."

It is time to appeal to my respect for my own sex,"
cried Lady Lindores, with an angry laugh. If this
was how the tables were to be turned upon her !
When she left the room, angry, yet indignantly
amused at the same time, Rintoul reflected with hot
indignation upon the want of sympathy and fellow-feeling
among women. " When they do see a girl

that's above all that sort of thing, that it's desecration
to think of in that way, they either don't understand
her, or they're jealous of her," he said to himself, with
profound conviction. "Women don't know what
justice means."

CHAPTEK XIV.

The present writer has already confessed to a certain
disinclination to venture upon any exposition of
the manners and customs of the great; and should
an attempt be made to thread the mazes of the season,
and to represent in sober black and white the brilliant
assemblies, the crowded receptions, the drawing-rooms
and ball-rooms and banqueting-rooms, all full of
that sheen of satin and shimmer of pearls which only
the most delicate manipulation, the lightest exquisite
touch, can secure ? Could the writer's pen be dipped
in tints as ethereal as those which fill the brush (if
that is not too crude a word) of the accomplished
President, then perhaps the task might be attempted ;
but common ink is not equal to it. Though Lady
Lindores was negligent of her duties, and did not give
herself up as she ought to have done to the task of getting
invitations and doing her daughter justice, yet her
shortcomings were made up by the superior energy

and knowledge of her husband and son. And as a
matter of fact, they went everywhere, and saw a great
deal of society. So far were they from being under
the standard at that Chadwick fete as Eintoul nervously
anticipated, that the graceful mother and pretty
daughter were noticed by eyes whose notice is the
highest distinction, and inquired into with that delightful
royal curiosity which is so complimentary to
mankind, and which must be one of the things which
make the painful trade of sovereignty tolerable. Both
the ladies, indeed, had so much success, that the
anxious young Guardsman, who stalked about after
them, too much disturbed to get any satisfaction in
his own person, and watching their demeanour as with
a hundred eyes, gradually allowed the puckers in his
forehead to relax, and went off guard with a sigh of
relief. Eintoul was more than relieved  he was delighted
with the impression produced by Edith's fresh
beauty. " Oh, come ! she's a pretty little thing, if you
please; but not all that," he said, confused by the
excess of approbation accorded to her by some complimentary
friend. There was one drawback, however,
to this satisfaction, and that was, that neither did
Edith " mind a bit " who was introduced to her, who
danced with her, or took her down to dinner,  whether
a magnificent young peer or a penniless younger son ;
nor, still more culpable, did her mother pay the attention

she ought to this, or take care as she ought that
her daughter's smiles were not thrown away. She
was known once, indeed, to have  inconceivable folly !
actually gone the length of introducing to Edith, ina
ball-room bristling with eligible partners, a brilliant
young artist, a " painter-fellow," the very last person
who ought to have been put in the girl's way. " If a
girl goes wrong of herself, and is an idiot, why, you
say, it's because she knows no better," Rintoul said ;
"but when it's her mother!" The young painter
danced very well, and was bright and interesting
beyond, it is to be supposed, the general level ; and he
hung about the ladies the whole evening, never long
away from one or the other. Eintoul felt that if it
happened only one other evening, all the world would
say that there was something going on, and possibly
some society paper would inform its anxious readers
that "a marriage is arranged." On the other hand,
that evening was marked with a white stone on which
the young Marquis of Millefleurs, son of the Duke of
Lavender, made himself conspicuous as one of Edith's
admirers, pursuing her wherever she went, till the
foolish girl was disposed to be angry ; though Lady
Lindores this time had the sense to excuse him as
being so young, and to add that he seemed " a nice
sort of boy,"  not a way, certainly, to recommend so
desirable an adorer to a fanciful girl, but still perhaps.

in the circumstances, as much as could be expected.
Lady Lindores received with great composure a few
days after, an announcement from her husband that
he had asked the youth to dinner. She repeated her
praise with a perfectly calm countenance 

I shall be glad to see him, Eobert. I thought him
a mere boy, very young, but frank and pleasant as a
boy should be."

I don't know what you call a boy. I believe he
is four-and-twenty," said Lord Lindores, with some indignation
; and then he added in a subdued tone, as
knowing that he had something less easy to suggest,
I have asked some one else whom you will probably
not look on in the same light. I should much rather
have left him out, but there was no getting Millefleurs
without him. He has been travelling with him as a
sort of tutor-companion, I suppose." Here he seemed
to pause to get up his courage, which was so remarkable
that his wife's suspicions were instantly aroused.
She turned towards him with a look of roused attention.

I don't hesitate to say that I am sorry to bring
him again in contact with the family. Of course the
whole affair was folly from beginning to end. But
the young fellow himself behaved well enough. There
is nothing against him personally, and I am rather
willing to let him see that it has entirely passed from
our minds."

Of whom are you speaking ? " cried Lady Lindores.

The Earl actually hesitated, stammered, almost
blushed, so far as a man of fifty is capable of blushing.
You remember young Beaufort, whom we saw so
much of in "

Beaufort ! " cried Lady Lindores,  " Edward ! " her
voice rose into a sort of shriek.

He certainly was never Edward to me. I thought
it best, when Millefleurs presented him to me, to
receive him at once as an old acquaintance. And I
hope you will do so also, without any fuss. It is very
important that it should be made quite clear wee have
no fear of him, or feeling in the matter."

Edward ! " Lady Lindores said again. " How can
I receive him as if I had no feeling in the matter ?
He has called me mother. I have kissed him as
Carry's future husband. Good heavens ! and Carry
poor Carry !"

"I did not know you had been such a fool," he
cried, reddening ; then after a pause, '' I see no reason
why Carry should be called poor. Her position at
home is in some points better than our own. And
it is not necessary to tell Carry of every one who
enters this house, which is so much out of her way."

My poor child, my poor child ! " the mother said,
wringing her hands. " She divined this. She had a
fear of something. She thought John Erskine might

invite him. Oh, you need not suppose this was ever
a subject of conversation between us !  but it seems
that Mr Torrance suspected John Erskine himself to
be the man. Edith surprised them in the midst of a
painful scene on this subject, and then Carry told me
of her terror lest John should invite  she did not say
whom. It was .not necessary between us to name
any names."

"What did Torrance know about 'the man'? as
you say; what had he to do with it? You women
are past bearing. This was some of your confidences,
I suppose."

'* It was Carry's own communication to the man
who is her husband. She thought it her duty, poor,
poor child !  and now, is it I that am to be made the
instrument of further torture ? " Lady Lindores cried.

The instrument of  fiddlestick ! This is really
not a subject for heroics," said her husband, fretfully.
"I ask you to receive as an acquaintance merely 
no intimacy required of you  a man against whom I
know nothing. These absurd passages you refer to, /
had no knowledge of. It was idiotic ; but fortunately
it is all over, and no harm done. Eor Carry's sake
even, that nobody may be able to say that there was
any embarrassment on her account, it seems to me
your duty to receive him  especially as his coming involves
Millefleurs."

What do I care for that boy ? What do you want
with that boy?" Lady Lindores cried. She did not
show her usual desire to please and soothe him, but
spoke sharply, with an impatience which she could
not control.

"Whatever my reason may be, I hope I have a
right to invite Millefleurs if I please," said the Earl,
with a cloudy smile, " and his companion with him,
whoever he may be."

Lady Lindores made no reply, nor was there anything
further said between them on the subject. The
intimation, however, almost overwhelmed the woman,
who in these last years had learned to contemplate
her husband in so different a light. Enough has been
said about the tragical unworthiness which tears
asunder those who are most closely bound together,
and kills love, as people say, by killing respect. To
kill love is terrible, but yet it is an emancipation in
its way ; and no man or woman can suffer for the
unworthiness of one whom he or she has ceased to
love, with anything approaching the pain which we
feel when those who never can cease to be dear to us
fall into evil. And love is so fatally robust, and can
bear so many attacks ! Lady Lindores, who divined
her husband's motives, and the unscrupulous adherence
to them through thick and thin which would
recoil from nothing, suffered from that and every

other discovery that he was not what she had thought
him, with bitter pangs, from which she would have
been free had he ceased to be the first object of her
affections. But that he could never cease to be ; and
his faults tore her as with red-hot pincers. She could
not bear to think of it, and yet was obliged to think
of it, unable to forget it. That he should not shrink
from the embarrassment and pain of renewing an
acquaintance so broken up, when it happened to
appear to him useful for his own ends, was more to
her than even the pain she would feel in herself receiving
the man who might have been Carry's husband
 whom Carry had, as people say, jilted in order
to marry a richer rival. How could she look him in
the face, knowing this ? How could she talk to him
without allusion to the past ? But even bad as this
was, it was more heartrending still to think why it
was that he was invited. She had to explain it to
Edith too, who was thunderstruck. " Edward ! you
don't mean Edward, mamma?" "Yes, my darling,
I mean Edward, no one else. He must not be Edward
now, but Mr Beaufort, to you and me. Your father
was obliged to ask him, for he was with Lord Millefleurs."
"But what does he want with Lord Millefleurs
? I would rather have had nobody in the house
till we go home than ask Edward. And what, oh
what will you say to Carry, mamma?" "We must

say nothing," the mother cried, with a quivering lip.
It must not be breathed to her. Thank heaven, we
have no old servants ! At all costs Carry must not
know." " I thought you said, mamma, that there
never was such a thing as a secret  that everything
was known ? " " And so I did," cried Lady Lindores,
distracted. " Why do you remind me of what I have
said ? It is not as if I could help it. We must stand
firm, and get through it as well as we can, and think
as little as we can of what may follow. There is no
other way." This was how Lady Lindores bore the
brunt of her child's inquiries. As for Lord Eintoul,
he declared that he understood his father perfectly.
If Beaufort were left out, he'd fill Millefleurs's mind
with all sorts of prejudices. I'd rather not meet the
fellow myself; but as it can't be helped, it must be
done, I suppose," he said. " He will never say anything,
that is certain. And what can that boy's
opinion be to us ? " said Lady Lindores. Her son
stared at her for a moment open-eyed. " Mamma, you
are the most wonderful woman I ever knew," he said.
If you don't mean it, it's awfully clever ; and if you
do mean it, you are such an innocent as never was
seen. Why, don't you know that everybody is after
Millefleurs? He is the great match of the season.
I wish I thought Edith had a chance." Lady Lindores
covered her face with her hands, hating the

very light. Her boy, too ! They pursued their
ignoble way side by side with her, scarcely believing
that it was possible she did not see and share their
meaning, and in her heart approve of all their efforts.

What is wrong now ? " said Eintoul. " I declare I
never know what to say. Sometimes you take things
quite easily. Societies you will flare up at nothing
at all."

Do you think it is nothing at all that your sister
and I should be brought into what you yourselves calla
husband-hunt ? " cried Lady Lindores. " Have you
not told me of a dozen women who are trying to
catch this man and that? Don't you think it is
ignominious to expose us to the same reproach?
Perhaps they are just as innocent of it as I."

Oh, trust them for that," said Eintoul, with a
laugh. " Of course it is said of everybody. It will
be said of you just the same; we can't help that.
But surely you can see yourself  even you can see 
that when a fellow like Millefleurs actually puts
himself out of the way to come after a girl like
Edith "

Robin ! " cried his mother (a little acres of passion
seized her). " Do you think Edith  Edith, your
sister  is not worth a hundred boys like this Millefleurs?
What do you mean by coming out of his
way? Is it the fashion now that girls like Edith

should put themselves at the disposal of a little
jackanapes  a bit of a boy  a "

Don't lose your temper, mamma' said the young
man, with a laugh. "But now you've had it out,"
said this wise son, "only just be reasonable, and
think a moment. Millefleurs is a great catch. There's
not such a big fish to be landed anywhere ; and Edith
is no better than a hundred others. Do hear a fellow
out. She's very pretty and nice, and all that; but
there's heaps of pretty, nice girls  and the prettier
they are, and the nicer they are, the less they have
a penny to bless themselves with," he added, in a
regretful parenthesis. " There's a hundred of them,
and there's only one of him. Of course he knows
that well enough. Of course he knows it's a great
thing when he lets a girl see that he admires her ;
and if her people are such fools as to let him slip
through their fingers for want of a little trouble  why,
then, they deserve to lose their chance,  and that's all
I can say," Eintoul said.

Once more Lady Lindores was silenced. What was
the use of saying anything ? Indignation was out of
place, or anything that she could say of love profaned
and marriage desecrated. To speak of the only foundation
of a true union to this world-instructed boy 
what would be the use of it ? She swallowed down as
best she could the bitterness, the pain, the disappointment

and contempt, which it is anguish to feel in
such a case. After a while she said with a smile,
commanding herself, "And you, Robin, who are so
clever as to know all this, are you too a catch, my
poor boy ? are you pursued by mothers, and competed
for by girls ?  not, of course, to the same extent as
Lord Millefleurs  I recognise the difference ; but
something, I suppose, in the same way?"

Well," said Eintoul, caressing his moustache, " not
to the same extent, as you say, and not in the same
way perhaps. I'm nobody, of course, when Millefleurs
is there ; but still, you know, when there's no Millefleurs
on the horizon  why, one has one's value,
mother. It's an old title, for one thing, and Scotch
estates, which people think better than they are,
perhaps. They don't throw heiresses at my head ;
but still, you know, in a general way "

As he sat stroking that moustache which was not
very mature yet, but rather young and scanty for its
age, with a little smile of subdued vanity about his
mouth, and a careless air of making light of his advantages,
what woman could have helped laughing ?
But when a mother laughs at her boy, the ridicule
hurts more than it amuses her. "I see," she said.
Then don't you think, Robin, you who are so clear-sighted,
that this young man will see through our
attentions, if we pay him attention, and laugh at our

VOL. L T

efforts to  catch him (that's the word, is it ?), as much
as you do yourself ? "

All right' said Eintoul ; " so he will, of course ;
but what does that matter when a fellow takes a
fancy into his head? Of course he knows you
will want to catch him if you can  that stands
to reason  everybody wants to catch him ; but if
he likes Edith, he will never mind that  if he likes
Edith "

Robin, hold your tongue," cried his mother, almost
violently. She felt that she could have boxed his
ears in the heat of her displeasure. " I will not hear
your sister's name bandied about so. You disgust
me  you horrify me  you make me ill to hear
you ! My son ! and you venture to speak of your
sister so ! "

Eintoul, arrested in his speech, stared for a moment
open-mouthed; and then he shook his head with a
look of impatient toleration, and uttered a weary
sigh. " If you will not hear reason, of course it's in
vain my arguing with you," he said.

These several encounters, and the heavy thought
of what might be to come soon, took away all the
gloss of pleasure that had been upon Lady Lindores's
first entrance into society. She thought, indeed, there
had never been any pleasure at all in it ; but this
was an unintentional self-deception. She thought

that Carry's pale image had come between her and
every lighter emotion. She did not herself know-how
natural she was  her mood changing, her heart
rising in spite of herself, a bright day, a pleasant
company, the consciousness of being approved, and
even admired, giving her some moments of gratification
in spite of all; but after these discussions, she
was so twisted and turned the wrong way, so irritated
and disenchanted by her husband and son, that she
felt herself sick and disgusted with London and all the
world. If she could but get home ! but yet at home
there was poor Carry, who would ask after everything,
and from whom it would be so difficult to
conceal the reappearance of her old lover : if she
had but wings like a dove !  but oh, whither to goto
be at rest ! One must be alone, and free of all
loves and relationships, to hope for that anywhere by
flight. And what was before her was appalling to her :
to meet the man whom she had thought of as her son,
to keep a calm countenance, and talk to him as if no
different kind of intercourse had ever been between
them  to avoid all confidence, all parchments, and
to keep him at the safe distance of acquaintanceship :
how was she to do it ? She said to herself that she
did not know how to look him in the face, he who
had been so deeply wronged. And then she began
to hope that he, full of delicacy and fine feeling as he

used to be, would see how impossible it was that they
should meet, and would refuse to come. This hope
kept her up till the last moment. When the evening
came, it was with a quivering emotion which she
could scarcely restrain, that she waited to receive
her guests, hoping more strenuously every moment,
and trying to persuade herself, that Beaufort would
not come. He had accepted the invitation ; but
what was that ? He would accept, no doubt, in order
to show them that he had got over it  that he bore
no malice  and then he would send his excuses. Her
eyes were feverish with eagerness and suspense when
the door opened. She could not hear the names
announced for the beating of her heart in her ears ;
but it was only when she saw against the light the
shadow of a figure not to be forgotten, and heard the
doors open and shut, that she realised the fact that
he had really presented himself Then it seemed
to Lady Lindores that all her pulses stood still, and
that an appalling stillness instead of their loud flutter
of beating was in her ears and in the world. He
had really come ! She became conscious of her husband's
voice speaking to her, and the sound of his
name, and the touch of his hand, and then she
regained her composure desperately, by such an effort
as it seemed to her she had never made before. For
to faint, or to call attention to herself in any way.

was what must not be done. And by-and-by the
moment was over, and the party were all seated at
table, eating and drinking, and talking commonplaces.
When Lady Lindores looked round the table and saw
Beaufort's face among the other faces, she seemed to
herself to be in a dream. The only other face of
which she was conscious was that of Edith, perfectly
colourless, and full of inquiry and emotion ; and at
the other end of the table her husband, throwing a
threatening, terrified look across the flowers and the
lights, and all the prettiness of the table. These
three she seemed to see, and no more.

But Lord Millefleurs by her side was full of pleasant
chatter and cheerful boyish confidence, and demanded
her attention. He was aware how important he
was; and it never occurred to him that Beaufort,
who was an excellent fellow, but nobody in particular,
could distract the attention of those who
surrounded him from himself Millefleurs sat between
Lady Lindores and Edith. It was a position
that was his due.

I am so sorry you are not well," he said. " The
fact is, it is London, Lady Lindores. I know your
complaint, for it is mine too. Was there ever anything
so irrational as to carry on this treadmill as we
all do  you out of a wholesome country life, no doubt,
and I out of a wandering existence, always in the open

air, always in motion ? What do we do it for ? Lady-edith,
tell me, what do we do it for ?  I am asking
everybody. Half of it would be very well, you know,
but the whole of it is purgatory. I am sure that is
your opinion. Is it merely fashion, or is it something
in our nature which requires extravagance in all we
do "

"There is not much extravagance in what we
do habitually," said Lady Lindores, "which perhaps
makes this outbreak of activity less alarming to us.
It is a change ; and as for Edith, this is virtually her
first season "

"I thought it was your first season," cried the little
Marquis. "I knew it must be so." This he said
with decision, as if in triumph over some adversary.
There is a look which one is never deceived in. I
have seen all my sisters come out, so I am quite an
authority. They get to look at things quite in another
way; they get so knowing, as bad  as I am
myself," the youth added in perfect good faith, with
a serious look upon his infantile countenance, and a
lisping utterance which gave point to the speech.
Lord Millefleurs, though he did not need to study
appearances, was yet aware of the piquancy of the
contrast between his round childlike countenance and
the experience of his talk.

I should not have thought you were so bad," said

Edith, beguiled into smiling. "I think you look as
if you were in your first season too "

"Oh, bad  Bohemian, a waif and a stray," said
Millefleurs ; " you cannot think what an abandoned
little person I was, till Beaufort took me in hand.
You knew Beaufort, abroad somewhere ? So he tells
me. How lucky for him to be able to renew such
an acquaintance ! I need not tell you what a fine
fellow he is  he has made me quite a reformed
character. Do not laugh, Lady Edith ; you hurt
my feelings. You would not laugh if I were a coal-heaver
addressing a meeting and telling how wicked
I had been."

And have you really been so wicked ? You do
not look so," said Edith, who, amused in spite of herself,
began to get used to the grave countenance of
Beaufort, seated on the other side of the table.
Both the ladies were grateful to Millefleurs, who
chattered on, and gave them time to recover themselves.


No," he said, " that is what makes it so funny,
they all tell me. I am a wolf in sheep's clothing ; at
least I was  I was, until Beaufort took me in hand.
At present I am good, as good as gold. I get up early,
and go to bed  when I can. I go out to three parties
every night, and stand about at everybody's receptions.
I even pay calls in the morning. I shall go to a levee

soon  I know I shall' he said, in an accent of deep
conviction. " Can you think of anything more virtuous
than that ? "

"And what has your Bohemianism consisted in,
Lord Millefleurs r'

Good heavens ! " said the self-accused, " do you
venture to ask me, Lady Edith ?  everything that is
dreadful. For months I never wrote a letter, for
months I never had a penny. It was the best fun in
the world. The sting of being poor is when you can't
help it. I believe, for my part, that the most luxurious
condition in this world is when you know you
can be well off at any moment, and yet are half starving.
Sto, I never was half starving. I worked with
these hands;" and he held out a pair of plump,
delicate, pink-tinged hands, not without a little vanity.
"To feel that it's quite a chance whether you have
ever any dinner again, to be altogether uncertain how
you're to get shelter for the night  and yet to be quite
sure that nothing dreadful can happen to you, that at
the worst you can always 'draw a bugle from your
side,' and be surrounded by 'five-and-thirty belted
knights,'  I assure you it is the most delightful excitement
in the world."

It was impossible to resist this baby-faced and
lisping adventurer. The mother and daughter both
yielded to his fascinations. The conversation became

more and more animated and amusing. At the other
end of the table they were not by any means so cheerful
; but Lord Lindores beheld with a satisfaction far
more solid than any sort of amusement, the result
of his experiment. Edith, who had been pale and
distraite, doing herself no sort of justice, when they
sat down at table, had roused up, and was now bright
and responsive, interested in all that was being said to
her. And Millefleurs, it was evident, was enjoying
himself thoroughly. Two such women giving their
full attention to him, listening to all his adventures
which were neither few nor small  was enough to
raise him to the height of satisfaction. Lord Lindores
talked very rationally and agreeably to the lady next
him, but it was with an effort that he caught her not
very brilliant remarks, so much interested was he in
what was going on at the other end of the room. As
for Eintoul, he gave himself up to his dinner. Things
were going as well as possible, he thought ; and
though Millefleurs was a little Bohemian, he was the
heir of a Duke, and could do no wrong.

It was thus that Lady Lindores was beguiled almost
to forget the other guest at the table, whose
coming had affected her so deeply. Her interest
was easily excited, and the little Marquis was delightful.
And it was not till she had returned to
the comparative quiet of the drawing-room that the

recollection of Beaufort came back to her. Much
of the danger seemed over. It would be over altogether
in another hour, and the tremor in her mind
was not so all-pervading as when she first saw his
familiar face approaching. But she was not to get
over her ordeal so easily. When the gentlemen
came up-stairs, Beaufort came at once towards her.
He stood in front of her for a moment, as if claiming
his right to be heard, shutting everybody else out.
She felt a sort of fascination in his gaze, and could
make no attempt to begin any conversation. Her
tremor returned : she looked up wistfully at him
without anything to say, clasping and unclasping in
unspoken appeal her unsteady hands.

It is a long time since we have met," he said
at length.

"Yes  it is a long time, Mr Beaufort."

"And many things have happened since that
time."

She raised her clasped hands a little from her
lap in mute entreaty, and made no other reply; but
it did not occur to her  what was the case  that
he was quite as much excited as she was, and did
not notice her agitation, being so fully occupied with
his own.

"I hope  that all of your family are  well: and
happy, Lady Lindores."

"Very well. Mr Beaufort, I know that there is
much that must have seemed strange and cruel to
you. How loan I speak of it now ? It is impossible
to explain."

He paused a little, replying nothing. Then he
said suddenly, " If you would let me come and talk
to you  talk of everything  I should feel it a great
kindness  when I could see you alone."

She put out her hands now in sudden alarm and
deprecation. " Mr Beaufort, it could do no good, it
would be very painful. Do not ask me to do it.
For me it would be a terrible ordeal  and no advantage
to you."

"I think it would be an advantage," he said
gently.

Again she clasped her hands, imploring forbearance.
"I do not wish to try to justify  but after
so long a time  is it right, is it kind, do you think,
to press me so ?"

"Let me come and talk to you," he said; "you
need not fear my reproaches. May not I know how
it was, how it came about? I will not complain.
How can I cease to be interested, if that were all?
Let me come and talk to you  let me know how
it was."

Lady Lindores did not know what to answer or
how to hide her emotion. She was trying to form

an evasive answer with lips that faltered, when suddenly
her husband came to her relief.

I should not have expected you 'to have had
part in adventures such as I hear Millefleurs relating.
Where was he really when you picked him
up ? " said Lord Lindores.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.

Y

*>

nr

m

mats

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

  AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

MAY 2 31981

$50.00

L161 O-1096

Cymhellnc.

LADIES LINDORES

BY

MES OLIPHANT

IN Three VOLUMES

VOL. n.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXIII

THE LADIES LINDOEES.

Chapter XV.

Lord Millefleues had given his family a great deal
of trouble  not in the old-fashioned way of youthful
folly or dissipation, which is too well known in
every age, the beaten road upon which young men
tread down the hearts of their progenitors, and their
own best hopes, in all the wantonness of short-sighted
self-indulgence. The heir of the house of Lavender
had gone wrong in an entirely new-fashioned and
nineteenth-century way. He was devoured by curiosity,
not of the modes of pleasure, but about those
other ways of living which the sons of dukes in
general have no knowledge of He got tired of being
a duke's son, and it seemed to him that life lay
outside the range of those happy valleys in which
he was born. He had gone to America, that home

VOL. II. A

of all kinds of freedom, and there had disappeared
from the ken of ducal circles. He had not even
written home, which was the inexcusable part of it,
but had sunk out of sight, coming to the surface, as
it were, only once or twice in a couple of years,
when a sudden draft upon his banker revealed him
to his anxious family, whose efforts to trace him
during this time were manifold, but always unsuccessful.
It was Beaufort who had been the means
at last of restoring the virtuous prodigal, who in
the meantime had been occupied, not by any vicious
tastes or dangerous liaisons, but by the most entirely
innocent, if eccentric, experiments in living. Beaufort
found him, but not before the young man was willing
to be found  a fact which, however, the anxious
relations did not take into account, as detracting
from the merit of the man whom they described as
Millefleurs's deliverer, his better genius, and by many
other flattering descriptions. In reality, Milleflenrs
had set out on his way home, moved thereto by the
energetic representations of a strong-minded, middle-aged
maiden in Connecticut or California (how cana
historian without data particularise ?), who told him
that a man was no gentleman who kept the women
of his family in ignorance of his movements, and
exposed them to all the tortures of anxiety. This
puzzled the scientific adventurer. He had found

out that daily work (which amused him very much)
was not at all incompatible with the character of a
gentleman; but he felt himself pulled up in his
career when this new view of the subject was presented
to him. After a little thought, he decided

that Miss Sallie F was right. And he took off

his working clothes, and put on the livery of civilisation,
and found Beaufort, who had attacked the
continent bravely but vaguely in search of him, on
his way. Millefleurs was not proud. He let himself
be brought home as if it was all Beaufort's
doing, and made his peace with everybody. The
consequence was, that the illustrious house of Lavender
was ready to do anything in the world for
that excellent Mr Beaufort, who had fished their
heir out of troubles unknown ; and, in respect to
that heir himself, were bending all their faculties to
the task of getting him married, and so put out of
harm's way. It was a new sphere for the mental
vivacity and curiosity of Millefleurs, He devoted
himself to a study of the young ladies of the highest
civilisation, just as he had devoted himself to the
life of the dockyards and the backwoods. (Probably
I should say to the mines and the cattle-ranches ;
but the reader who knows the fashion will here supply
the appropriate phrase.) He found the study
curious, and not at all unpleasant, and so went about

scattering wild hopes about him wherever he moved.
Was anything else possible? If the young ladies
in our northern county had been (inevitably) fluttered
and excited when Pat Torrance fixed his big
light eyes upon them, knowing the value of him as,
so to speak, an appointment, a post for life which
would remove all anxiety about their future comfort
from their own minds and those of their parents,
how much more when the Marquis of Millefleurs
went hopping about the drawing-rooms, carrying on
his researches in a far more genial and agreeable
manner than Pat Torrance was capable of doing?
And it was quite certain that nobody would ever
be unhappy with Millefleurs. He was always cheerful,
always considerate, ready to do anything for anybody.
He was more like a daughter than a son, the
Duchess declared, with tears in her eyes  foreseeing
what she wanted, watching over her as nobody had
ever done before: although it was no doubt very
wrong  oh, very wrong !  to almost break her heart,
leaving her two years without a letter ; but he would
not do so to his wife. Thus the  we will not say
candidates, rather nominees  possible occupants of
the delightful and every way desirable post of Marchioness
of Millefleurs had every sort of inducement
to " go in " for it, and scarcely any drawback at all.
The drawback was not worth speaking of it was

the most superficial of objections. This enterprising,
amusing, good-tempered, quick-witted, accomplished,
and lovable hero,' was, as the girls said, the funniest
little man that had ever been seen. He was shorter
than most of the young ladies to whom he made himself
so agreeable. He was plump and round, a succession
of curves and gently bellowing outlines ; his eyes
were like little black beads, though they were sparkling
with life and animation ; he had a round face like
a boy of ten, with nice little puffy rosy cheeks, and a
lisp which completed the infantile effect of his appearance
generally. A little air of the most agreeable
self-satisfaction hung about him  what the vulgar
and detractors generally call vanity and self-conceit,
but which indeed was nothing of the kind, being only
that confidence of pleasing which his natural temper
gave him in the first place, and his position confirmed.
For how could he be ignorant that to be Marquis of
Millefleurs was enough to make any man charming ?
It was to escape this that he had fled from society
and been called Tommy by the American labourers,
with whom he was just as popular as in May fair. It
had been intended to keep this little gentleman in the
background of this narrative as really a very secondary
person in it ; but, with his usual determination to be
in the front of everything, he has pushed himself forward
against the historian's will.

Having thus yielded to his natural tendency to show
himself, we may proceed to say what we had intended
without this preamble, that the peculiarity of Mille-leurs's
appearance took all seriousness from the fact
of his rapidly increasing intimacy with them, in the
foolish and inexperienced eyes not only of Edith but
of her mother. Lady Lindores, though she had been
alarmed and startled by the importance attached to
his first visit, and the penalty paid for it, could not
bring herself to regard him seriously. He seemed to
her a boy, notwithstanding that the peerage was produced
to her and dates set before her eyes,  and she
shut her eyes altogether to any danger that might be
involved in the frequency of his visits. She was very
glad to see him whenever he came. Never was there
a more delightful household retainer ; his friendliness
and affectionately and half-feminine interest in all
their concerns great and small, made him delightful
to the women, who wanted no more of him. He was
like a boy at home from school in this friendly house,
where no incense was burned before him, and ran on
their commissions, and took an interest in their work,
and gave his opinion about their dress, with all the
freedom of long acquaintance ; and it naturally added
in no small degree to the brilliancy of their appearance
out of doors, and to the effect they produced,
that such an attendant should be constantly in their

train. Lady Lindores was not insensible to this gratification
; and had Millefleurs looked more grown up
and less like a friend's son confided to her for the
holidays, it is very likely that the chance of seeing
her child elevated to the highest level of the social
ladder would have been too much for her also, and
turned her head a little. But whenever the idea
glanced across her mind, as it was bound to do sometimes,
if from nothing more than the discourses of
Eintoul, she had but to look at the rounded outlines
of her little hero, and all these visions dispersed in a
laugh. To imagine him a bridegroom, not to say
Edith's bridegroom, affected her with a sense of the
ludicrous which it was beyond her power to restrain.

But this was extremely foolish, as everybody will
perceive; and it was with a very different eye that
Lord Lindores contemplated the frequent presence of
this above-all-competitors-desirable young man. It
was not only that he was a duke's son, though that
in itself was much, but he was the son of a duke who
was a Cabinet Minister, and eminently qualified to
help on the scheme of ambition which inspired the
Scotch Earl. His Grace knew the gain it would be to
replace the Tory who had sat for Dee-and-Donshire
for years with an out-and-out partisan of the existing
Government ; and there could be little doubt that he
would appreciate the expediency of increasing the importance

of any family to which his own should become
allied. And then the prospects which would
open before Edith were such as to dazzle any beholder.
If her father had ever felt that he was to blame in
respect to his elder daughter, here was something
which surely would make amends for all. Millefleurs
was no rustic bully, no compound of a navvy and a
squire, but the quintessence of English gentlemanlike,
good-hearted, clever in his way, universally popular,
the sort of man whom, irrespective of all worldly
advantages, a father would be glad to trust his child's
happiness to. The idea that any reasonable objection
could be grounded upon his appearance would have
irritated Lord Lindores beyond all self-control. His
appearance ! he was not a hunchback, nor deaf, nor
dumb, nor blind. Short of that, what on earth did it
matter how a man looked ? And no doubt Lord Lindores
was in the right. But in reality, that which put
all idea of him as a lover out of the mind of Lady
Lindores and Edith was not any objection to his
appearance, but the mere fact of his appearance, his
boyish looks, his contour, his aspect of almost childhood.
As has been said, when the suggestion was
presented to her mind that Millefleurs might have
"intentions" in respect to Edith, Lady Lindores the
next time she saw him laughed. " What is the joke ? "
he had said to her half-a-dozen times; and she had

answered, " There is no joke, only a ludicrous suggestion."
"About me, perhaps," he said once, reducing
her to great embarrassment. But she managed to
elude his observation ; and to Edith, fortunately, the
idea never occurred at all. She declared herself to be
very fond of him ; she said there was no one so nice ;
she brightened when he came in, and listened to his
chatter with unfailing pleasure. She said there was
nobody she would miss so much when she went home.
When he complained that he had never been in
Scotland, she said, "You must come to Lindores."
It was she, indeed, who gave the invitation. The
Earl, who had not quite ventured upon this strong
step, was present and heard her say it, and opened
his eyes wide in admiration. What did it mean?
Was it that these two had engaged themselves
secretly without saying anything to father or mother ?
or did it mean nothing at all  the mere foolishness of
a girl who did not care for, nay, did not even think
for a moment, what people would say ?

For the brief little weeks of the season flitted
quickly away, and the date fixed for their departure
drew near rapidly. By this time Millefleurs
had got to be exceedingly intimate with the family.
He went and came almost as he pleased, sometimes
offering himself, sometimes coming in to luncheon
without that ceremony,  always with something todo

for them, or something to say to them, which
linked one day to another. This was much, but it
was not all that was wanted. Eintoul, looking on
with eyes enlightened by that knowledge he had
acquired of what " the fellows would say," did not
feel half satisfied. He was the anxious member of
the party. Even Lord Lindores, whose friends at
the clubs discussed such matters less perhaps than
the young men, and whose interests were more political,
was not so alive to all the risks and all the
changes of opinion as was Rintoul. He was nervous
above measure about this business of Edith's. He
even took his mother to task about it during the last
week of their stay in town. " Isn't that fellow coming
to the point ? " he said.

"What fellow, and what point?" said Lady Lindores.
It must be acknowledged that if ever a
young man anxious for the true interests of his
family was tried by the ignorance and stupidity 
not to say callousness  of his relations, Rintoul was
that man.

"Look here, mother," he said, exasperated; "just
think for a moment what people will say, and ask
yourself how you wil like it. They will say Millefleurs
has been amusing himself all this time, and
never meant anything. I make no doubt that they
say it already. He has been amusing himself exposing

her to all sorts of remarks ; and then the end
will come, and he will leave lev plants Id."

"Eintoul," said his mother, reddening with anger,
"this one idea of yours makes you absurd. Who
is it that has it in his power to leave Edith plants
Id? To think that I should be forced to use such
words ! If you mean to make me uncomfortable
about that boy "

"He is no more a boy than I am, mother. I
warned you of that. He knows very well what he
is about. He has had the pleasure of your society,
and he has enjoyed it all and amused himself very
muche But he doesn't mean to commit himself.
Do you think I don't know what people say? I
don't mean that it is Edith's fault, or even your
fault, mother; only, some women know how to
manage. It is a thing that never could happen
with some people. You will see, unless you exert
yourself, that the last day will come, and you will
be just where you were. I don't know whether
staying a week or two longer would do any good,"
he added, ruefully. "If there is the chance that
it might bring him to the point, there is also the
chance that people would divine your motive, and
say that was why you were staying on. Don't you
think you could put a little steam on, when the
result is so important, and bring him to the point ? "

Steam on ! Do you mean to insult me, Eintoul ? "
his mother cried.

But this was too much for the young man, who
felt himself to be the only one of the family to
whom the true position of affairs was apparent. " If
you cannot understand me, mother, I can't say anything
more," he said, feeling as if he could almost
have cried over her callousness. Why was it that
nobody but he would see how serious the situation
was?

All this time, however, while Millefleurs was frequenting
the house almost daily, Lady Lindores's
perception had been partly confused by the effort
it cost her to avoid being drawn into what she
felt must be an unnecessary confidential disclosure
to Beaufort of the history of the family since they
last met. Beaufort did not insist upon accompanying
his charge  for such, more or less, Millefleurs
was, his family being too much alarmed lest he
should disappear again, to leave him without this
species of surveillance, which the good-natured young
fellow allowed to be perfectly natural, and neither
resisted nor resented; but he came sometimes, and
he never relinquished his appeal to Lady Lindores.
He was not posing in any attitude of a heart-broken
lover. Even to her he expressed no despair. He
took his life gravely, but not without cheerfulness,

and had, she felt almost with a little pique, got
over it, and been able to put Carry out of his life.
But he wanted to know: that seemed all that was
left of the old romance. He wanted to be told how 
it had happened  how his love had been lost to
him. It did not seem to be resentment or indignation
that moved him, but a serious kind of interest.
And strangely enough, it seemed to Lady Lindores
that he did not want to avoid her, or keep out of
hearing of the name of the girl who had forsaken
him. He seemed to like herself. Carry's mother,
as well as ever, and to regard Edith with the same
elder-brotherly air which had pleased her so much
in the old days. Between the inquiring countenance
which seemed without ceasing to ask an explanation
from her, and the prattle of Millefleurs, which
ran on in a pleasant stream, and to which it seemed
so ridiculous to attach any serious meaning. Lady
Lindores was kept in a perplexity and harassment
of mind which took away altogether her pleasure in
society at the end of their stay in London. After
her impatient rejection of Eintoul's counsels, she
began to consider them, as was natural; and much
as all the particulars of the cliasse-aux-maris disgusted
her, she came at length, against her will, to
recognise that there was something in what he said.
"I have been imprudent, as usual," she said to

herself. Alas that all the natural proceedings of
life should be hampered by these rules of prudence !
these perpetual previsions of what might happen,
to which she felt it was impossible she could ever
bow her spirit. But the idea that it would be said
that a boy like Millefleurs had "amused himself"
with her daughter  that he had loved and ridden
away  that Edith, her high-spirited, pure-minded
girl, had been left plant la  broke over Lady
Lindores like a wave of passionate feeling : the
suggestion was intolerable and odious. This happened
when Millefleurs was in the room with her,
in full tide of talk, and entirely at his ease. The
sudden sensation disclosed itself in a flush of colour
mounting in a moment to her very hair. Intolerable !
The thought was so odious that she started to her
feet and walked to the open window, as if the
change of position would throw it off  and also,
suffocated as she felt by that sudden fiery breath,
to get fresh air, lest she should, as she said, make
an exhibition of herself.

"You are ill, Lady Lindores," cried Millefleurs.
Those little beady eyes of his saw everything. He
ran forward to support her (he was just up to her
shoulder), putting forward a reclining-chair with one
hand, picking up a bottle of eau-de-cologne with the
other. He had all his wits about him. " I am used

to it. Sometimes my mother se trouve mal in the
same way. It will pass over," he said encouragingly
to Edith, who, unused to anything of the kind, started
up in alarm. " Dear Lady Lindores, put yourself here."

"I am not ill," she said, almost angrily. "Pray
do not make any  fuss. How rude I am ! but there
is nothing the matter with me, I assure you. The
room is warm, that is all."

Millefleurs looked at her curiously. He put down
the eau-de-cologne, and took his hand from the chair.
For a moment he seemed about to speak, but then
stood aside more serious than his wont. In terror
lest he should have divined her thoughts. Lady Lindores
returned to her seat, calming herself down with
an effort, and made the best attempt she could to
resume their easy conversation of the moment before.
She was vexed beyond measure when Edith, a short
time after, left the room to go and look for something
which Millefleurs was anxious to see. He took instant
advantage of the opportunity thus afforded him.
Lady Lindores," he said, with that serious air as of a
candid child, going up to her, " you are not ill, but you
are vexed and angry, and it is something about me."

About you, Lord Millefleurs ! how could that be ?
you have never given me the least occasion to be
angry."

"That is why," he said, gravely. "I see it all.

You have nothing to find fault with. I am quite
innocent and harmless, yet I am in the way, and you
do not know how to tell me so. For my part, I have
been so happy here that I have forgotten all sorts of
precautions. One does not think of precautions when
one is happy. Dear Lady Lindores, you shall tell me
exactly what I ought to do, and I will do it. I have
all my life been guided by women. I have such faith
in a lady's instinct. I might be confused, perhaps, in
my own case, but you will hit upon the right thing.
Speak to me freely, I shall understand you at a word,"
the droll little hero said. Now Lady Lindores was ina
strait as serious as she had ever experienced in her
life ; but when she glanced up at him, and saw the
gravity upon his baby face, his attitude of chubby
attention, such a desire to laugh seized her, that it
was all she could do by main force to keep her gravity.
This insensibly relaxed the tension, and restored her
to her usual self-command. Still there was no denying
that the situation was a very peculiar one, and
his request for guidance the strangest possible. She
answered hurriedly, in the confusion of her mingled
feelings 

I don't know what there is to do. Lord Millefleurs,
or how I can advise you. A sudden want of breath 
a consciousness all at once that it is a very warm
morning,  what can that have to do with you ? "

You will not tell me, the ? " lie said, with an air
half disappointed, half imploring.

"There is nothing to tell. Here is Edith. For.
heaven's sake, not another word ! " said Lady Lindores,
in alarm. She did not perceive that she betrayed
herself in this very anxiety that her daughter should
suspect nothing. He looked at her very curiously
once more, studying her face, her expression, even the
nervousness of the hand with which she swept her
dress out of her way. He was a young man full of
experiences, knowing all the ways of women. How
far she was sincere  how far this might be a little
scheme, a device for his instruction, so that he might
see what was expected of him without any self-betrayal
on the lady's part  was what he wanted to know.
Had it been so, he would at once have understood his
role. It is usual to say that simplicity and sincerity
are to the worldly-bred much more difficult to understand
than art; but there is something still more
difficult than these. " Pure no-meaning puzzles more
than wit." Though Lady Lindores had far more
meaning in her than nine-tenths of her contemporaries,
she was in this one case absolutely incomprehensible
from want of meaning. She had no more notion thana
child what to do, or even what she wished to be
done. If this little chubby fellow asked Edith to
marry him, her mother believed that the girl would

VOL. IL B

laugh in his face. There could be no question of
Edith marrying him. But what then? Was Edith
to be held up before the whole world (according to
Eintoul's version) as the plaything of this little
Marquis, as having failed to catch him, as being
plants Id. She was in the most painful dilemma, not
knowing any more than a child how to get out of it.
She gave him a look which was almost pathetic in
its incompetency. Lady Lindores was full of intellect
 she was what is called a very superior woman ;
but nobody would have been more stupid, more absolutely
without any power of invention in this crisis,
which had never come within the range of her calculations,
which she had not been able to foresee.

And that same afternoon Beaufort came by himself
and was admitted, no one else being in the drawing-room
 no one to shield the poor lady, who could not
help remembering that this stranger was the man to
whom she had once given a mother's kiss, receiving
him as a son. He did not forget it either. He held
her hand when she gave it him, and sat down by her
with an expression of satisfaction which she was very
far from sharing. " At last I find you alone," he said,
with a sigh of content. Poor Lady Lindores had
already been so greatly tried this morning, that she
felt unable to keep up the strain. Why should she
be forced to put on so many semblances ?

Mr Beaufort' she cried, " I cannot pretend to be
glad to see you alone. Cannot you understand ?
You have been wronged,  we have treated you badly,
they say it is the injured person who is always
most ready to forgive ; but do not ask me to go into a
matter which I have tried all these years to forget."

"And yet," he said, gently, "I do not mean to
reproach you, Lady Lindores."

That may be ; I do not know that you have much
occasion to reproach me. You were not yourself,
perhaps, so much in earnest. No  I mean no reproach
either ; but you are a man of your century too, according
to the usual slang. You don't force events, or do
what is impossible. Men used to do so in the old
days."

He listened to her in silence, bowing his head two
or three times. " I accept your reproof," he said, a
faint colour coming over his face. " I am glad you have
made it,  it helps me to understand. Lady Lindores,
there is something else I want to speak to you about.
Lord Lindores has invited me, with Millefleurs, in
August "

With Millefleurs, in August ? Has he asked Lord
Millefleurs in August ? " Lady Lindores cried.

This was a great blow to Beaufort's self-opinion.
He had thought, naturally, that the embarrassment of
his appearance as a visitor would have overweighed

everything else. He grew more red this time, with
the irritated shame which follows a slight.

Certainly he has asked him. It is ridiculous that
a young man so entirely able to take care of himself
should have any one in charge of him ; but as the

Duke has implored me to keep his son company

Here is my situation, Lady Lindores. God knows I
would not thrust myself where I might  where I
should be  I mean, to cause the faintest embarrassment
to  any one."

Mr Beaufort," cried Lady Lindores, " do not come,
either of you !  oh, never mind what I mean. What
is the use of going over that old ground ? It would
cause embarrassment  to me if to no one else. And
Lord Millefleurs  what does he want at Lindores ?
Let him stay away ; persuade him to stay away."

"But that is settled without any power of interference
on my part. Of course he thought you were
aware. Eor myself, I am ready to give up my own
prospects, to sacrifice anything  rather than give you
a moment's anxiety."

Lady Lindores gazed at him for a moment with
wide-open eyes, like a creature at bay. Then she let
her hands fall on her lap. " It is I that need to be
guided what to do," she said, with a sigh ; " they are
too many for me. Oh, Edward ! had we but remained
poor and obscure, as we were when you knew us "

She put out her hand instinctively, with a kind of involuntary
appeal. He took it, going upon his knees
with that movement, equally involuntary, which deep
emotion suggests, and put it to his lips. They were
both overcome by a sudden flood of old sympathy, old
communion. "Has Carry forgotten me altogether 
altogether ? Is she happy ? God bless her ! " he
said.

It was in this attitude that Edith, coming in suddenly,
surprised these two imprudent people. She
gave a cry of amazement, and, Lady Lindores thought,
reproach. " Mother ! Edward ! " The old name came
to her lips, too, in the shock.

Edith," Lady Lindores cried, " your father has invited
him with Lord Millefleurs to Lindores."

But I will do nothing save as you advise," said
Beaufort, rising to his feet.

Then the mother and the daughter consulted each

other with their eyes. " Of course he will  not "

Edith stopped and faltered. She had begun almost
with passion ; but she was made to break off by the
warning in her mother's eyes. Lady Lindores, too,
had gone through a shock and panic ; but now all the
secondary elements came iu  all those complications
which take truth out of life.

CHAPTER XYL

The party at Tinto was increased by Dr Stirling
and his wife, which made six, instead of four as the
master of the house had intended. His meaning, sofar
as it was a meaning at all and not a mere impulse,
was to get John Erskine by himself, and with skilful
art to worm himself into the confidence of that open-hearted
young man. Torrance had a great opinion of
his own skill in this way. He thought he could find
out from any man the inmost thoughts of his mind ;
and John seemed an easy victim, a young fellow without
suspicion, who might without difficulty be led
into betraying himself. Torrance had been overawed
by the presence of Edith, and forced into conviction
when his wife appealed to her sister on the subject of
John ; but he was without any confidence in the truth
of others, and after a time he began to persuade himself
that Lady Car's denial was not final, and that
probably he should find out from John himself something

that would modify her tale. When he heard
that his wife had added to the party, he was furious.'
I never said I wanted more people asked," he said.
If I had wanted people asked, I should have let you
know. What do I want with a country parson, or
minister, or whatever you call him? When I'm ill
you can send for the minister. I've got nothing to
say to him at present. It is for yourself, of course,
you want him. When there's nobody better, he does
to try your arts on, Lady Car."

Yes," said Lady Car, with a faint smile, " I allow
that I like to talk to him  for lack of a better, as you
say." Sometimes she had spirit enough to be what he
called aggravating, and Torrance grew red with a sense
of scorn implied. He was not stupid enough, seeing
that he was so little clever. He knew so much as to
be constantly conscious that he was below the mark.

Confound it ! " he said, " if you were to talk to
your husband, it would show more sense ; but of
course that would not answer your purpose." Why it
would not answer her purpose he had not any idea ;
but it is not always necessary, especially in controversy,
to know what you yourself mean, and Carry did not
inquire. Sometimes she was aggravating, but sometimes
she showed the better part of valour, and held
her peace. That was always the wise way. And
accordingly there were six people who sat down to the

banquet at Tinto. It was truly a banquet though the
party was so small. The table was covered with plate,
huge silver epergnes, and loads of old-fashioned metal,
not old-fashioned, it must be recollected, in the
right way, but in the wrong way  monstrosities of the
age of William IV. or of the last George. Lady
Caroline's taste had been quite inoperative so far as
these ornaments were concerned. Her husband knew
that she made light of them, and this usually influenced
him in the long-run. But he knew also what
they had cost, and would not yield a hair's-breadth.
The table groaned under them as on the greatest feast-days;
and Mrs Stirling, if nobody else, was always
deeply impressed. " I tell the Doctor it's as good as
reading a book upon the East to see that grand camel
and the silver palm-trees," this excellent lady said.
She thought it became a minster's wife to show a
special interest in the East.

"Well, it's not often they're seen in the east  of
Scotland, Mrs Stirling," said Tinto, with his large
laugh. He had made the joke before.

Oh fie, Mr Torrance ! ye must not be profane,"
Mrs Stirling said : and they both laughed with a certain
zest. Very few of Lady Car's guests admired the
palm-trees ; but Mrs Stirling, by a blessed dispensation
of Providence, was always capable of this effort.
I hear they are not much in the way of art," Tor-ranee

said  "people are ill to please nowadays; but
they're pure metal, and if they were only valued at so
much an ounce "

You may well say they're ill to please. Bless me,
Mr Torrance ! one of them would be a fortune just a
fortune at that rate. When my little Jeanie is of an
age to be married you must lock up these fine things,
or there's no saying what I might be tempted to ; but
you never would miss one when there's so many," Mrs
Stirling said. It was a dispensation of Providence.
The Doctor himself devoutly wished he had his wife's
faculty of admiration, when, after keeping her host in
good humour all the evening, she withdrew with Lady
Car, giving him a warning glance. All three of the
ladies addressed warning glances to the gentlemen
left behind. Even Nora, who had not spoken three
words to John, and had, as she said almost spitefully
to herself, nothing whatever to do with him,
could not help warning him with her eyes to keep
the peace.

Now this was the time which Torrance had looked
forward to, when he should cross-examine the newcomer,
and get to the rights of the story respecting
John's previous acquaintance with his wife. He was
balked and he was angry, and all at once it became
apparent to him that this was Lady Car's design, and
that she had done it to screen herself. " Doctor, you

like a good glass of wine," he said ; " all parsons do,
whatever be the cut of the cloth. Here's some stuff
that will soon lay you under the table  unless you're
seasoned like Erskine here, and me."

I must take care, then, to give that stuff a wide
berth," the Doctor said gravely, yet with a smile.

Ay, ay, but you must drink fair. We'll be having
you take shelter with the ladies. I don't mean to let
Erskine off so easy. This is his first dinner in my
house. It ought to have been a state dinner, you
know  all the big-wigs in the county; but Erskine
and Lady Car are old friends. I think you knew the
family intimately at  where was the place ? "

I met Miss Lindores, as she was then, in Switzerland,"
said John, curtly. " It was to you that I was
to apply, Dr Stirling, for particulars about the asylum
Lord Lindores is so much interested in."

"And a most important work," said Dr Stirling.
It is a strange thing to think of in a country so well
gifted as this by Providence, and with so much intelligence,
what a balance we have on the other side !
You'll have noticed almost every village has a ' natural '
as the people call them,  a half-witted innocent creature
like Davie Gellatley in ' Waverley.' "

What did you say was the name of the place ? "
said Torrance. " I'm bent on making notes of all the
places Lady Car's been in. She's a poet, you know.

Some time or other they will be wanted for her
biography, don't you see ? "

I have observed," said John, answering Torrance
only with a little bow  " I have noticed already one
or two. Could nothing be done for them ? "

But you don't answer me," said Torrance, " and
when I tell you my motive ! That's my father-in-law's
last fad. What is he so anxious about the daft folk
for, Dr Stirling ? Is it a fellow-feeling ? " He stopped
to laugh, making the table ring. " He was at me for
my support, and to write to the convener. Not I !
I told him they had done well enough up to my time,
and they would do well enough after my time. What
are we to put ourselves about for? can you tell me
that ? "

It is a disgrace to the county," said Dr Stirling.
No wonder the Earl was horrified, that has seen
things managed so differently. Mr Erskine, if you
wil come and see me, I will tell you all about it.
Sir John stands out, just because the idea is new to
him, not from any real objection  for he's a good man
and a charitable man at heart."

"You don't wonder at me. Doctor," said Torrance.
Do you think I'm not a good man or a charitable ?
I'm standing out too. I'm saying, what should we
put ourselves about for ? It's not us that makes them
daft. And what's done for the county up to our time

may do now. Little Tam, he can see to that : let him
have the paying of it ; it is not an amusement I'm
fond of "

"And yet, Mr Torrance," said the Doctor, "and
yet  you'll excuse me  here's what would almost
build the place "

This was an exaggeration. It was founded upon
his wife's naive admiration of the Tinto plate ; but it
did not displease the proud owner of all those pounds
of silver. He laughed.

You may take your word, it will never build the
place, nor any such place," he said. "No, Doctor,
that's not my line  nor the Earl's either, trust me.
If you think he would strip his table or empty his
purse for all the idiots in Scotland, you're mistaken.
You think it's all benevolence and public spirit. Nota
bit ! He means to run Rintoul for the county, and
it's popularity he's wanting. There's always wheels
within wheels. My father-in-law thinks he's a very
clever man,  and so he is, I suppose. They're a
clever family; but I can see through them, though
they don't think much of me."

Torrance had already consumed a good deal of wine.
He had been crossed in his purpose, and his temper
roused. His dark face was flushed, and his light eyes
staring. Both his companions were men entirely out
of sympathy with him, who were there because they

could not help it, and who listened rather with angry
shame that they should be parties to such discourse,
than with any amiable desire to cover his shortcomings.
They did not look at each other, but a
slight uneasy movement on the part of both was as
good as a mutual confidence, and both began to speak
at once, with an anxious attempt to put an end to
these unseemly revelations.

What fine weather we've been having for the
crops ! " said Dr Stirling. And, " I wish you'd tell me
what flies you use about here. I have had no luck at
all on the river," cried John.

But their host was on his mettle, and felt himself
a match for them both. " As for the weather, I've
no land in my own hands  not such a fool ! and I

don't care a that for the crops ! Flies ! you may

have the finest in the world, but without sense you'll
make nothing of them. Come with me, and I'll let
you see how to make them bite. But as I was saying,"
Torrance went on, elevating his voice, " if you think
his lordship is bent on the good of the county, you're
mistaken, I can tell you. He means to get the seat
for Eintoul. And who's Eintoul, to represent a county
like this ? A boy, in the first place  not fledged yet ;
what I call pledging. And knows nothing about what
we want. How should he ? He never was in the
county in his life till four or five years ago. You

would have thought a man like old Lindores, that has
been about the world, would have had more sense.
That's just it ; a man knocks about these little foreign
places, and he thinks he knows the world. Now
there's me. I would not take the trouble of Parliament,
not for any inducement. It's no object to me.
I prefer quiet and my own way. There's nothing
that any Ministry could give me, neither office nor
rise in life. I'm content to be Torrance of Tinto, as
my father was before me : but at all events, I am one
that knows the county and its ways. I could tell
them what's wanted for Scotland. But no ! a boy like
Eintoul that knows nothing  without sense or experience,
 he's the man. My father-in-law, for so
clever as he is, has awful little sense."

There is no seat vacant as yet," said Dr Stirling ;
"we might leave that question, Tinto, till the time
comes."

That's your old-fashioned way," said Torrance ;
"but his lordship is a man of his century, as they
call it. He'll not wait till the last moment. He'll
get himself known as the friend of Liberal measures,
and all that. All his tools are in the fire now ; and
when the time comes to use them, they'll be hot and
handy." Then he laughed, turning his eyes from one
to another. " You're his tools," he said.

It was not possible for either of the listeners to

conceal the irritation with which they received this
sudden shot. They looked at each other this time
with a sudden angry consultation. Dr Stirling
touched his empty glass significantly with the forefinger
of one hand, and held up the other as a warning.
"It seems to me," he said, "that it would be an
excellent thing about this time of the night to join
the ladies. It will very soon be time for my wife and
me to go."

He is afraid of his wife, you see, Erskine," said
Torrance, with his laugh. " We're all that. Keep
out of the noose as long as you can, my lad. You
may be very thankful for what you've missed, as well
as what you've got."

I suppose you mean something by what you are
saying, Mr Torrance," said John, " but I do not understand
what it is."

Upon this Torrance laughed louder than before.
He's confounded sly  confounded sly. He'll not
let on he knows  that's because you're here, Doctor.
Join the ladies, as you say  that is far the best thing
you can do  and Erskine and I will have a glass
more."

A great deal better not, Tinto," said the Doctor ;
you know it's not the fashion now : and Lady Caroline
will wonder what's become of us. It's a little
dark down the avenue, and my wife is nervous. You

must come and shake hands with her before she
goes."

Both the guests rose, but the master of the house
kept his seat. " Come, Erskine, stay a bit, and tell
me about  about  what was the name of the place ?
Let the Doctor go. He has his sermon to write, no
doubt, and his wife to please. Go away. Doctor, we'll
join you presently," Torrance said, giving him a jocular
push towards the door. " Come, Erskine, here's a new
bottle I want your opinion of. If you ever drank a
glass of claret like it, it will be a wonder to me."

John stood hesitating for a moment. Then he took
his seat again. If he was to quarrel with this fellow,
better, he thought, to have it out.

You want to question me," he said ; " then do so
simply, and you shall have my answer. I am unaware
what the point is; but whatever it is, speak
out  I do not understand hints. I am quite at your
service if I can furnish you with any information.

Go away, Doctor," said Torrance, with another
push. "Tell them we're coming. I'll be in time to
shake hands with Mrs Stirling: join the ladies  that's
the right thing to do."

The minister was in a great strait. He stood looking
from one to another. Then he went out slowly,
closing the door softly behind him, but lingering in
the anteroom, that if any conflict of voices arose, he

might be at hand to interfere. Torrance himself was
sobered by the gravity of the proceeding. He did not
speak immediately, but sat and stared at the companion
with whom he was thus left tete-astute. He
had not expected that John would have courage to
meet this interrogation ; and notwithstanding his pertinacity,
he was disconcerted. Erskine met his gaze
calmly, and said, " You wanted to ask me some questions.
I am quite at your disposal now."

Question ?  no, not so much a question," faltered
the other, coming to himself. " I'm sure  I beg your
pardon  no offence was meant. I asked  for information."


And I shall be glad to give you any I possess."

Torrance made a pause again ; then he burst out
suddenly  " Hang it, man, I didn't mean to give you
any offence! I asked you  there couldn't be a
simpler question  what was the name of the place
where  you met my  you met the Lindores "

The place was a mountain inn on the way to
Zermatt  a very secluded place. We were there only
about six weeks. Mr Lindores (then) and his family
were very friendly to us because of my name, which
he knew. I suppose you have some ulterior meaning
in these questions. What is it ? I will answer you in
all respects, but I ought to know what it means first."

Torrance was entirely cowed. " It means nothing
VOL. II. C

at all," he said. " I daresay I am an idiot. I wanted
to know "

"We were there six weeks," repeated John  "an
idle set of young men, far better pleased with mountain
expeditions than with our books. We did little
or nothing; but we were always delighted to meet
a family-party so pleasant and friendly. There we
parted, not knowing if we should meet again. I did
not even know that Mr Lindores had come to the
title. When I found them here it was the greatest
surprise to me. I had never even heard "

"Erskine," cried Torrance  by this time he had
drank several more glasses of wine, and was inclined
to emotion  " Erskine, you're an honest fellow ! Whoever
likes may take my word for it. You're an honest
fellow ! Now my mind's at rest. I might have gone
on suspecting and doubting, and  well, you know a
man never can be sure : but when another fellow
stands up to him honest and straightforward  " he
said, getting up to his feet with a slight lurch towards
John, as if he would have thrown himself upon his
shoulder; and then he laughed with a gurgle in his
breath, and thrust his arm through that of his reluctant
guest. " We're friends for life," said Torrance ;
you're an honest fellow ! I always had a fancy for
you, John Erskine. Lets join the ladies, as that old
fogy of a Doctor said."

The old fogy of a Doctor, who had been hanging
about in alarm lest he might be called upon to stop a
quarrel, had no more than time to hurry on before
them and get inside the drawing-room door, before
the master of the house pushed in, still holding John
by the arm. "Here," Torrance cried, depositing his
unwilling companion suddenly with some force in a
chair by Lady Caroline's side  " here, talk to her !
You can talk to her as much as you please. An
honest fellow  an honest fellow, Lady Car ! "

Then he made a somewhat doubtful step to Mrs
Stirling, and stood over her diffusing an atmosphere
of wine around him. Poor ladies ! in the drawing-room,
even in this temperate age, how often will a
man approach them, and sicken the air in their clean
presence with fumes of wine ! The minister's wife
was tolerant of the sins of the squires; but she
coughed, poor soul, as she was enveloped in these
powerful odours.

"Well, Mrs Stirling," Torrance said, with cumbrous
liveliness, " your husband here, we could not get him
away from his wine. We've been doing nothing but
talk of coming up-stairs this quarter of an hour ; but
get the Doctor to budge from his wine  no ! that was
more than we could do," and he ended with a loud
guffaw. The Doctor's wife coughed, and smiled a
sickly smile upon the great man, and shook her head

with a " Fie, William ! " at her husband. "Dear me,
dear me ! " Mrs Stirling said after, as she walked down
the avenue with her Shetland shawl over her head,
holding close by her husband's arm, "when I think
of poor Lady Caroline, my heart's sore. That muckle
man ! and oh, the smell of him, William ! You're
not so particular as you should be in that respect, the
best of ye  but I thought I would have fainted with
him hanging over me. And that fragile, delicate bit
woman ! " " She should not have married him," the
Doctor said, curtly. But his wife was a merciful
woman; and she did not feel sure how far a girl
would have been justified in refusing such a marriage.
She shook her head, and said, " Poor thing ! " from the
bottom of her heart.

"I am glad I have met with Mr Torrance's approval,"
John said ; but Carry gave him so wistful a
deprecating look, that he was silent. And he had not
yet escaped from his uncomfortable host. When Mrs
Stirling went away with her husband, Torrance, whose
sole idea of making himself agreeable to a woman was
by rough banter, transferred himself with another
lurch to Nora. " And how's the old soldier ? " he
said. " I suppose he's going over all the men within
fifty miles to see who will make the best husband,
eh ? It was all I could do to keep out of their hands
when I was a bachelor. If they had had their will.

Lady Car would never have had the chance of me :
no great harm in that perhaps, you will say. But you
must not be saucy, Miss Nora. Men are not so easy
to get when all's said."

No, indeed," said Nora  " men like you, Mr Tor
ranee. I could not hope, you know, to be so lucky as
Lady Car."

Upon this, though his head was not very clear, the
uneasy Laird grew red, fearing satire. It was perfectly
true, to his own thinking ; but he was enlightened
enough to know that Nora had another meaning.
He would have liked to punish the little saucy chit,
who held up (he thought) her little face to his so disdainfully
in his own house. As lucky as Lady Car,
indeed ! She should have no luck at all, with that
impudence of hers. It would serve her right if she
never got the offer of any man. But he dared not
say exactly what he thought. Conventional restraints,
in such a case, were too much for the free-born wit
even of Pat Torrance of Tinto.

That's a great compliment to me, no doubt," he
said; "but never be down-hearted. There is as
good fish in the sea as ever came out of the net.
There's our neighbour here, for instance," he said,
stooping to speak confidentially, and jerking his
thumb over his shoulder at John, with one of his
usual bursts of laughter. " Now, what do you think

of him, Miss Nora? A real honest fellow, I can
testify, and a nice little property. What do you
think of him ? "

 The tone was meant to be confidential, but it was
loud enough to have reached any ear in the room;
and it was Nora's turn to redden with anger intolerable.
She jumped up, while he stood and
laughed, shaking his sides. " I've given her a poser
there," he said. " I've given her her answer there."
He could not help returning to it, as, much against
Nora's will, he accompanied her to the door and put
her into the little pony-carriage which had come
for her. " You must think of what I say, Miss Nora.
You would be very comfortable. You'll see that's
what the old soldier is driving at. And I don't
think you could do better, if you'll take my advice."

John, who had followed down-stairs, not wishing to
have any more than he could avoid of his host's society,
saw the indignant countenance of Nora looking
out wrathfully upon himself as the carriage turned
from the door. What had he done to deserve the
angry look? But the other, standing somewhat
unsteadily on the steps, greeted the departure with
a laugh that was loud and long.

One good turn deserves another," he said. " I've
put her against you, Erskine, and that's the best
thing I could do. Mind what you're about, my fine

fellow, or you'll fall into some snare or other. I
would not marry, if I were you. You have enough for
one, but it wouldn't be enough for two. If you manage
Dalrulzian well, you may be very comfortable as
an unmarried man. Take my advice. Of course they
will all be setting their caps at you. There's Aggie
Sempill  she thought she had got me: but no, I
knew better. Truly in vain is the snare set in the
sight of any bird. There! you've Scripture for it.
And now here's JSTora Barrington "

John grasped his arm violently. " Be silent ! " he
cried in his ear. The butler stood on the steps behind
laughing decorously under his breath, as in duty
bound, at his master's joke. John's new groom at
his horse's head grinned respondent. What he would
have given to take the big clown by the collar
and fling him into the midst of the bushes ! But
this was not to be thought of. Such violent impulses
have to be repressed nowadays.

"Well, well, we'll name no names," said Tinto.
"They'll all be after you; no need to name names.
And I'll tell them all you're an honest fellow. Don't
you be led away by his lordship, no more than the
women. Keep your vote to yourself, and your heart
to yourself, that's my advice. Good night to you,
John  you're a very decent fellow," cried the big
voice in the darkness. Torrance had found out that

this epithet annoyed young Erskine, and he liked it
all the better in consequence. He shouted it after
him into the night, as with another great laugh he
went back into his house to Lady Car. Alas, poor
Carry ! The others went away, shook off the disagreeable
presence, got out of the atmosphere of his
wine and the roar of his laugh ; but Carry, than whom
there was no more fastidious, delicately nurtured
woman  Carry sat helpless, scared, . awaiting him.
Whatever happened, she could not run away.

As for John, he flew down the avenue in the dark,
taking that turn on the top of the scar, which was
allowed by everybody to be so dangerous, without
knowing anything about it, guided by instinct and
rage; for he had never been there before. When
they had passed the danger, Peter, the groom, drew
a long breath. " That's past, the Lord be thanks ! "
he said. It was natural that Peter should suspect
his master of sitting long after dinner, and sharing
the excitement of his host.

What's past ? " said John, angrily : he had nearly
taken an inner gate, dogcart and all, as if it had
been a fence. His horse was fresh, and his mind
ablaze with irritation and impatience. "What's
past ? " he repeated, angrily, when the man clambered
up again to his side.

That corner, sir, they call the Scar. There used

to be a paling, but it fell to pieces, and this Laird
I beg your pardon, sir  young Tinto, that is a
perfect devil when he's on a horse, would never
let it be mended. It's a' cleared away, and there's
a grand view when there's daylight to see it, and
down-bye the sound o' the river roaring. If it
serena for the horse's feet and the rate we're going,
you would hear it now."

You think we're going too fast "

"Na  no me," said the groom, cautiously, "now
that I see, sir, you ken what's what. But it's a
fickle corner in the dark. Not to know is maybe the
best way. When you ken, you're apt to be over
cautious or over bold  one's as bad as the other.
A wrong step, a bit swing out on the open, and
there would be no help for ye. Neither you nor me,
sir, would have seen a friend belonging to us again."

"It is unpardonable," said John, "if this is so,
to leave it without protection or notice."

Well, sir, you see it's no just the right road. Ita
short cut. You take the left hand at the lily-oaks.
I thought you bid to ken, as you took it so bold,
without a moment's thought. I would advise you
to do it again. Tinto, he's a perfect devil on horseback,
as I was saying. He's aye riding that way.
They say he'll break his neck sometime or other, he's
so wild and reckless  over that scar "

And no such great loss either," cried John, in his
indignation. He hoped the words were not audible,
in the rush of his horse's hoofs and jingle of the
harness, the moment they had left his lips; and he
was annoyed by the confidential tone of Peter's reply.

Maybe no, sir. There's plenty is of that opinion.
There was mair tint at Shirramuir."

John felt as if he had condescended to gossip with
his servant about his neighbour, and was ashamed
of himself. But as he reviewed the events of the
evening his pulses beat higher and higher. That he
should have pleased this big bully, and received the
offer of his friendship, was something half ruminating,
half ridiculous. But what could he do ? The bonds
of neighbourhood are stringent : that you must not,
if possible, quarrel with, or markedly avoid, or put
any slight upon, the man whose lands march with
your own, is a self-evident proposition. And the
husband of Carry Lindores ! When John thought of
this part of it, there escaped from him an almost
groan of horror and pity. The rest of the party had
dispersed, and were free of the big laugh, the rude
jests, the fierce staring eyes ; but Carry remained
behind.

Peter the groom did not feel so sure that his new
master had partaken too freely of the wine at Tinto,
which everybody knew to be better and stronger than

wine anywhere else, by the time they got to Dalrulzian. 
But he announced that he was "just one of Tinto's
kind, a devil when he's behind a horse," as he took
his supper. This, however, was a suggestion which
brought down upon his head the indignant displeasure
of Bauby, who regretted audibly that she had kept the
potatoes hot for such an ill-speaking loon  and of
Rolls, who, accepting the praise implied, put down the
superficial judgment of this new-comer as it deserved.
"There will no man beat an Erskine for clear head
and steady hands," he said, "if that's what you ca'
being of Tinto's kind ; but you'll observe, my lad, that
we're a' of a reasonable age, and I'll have name o' your
rash opinions here."

CHAPTER XVII.

"Oh yes, that's true  I'm an old Tory. I'm proud
of the name," said Sir James, with his genial countenance.
" If you'll believe me, my young friend, most
changes are for the worse. When I remember, before
I went to India, what a cheery world it was  none of
those new-fangled notions were so much as thought of
we were all kindly one with another, as country
neighbours should be. The parish school  that was
good enough for me. I got the most of my schooling
there. We had a grand dominie  there was not a
more learned man out of St Andrews or Aberdeen.
Old Eobert Beaten the blacksmith was at the school
with me. We've been great friends ever since, but
I cannot say that he ever took anything upon him
in consequence. That's one of your new-fangled
notions too  to part aU the world into classes, and
then, when their habits are formed and their ways of
living settled, to proclaim they're all equal. No, no 

they're not all equal ; you may take my word for it, 
though I'm no Solomon."

I don't think so, either, Sir James ; but pardon me,
if you found no evil in going to the same school as the
old blacksmith "

Not a pin, sir not a pin ! " cried the old general.
"We respected each other. We were great friends,
but not associates. I had my own cronies, and he had
his : but we always respected each other. And do
you think to sit on the same bench with a wholesome
country lad in corduroy breeks was worse for me than
being packed up with a set of little dandies, taking
care of their books and keeping their hands clean, and
sent out of their own country till they're made
strangers to it, as comes to pass with your Eton, and

the rest of them I ask your pardon, Erskine. I

forgot you were there yourself "

There is no offence," said John. " I think I agree
with you so far ; but. Sir James, your theory is far
more democratic, far more levelling "

"Me democratic and levelling!" said Sir James.
That will be news. No, no ; that was all in the
course of nature. When a lad was to be pushed in
the world, his friends pushed him. You cannot do
that now. When you saw your friend with a houseful
of children, you would say to him, ' What are you
going to do with those fine lads of yours ? ' and if you

knew a director, or had influence to hear of a writer-ship,
or a set of colours.  Now, ye cannot help on
your friend's boys, and ye cease to think of them.
What little ye might do, ye forget to do it. Eobert
Beaten's grandson, you'll tell me, got in high on the
list for those competition-walls, as they call them.
Well, I say nothing against it. The lad is a good lad,
though he was never brought up in the way of having
men under him, and he'll feel the want of that when
he gets to India. The like of me  we were poor
enough, but we had always been used to be of the
officer kind. That makes a great difference ; and if
you think we did our work worse for having no bother
about examinations "

That has proved itself, Sir James. Nobody pretends
to say it did not work well."

"Then why change it?" said the old man. "And
about your hospitals and things. When there was a
poor natural, as they call it, in a village, everybody
was good to the creature; and do you think the
honest folk that had known it all its life would not
put up with it, and feel for it, more than servants in
an hospital? When we had a burden to bear, we
bore it in those days, and did the best we could for
our own. We didn't shuffle them off on the first person's
shoulders that would take them up."

All this John had brought upon himself by his reference

to Lord Lindores's scheme. Whatever might
be well with respect to the election, he had felt
that there could be but one voice in respect to a
hospital ; but John had soon been convinced that in
that respect also there certainly was more than one
voice.

But I suppose," he said, feeling somewhat confused
by this style of reasoning, for it was not a subject
upon which the young man had thought for himself,
"I suppose, for the suffering and miserable for
those out of the common line of humanity, more badly
off, less capable than their neighbours  hospitals are
necessary."

Let those that belong to them care for them, sir,"
cried Sir James. "I'm saying it in no hard-hearted
way. Do you not think that when a trouble is sent
upon a family, it's far better for the family to make a
sacrifice  to draw close together, to bear it, and take
care of their own ? That's always been my opinion 
that was the practice long syne. If ye had a thorn in
the flesh, ye supported it. When one was ill, the rest
took care of him. There were no hired sick-nurses in
those days. When ye had a fever, your mother nursed
you. If you were blind or lame, every one would give
you a little, and nobody grudged your meat or your
drink. And that was how Scotland was kept so
independent, and the poor folk hated debt and

beggary. Once you give your own duty over to other
folks, you sacrifice that," the old soldier said, with conviction.
Sir James was of the class of men who are
never more entirely at home than when they are exercising
the duties of beneficence  the sort of men who
manage hospitals and establish charities by nature.
Had the county hospital been existing, he it was, and
not Lord Lindores, who would have given time and
trouble to it ; but Sir James was as full of prejudices
as a hearty, healthy old gentleman has a right to be.
He would not give in to the new thing ; and his
arguments were shrewd, although he himself would
have been the last to be bound by them. He would
have taken the burden off a poor man's shoulders and
carried it himself without a compunction. Saying is
one thing and doing another, all the world over ; only
it is usual that people profess not less, but more,
benevolent sentiments than are natural to them. Sir
James took the other way.

"You must excuse me saying," the old general
went on, " that you must not trust too much to Lord
Lindores. Part of it is political, there is no doubt
about that. He's wanting to get a character for
being public-spirited and a useful member of his
party. They tell me he's thinking of bringing in his
son in the case of an election, but that would never
do  that is to say, from my point of view," said Sir

James, laughing ; " you're on the other side ?  ah, to
be sure, I had forgotten that. Well, I suppose we're
all meaning the same thing,  the good of the country ;
but depend upon it, that's not to be procured in this
way. The Lindores family are very excellent people
very worthy people ; but they're new-fangled they
have lived abroad, and they have got foreign notions
into their heads."

Benevolent institutions are, above all others, English
notions  or so, at least, I have always heard,"
John said.

This brought a slight flush on the old man's cheek.
Well, I believe you are right  I think you are right.
I will not go against that. Still it is a great pity to
bring foreign notions into a quiet country place."

They were walking up and down the lawn at
Chiefswood, where a party of country neighbours were
about to assemble. It was a kind of gathering which
had scarcely been acclimatised in the North ; and the
pleasure of sitting out, though the seats were comfortably
arranged in the most sheltered spot, was at the
best an equivocal one ; but fortunately the drawing-room,
with its large bright windows overlooking the
scene of the gentle gaieties provided for, was behind,
and there already some groups had collected. John
Erskine, without being aware of it, was the hero of
the feast. He was the new-comer, and everybody was

VOL. n. D

willing to do him honour. It was expected that he
was to be the chief performer in those outdoor games
which were not yet very well known to the young
people. And it was somewhat disconcerting that he
should have chosen this moment to discourse with old
Sir James upon the county hospital, and the poor
lunatics and imbeciles of the district, for whose benefit
Lord Lindores was so anxious to legislate. Had it
been any other subject, the old general would have
dismissed the young man to his peers, for Sir James
had a great notion that the young people should be
left to entertain each other. But as it happened,
the theme was one which had disturbed his genial
mind. He was vexed at once in his prejudices, and
in his honest conviction that the county, to which he
was so glad to get back after his long exile, was the
best managed and most happy of districts. He had
found nothing amiss in it when he came home. It
had been welcome to him in every detail of the old
life which he remembered so well. There were too
many changes, he thought, already. He would have
liked to preserve everything. And to have it suggested
by a new gingerbread, half-English, half-foreign
intruder, with all the light-minded ways that belonged
to the unknown races on the Continent, that the
beloved county wanted reorganisation, almost betrayed
the old man into ill-humour. The guests kept arriving

while lie talked, but he talked on, giving forth his
views loosely upon general questions. " We're going
the wrong road," he said, " aye seeking after something
that's new. The old way was the best. Communistic
plans are bad things, whatever ye may say
for them; and shuffling off your sick and your poor
on other folk's hands, and leaving them to the public
to provide for, what's that but communism? You'll
never get me to consent to it," Sir James said.

Where is the general ? " Lady Montgomery was
saying in the drawing-room. " Bless me ! has nobody
seen Sir James? He cannot expect me to go
out without my bonnet, and get my death of cold
setting all the young people going. No, no, I told
him that. I said to him, you may put out the chairs,
but if you think Barbara Erskine and me, and other
sensible women, are going to sit there in a May day
and get back all our winter rheumatism, you are
mistaken, Sir James. But now, where is the general ?
Nora, you must just go and look for him, and say I'm
surprised that he should neglect his duty. When
I yielded to this kind of party, which is not my
notion of pleasure, I told him plainly he must take
the lawn part of it upon his own hands."

"And where's my nephew John?" said Miss Barbara
Erskine, who sat in one of the seats of honour,
within pleasant reach of a bright fire. " Nora, when

UBRARV

IINWERSITV OF 

you look for Sir James, you'll look for him too. I'm
affronted, tell him, that he was not the first to find me
out."

"I hear Mr Erskine is a great friend of the Lindores,"
said Mrs Sempill. " Having no son at home,
I have not had it in my power, Miss Barbara, to
show him any attention, but I hoped to make his
acquaintance to-day. They tell me he knew the Lindores
well in their former circumstances. That is, no
doubt, a fine introduction for him to the county."

If an Erskine of Dalrulzian wanted any introduction,"
said Miss Barbara, " it would be a very ill one,
in my opinion. For there are as many that think
ill of them as there are that think well of them, and
they're not our kind of people. But John Erskine
wants nobody to introduce him, I hope. His father's
son, and my father's great-grandson, should have wellwishers
enough."

And a well-looking, well-spoken young man. He
minds me of your uncle Walter, the one that went
abroad," said old Mrs Methuen of the Brooches. She
was older than Miss Barbara, older than the imagination
could conceive. Her memory slipped all the
recent generation, and went back to heights of antiquity
unknown. Miss Barbara Erskine was still a
young person to this old lady, and Sir James a frisky
young soldier. " Walter Erskine was the first person

I ever saw that wore his own hair without so much asa
ribbon. It had a terrible naked look, but you soon
got used to it. This one is like him. But you'll
scarcely mind him. He was young when he left the
county. I cannot remember if you were born."

"He's like his father, which is not so far back,"
Miss Barbara said.

*' Bless me, bless me ! where is the general ? " cried
Lady Montgomery. She was standing in front of the
great bow-window which looked upon the lawn, with
her beautiful Indian shawl on her shoulders. Grouped
upon the grass were several parties of the younger
people, not quite knowing what to do with themselves.
Some of the ladies, wrapped in warm cloaks
and shawls, were seated round, waiting for some
novelty of amusement with which they were unacquainted,
and wondering when it was going to begin.
It seemed to Lady Montgomery the most dreadful
neglect of duty that there was no one to set the
young people going. " Will anything have happened
to Sir James ? " she said, in anxious Scotch, and casta
glance back at the pleasant fire, and wrapped her
shawl more closely round, with a sense that Providence
might require of her the heroic effort of stepping
outside. But just then she perceived in the
distance that her general had been captured, and
was being led back in triumph to the lawn by Nora

and Agnes Sempill, two of his chief favourites. John
followed after them, looking by no means triumphant.
When Lady Montgomery saw this, she gave a nod of
satisfaction, and returned to the fire. "Whatever
they're going to do, it'll begin now," she said. " If
it's worth looking at, we can see it from the window ;
but for my part, I'm very anxious about putting
folk to sit on the grass at this time of the year. I
would not wonder to hear of bronchitis or inflammation
after it  but it's none of my doing. Sir James
is just daft about all the new-fashioned ways of
amusing young people. For my part, I say there's
nothing like the old way. Just to clear out the
rooms, and get the fiddlers, and let them dance.
But that would be a danish thing too, in daylight,"
the old lady said; for she was not at all up to the
current of events.

It was, I believe, the venerable game of croquet
which was the "new-fashioned thing" in question,
and which all the people outside crowded round to
see, while a few highly-instructed young persons, who
had brought the knowledge from " the South," proceeded,
with much modest importance, to exhibit for
the benefit of their neighbours. " It's quite easy,"
they said, each feeling a sort of benevolent missionary.
John Erskine was one of these illuminati, and he
was the partner of Agnes Sempill, the girl who had

trembled for a moment lest Mr Torrance of Tinto
might be going to select her from the many that
smiled upon him. She would have married him had
this been ; but it must be said for her that she was
unfeignedly glad to have escaped. This having been
the case, it will be apparent that poor Agnes was no
longe? in her first youth. She was five or six and
twenty  young enough, yet not altogether a girl;
and she knew, poor young woman, that she must
marry the next man who offered himself,  they were
so poor 1 and her mother did not fail to impress upon
her that she was losing all her chances. She looked
upon John Erskine, accordingly, with more critical
interest than is ordinarily felt. He was about her
own age, but she decided that he was too young;
and she hoped, whatever he was going to do in the
matrimonial way, that he would show his intentions
at once, and not force her mother into unnecessary
efforts. " Too young  but he might do very well for
Mary," she said to herself ; and then she turned to
him to talk about croquet, as if there was no such
important subject.

It is such a thing to have something that can be
played out of doors ! " she said. " Well, not so much
in Scotland, that is true, but still we want a little
variety. Do you play golf, Mr Erskine ? The ladies'
golf is very nice ; it is only Putting  but you won't

understand what that means. At St Andrews there
is the Ladies' Links "

Which sound romantic and picturesque, at least"

Oh, it is not at all romantic  picturesque after a
sort. Seaside slopes  what you call downs in England
; but I can't describe it. Is it my turn ? You
should be able to get me nicely through that hoop
next stroke you make. Sir James is always tha first
to get us any novelty that is going. He is always on
the outlook for something. This is the very first in
the county. They have not got croquet yet even at
Lindores."

Does Lindores generally set the fashion ? " said
John indiscreetly, not knowing what to say.

The fashion ! oh no, certainly not," cried Miss
Sempill. " Of course they are the highest rank, and
walk in and out before us all; but for anything.

else You used to know them, I hear, Mr

Erskine. Tell me something about them. Oh, weare
neighbours, but not great friends. We do not
move about very much ; we are humble people, without
carriages and horses. I suppose iliey lived very
quietly before "

I only knew them," said John, learning to employ
the universal formula, " abroad ; and as the way of
living is so different "

Ah ! is it really so ? " said Agnes, with quick interest

; " do people really live so much cheaper abroad ?
I suppose you are not expected to keep up appearances
in the same way; and then you get all your
amusements so cheaply, and you can do a great deal,
aod go about a great deal, on very little. I have
always heard that. But when you've a large family,
the mere travelling must be a large item. I should
think it would swallow up all the savings for the
first year."

The question was one which interested her so much
that she scarcely left time for a reply.

'' I have often thought of it," she said. " The girls,
poor things, get so little to amuse them here. Abroad,
so far as one hears, there is nothing but amusement.
Concerts and operas for next to nothing, and always a
band playing somewhere  isn't it so ? And you get
houses quite cheap, and servants that will turn their
hand to anything. I suppose the Lindores lived in
quite a humble way out there ? "

"They moved about a great deal, I believe," said
John. " In summer, in the mountains, whether you
are rich or poor, it does not make much difference."

This was all the young man knew. Miss Sempill
interrupted him with an eager light in her eyes,
"Doesn't it, really? Then that is the ideal place I
have been looking for all my life  a place where, to
be rich or poor, makes no difference Oh, is it

my turn again ? what a nuisance ! Mr Erskine is
telling me of a place I have dreamt of all my life."

"But you must bestir yourself  you must bestir
yourself," cried the old general. " Select, my dear ;
you're one of many  you must not mind your own
enjoyment for the moment. Ay, my young friend, so
you've been telling a lady of a place she's dreamed of
all her life ?  that's better than bothering your head
about hospitals or my lord's schemes. Come, come,
John Erskine, put your heart into it : here are some
of the bonniest faces in the North waiting to see you
play."

John was not dull to this inducement. It was a
pretty group which gathered round as spectators,
watching every stroke. All the Sempill girls, an
eager group of pretty portionless creatures, eager for
every kind of pleasure, and getting very little, envious
in a sisterly way of Agnes, who knew the new game,
and who had secured the new gallant. They were
envious yet proud of her. " Our Agnes knows all
about it," they said ; " she has tried to teach us ;
but one person can never teach a game : when you
see it played, you learn in a moment." They looked
over each other's shoulders to see John play, which
he did very badly, as was natural ; and then they
dropped him and followed the next player, Willie
Montgomery, Sir James's grand-nephew, who, they

all agreed, did a great deal better. Our young man,
in spite of himself, felt a little discomfited. He
came back to his partner to be consoled,  though,
as he had failed to do her the service with her
ball which she expected, she was a little dissatisfied
too. She was disposed to be cross because her play
in the new game had failed of its triumphant effect
through her partner's fault. "You have not played
much, Mr Erskine, I suppose ? Oh, it does not
matter  when nobody knows, one style of play is
just as good as another ; but I thought no one could
have missed that ball. Never mind, it is not
of the least importance. Tell me more about 
abroad."

"If you will tell me," said John, much mortified
by these remarks, "what you understand by
abroad."

Oh, it is all a little the same thing, isn't it ? The
first place you can think of  where the Lindores lived.
I daresay it was just as important to them then as it
is to us now to be economical, and spend as little as
they could."

The interest that people take in the place where
I met the Lindores is astonishing," said John.
I had to go through a catechism at Tinto the
other night."

Ah ! then you have been at Tinto. Do you

think, Mr Erskine, they are so very unhappy as
people say?"

"I do not know what people say," was all the
answer John could make.

"There is nothing they don't say," cried Miss
Sempill ; " that he beats her  I have heard as much
as that. I wonder if it can be at all her fault ?
I never cared for Pat Torrance myself, but nobody
thought that of him before he was married. Do
you think, perhaps, if she had taken a little more

interest at first One can never tell; he was

always rough, but not such a savage as that."

I have no opinion on the subject. I am only
a stranger, you know," John said.

*' Ah ! but I can see your opinion in your face.
You think it is he that is to blame. Well, so he
is, no doubt; but there are generally faults, don't
you think, on both sides? And then, you see, she
was brought up abroad  one always feels that is
a little risky for a girl. To be sure, you may turn
upon me and say, why ask so many questions about
it if you hold such an opinion of it? But there is
a difference : we are all grown up but Lucy ; and
if mamma and five of us cannot take care of
Lucy Both of the Lindores have that disadvantage.
Don't you think Lady Edith is a little
high and mighty? She thinks none of us are

good enough for her. They are not very friendly,
neither the one nor the other. They don't feel at
home among us, I suppose. No doubt it is our fault
as much as theirs," this candid critic said.

Thus John heard nothing but the same sentiment
over and over again repeated. His friends were
not popular, and he himself stood in some danger
of being reckoned as of their faction. There was no
one so bold as to undertake the defence of Torrance ;
and yet there was a certain toleration accorded to
him, as if his case had extenuating circumstances.
John did not distinguish himself that afternoon as
his friends expected him to do. His play was
feeble, and did no credit to his training in "the
South ; " and as he continued to be interrogated by
every new-comer about his own antecedents and his
former acquaintance with the Lindores, it was difficult
for him to repress all signs of impatience.
There was not very much variety in the talk of
the county, to judge by these specimens. They all
asked how he liked the North, what he thought of
the society, and something or other about the absent
family. The monotony was broken when he was
taken into the drawing-room to be surveyed by the
old ladies. Old Mrs Methuen, in her old yellow
lace and shabby feathers, who looked to him like a
superannuated cockatoo, pronounced once more that

he was the image of Walter Erskine, who was killed
in the French war, and who was the first man she
ever saw in his own hair, without even a ribbon.
It looked very naked like," the old lady repeated ;
no just decent, but you soon got used to it." When
these greetings and introductions were over, Miss
Barbara took his arm, and declared her intention
of taking a turn on the green and inspecting the
new game. But it was not the game which interested
the old lady. She had a word of warning to
say.

John, my man ! at your age you think little of
good advice  above all, from an old woman; but
just one word. You must not bind yourself hand
and foot to the Lindores. You have your own place
to uphold, and the credit of your family. We've
all formed our opinion of them ; and if you're to
be considered as one of them, a kind of retainer
of theirs "

Retainer ! " cried John, deeply piqued. Then he
made an effort to recover his temper. "You must
see how unreasonable this is," he said, with a forced
smile. "They are the only people I know. I have
the greatest respect for them all, but I have done
nothing to  identify myself with the family."

He spoke with some heat, and reddened, much to
his annoyance. What way but one was there of

identifying himself with them? and what hope was
there that he would ever be permitted to do that?
The mere suggestion in his own bosom made him red,
and then pale.

"You take up their opinions  you support their
plans ; you're a partisan, or so they tell me. All
that is bad for you, John, my man ! You'll excuse
me speaking; but who should take an interest in
you if it's not me ? "

"All this is absurd," he cried. "Take up their
opinions ! I think the Earl is right about a county
hospital. I will support him in that with all my
heart. Your favourite minister. Aunt Barbara "

I have no favourite minister," said Miss Barbara,
somewhat sharply. " I never let myself be influenced
by one of them, lou mean the Doctor, I suppose ?
he's far too advanced for me. Ay, that's just the
man I'm meaning. He tells me you're taking up
all the Lindores's plans  a great satisfaction to
him, for he's a partisan too. Mind, I say nothing
against the hospital. What other places have, we
ought to have too. We have the same needs as our
neighbours. If Perth has one, I would have one 
that's my principle. But I would not take it up
because it's a plan of Lord Lindores's. And I hear
you and that muckle lout Pat Torrance were nearly
coming to blows "

Is that the minister too ? " John cried, angrily.

"No, it's not the minister; the minister had nothing
to say to it. Don't you take up a prejudice against
the minister. That's just as silly as the other way.
It was another person. Pat Torrance is just a brute ;
but you'll make little by taking up the defence of
the weaker side there. A woman should hold her
tongue, whatever happens. You must not set up, at
your age, as the champion of ill-used wives."

"So far from that," said John, with fierce scorn,
"the tipsy brute swore eternal friendship. It was
all I could do to shake him off."

But Miss Barbara still shook her head. " Let them
redd their quarrels their own way," she said. " Stand
you on your own feet, John. You should lay hands
suddenly on no man, the Apostle says. Mr Mony-penny,
is that you ? I am reading our young man a
lecture. I am telling him the old vulgar proverb,
that every herring should hang by its ain head."

And there's no' a truer proverb out of the Scriptures,
Miss Barbara," said Mr Monypenny, a man of
middle age, and grizzled, reddish aspect. It irritated
John beyond description to perceive that the newcomer
understood perfectly what was meant. It had
evidently been a subject of discussion among all, from
Sir James to the agent, who stood before him now,
swaying from one leg to another, and meditating

his own contribution to the arguments already set
forth.

"Miss Erskine is very right, as she always is.
Whatever her advice may be, it will carry the sympathy
of all your well-wishers, Mr John, and they
are just the whole county, man and woman. I cannot
say more than that, and less would be an untruth."

I am much obliged to my well-wishers, I am sure.
I could dispense with so much solicitude on their
part," cried John, with subdued fury. Old aunts and
old friends may have privileges; but to be schooled
by your man of business  that was more than flesh
and blood could bear.

VOL. n.

CHAPTEK XVIII.

It happened after this that John Erskine, by no will
of his own, was drawn repeatedly into the society of the
somewhat lonely pair at Tinto. Torrance had never
been popular, though the county extended to him that
toleration which a rich man, especially when young, is
apt to receive. There were always benevolent hopes
that he might mend as long as he remained unmarried ;
and after his marriage, his wife bore the blame of
more than half his misdeeds. To tell the truth, poor
Carry, being so unhappy, did not take pains to conciliate
her neighbours. Some she took up with
almost feverish eagerness, and she had two or three
impassioned friends ; but she had none of that sustaining
force of personal happiness which makes it
possible to bear the weariness of dull country company,
and she had not taken any particular pains to please
the county : so that, except on the periodical occasions
when the great rooms were thrown open to a large

party, she and her husband, so little adapted as they
were to indemnify each other for the loss of society,
lived much alone in their great house, with none of
that coming and going which enlivens life. And
since what he called the satisfaction which John had
given him, Torrance had experienced a sort of rough
enthusiasm for his new neighbour. He was never
weary of proclaiming him to be an honest fellow.
"That's the way to meet a man," he would say 
straightforward ; if there's any mistake, say it out."
And Erskine was overwhelmed with invitations to
look in as often as he pleased," to " take pot-luck,"
to come over to Tinto as often as he wearied.
Sometimes he yielded to those solicitations out of
pity for poor Carry, who seemed, he thought, pleased
to see him ; and sometimes because, in face of this
oppressive cordiality, it was difficult to say no. He
did not enjoy these evenings ; but the soft look of
pleasure in poor Carry's eyes, the evident relief with
which she saw him come in, went to John's heart.
Not a word had passed betwen them on the subject
which all their neighbours discussed so fully. No
hint of domestic unhappiness crossed Carry's lips :
and yet it seemed to John that she had a kind of
sisterly confidence in him. Her face brightened
when he appeared. She did not engage him in long
intellectual conversations as she did Dr Stirling.

She said, indeed, little at all to him, but she was
grateful to him for coming, and relieved from that
which she would not complain of or object to  the
sole society of her husband. This consciousness
touched John more than if he had been entirely in
her confidence. A kind of unspoken alliance seemed
to exist between them.

One evening when June was nearly over in the
long never-ending Northern daylight, this tacit understanding
was at once disturbed and intensified. John
had been captured by his too cordial neighbour in
the languid afternoon wien he had nothing to do,
and had been feeling somewhat drearily the absence
of occupation and society. Torrance could not supply
him with either, but his vacant condition left
him without excuse or power to avoid the urgent
hospitality. He had walked to Tinto in all the familiarity
of county neighbourhood, without evening dress
or ceremony of any kind. They had dined without
the epergnes and mountains of silver which Torrance
loved, in the low dining-room of the old house of
Tinto, which still existed at one end of the great
modern mansion. This room opened on the terrace
which surrounded the house, with an ease not possible
in the lofty Grecian erection, well elevated from the
ground, which formed the newer part. Lady Caroline,
who had left the gentlemen some time before, became

visible to them as they sat at their wine, walking up
and down the terrace with her baby in her arms.
The child had been suffering from some baby ailment,
and had been dozing a great part of the day, which
made it unwilling to yield to sleep when evening
came. The mother had brought it out wrapped ina
shawl, and was singing softly to lull it to rest.
The scene was very tranquil and sweet. Sunset reflections
were hanging still about the sky, and a
pearly brightness was diffused over the horizon  light
that looked as if it never meant to fade. The trees
of the park lay in clustered masses at their feet, the
landscape spread out like a map beyond, the hills
rose blue against the ethereal paleness of the distance.
Close at hand, Lady Caroline's tall, pliant figure, so
light and full of languid grace, yet with a suggestion
of weakness which was always pathetic, went and
came  the child's head upon her shoulder, her own
bent over it  moving softly, singing under her breath.
The two men, sitting together with little conversation
or mutual interest between them, were roused by the
sight of this passing figure. Even Tinto's rude gaze
was softened by it. He looked out at his wife and
child with something more like human tenderness than
was usual to him. Himself for a moment gave place
in the foreground to this embodiment of the nearest
and closest ties of life. He stopped in the talk

which he was giving forth at large in his usual loud
monologue, unaffected by any reply, and something
softened the big balls of his light projecting eyes.
"Let's step outside and finish our cigars," he said,
abruptly. Lady Caroline herself looked different
from her wont. The child against her heart soothed
the pain in it : there is no such healing application.
It was not a delightful child, but it was her own.
One of its arms was thrown round her neck; its
head, heavy with sleep, to which it would not yield,
now nestled into her shoulder, now rose from it with
a sleepy half-peevish cry. She was wholly occupied
with the little perverse creature, patting it with one
thin soft hand, murmuring to it. The little song she
was crooning was contemptible so far as music went,
but it was soft as a dove's cooing. She had forgotten
herself, and her woes, and her shipwrecked life.
Even when that harsher step came out on the gravel,
she did not recognise it with her usual nervous start.
All was soothed and softened in the magical evening
calm, in the warm softness of the baby, lying against
the ache in its mother's heart.

And Torrance, for a wonder, did not disturb this
calm. He stopped to touch the child's cheek with his
finger as his wife passed him, but as this broke once
more the partial slumber, he subsided into quiet with
a sense of guiltiness, puffing his cigar at intervals, but

stepping as lightly as he could with his heavy feet,
and saying nothing. A touch of milder emotion had
come to his rude bosom. Not only was that great
park, those woods, and a large share of the surrounding
country, his own, but this woman with her baby
was his, his property, though so much more delicate,
and finer than he. This moved him with a kind of
wondering sense of the want of something which amid
so much it might yet be possible to attain  happiness,
perhaps, in addition to possession. His breast swelled
with pride in the thought that even while thus engrossed
in the humblest feminine occupation, like any
cottager, nobody could mistake Lady Car Torrance for
anything less than she was. They might think hera
princess, perhaps. He did not know any princess
that had that carriage, he said to himself; but less or
meaner, nobody could suppose her to be. And he was
touched to see her with his child, her whole soul 
that soul which had always eluded him, and retained
its chill superiority to him  wrapped up in the baby,
who was his as much as hers. There was in the air
a kind of flutter of far-off wings, as if peace might becoming,
as if happiness might be possible even between
this ill-matched pair.

John Erskine was the spectator in this curious
domestic scene. He looked on with wondering, half-pleased,
half-indignant observation. He was almost

angry that Carry should be lowered to the level of
this husband of hers, even if it gave her for a time
a semblance of happiness ; and yet his heart was
touched by this possibility of better things. When
the child went to sleep, she looked up at the two men
with a smile. She was grateful to her husband for
his silence, for bringing no disturbance of the quiet
with him and grateful to John for having, as she
thought, subdued Torrance by his influence. She
made to them both that little offering of a grateful
smile as she sat down on the garden seat, letting the
child rest upon her knee. The baby's head had slid
down to her arm, and it lay there in the complete and
perfect repose which a mother's arms, protecting, sustaining,
warm, seem to give more than any bed. The
air was so sweet, the quiet so profound, that Carry
was pleased to linger out of doors. Not often had she
shown any desire to linger in her husband's society
when not bound by duty to do so. This evening she
did it willingly. For the moment, 2. fcmx air of wellbeing,
of happiness and domestic peace, seemed to
pervade the earth and the air. " It is so sweet, it
cannot do her any harm to stay out a little," she said,
smiling at them over the baby's sleeping face, which
was half hidden in the soft, fleecy white shawl that
enveloped it. John Erskine sat down at a little distance,
and Torrance stood with a half humility about

him, half ashamed, willing to do or say something
which would be tender and conciliatory, but not
knowing how. They began to talk in low tones,
Erskine and Carry bearing the frais of the conversation.
Sometimes Torrance put in a word, but generally
the large puffs of his cigar were his chief contribution.
He was willing to let them talk. Nay, he was not
without a certain pleasure, in this softened mood of
his, in hearing them talk. He would have allowed
freely that conversation was not in his way.

They are coming now in about ten days," Carry
said. " Of course they have stayed longer than they
meant to stay. People never leave town on the appointed
day."

There are so many people to see."

And so many things are put off till the last. I
remember how hurried we were,  how rapidly the
days flew at the end."

You do not go to town now ? "

Ko," she said, hurriedly ; " it is no deprivation.
We  neither of us  care for London."

Torrance felt a certain gratitude to his wife for thus
identifying her inclinations with his. " If truth were
told, maybe that might be modified," he said. " I
daresay you would like it, Car. You would get people
to talk to. That's what amuses her," he added, with
an explanatory glance at John. It was a novel sort

of pleasure to him to give this amiable explanation of
Lady Caroline's peculiarities, without any of the rough
satire in it with which he was accustomed to treat the
things he did not understand ; and his constant pride
in her found a new outlet. "It's not gaieties she
wants, it's conversation," he said, with a softened
laugh. " Next year we must see if we can't manage
it, Car."

She turned to him with a startled glance, not knowing
whether to deprecate all change so far as herself
was concerned, or to thank him for this unusual
thoughtfulness. Fortunately, her instinct chose the
latter course. " It is kind of you to think of me," she
said, in her soft voice. In all their wretched married
life, they had never been so near before. He replied
by his usual laugh, in which there was always a
consciousness of that power of wealth which he could
never forget he possessed. Oh yes, he would do it 
he could do it whenever he pleased  buy pleasures
for her, just as he might buy dresses or jewels for her,
if she would take a little pains to make herself agreeable.
But even the laugh was much softer than usual.
She gave him a little nod over the sleeping child, in
which there was kindness as well as an astonished
gratitude. Perhaps she had never been so much at
her ease with him before.

They are going to fill the house in the autumn,"

she said, returning to the previous subject. " I hear
of several people coming. A certain Lord Millefleurs
"

"That reminds me," said John, "that I had a
letter the other day  from one of our old Swiss party.
You will remember him, Lady Caroline "

Here he paused, with a sudden recollection and
putting together of various things which, in the
curious inadvertence of an indifferent mind, he had
not thought of before. This made him break off
somewhat suddenly, and raise his eyes to Carry, at
whom he had not been looking, with an alarmed
glance.

He saw her take a large grasp, in the hand which
had been laid softly upon it, at ease, with extended
fingers, of the baby's shawl. Her face, which had
been so smiling and soft, grew haggard and wild in a
moment. Her eyes seemed to look out from caverns.
There was a momentary pause, which seemed to
arouse heaven and earth to listen. Then her voice
came into this suddenly altered, vigilant, suspicious
atmosphere. "Who was it, Mr Erskine?" Poor
Carry tried to smile, and to keep her voice in its
usual tone. But the arrow flying so suddenly at a
venture had gone straight into her heart. She had
no need to ask  had she not divined it all along?
" Probably you have forgotten  his very name. It

was  one of those fellows," stammered John. " I
forget how little a party like ours was likely to
interest you. Beaufort  you may remember the
name."

He felt that every word he uttered  his artificial
levity, his forced attempt to make that unimportant
which only his consciousness that it was deeply
important could have suggested such a treatment of,
was a new folly. He was doing it for the best 
most futile of all excuses. When he looked at her
again at the end of this speech, not daring to meet
her eyes while he gave it forth, he saw, to his astonishment,
a rising colour, a flutter of indignation, in
Carry's pale face.

Surely," she said, with a strange thrill in her
voice, "you do your friend injustice, Mr Erskine.
So far as I remember, he was very distinguished 
far the most "remarkable of the party. I do not
think I can be mistaken."

No, no, you are quite right," John cried ; " I only
meant that  these things were much to us ; but I
did not know whether you would recollect  whether
to a lady "

"You are all so contemptuous of women," Lady
Caroline said, with a faint smile, "even the kindest
of you. You think a lady would only notice frivolous
excellences, and would not care for real distinction.

That is a great mistake. It is all the other way.
It is we who think of these things most."

I beg a thousand pardons  I had no such meaning,"
John said ; and she made him a little tremulous
bow. She was so deadly pale, that he expected every
moment to see her faint. But she did not. She
continued, naturally calling him back to what he had
been about to tell her.

You had a letter from Mr Beaufort ? about

you were going to tell me "

"About coming here," said John, feeling that to
say it out bluntly was now the best. " It appears
he has a sort of charge of this Lord Millefleurs."

Charge of Lord ? That is not a dignified

position  for  your friend, Mr Erskine."

No. I don't know what it means ; he has not
made the progress he ought to have made ; but there
is something special about this," said John, hesitating,
not knowing how far to go.

Again Lady Caroline made him a little bow. She
rose, with some stiffness and slowness, as if in pain.
It grows late, though it is so light. Baby will be
better indoors," she said. She went quickly away,
but wavering a little in her gait, as if she were unconscious
of obstacles in the way, and disappeared
through the window of the old library, which was on
the same level as the dining-room. John stood looking

after her, with a bewildering sense of guilt, and
alarm for he knew not what. All this time Torrance
had not said a word; but he had taken in every
word that was said, and his jealous eyes had noted
the changes in his wife's face. He watched her go
away, as John did. When she had disappeared, both
of them listened for a moment in silence. Neither
would have been surprised to hear a fall and cry;
but there was nothing. Torrance threw himself down
heavily in the seat from which she had risen.

That was a pity, Erskine," he said ; " you saw that
well enough. You can tell me the rest about this
Beaumont  Beaufort  what do you call him ?  that
you thought it best not to tell Lady Car."

"There is nothing to tell about Beaufort," said
John, " which Lady Caroline, or any lady, might not
hear."

Now just look you here, John Erskine," said
Tinto, projecting his big eyes, " I thought you were
he  that is the truth. She told me there was somebody.
I thought it was you, and I was determined
to be at the bottom of it. Now here's the man,
beyond a doubt, and you know it as well as I do."

"I don't know it at all," cried John, "which
probably is as much as you do. Can you suppose I
should have spoken to Lady Caroline as I did if I
had supposed  believed  known anything at all ? "

I will say," said Torrance, " that you're an honest
fellow. That stands to reason: you wouldn't have
opened your mouth if you had thought but then you
never thought till after you had spoken. Then you
saw it as well as me."

'torrance!" cried John, "for heaven's sake, don't
imagine things that were never thought of ! I know
nothing about it  absolutely nothing. Even had there
been anything in it, it is six years ago  it is all over ;
it never can have had anything to say to you "

Oh, as for that," said Torrance, " if you think I've
any fear of Lady Car going wrong, set your mind at
rest on that point. No fear of Lady Car. If you suppose
I'm jealous, or that sort of thing "  and here he
laughed, insolent and dauntless. " I thought it was
you," he said  " I don't see why I should conceal that
I thought it was you. And if you think I would
have shut her ladyship up, or challenged you ! not a
bit of it, my fine fellow ! I meant to have asked you
here  to have seen you meet  to have taken my fun
out of it. I'm no more afraid of Lady Car than I am of
myself. Afraid !  not one bit. She shall see just as
much of him as possible, if he comes here. I mean to
ask him to the house. I mean to have him to dinner
daily. You can tell him so, with my compliments.
You needn't say any more to Lady Car ; but as forme,
there's nothing I'd enjoy more. Tutoring, is he ? "

Torrance said, with a sort of chuckle of wrathful
enjoyment : and he cast an eye over his demesne,
with a glow of proud satisfaction upon his face.

The sentiment of the evening calm had altogether
disappeared. The peace of nature was broken up ;
a sense of human torture, human cruelty, was in the
air. It was as if a curtain had been lifted in some
presence-chamber, and the rack disclosed beneath.
Torrance lounged back  with his hands in his pockets,
his cheeks inflamed, his great eyes rolling  in the
seat from which poor Carry with her baby had risen.
His mind, which had been softened, touched to better
things, and which had even begun to think of means
and ways of making her happier, turned in a moment
to more familiar preoccupations. To have him here
he who was merely " tutoring," a genteel attendant
upon a foolish young lord,  to exhibit him, probably
penniless, probably snubbed by everybody around,
a dependant, a man without position or wealth, 
was an idea altogether delightful to him. It was
indeed a fierce delight, a cruel pleasure; but it was
more congenial to his mind than the unnatural softness
of the hour before.

And was it all John Erskine's doing?  his foolishness,
his want of thought? When he left Torrance
in disgust, and hurried away along the now
familiar avenue, where he no longer took any wrong

turns, his foolishness and thoughtlessness overwhelmed
him. To be sure !  a thousand recollections rushed
upon his mind. He had known it all along, and
how was it that he had not known it ? The moment
he had committed himself and begun to speak of
Beaufort's letter, that moment he had foreseen everything
that followed  just as poor Carry had read
what was coming in his first sentence. It was he
who had disturbed the evening calm  the rapprochement
of the two who, doomed as they were
to live their lives together, ought by all about them
to be helped to draw near each other. Full of these
disquieting thoughts, he was skirting a clump of
thick shrubbery at some distance from the house,
when something glided out from among the bushes
and laid a sudden light touch upon his arm. He
was already in so much excitement that he could
not suppress a cry of alarm, almost terror. There
was no light to distinguish anything, and the dark
figure was confused with the dark foliage. Almost
before the cry had left his lips, John entreated pardon.
" You are  breathing the evening air," he said,
confused, " now that the little one is asleep."

But she had no leisure for any vain pretences.
Mr Erskine," she said, breathless, " do not let him
come  ask him not to come ! I have come out to tell
you. I could not say it  there."

VOL. II. F

I will do whatever you tell me, Lady Caroline."

I know you will be kind. This makes me very
miserable. Oh, it is not that I could not meet him !
It is because I know my husband has an idea, 
not that he is jealous  and he does not mean to be

cruel,  but he has an idea He would like to look

on, to watch. That is what I could not bear. Tell
him, Mr Erskine  beg him  of all places in the world,
not to come here."

He will not come, I am sure, to give you a
moment's uneasiness."

"Mr Erskine, I must say more to you," she said,
drawing closer, putting once more her hand on his
arm. "It must not be on that ground  nothing
must be said of me. Cannot you understand? He
must not come ; but not because of me  nothing
must be said of me. If it was your sister, oh would
you not understand ? "

He took her hand into his in the profound feeling
of the moment. " I will try to do  what I
should do if it were my own sister," he said, resting
it in his. " It was my fault ; I ought to have
known."

There was no fault," she said, faintly ; " an
accident. I knew it must happen some time. I
was  prepared. But, Mr Erskine, it is not because
I could not meet  any one. Do not think that forme

only It is because  because But if

you understand, that is all."

Let me walk back with you to the house," John
said.

No, no ; it is almost wrong to speak to you
in this clandestine way. But what can I do ? And

you who know  all parties If I said anything

to my brother, it might make a breach. There is
no one I could speak to but you. I should have
had to suffer helplessly, to hold my peace."

"Believe me  believe me," cried John, "all that
a brother can do, I will do."

In the midst of this misery, which he felt to the
bottom of his heart, there ran through him a secret
stir of pleasure. Her brother !  the suggestion went
through all his veins. Strange encounter of the dream
with the fact! The cold trembling hand he held
in his gave him a thrill of warmth and happiness,
and yet his sympathy was as strong, his pity as
profound, as one human creature ever felt for another.
He stood still and watched her as she flitted back
to the house, like a shadow in the gathering darkness.
His heart ached, yet beat high. If it should
ever be so, how different would be the fate of the
other daughter of Lindores's !  how he would guard
her from every vexation, smooth every step of her way,
strew it with flowers and sweetness ! He resumed

his way more quickly than ever, hastening along
in the soft darkness which yet was not dark, by
the Scar  the short cut which had alarmed his
groom. To the pedestrian the way by the Scar
was the best way. He paused a moment when he
reached it, to look out through the opening in the
trees over the broad country, lying like a dream in
that mystical paleness which was neither night nor
day. Underneath, the river rushed joyously, noisily,
through the night  not still, like a Southern stream,
but dashing over the stones, and whirling its white
eddies in foam against the bank. The sound of
the water accompanied the quick current of his
thoughts. He had a long walk before him, having
come without preparation and left in haste and
displeasure. But seven or eight miles of country
road in a night of June is no such punishment.
And the thoughts that had been roused in him, made
the way short. How different  how different would bethe
fate of that other daughter of Lindores's ! It was
only when he reached his own gate that he woke
up with a start to remember indeed how different it
would be. The bare little white house, with its
little plantation, its clump of firs on the hilltop, its
scanty avenue  the little estate, which could almost
be said, with scornful exaggeration, to lie within
the park of Tinto  the position of a small squire's

wife, was it likely that Lord Lindores would smile
upon that for his daughter? John's heart, which
had been so buoyant, sank down into the depths.
He began to see that his dream was ridiculous, his
elation absurd. He to be the brother, in that sweetest
way, of Carry Lindores ! But nevertheless he
vowed, as he went home somewhat crestfallen, that
he would be a brother to her. She had given him
her confidence, and he had given her his promise,
and with this bond no worldly prudence nor rule
of probabilities should be allowed to interfere.

CHAPTEK XIX.

John Erskine woke with the singing of the birds on
the morning of Midsummer-day. It was early  far
before any civilised hour of waking. When he suddenly
opened his eyes in the sweet strangeness of that
unearthly moment, the sensation came back to his
mind of childish waking in summer mornings long
departed; of getting up in the unutterable stillness
with the sense of being the first adventurer into an
unknown world ; of stealing down-stairs through the
silent visionary house all full of unseen sleepers, like
ghosts behind the closed doors ; of finding, with heart
beating and little hands trembling, half with alarm,
half with delight, the bolt low down on some easily
opened door; and of stepping out into the sweet
dews, into the ineffable glory of sunshine in which
there was no shadow but that little one which was
his own. Nobody alive, nobody awake, except that
riot of the birds in every tree which wounded the

ideal sense of unearthly calm, yet gave a consolatory
consciousness of life and motion in the strange quiet,
though a life incomprehensible, a language unknown.
Strange that this was the first recollection brought to
him in his waking  for the next was very different.
The next was a confused sweet tumult in the air, a
sound in his ears, an echo in his heart : " They are
coming, they are coming ! " He could not feel sure
that somewhere or other in the words there were not
joy-bells ringing  a tinkle of chimes, now rising, now
falling, " as if a door were shut between us and the
sound." "They are coming," everything seemed to
say. The air of the morning blowing in by the open
window puffed it at him with playful sweetness. The
birds sang it, the trees shaped their rustling to the
words, " They are coming."

Well, it was perfectly true. The Earl and Countess
of Lindores, and their daughter. Lady Edith Lindores,
and perhaps their son Lord Eintoul, and it might be
other noble persons in their train, were certainly expected
to arrive that day ; but what was that to John
Erskine of Dalrulzian, a country gentleman of the
most moderate pretensions, with nothing about him
above mediocrity, and no claim to any part or share
in the life led by these great people ? For the moment
John did not ask himself that question. He
only felt after this long interval of solitude and

abandonment that they were coming back. He had
been as it were shipwrecked in this country with
which he was so little acquainted, though it was his
own country : and the time of their absence had
appeared very long to him. He said to himself their
absence  but it will be understood that the absence
of Lord Lindores, for example, had very little importance
to the young man. He would not have been
deeply concerned if that nobleman had been induced
to serve his country and his party in any other sphere.
But it was safer, easier to say their, and to make to
himself a little picture of the reopening of the house,
the feeling of population and warmth that would
breathe about it, the chance even of meeting any
day or hour smiles and pleasant looks on the very
road, and a sense of society in the atmosphere. He
tried to persuade himself that this was what he was
thinking of, or rather he refused to enter into any
analysis of his feelings at all, and allowed his mind
to float upon a vague and delightful current of anticipations,
which he preferred not to examine too closely,
or put into any certain and definite form.

John had not seen either Lady Caroline or her
husband since that unlucky evening. When he returned
home and took out once more Beaufort's letter,
it seemed to him that he could now read between the
lines enough to have enlightened him as to the real

state of affairs. Why should Beaufort hesitate to
accept Lord Lindores's invitation, and ask to be received
into a much humbler house, if there had been
no stringent reason for such a preference ? Beaufort
had been very cautious in the wording of his letter.
He said that it was entirely uncertain whether he
could make up his mind to come at all ; whether,
indeed, in the circumstances he ought to come. He
explained the position in which he stood to Lord
Millefleurs,  not his tutor, which would have been
ridiculous, but his friend, to whom, to please his
father, the young man paid a certain deference. The
control which he thus exercised was merely nominal,
Beaufort added, and quite unnecessary, since nobody
could be more capable of taking care of himself than
Millefleurs ; but it was a satisfaction to the Duke 
and as his future prospects depended upon the Duke's
favour, Beaufort did not need to point out to his friend
the expediency on his part of doing what that potentate
required. He was unwilling to relinquish all
these prospects, and the permanent appointment
which he could confidently expect from the Duke's
favour : but still, at the same time, there were reasons
which might make him do so, and he was not at all
sure that it would not be better to make this sacrifice
than to intrude himself where he was not wanted in
the capacity of attendant on Lord Millefleurs. Thus,

he explained elaborately twice over, his coming at all
was quite uncertain ; but if he did decide to come, it
would be an advantage and ease to him in every way,
to be sure of a pied-parterre in his friend's house, instead
of being forced to thrust himself into a party
where his presence was only invited as an appendage
to his charge. It had occurred to John to wonder
why there was so much hesitation in Beaufort's mind
as to an ordinary visit ; but he had accepted it, asa
susceptibility natural enough to such a mind  with
perhaps a little inconvenient recollection of those far-past
days in which he had been admitted so entirely
into the intimacy of the family, which it was possible
enough he might dislike to visit on another standing.
But now he saw what was the true meaning of the
anxious, cautious letter. Beaufort's object had been
to ascertain from him how the circumstances stood;
whether he ought or ought not to show himself among
people who once held to him such very different
relations. The light of poor Carry's haggard face
threw illumination upon the whole matter. And
what was he to reply?

It might give the reader but a poor idea of John's
intellect if I were to tell how long it took him to concoct
his reply. Never had a task so difficult fallen
into his hands. It was not his part to betray Carry's
alarm and distress, or her husband's fierce and vindictive

gratification in this new way of humbling her.
He assured Beaufort diplomatically that Dalrulzian
was at his entire command then and always, but
owned that he saw all the difficulties of the position,
and felt that his friend had a delicate part to play.
To appear as bear-leader to Millefleurs among people
who had known him in different circumstances would
of itself be disagreeable, and all the more that the
position was nominal, and he had in reality nothing
to do. John had known Millefleurs at Eton, where
he was always the dullest little beggar, but quite able
to take care of himself. It was too funny to find him
cropping up again. " But to waste such talents as
yours," he cried, with the greatest sincerity, "looking
after Millefleurs ! " The Duke ought indeed to show
his gratitude for such self-abnegation. Thus John
went on for a page or two, allowing it to be seen that
he thought the position undesirable, and that he did
not encourage Beaufort's appearance in it. " Of course
you know beforehand that my house is yours in all
circumstances," he repeated  " that goes without saying
; " but even this was so put that it seemed to say,
not " come," but " stay away." It was not a pleasant
office to John. To be inhospitable, to shut his doors
upon a friend, was unspeakably painful to him. It
was something of which he had thought that he never
could be guilty. He longed to modify this coldness

by some explanation of what he meant, but he dared
not. He had promised to be a brother to Carry, and
was it possible that he should betray her ? It seemed
to him that he was betraying Beaufort instead, who
was more to him than Carry had ever been  pretending
to open his doors to him with one hand while
he closed them with another. In such circumstances
a letter is very hard to write. Two or three copies
of it were written before one was produced good
enough to be sent. At last he put together the best
version of his plea which he could accomplish, and
sent it off, very doubtfully. He might be losing his
friend. Beaufort could not fail to see the want of
welcome in it, and he could not be sure that it would
save Carry after all.

All this had passed some time before the day of
the return, and John was convinced at heart that
the purpose of his letter had been accomplished ; that
Beaufort had understood him, and intended rather to
sacrifice his prospects than to make his appearance
in a false position. John was satisfied, and yet he
was wounded to think that he had been the means
of wounding his friend. This, however, and all connected
with it  all the painful part of his life and
of theirs, so far as he was acquainted with it  passed
out of his mind in the excitement and elation of the
consciousness that this day he should see " them "

again. John spent the morning in a kind of suppressed
ecstasy, altogether out of reason. He did not
even ask himself what their return was to him. What
it was to him ! a change of heaven and earth, a filling
up of the veins of life and quickening of every faculty.
He did all he had to do in the morning, with the
consciousness of this coming event running through
everything, filling up every moment with that altogether
foolish elation and rapture. For this it was :
a kind of subtle penetration of every thought by
something which was nothing  by an air, a breath,
as from the celestial fields. They were to arrive
about three o'clock, and John's foolish ecstasy lasted
till about the moment when, if he were going to meet
them, it was time to set off for the station. He had
taken his hat in his hand, with a vague smile about
the corners of his mouth, a light in his eyes, and was
just about to step forth for this happy purpose, when
there suddenly struck him, like a blow, this question,
" "What right have you to go to meet them ? " He
was so entirely taken aback by it, that he retreated
a step as if some one in actual bodily presence had
put the question to him, and opposed his exit. He
gazed round him once, appalled, to see where it came
from ; but, alas ! it came from nowhere,  from a
monitor more intimate than any intruder could be
from his own judgment, which seemed to have been

lying dormant while his imagination and heart were
at work. What right had he to go to meet them?
Was he a relative, a retainer, a member of the family
in any way ? What was he to the Lindores, or they
to him? Everything, but nothing: a neighbour in
the county, a friend that they were so good as to be
very kind to ; but this gave him nothing as a right, 
only the position of gratitude  no more.

He stood in a confusion of doubt and pain for ten
minutes in his own halL There seemed an invisible
barrier before his feet, something which prevented him
from moving. His smile turned to a sort of deprecating,
appealing gaze  to whom ? to nobody  to himself;
for was it not indeed he, and only he, that
stopped his own steps ? At last he stepped out boldly,
flinging scruples to the winds. Why should he say
to any one, even himself, that he was going to meet
them? Nobody could prevent him walking along
the highroad where everybody walked ; and if they
came that way, and he by chance encountered them ?
The smile returned to John's mouth, lurking behind
his soft, young, silky moustache. In that case it
would be ludicrous to think that there could be anything
wrong. Saying which to himself he hurried
down the avenue, feeling that the ten minutes' delay
was enough to have made him late. He walked on
quickly, like a man with a serious object, his heart

beating, his pulse going at full speed. For a long way
off lie watched a white plume of steam floating across
the landscape. He could see it creeping along for
miles, stopping now and then, taking little runs as if
to amuse itself. Eo, that was not the train, but only
one of those stray locomotives which torment expectant
spectators by wandering wildly up and down
like spirits of mischief. Before he reached the station,
Lady Caroline's carriage drove past, and she bent
forward to smile and wave her hand to John. But
this encouraging gesture brought back all his personal
doubts : she was going by right of nature. And
even Torrance had a right to come, though he had no
affection for any of them, nor they for him. Once
more John lingered and delayed. He knew very well
they would be pleased to see him, and if an extreme
desire to see them and welcome them justified his
going, then surely he had that right. But the Earl
would look politely surprised ; and Rintoul, if Pdntoul
was there, would look broadly at him with that stony
British stare which petrifies an intruder. John did
not at all like the idea of Rintoul. If there is a
natural sense of opposition (as people say) between
women who may be considered rival beauties, the
sentiment is so natural a one that it is shared by that
sex which is so much the nobler ; and as a woman
sees through a woman's wiles, so does a man see

through the instincts of another man. John felt that
Eintoul would see through him  that he would set up
an instant opposition and hostility  that he would
let him perceive that where Edith was, a small country
squire, a little Scotch laird, had no business to push
himself in. Eintoul, when John knew him, had been
an innocent little lieutenant  as innocent as a lieutenant
could be expected to be ; yet he knew very
well by instinct that this was what was to be expected
from him. And what if he were there to change the
character of the group ?

John's pace slackened at the thought. From the
moment when Lady Caroline's carriage passed him he
went slower and slower  still, indeed, turning his face
towards the station, but almost hoping that the train
would arrive before he did. However, country trains
are not of that expeditious character. They do not
anticipate the hour, nor the appearance of those who
are coming to meet them. When he reached the
entrance of the station it was not yet in sight, and he
had no further excuse for dallying. But he did not
go in. He walked up behind to a spot where he could
see without being seen, and there waited, with a sense
of humiliation, yet eagerness. It was a very undignified
position. If he meant to meet them, he should
have done it openly : if he did not intend to do so, he
ought to have gone away. But John did neither : he

watched them coming with his heart iu his mouth;
but he did not go forward to greet them when they
came. He saw them get out of the carriage one by
one. He saw the hurried embrace and greeting of
Lady Car to her mother and sister. Then there could
not be any doubt about it. Edith gave a searching
glance all about, sweeping the highway with her
glance both up and down. She vas looking for someone.
Who was it ? Something of the elation of the
morning came back into his mind. For whom was
she looking? She even stood for a moment shading
her eyes with her hand before she followed her mother
to the carriage, to cast another glance round her.
Could it be that she was looking for  oh, never mind
who she was looking for, John cried to himself,
springing over a wall or two, and speeding along by
all the turns he could think of, till he reached a point
of the road where he turned and came quickly back.
He had resolution enough to forego the greeting at
that first moment of arrival ; but the chance of still
seeing them, and thus saving both his pride and his
pleasure, seduced him from all higher thoughts of
self-abnegation. He walked on slowly, but with his
heart beating, and at length heard the roll of the
wheels coming towards him, the sound of voices in
the air. The family were all together in one carriage,
all joyful and beaming in the reunion. Even Lady
VOL. n. G

Car's pale face was lighted with smiles ; and Lord
Lindores, if he did not take much part in the family
talk, did not frown upon it. The coachman drew up
of himself as John appeared, and Lady Lindores
called to him almost before the carriage stopped.
"Late, Mr Erskine, late!" she cried. "Carry told
us you were coming to meet us." John was half
wounded, half consoled by the accusation ; he could
not hear himself blamed without an impulse of self-defence.
" Indeed I was not late ; I saw you arrive ;
but I thought  you might think  it seemed presumptuous
to thrust myself in." " Why, here is chivalry ! "
said Lady Lindores with a smile, giving him her hand.
And then the flutter of conversation was resumed,
one voice interrupting another, putting questions to
which there was no answer, and making statements
to which nobody paid any attention. John stood and
nodded and smiled by the side of the carriage for a
minute or two. And then that moving little world of
expressive faces, of hasty words, understood d demi-mot,
of hearts so closely united, yet so different, swept
past him again with ringing of the horses' hoofs and
jingle of the harness, and lively murmur of the voices.
It swept past, and John was left,  why, just as he
had been before  just as he knew he would be left, 
out of it  altogether out of it ! as he knew very well
he should be. He walked along the way he had been

going, away from his own house, away from anywhere
that he could possibly want to go, plodding very
silently and solemnly along, as if he had some serious
purpose, but meaning nothing  thinking of nothing.
What a fool he was ! Had he even for a moment
expected to be taken away with them, to follow them
up to Lindores, to be admitted into all their first talk
and confidence ? Not he : he had known well enough
that his place was outside,  that a roadside greeting,
a genial smile, a kindly hand held out, was all the
share he could have in the pleasure of the homecoming.
Nothing more  what could there be more ?
He knew all that as well as he knew anything. Why
then was he such an idiot as to walk on mile after
mile he did not know where, with his head down, and
the most deadly seriousness depicted on his countenance?
At length he burst into a sudden short
laugh, and turning back went home slowly. Never
had his house looked so dreary, so secluded, so shut
in before. He went in and ate his dinner humbly,
without a word (so people say) to throw at a dog. He
had been quite aware that he was to dine alone ; he
knew exactly the dimensions of the room, the shabby
air of the old furniture, the lowness of the roof,  why
then should he have been so depressed by all these
familiar objects ? There was nothing at all to account
for it, except that event which had filled him with

such delightful anticipations, and brightened earth and
heaven to him this morning. They were coming
home. They had come home. This, which was
enough to change the very temperature, and turn
earth into heaven, was now the cause of a depth of
moral depression which seemed to cloud the very
skies ; and this without any unkindness, any offence,
anything that he had not fully expected, and been
certain would happen. But human nature is very
fantastic, and so it was.

You would hear, sir," said old Rolls, " that my
lord and her ladyship, they've come home."

Oh yes ; I have just met them ; all very well and
very bright," said John, trying to assume an air of
satisfaction. "What he did succeed in putting on was
a look of jaunty and defiant discontent.

They would naturally be bright coming out of
that weary London to their own place," said Rolls,
with grave approbation. And then he added, after a
pause, "You'll be thinking now, sir, of making some
return of a' the civilities that's been shown you."

Making a return ! " this was a new idea to John.
He looked up at the Mentor who condescended to
wait upon him, with alarm and almost awe. "To be
sure  you are quite right, Rolls," he said, with humility
; " I wonder I did not think of it before. But can
we ? " John looked round ruefully at his old walls.

"Can we?" cried EoUs in high disdain. "You
neither ken me, nor Bauby, nor yet yourself, to ask
such a question. If we can ! That can we ! If
you'll take my advice, ye'll include a' classes, sir.
Yell have the elders to their dinner ; and the youngsters,
ye'll give a ball to them."

A ball ! " cried John, opening his eyes. The
boldness of the suggestion, the determined air with
which Rolls faced his master, setting down his foot as
one who was ready to face all dangers for the carrying
out of a great design, touched the humorous sense in
the young man's mind. He laughed, forgetting the
previous burden of his desolation. " But how to give
a ball, Rolls," he said, " in this small house?"

I ask your pardon, sir," said Rolls, gravely. " In
the light o' Tinto, maybe it's a small house ; but Tinto
never was a popular place. Oh ay, there where balls
there, when he was a Seeker himsel'  I'm meaning
when he was looking out for a wife, before he married
her ladyship, poor thing ! But this is not a small
house if ye consider the other houses, where everything
that's lightsome goes on. And it's you that's
the Seeker now. You're wanting a teddy yourself', 
that stands to reason."

Here John felt that he ought to be angry, and shut
the mouth of so inappropriate a counsellor. But
Rolls had no sense of his own inappropriateness. He

went on calmly, notwithstanding the laugh and exclamation
with which his master interrupted him.

"That's aye an attraction," said the old servant.
I'm not saying, sir, though I think far more of you
in a moral point of view  that ye're the equal of Tinto
as a worldly question. Na, we must keep a hold of
reason. Ye're no' a grand catch like the like o' him.
But ye're far better ; ye're a son-in-law any gentleman
in the country-side might be proud o' ; and any lady,
which is far mair important "

Come, Rolls, no more of this," cried John. '' A
joke is a joke ; but you know you are going too far."

"Me joking! I'm most serious in earnest, sir, if
you'll believe me. I served the house before you
were born. I was here when your father brought his
wife home. Na, I'm not joking. I'm thinking what's
best for my maister and the credit of the house. The
hall county will come; and if ye think we're not
enough to wait upon them, there's Andrew will put
on his blacks; and that sma' groom of yours  I
would have limit him bigger  is a smart lad, though
he's little. The three of us will do fine. I would
recommend a dinner, say the Wednesday. I'm fond
of the middle of the week, no' too near the Sabbath-day,
neither one side nor the other. The dinner on
Wednesday ; and syne on Thursday night the ball.
There would be could things left that would eke out

the supper, and it would all be like one expense. The
fiddlers you could have from Dundee, or even Edinburgh.
And the eatables  there would be no difficulty
about that. We mostly have them within
ourselves. Chickens is aye the staple at a supper.
And I make bold to say, sir, though she is my sister,
that there's no person can tell what Bauby EoUs is
capable of till they've seen her try."

Rolls," cried John, " you're ideas are too magnificent;
you take away my breath."

"No' a bit, sir; no' a bit," said Rolls, encouragingly
; " if ye'll leave it to me, I'll take all the trouble.
We have always said  Bauby and me  that if we
were just left to ourselves  You will make out the
list, sir, and settle the day, and send the invitations ;
and if I might advise, I would say to consult with
Miss Barbara, who naturally would come over for the
occasion, as being your next friend, and take the place
of the mistress ; and to send for some of your friends
(I would recommend officers for choice) would not bea
bad thing ; for young men are aye scarce in the
country, mair especially at this time of the year. We
could put up half-a-dozen," Rolls proceeded, "and
trouble nobody; and that would be a great help if
they were good dancers, and fine lads  which I make
no doubt, sir," he added, with a little inclination of
his head, "friends o' yours would be."

This unexpected new idea was of great service to
John in the dreariness of the long summer evening.
He laughed loud and long, and was infinitely tickled
by the gravity of the project in which Rolls saw no
laughing matter ; but when he strolled listlessly along
the Walk in the long, long, endless light, with no
better companion than a cigar, with wistful eyes
which sought the clear wistful horizon far away, and
thoughts that seemed to fill the whole wide atmosphere
with an unreal yet unconquerable sadness, the idea of
making this silence gay, and seeing her here who had
come home, who had changed the world, but not for
him ; but who yet for him  who could tell ?  might
still turn earth into heaven,  seized upon him with
a curious charm. A ball at Dalrulzian would not bea
very magnificent entertainment, nor was there anything
very elevated or poetical in the idea. Bat there
are certain conditions of mind and moments of life in
which that vague terrestrial paradise which belongs
to youth is always very close at hand, and ready to
descend by the humblest means, by almost any machinery,
out of the skies, making of the commonest
territory enchanted ground.

CHAPTEK XX.

They were very glad to see him,  very kind to him
impossible to be kinder ; ready to enter into all
their experiences of town, and to find out who were
the people he knew among their friends, and to discuss
all their amusements and occupations. Perhaps the
fact that there were few people with whom they could
discuss these proceedings had something to do with
it ; for the county in general went little to town, and
was jealous and easily offended by the superior privileges
of others. But this was a cynical view to take
of the friendly effusion of the ladies when John paid
them the visit which he thought he had timed religiously,
so as neither to be too early, as presuming on
the intimacy they had accorded him, nor too late, as
showing any indifference to it. No such calculation
was in the cordial greeting he received from Lady
Lindores. " You are a great deal too timid, Mr Erskine,"
she said. "No, it is not a fault for a young

man,  but you know what I mean. You would not
come to meet us though you were there, and you
have let two days pass without coming to see us.
Fie ! As your aunt Barbara says, you should have
more confidence in your friends."

Was it possible to be more encouraging, more delightful
than this ? and then they plunged into the
inevitable personalities which are so offensive to outsiders,
but which people with any mutual knowledge
of a certain restricted society are scarcely able to refrain
from. " You know the Seton. There have
been great changes among them. Two of the girls are
married. To whom? Well, I scarcely remember.
Yes, to be sure. Sir Percy Faraway married the eldest,
and they went off to California on their wedding-trip.
And Charley is with his regiment at Cabal. Old
Lady Seton, the grandmother  you know that delightful
old lady  is " and so on, and so on. The

county people thought, with strong disapproval, that
for intelligent people like the Lindores, who gave
themselves airs on this score, it was both frivolous
and derogatory to talk so much about individuals;
but John, who knew the individuals, was not
so critical.

"Eintoul has come with us," said Lady Lindores.
He has paused on the way to pay a little visit ; but
we expect him this evening. He will stay only a

very short time ; but he is coming back again in
August, when the house will be full."

John made a little bow, and no reply. He did not
care for the intelligence. Eintoul, he felt instinctively,
would be no friend to him. And in the little contrariety
produced by this, he, too, brought forth his piece
of news. "I heard of one of your visitors  Lord
Millefieurs. He was my fag at Eton, and the dullest
little fellow. How has he grown up? I have not
seen him since the Eton days."

He is droll still  like a little fat robin-redbreast,"
said Edith, with a laugh.

Lady Lindores checked her daughter with a look.
He is  odd," she said, " but very original and  entertaining."
She had begun in her heart to feel that
something was worth sacrificing to the chance of seeing
Edith a duchess. " They say he has been a kind
of prodigal  but a very virtuous one,  wandering over
the world to see life, as he calls it  a very different
thing from what many of you young men call life, Mr
Erskine."

John felt nettled, he did not quite know why. " I
am glad to know Millefieurs has become so interesting,"
he said. " The only thing that now gives him interest
to me is that I hear Beaufort  you will perhaps recollect
Beaufort, Lady Lindores "

The two ladies started a little, then gave each other

a mutually warning look. "Indeed I remember Mr
Beaufort very well," said Lady Lindores, shaking her
head,  " very well. We have seen him  seen a good
deal of him lately. He is perhaps coming here."

"But we hope not," said Edith, under her breath.

Edith, you must not say anything so unkind."

Oh, mamma, what is the use of pretending to Mr
Erskine ? either he knows already, or he will be sure
to find it out."

There is nothing to find out," said Lady Lindores,
hastily; and then her countenance melted, and she
turned to John, holding out her hand. " You are an
old friend  and I am sure you are a true friend, Mr
Erskine."

I am sure I am true," he said.

Yes, I know it  I know it ! Mr Erskine, there was
something between Carry and Mr Beaufort. You
guessed it even if you did not know ? But afterwards it
became impossible. Her father objected  as he had a
good right to object. And now you know everything is
changed. We women, who take all these things so much
to heart  we don't want Mr Beaufort to come here. We
think it might be painful. Lord Lindores, who probably
has never given the subject another thought, has invited
him to come with Lord Millefleurs. You know he
is acting as a sort of  best friend to Lord Millefleurs."

I must tell you now on my side that I have heard

from Beaufort," said John. " He wrote to me asking
to come to Dalrulzian, if it was decided that he should
come North at all. I answered him that I did not
think he had better come. Pardon me, there was no
betrayal. He did not explain  nor did I explain. I
could not ; it was a mere  intuition with me. I can
scarcely tell even what induced me to do it. I thought
he would find everything so different, and get no
pleasure out of it. I told him he might come to Dal-russian
whenever he liked ; but I think I showed him
that it would be better not to do so. So that is all I
know of it, Lady Lindores."

She looked somewhat anxiously in his face. Alas
that all he knew ? Edith, who had been a keen spectator
of the latter part of this conversation, shook her
head slightly, with a faint incredulous smile; but
Lady Lindores saw no reason to doubt him. She answered
with a little excitement and agitation. 'you
were quite right, Mr Erskine  no pleasure, especially
to him. He could not but feel the difference, indeed.
Thanks for your kind and sensible advice to him.
I hope he will take it. Naturally we had a delicacy
" And here she looked again at her daughter,

who made no reply. Edith had in some points more
insight than her mother, and she had been reading
John's meaning in his looks, while his other listener
considered his words only. Edith thought enough had

been made of Beaufort. She changed the immediate
subject with a laugh, which provoked Lady Lindores.

'' Will Lord Millefleurs," she said, " be permitted, do
you think, mother, to come by himself? Is it safe to
allow him to run about by himself? He is a dangerous
little person, and one never knows what is the
next wild thing he may do."

"You are speaking very disrespectfully of Lord
Millefleurs," said Lady Lindores, provoked.

"I never intended to be respectful' Edith said.
But her mother was really annoyed, and put a summary
conclusion to the talk. She was angry because
her daughter's opinions had not changed, as her own,
all imperceptibly and within herself, had done. Lady
Lindores had gone through a great deal on account of
the little Marquis, whom she had persisted so long in
thinking a nice boy. Eintoul's sermons had become
almost beyond endurance before they left London, and
even her husband had intimated to her that she was
treating a very important suitor far too lightly. It is
hard for a sympathetic woman to remain uninfluenced,
even when she disapproves of them, by the sentiments
expressed around her. Millefleurs had become of additional
importance in her eyes unconsciously, unwillingly
almost, with every word that was said. And
when she had no longer his plump little figure before
her eyes  when he was left behind, and his amusing

personal peculiarities were veiled over by distance 
she ceased to have the relief of that laugh which had
always hitherto delivered her from too grave a consideration
of this subject. The idea of paying court to
any man (much less a fat boy !), in order to secure him
as a husband for Edith, was revolting to her mind ;
but worried and troubled as she was on the subject,
Lady Lindores fell, first, into the snare of feeling, with
relief, that to escape from further persecution of the
same kind was an advantage worth a sacrifice; and
second, that Millefleurs, if he was fat, was good and true,
and that to be a duchess was something when all that
could be said was said against it. For, to be sure, the
season in town had its influences, and she was more susceptible
to the attractions of greatness, wealth, and high
title before it than after. Indeed he was not the husband
she would have desired for her child ; and she
wanted  imprudent woman !no husband at all for
her child, who was the chief consolation left to her in
the world. Still, if Edith must marry, as Eintoul said
if she must marry to increase the family importance
and influence, which was what Lord Lindores had insisted
upon in respect to that pitiful sacrifice at Tinto
why then, influence, wealth, greatness, everything,
were united in the little person of Millefleurs, who was,
besides, a very nice boy, and amused Edith, and would
never harm any woman. This was the conclusion to

which a thousand harassing lectures and remonstrances
had brought her. She had not said a word of the
change, which had worked imperceptibly, and chiefly
in the long sleepless night of the railway journey, to
Edith; and yet, with natural inconsistency, she was
vexed and annoyed that Edith should still laugh, as
they had so often laughed together, at little Millefleurs.
And both Edith and John, though his suspicions
were not yet aroused on this subject, felt the
keenness of irritation and vexed dissatisfaction in her
tone. He withdrew soon after  for even the merest
insinuation of a family jar is painful to an outsider 
but not before Lord Lindores had come in, with much
friendliness, to beg him to come back to dinner, and
engage his immediate aid in the scheme which had
already brought our young man some trouble. " I
want you to meet Eintoul," said the Earl. " I want
you both to make jour appearance at Dunearn next
week at the county meeting. I am going to produce
those plans I spoke to you about, and I hope to move
them to some definite step. We shall have a strong
opposition, and the more support I can calculate on
the better. Kintoul has no gift of speech; he'll say
his say in his solid, straightforward, positive sort of
manner. But the Scotch are proud of good speaking.
I don't know what your gifts may be in that way."
Oh, nil" said John.

"If you were a Frenchman, I should take you at
your word ; but in England there's no telling. A
young man has but one formula. If he is a natural
orator, he gives just the same answer as if he can't
put two words together. That is what we call our
national modesty. I wish for the moment you were
as vain as a Frenchman, Erskine  then I should know
the facts of the case. I daresay you speak very well
you have the looks of it ; and it will be a great
thing for me if you will second and stand by Kin-soul.
If he muddles his statement  which is quite
likely, for the boy is as ignorant as a pig  you must
set him right, and laugh a little at the defects of
English education : that pleases a Scotch audience."

I think," said Lady Lindores, " that you are putting
a great deal upon Mr Erskine."

Am I ? " said her husband ; " but it is in a good
cause."

Perhaps this was too lightly said. John took his
leave with a half-mortified, half-humorous consciousness
that he was to have about the person of this
young nobleman something like the same post enjoyed
by Beaufort in respect to Millefleurs, but with
neither present emolument nor prospect of promotion.
And he felt sure that he should not like the fellow,
John said to himself. Nevertheless seven o'clock
(they kept early hours in the country) saw him walk-vol.
II. H

ing lightly, as no man ever walked to a disagreeable
appointment, towards the Castle. Impossible to thread
those shrubberies, to cross those lawns, without a
rising of the heart. '' Doors where my heart was wont
to beat." Nowhere else in the world did he hasten
with the same step, did he feel the very neighbourhood
of the place affect his pulses in the same way.
It was the home to which his thoughts went before
him, imagining many happiness which perhaps did
not come, but which always might come  which
lived there, to be tasted one time or another. This
occupation with the affairs of Lindores, with the
new-comer, and the Earl's schemes, and so many
secondary subjects, prevented him from entering into
the questions which had so deeply discouraged him
on the night of their return. He did not ask himself
what he had to expect, what he had to do with them.
He had a great deal to do with them in the meantime,
and that by their own desire.

But John's instinct had not been at fault in respect
to Eintoul. They met as a gamekeeper and poacher
might meet, if persons of these classes had an indifferent
meeting-ground in polite society, like their
masters. A mutual scrutiny and suspicion were in
their eyes. John, the more generous of the two, made
up his mind to nothing save an instinctive hostility to
the heir of the house, and a conviction that Eintoul

would stand in his way, though he scarcely knew
how. But Eintoul, on his side, being what his
mother called positive and practical in the highest
degree, had no hesitation whatever in deciding upon
John's meaning and motives. They were each so
much preoccupied in this hostile sense with each
other, that Lord Lindores's exhortations after dinner, as
to the part he expected both to play, were received
with small appreciation. Eintoul yawned visibly,
and asked his father whether it was in reason to expect
a fellow to plunge into business the moment he
got home. John's natural desire to say something
conciliatory to the father thus contradicted by his
son, which is the instinct of every spectator, was
strengthened by his opposition to the special son in
question; but even he could not cast off his personality
enough to embrace an abstract subject at such
a moment : and the two young men escaped, by the
only mutual impulse they seemed likely to feel, to the
ladies, leaving Lord Lindores to take his share of
the vexation and disappointment which visit most
mortals impartially in their time. The ladies were
out upon the lawn, which lay under the windows of
the drawing-room, and from which, as from most
places in the neighbourhood, a wide expanse of landscape,
culminating in the house of Tinto with its red
flag, was visible. The house of Tinto was to the Lindores

family that culminating-point of human care,
the one evil that heightens all others, which is almost
invariable in family experiences. Here their one
prevailing pain, the one trouble that would not allow
itself to be forgotten ; and sometimes they felt the
very sight of the scene to be intolerable. But quiet
was in the air of the lingering endless night, so sweet,
so unearthly, so long continued, making the hours like
days.

Ah, to be sure, that's Tinto," said Eintoul ; " what
a fine place it is, to be sure ! Carry ought to be
proud of such a place. And how do all the squires
and squireens  or the lairds, I suppose I should
say, for local colour,  how do they like his red flag?
There ought to be plenty of hatred and malice on
that score."

Nobody hates or bears malice to our Carry, that
I can hear of," said his mother, with a reproving
glance. Her eye caught that of John, and she
blushed almost violently  for was not he the representative
of the squires and squireens?

But Torrance and Carry are one flesh," said Ein-soul.


I ought to speak on the subject, as I am the only
representative of the accused," said John, with an
attempt at a lighter tone ; but it was not very successful,
and there was a sense of possible commotion

in the air, like the approach of a thunderstorm, which
the women were far too sensitive not to feel  and they
threw themselves into the breach, as was natural.
When John took his leave, as the lingering daylight
still lasted, they strolled with him through the shrubberies,
accompanying him towards the gate. It was
Lady Lindores herself who took the initiative in this,
as her son thought, extraordinary condescension.
Rintoul followed, keeping his sister walking by his
side, with indignant surprise painted all over him.
"Do you mean to say you do this every time that
fellow is here ? " he asked, wrathfully. " We have
never been out of doors before when Mr Erskine has
gone away," cried Edith, equally angry, in self-defence.
Meanwhile the voices of the others, who were in
advance, went on peacefully : they talked, unconscious
of criticism, while the brother and sister
listened. John had begun to tell Lady Lindores of
the entertainments he meant to give. He avowed
that they had been planned by Rolls, though his first
intention had been to keep this fact to himself; but
the humour of it overcame him. He could not refrain
from communicating so amusing a circumstance to the
kind woman, who never misunderstood, and who received
all his confidences with maternal pleasure, lee
was pleased to hear her laugh, and not displeased to
lay open the condition of his household to her, and

the humours of the old servants, in whose hands he
was still a boy. " It is, don't you think, a judicious
despotism on the whole ? " he said. The sound of her
laugh was delightful in his ears, even though a more
sensitive narrator might have thought the laugh to be
directed against himself.

It is a delightful despotism," said Lady Lindores ;
and as we shall benefit by it in the present case,
I entirely approve of Rolls. But I think, perhaps,
if I were you, I would not unfold the whole matter
to Miss Barbara. Your aunt is born a great lady,
Mr Erskine. She might take it as quite right and
within the duty of an old retainer ; but again, she
might take a different view. For my part, I entirely
approve. It is exactly the right thing to do."

"You are always so kind," said John, gratefully;
and perhaps you will advise me in matters that are
beyond my prime minister's sphere."

Rolls and I ! " she said, laughing ; " it is not often
a young man has such a pair of counsellors." Her
laugh was so fresh and genuine that it sounded like
the laugh of youth. Her children behind her had
their curiosity greatly excited: Edith with a little
wonder, to think what John could be saying to amuse
her mother so much ; Eintoul with high indignation,
to see in what favour this country neighbour was
held.

What does my mother mean ? " he said, grumbling
in Edith's ear. " She will turn that fellow's head. I
never knew anything so out of place. One would
think, to see you with him, that he was  why,
your dearest friend, your,  I don't know what to
say."

Perhaps you had better not say anything, in case
it should be something disagreeable," said Edith, with
a sudden flush of colour. " Mr Erskine is our nearest
neighbour  and I hope my mother, at least, does not
want any guidance from you."

Oh, doesn't she, though 1 " murmured Eintoul in
his moustache. To his own consciousness his mother
was the member of his family who stood the most in
need of his guidance. He thought her the most imprudent
woman he had ever come across, paying no
attention to her children's prospects. They went on
thus till they came to the gate, where the Countess
of Lindores was actually to be seen by the woman at
the lodge, or by any passing wayfarer, in her dinner-dress,
with nothing but a lace cap on her head  and
Edith, in her white robes and shining hair  saying
good-bye to this rustic neighbour, this insidious squire !
Eintoul could not for some time relieve his soul ashe
wished. He was compelled to shake hands too, ina
surly way ; and it was not till Edith had left them
that he permitted himself to make, as he said, a few

remarks to his mother. She was lingering outside,
for it was still daylight though it was night.

Mother," said Eintoul, solemnly, " I see it's all
exactly as I feared. You have let that fellow Erskine
get to be a sort of tame cat about the house."

"After?" said his mother, with a smile.

After ! well, that's as you choose. But of this you
may be sure, mother, my father won't stand it. It
will only make trouble in the house. He won't let
Edith throw herself away. You had better put a
stop to it while you are able. I suspected it from
the first moment I knew that Erskine was here."

You are very wise, Eintoul," said his mother, with
grieved displeasure, all the pain and disenchantment
which she had managed to put aside and forget coming
back into her troubled eyes.

"I don't know if I'm very wise ; but I know something
of the world," said the son, who was so much
better instructed than she was ; " and I know, when
one has charge of a girl, one oughtn't to allow her to
throw herself away."

Carry is supposed not to have thrown herself
away," said the indignant mother, with a glance
towards that centre of her saddest thoughts, the
arrogant front and false battlements of Tinto, faintly
gleaming like royal Windsor itself in the mists of
distance. This was all in contradiction to the changed

state of her mind towards Millefleurs and the gradual
leaning towards a great marriage for Edith which had
come over her. But we are never more hot in defence
of our own side than when we have begun to veer
towards the other; and Eintoul's lectures had been
for a long time more than his mother could endure.

No, Carry cannot be said to have thrown herself
away," he said thoughtfully, stroking that moustache
which looked so young, while its owner was so wise
and politic. " Carry should remember," he said, after
a pause, "that she's an individual, but the family
comprises many people  heaps of her descendants
will be grateful to her, you know. And if the fellow
is unbearable, why, a woman has always got it in her
own hands to make his life a burden to him. Why is
she so absurdly domestic ? They have quantities of
money, and there are plenty of brutes in society to
keep him in countenance. She ought to come to
town and see people, and enjoy herself. "What is the
good of living like a cabbage here ? "

If you will persuade Carry to emancipate herself
a little  to think of herself a little  I will forgive you
all your worldly-mindedness," said his mother, with a
smile.

I will try," he said ; " and as for my worldly-mindedness,
as you call it, how is a fellow to get on in the
world, I should like to know ? It isn't by money Fever

push my way. I must look out for other ways
and means."

Does that mean an heiress, Eintoul ? "

His mother was half laughing, half serious. But
there was no laughter in Kintoul's countenance. The
corners of his mouth were drawn down. His eyes
were as solemn as if the matter in question had been
life or death.

You may be sure I'll do my duty to the family,
whether I like it or not," he said, with heroic gravity.
I don't mean to recommend other people to do what
I'll not do myself."

But Eintoul sighed. He was heroic, indeed, but he
was human. A breath of soft recollections came over
him. He, too, had entertained other thoughts  he had
allowed himself to be beguiled to gentler visions. But
when the voice of duty bade, he felt that he had it
in him to be superior to all weaknesses. Come an
heiress of sufficient pretensions to be worthy of the
son of Lindores, and he would buckle his manhood to
him, and marry her without wincing. His duty he
was at all times ready to do; but yet to the softer
part of life, to the dreams of a youth unawakened
to such stern purposes of heroism, he might yet be
permitted to give a sigh.

John Erskine was the very opposite of this predestined
martyr. He felt no weight of family responsibility

upon him. All that he wished was  a good
wish enough, if it had not been altogether beyond
possibility of fulfilment  that the last lord of Lindores
had lived to be a patriarch, and had been succeeded
by his son in the course of nature. What a
difference that would have made to everybody concerned
! But our young man did all he could to keep
definite plans and hopes out of his mind. He preferred
to get the good of each day as it came. If he
thought too much of them, he felt a dismal certainty
that disappointments would follow. He preferred
that his present existence should flow au jour
le jour.

CHAPTER XXI.

When the news of the approaching festivities at Dal-russian
were known in Dunearn, Miss Barbara Erskine
and her household were flung into a whirlpool of excitement
such as had not disturbed their calm for
more years than could be reckoned. There was, of
course, no question as to the immediate acceptance
by the old lady of her nephew's invitation to her todo
the honours of his house. She was very much
touched and pleased  with that satisfaction, above all,
which is so sweet to a woman  of feeling that John
was doing absolutely " the right thing " in placing her,
his old aunt, at the head of affairs. It was a compliment
to the family, to the old neighbours, as well as
to herself. But it is not too much to say that from
the scullery to the drawing-room her house was turned
upside-down by this great event. Miss Barbara's first
thought was, as was natural, that a great many things
would be wanted. She went instantly to her " napery "

closet,  Agnes, her old maid, attending her with the
key,  and brought out stores of shining damask, milk-white
and fragrant, every tablecloth with its pile of
napkins, like a hen with chickens. " I never inquired
into the napery at Dalrulzian," the old lady said ;
but it would be a great temptation to a woman with
a sma' family to take the use of it ; and for anything
I know, he may be in want of table-linen. Yell pack
a boxful, Agnes, whether or no. There's the great
table-cloths with the crown pattern, they are the biggest
I have. Yell take them, and table-napkins.
You may take ten or twelve dozen. They are always
useful."

And you'll take the best silver, mem," said Janet,
for this was in her department. If it had been suggested
to them that their best Paisley shawls, on
which both Janet and Agnes set great store, would
have been useful to cover the faded places on the
carpet, these devoted women would have sacrificed
their most cherished possessions. Miss Barbara's old
epergnes and table ornaments, which, happily, were
older and less solid than the camel and palm-trees at
Tinto, were packed into a huge box, with all her available
forks and spoons, and sent off in a cart before her
to the scene of the entertainment. Then a still more
important question arose as to the help that would be
required to produce a dinner and a ball-supper worthy

of the Erskine name. Miss Barbara put her trust in
Janet, who had managed all her own household affairs
for a great number of years. " I'll take ye both with
me' she said to the two women, who made her comfort
and credit the occupation of their lives, "and
when ye consider what's at stake, you'll just put your
hand to anything ; and ye like a ploy, both of ye, and
plenty of young faces about the house."

Eh, but I do that," said Agnes ; '' and I would not
wonder but Mr John's meaning to take a survey of all
the misses, and him a wanter and a bonnie lad into
the bargain. We'll maybe hear who it is to be."

But Janet demurred. " It's not to be denied but I
would like to go," she said ; " and blithe, blithe would
I be to put to my hand, if it was only to boil a
pitawtie, and proud to think the auld family, so lang
away, was holding up its head again. But then
there's Bauby EoUs, that's been housekeeper so long,
and a good cook and a good woman. She would think
we meant to interfere."

"It would ill become either Bauby or any other
person to think me interfering in my nephew's house,"
said Miss Barbara. "Ye'll just come, Janet. I am
saying nothing against Bauby; but she'll be out of the
way of managing for a party."

There are plenty of parties in the winter-time,"
said Janet. " I would stand in other folk's gait.

Na, nobody would say you were interfering, Miss
Barbara. Wha has a better right in your ain nephew's
house ?  but me, it's another question. I could
gang ben to her kitchen, or look at a single article, but
it would be thought I was meddling. What would I
think if Bauby Rolls came here on a veesit to help
me ? I would say I maun be getting doited, though
I cannot see it : I maun be losing the use o' my faculties.
I judge of her by myself'. She would think the
same of me. But Agnes, you can take her," said the
housekeeper, with a fine and delicate contempt. " She
has aye her head full of whigmaleeries ; but she'll
stand in nobody's way."

I'll not ask your leave, Janet, to take my own
woman with me," said Miss Barbara, with some
annoyance.

Na, mem, I never thought that," retorted her factotum.
" I'm seldom consulted, though maybe it
would be none the worse for the family if I were
letter say my say. For a ball-supper there's nothing
better than a fine boned turkey well stuffed and
larded," she added, reflectively ; " and I'm no' against
soup. It's new-fashioned ; but there's new-fashioned
things that's just as good as the old. One thing I set
my face against is the new drinks  Cup as they call
them. They take an awful' quantity of wine ; and in
the heat o' the dancing the young things will just

spoil their stomachs, never thinking what they're
swallowing. That's my opinion. I'm no' saying I'm
ony authority, and Mr Rolls will have a' that in his
hands, and will not lippen to a woman ; but that's
my opinion. It's an awful' waste of wine. I would
rather give them good honest champagne out of the
bottle, that they might see what they are taking, far
sooner than that wasteful Cup."

That's very true, Janet," said Miss Barbara ; " I'm
of that opinion myself. But in most houses it's the
gentleman himself (when there is a gentleman) that
manages the cellar ; and it would never do for a lady
to say anything. But I will mind to tell him (for it's
my own opinion), if he consults me."

"And for sweet things, there's nothing like ice-creams,
if she can make them," said Janet. " If she
were to say, mem, of her own accord, that she has
little experience, you might send me a line by the
postman, and I would do my best ; but no' unless it's
of her own accord. Na, na ; I ken by myself'. If a
strange woman were to come into my kitchen and
meddle with my dinner ! But tak* you Agnes, Miss
Barbara. She might make up a match yet, for a'
that's come and gave, with Tammas Rolls."

Miss Barbara appeared accordingly at Dalrulzian
the day before the great dinner, in her old coach, with
her two best gowns in the imperial, and all her old

ornaments, and with Agnes her maid seated primly
by her, inside. The chariot was almost as old as Miss
Barbara herself, and was kept for great occasions. It
was drawn by two somewhat funereal black horses
from the Need Lion at Dunearn  altogether a solemn
turn-out, and quite unlike the handy little phaeton in
which usually the old lady drove about. The postboy
took away those noble steeds when he had housed the
chariot in the Dalrulzian stables, to which he was to
return in four days to take it back with its mistress.
And Miss Barbara bore a grave though cheerful countenance
as she walked into the drawing-room, and
took her place there on the great tapestry sofa. The
box of plate and linen had arrived before her, and she
felt that it was necessary at once to look into the
details of the proposed entertainment. "Will you
send the housekeeper to me," she said to Rolls, with
dignity, thinking it beneath the solemnity of the
occasion to call Bauby by any less weighty title.
Bauby came in with good-natured alacrity ; but she
was somewhat abashed by the air of gravity on Miss
Barbara's face, whom she was not accustomed to see
in such state. " Come in, my woman," said the old
lady. " It's a great responsibility for you to have the
charge of all this. You will like a little assistance
with your dinner. I'm well aware that both that and
the supper for the ball are in very good hands so far
VOL. IL I

as the provisions go. But your master being young,
and without experience, and as there's no lady in the
house, I think it my duty to be of service," Miss
Barbara said. Bauby stood before her greatly flushed,
and laid a number of hems, one over the other, on her
apron. " Hoot, mem, we'll just manage fine," she
said, growing red. But this did not satisfy the august
old lady.

If you're in want of any help," she said, " there's
a woman of mine "

Rolls, who had been waiting outside the door, came
to the rescue. He appeared behind the flushed Bauby.
She's a confused creature," he said, " but she knows
her business. We've put it all down. Miss Barbara,
in the new-fashioned way. I'm aware that at the
Castle and other grand places it's written in French,
but good Scots is good enough for us."

It was no small effort to find and produce from
Bauby's pocket the bill of fare of the approaching
dinner. But this document took away Miss Barbara's
breath. It was some time before she got over it.
Instead of the chaos which she half feared, yet half
hoped for, as a means of exercising her own gifts on
her nephew's behalf, it was an elaborate menu, drawn
out in full form, that was placed before her eyes. The
old lady was struck dumb for a moment, and when
she spoke there was a certain awe in her tone. " If

you can set a dinner like that on the table," she said,
I have not a word to say."

Oh, mem, we'll manage fine," said Bauby, in her
soft, round, good-humoured voice.

Miss Barbara," said EoUs, " I'm no braggart ; but
I've seen a thing or two in my life. And Bauby, she
has far more in her than appears. She's just a confused
creature in speech ; but pit her to her goblets
and her sauces, and she kens well what she's about.
She has the real spirit of it in her ; and when her
blood's up for the credit of the family "

"Eh, mem ! " cried Bauby herself, putting her apron
to her eyes, for her tears came readily; " do you think
I would let them say that Mr John could give a
dinner as good as the best ? and he such a fine lad,
and wanting a wife, and his mamma so far away ! "

Never you mind his mamma," cried Miss Barbara,
with natural family feeling ; "she was never a great
manager. But if you set that dinner on the table,
Bauby Rolls, you're a woman worthy of all respect,
and I hope my nephew will know when he's well off."

She withdrew to the room prepared for her after
this, a little crestfallen, yet doing due honour to the
native powers. " We'll say nothing to Janet," she
said to her faithful old maid, as she sat at her toilet.
Janet is an excellent woman, and just the right person
for a house like mine. But she has not that

invention. Four made dishes, besides all the solids !
We'll not say a word to Janet. It would be more
than she could bear."

"You see, Miss Barbara, there's two of them to
settle it," said Agnes, as she brushed out the old
lady's abundant white hair ; " and a man is awful*
discriminating about eating and drinking. He may
not have sense like a woman, but he has more taste
of his mouth."

"There is something in that," said her mistress;
"if it's Rolls, John has got a treasure in that man.
The Cornel's dinners were always very English, to
my way of thinking  but that would be their own

fault; or if it's my nephew himself " she added,

doubtfully. What was a great quality in Rolls catering
for other people, would have been almost a vice,
in the eyes of this prejudiced old lady, in the young
master of the house.

Mr John ! " said Agnes, still more moved,  " a
bonnie lad like him ! Na, na ; it would never be that.
It'll be the young misses, and not the dishes, he will
be thinking about. And who knows but we may
see the one that's his choice ? And I wish she maybe
a lovely young lady for his sake."

"She would need to be something more than
that," said Miss Barbara, shaking her head. " A little
money would be a great advantage to the estate."

Eh, but mem, he maun marry for love," said
Agnes ; " what's silver in comparison ? And I think
I know Somebody for my part "

"Whisht, Agnes," said her mistress peremptorily;
whatever thought may be in your head, to name it
spoils all."

For these two simple women were still of opinion
that Providence had created John Erskine's wife for
him, and that he could not mistake the guidance of
that unerring hand.

CHAPTER XXII.

The ball was in full career ; everybody bad come toit
from all the bouses within reach, and the radius
was wide  extending over the whole county. It was
universally acknowledged that nobody could have
imagined the drawing-room at Dalrulzian to be so
large  and though the mothers and the old ladies
were in a great state of alarm as to the facilities for
stepping forth through the long windows after a dance,
yet the young people, indifferent to the northern chill
which they had been used to all their lives, considered
the Walk, which seemed almost a portion of the room,
to be the most delightful of all. Eintoul, though with
many protestations and much scorn of the little rustic
assembly, had been persuaded to wait for it, and was
an object of attraction as great as  nay, in some respects
greater than  John himself. There were no
great young ladies in the company for whom it was
worth his while to exert himself, and consequently the

young man yielded to the soft flattery of all the
pleased and grateful faces around him, and made
himself agreeable in general, ending, however, almost
invariably at the side of Nora, to whom it was a
pleasing compensation for the indifference of the
young master of Dalrulzian, who had been so distinctly
destined for her by the country. John was
very civil to ISTora. He went out of his way, indeed,
to be civil. He took her about the house, into the
library, and the hall, to show her the alterations he
was making, and appealed to her about their propriety
in a way which Nora felt might have taken
in some girls. But she was not taken in. She
knew it was merely politeness, and that John would
go away as soon as he had done his duty with a
certain sense of relief. But Eintoul's attentions were
paid in a very different spirit. He asked her to dance
as many times as he could without attracting too
much notice. Nora felt that he discriminated this
line finely, and was half provoked and half flattered
by it, feeling acutely that whereas John Erskine did
his best to show her all the civility which his position
required, Eintoul went against all the duties of his
position to get near her, to talk to her in a corner,
to devote to her every moment which he could devote
to her without remark. He was very careful,
very desirous not to commit himself with society ;

but to Nora, every tone of his voice, every look committed
him. She felt  she was a great deal cleverer
than Eintoul, and saw through and through him 
that to her he was a totally different person from
the young man of fashion, who, with a touch of condescension,
did his duty to the other young ladies.
She saw him in a different light. He toned his
words for her. He changed his very sentiments.
She was pleased and amused, and at the same time
touched, when (for she was too clever) she noted this
change coming over him in the middle of a sentence,
in the figure of a dance, when he suddenly found
himself near her. There could not have been a more
complete proof of these sentiments which he was as
yet afraid to indulge in, which vanquished him against
his will. A girl's pride may be roused by the idea
that a man struggles against her power over him,
and is unwilling to love her ; but at the same time
there is a wonderful flattery in the consciousness that
his unwillingness avails him nothing, and that reason
is powerless in comparison with love. Nora with
her keen eyes marked how, when the young man
left her to dance or to talk with some one else, he
kept, as it were, one eye upon her, watching her
partners and her behaviour  and how, the moment
he was free, he would gyrate round her, with something
which (within herself, always laughing, yet not

displeased) she compared to the fluttering of a "bird
beating its wings against the air, resisting yet compelled
to approach some centre of fascination. He
would have kept away if he could, but he was notable.
She was so much occupied in watching these
proceedings of his  seeing the humour of them so
completely that she was fain to put her head out at
the window, or retire into a corner of the hall, to
laugh privately to herself  that she lost the thread
of much that was said to her, and sadly wounded the
feelings of several of the young officers from Dundee.
What they said was as a murmur in her ears, while
her mind was engaged in the more amusing study 
watching the movements of Kintoul.

The Lindores family had come out in force to
grace John's entertainment. Even the Earl himself
had come, which was so unusual. He had made
up his mind so strenuously as to the support which
John was to give to Rintoul's candidateship and his
own plans, that he thought it necessary to "countenance,"
as he said, our young man's proceedings
in everything personal to himself. And Lord Lindores,
like so many people, did not perceive, in his
inspection of the horizon, and desire that this thing
and that should be done in the distance, the danger
which lay under his very eye. No doubt it was
natural that his little daughter Edith should be, as

it were, the queen of the entertainment. Not only
was she one of the prettiest girls in the county, but
she was the first in rank, and therefore the most to bethought
of; the first to be honoured, if any honours
were going. That was simple enough, and cost him
no consideration at all. He made another effort to
overcome old Sir James Montgomery's prejudiced
opposition, and talked on political matters in the
doorways with a great deal of liberality and good-humour,
taking with perfect serenity the clumsy
gibes which his neighbours would launch at innovators,
at people with foreign tastes, at would-be
philanthropists. He smiled and "never let on,"
though sometimes the gibes were galling enough.
Lady Lindores sat at the head of the room with
Lady Car by her, very gracious too, though sometimes
yawning a little privately behind her fan.
They spoke to the people who came to speak to
them, and acknowledged the new-comers who were
introduced to them with benignant smiles. But
both mother and daughter were somewhat out of
their element. Now and then a lively passage of
conversation would break out around them, and anon
die off, and they would be left again smiling but
silent, giving each other sympathetic glances, and
swallowing delicate yawns. "No, I do not dance.
You must excuse me," Lady Car said quietly, with

that pretty smile which lighted up her pale face
like sunshine. She was not pretty  but there could
not be a face more full of meaning. Her eyes had
some anxiety always in them, but her smile gave to
her face something of the character of one whose
life was over, to whom it mattered very little what
was going to happen, to whom, in short, nothing
could happen  to whom Fate had done its worst.

There was a brief pause in the gaiety, and of a
sudden, as will sometimes happen, the murmur of
talk in all the different groups, the hum of the
multitude at its pleasantness and lightest, was suspended.
When such a pause occurs it will frequently
be filled and taken possession of for the
moment by some louder or more persistent scrap of
conversation from an individual group, which suddenly
seems to become the chief thing in the crowd,
listened to by all. Ordinarily it is the most trivial
chit-chat, but now and then the ranks will open,
as it were, to let something of vital importance,
some revelation, some germ of quarrel, some fatal
hint or suggestions be heard. This time it was Torrance,
always loud-voiced, whose words suddenly
came out in the hearing of the entire company.
He happened at the moment to be standing with
John Erskine contemplating the assembly in general.
Rintoul was close by, lingering for a moment to

address a passing civility to the matron whose
daughter he had just brought back to her side.
Torrance had been in the supper-room, and was
charged with champagne. He was not a drunkard,
but he habitually took a great deal of wine, the
result of which was only to make him a little more
himself than usual, touching all his qualities into
exaggeration  a little louder, a little more rude,
cynical, and domineering. He was surveying the
company with his big staring eyes.

This makes me think," he said, " of the time when
I was a wanter, as they say. Take the good of your
opportunities, John Erskine. Take your chance, man,
while ye have it. When a man's married, he's done
for ; nobody cares a fig for him more. But before he's
fixed his choice, the whole world is at his call. Then's
the time to be petted and made of  everybody smiling
upon you,  instead of sitting with one peevish face on
the other side of the fire at home."

He ended this speech with one of his huge rude
laughs; and there are a great many such speeches
permitted in society, laughed at even by those who
are themselves the point of the moral. But Eintoul
was in an excited condition of mind ; contradictory to
all his own tenets ; going in his heart against his own
code; kicking against the pricks. He turned round
sharply with a certain pleasure in finding somebody

upon whom to let forth an ill-humour which had been
growing in him. "You forget, Torrance, who I am,
when you speak of this peevish face before me."

You I  troth I forgot your existence altogether,"
said Torrance, after a pause of astonishment, and a
prolonged stare ending in another laugh.

Eintoul flushed a furious red. He was excited by
the rising of a love which he meant to get the better
of, but which for the moment had got the better of
him ; and by all the restraints he had put upon himself,
and which public opinion required should be put
upon him. He flashed upon his brother-in-law an
angry glance, which in its way was like the drawing
of a sword.

You had better," he said, " recall my existence as
quickly as you can, Torrance  for it may be necessary
to remind you of it very sharply one of these days,
from all I hear."

Torrance replied by another loud insulting laugh.
I mind you well enough when I hear you crow, my
little cock-o'-the-walk," he said.

The conversation had got thus far during the pause
which has been described. But now the whole assembly
rushed into talk with a general tremor, the band
struck up, the dancers flew off with an energy which
was heightened by a little panic. Everybody dislikes
a family quarrel : the first beginnings of it may excite

curiosity, but at a certain point it alarms the most
dauntless gossip. To get out of the way of it, the
world in general will take any trouble. Accordingly
the ranks closed with the eagerness of fear, to continue
the metaphor, and the two belligerents were hidden at
once from sight and hearing. Men began to talk in
their deepest basses, women in their shrillest trebles,
and how it ended nobody knew. There were a great
many whispered questions and remarks made afterwards
when the crisis was over. "Young Erskine
had all the trouble in the world to smooth it over."
One doesn't know what would have happened if old
Sir James had not got hold of Lord Eintoul." " Half-a-dozen
men got round Pat Torrance. They made
believe to question him about some racing  and that
quieted him," cried one and another, each into the
nearest ear; and the whole assembly with a thrill
watched the family of Lindores in all its movements,
and saw significance in every one of these. This was
the only contretemps that occurred in the whole programme
of the festivities at Dalrulzian. It passed
out of hearing of Lady Car, who sat the evening outwith
that soft patience as of one whose day was over
the little smile, the little concealed yawn, the catch
of conversation when any one who could talk drifted
by her. Dr Stirling and she discussed Wordsworth
for a whole half-hour, which was the only part of the

entertainment that withdrew her at all from herself.
"And his noble philosophy of sorrow," she said,
which is the finest of all. The part which he gives

it in the world " " I am not clear in my own

mind," said the Doctor, "that sorrow by itself does
good to anybody." " Stretch a hand through time to
catch the far-off interest of tears," cried Lady Car
with an unfathomable distance in her mild eyes, shaking
her head at him and smiling. This was her point
of enjoyment. When she thought the hour at which
she might withdraw was coming, she sent to her husband
to know if he was ready, still quite unaware of
his utterance about the peevish face. Poor Lady Car !
her face was not peevish. It was somewhat paler
than usual, so much as that was possible, as she
watched him coming towards her. The more wine he
took the less supportable he was. Alarm came into
her gentle eyes. " Oh yes, I'm ready," he said ; " I've
been here long enough," in a tone which she understood
well. She thought it was possibly John who
had given him offence, and took leave of her host
quickly, holding out her hand to him in passing with
a word. " I must not stop to congratulate you now
will tell how well it has gone off next time I see
you," she said hastily. But her brother would not be
shaken off so easily. He insisted on keeping by her
side, and took a tender leave of her only at the ,

walking along with her as though determined
to make a demonstration of his brotherly regard.
"I shall see you again, Eintoul, before you
go ? " " No," he cried ; " good-bye, Car. I am not
coming to Tinto again." What did it mean ? But as
they drove home through the dark, shut up together
in that strict enclosure, her husband did not fail
to make her acquainted with what had happened.
What's his business, I should like to know ? " Torrance
cried. " Of course it's your complaints. Lady
Car. You set yourselves up as martyrs, you white-faced
women. You think it gives you a charm the
more ; but I'll charm them that venture to find fault
with me," he cried, with his hot breath, like a strong
gale of wine and fury, on her cheek. What disgust
was in her breast along with the pain ! " There's no
duels now, more's the pity," said Torrance: "maybe
you think it's as well for me, and that your brother
might have set you free, my lady." ''I have never
given you any cause to say so," she cried from her
corner, shrinking from him as far as possible. What
a home-going that was ! and the atmosphere of wine,
and heat, and rude fury, and ruder affection, from
which she could not escape, was never to escape all
her wretched life. Poor Lady Car ! with nothing buta
little discussion about Wordsworth or Shelley to
stand in place of happiness to her heart.

I have been quarrelling with that brother-in-law of
mine," Eintoul said to Nora in the next dance, which
he ought not to have had, he knew, and she knew,
though she had been persuaded to throw off, for him,
a lagging partner. He had not said a word about the
quarrel to his mother or sister, but to Nora he could
not help telling it. He broke even the strained
decorum which he had been painfully keeping up for
this cause. Already he had danced more than was
usual with one partner, but this was too strong for
him. He could not resist the temptation.

Oh, Lord Pdntoul ! "

Yes, I have quarrelled with him. To hear how he
spoke of Carry was more than I could bear. Now you
will never betray me ; tell me, I aren't ask any one
else. Is he supposed to be  Jove ! I can't say the
word  unkind to poor Car ? "

"He is very proud of her he thinks there is no
one like her. I don't think he means it. Lord Ein-soul."


Means it !  but he is so, because he is a brute, and
doesn't know what he is doing."

"They are not  very like each other," said Nora,
hesitating; "but everybody must have seen that before."


Yes, I own it," said Pdntoul. " I take shame to
myself. Oh that money, that money ! " he cried with

VOL. II. K

real passion, giving her hand a cruel unnecessary grip,
as he led her back to the dance; "the things that one
is obliged to look over, and to wink at, on account of
that."

But no one is forced to consider it at all  to that
extent," Nora said.

To what extent ? " Eintoul asked, and then he gave
her hand another squeeze, always under cover of the
dance. " You are above it  but who is like you ? " he
said, as he whirled her away into the crowd. This
was far indeed for so prudent a young man to go.

CHAPTER XXIII.

The summer went over without any special incident.
August and the grouse approached, or rather the
Twelfth approached, August having already come.
Every bit of country not arable or clothed with pasture,
was purple and brilliant with heather ; and to
stand under the columns of the fir-trees on a hillside,
was to be within such a world of " murmurous sound"
as you could scarcely attain even under the southern
limes, or by the edge of the sea. The hum of the bees
among the heather  the warm luxurious sunshine
streaming over that earth-glow of heather-bells  what
is there more musical, more complete ? These hot
days are rare, and the sportsman does not esteem
them much ; but when they come, the sun that floods
the warm soil, the heather that glows back again in
endless warmth and bloom, the bees that never intermit
their hum "' numerous " as the lips of any poet,
the wilder mystic note that answers from the boughs

of the scattered firs, make up a harmony of sight and
sound to which there are few parallels. So Lord
Millefleurs thought when he climbed up the hill above
Dalrulzian, and looking down on the other side, saw
the sea of brilliant moorland, red and purple and
golden, with gleams here and there of the liveliest
green,  fine knolls of moss upon the grey-green of the
moorland grass. He declared it was " a new experience,"
with a little lisp, but a great deal of feeling.
Lady Lindores and Edith were of the party
with John Erskine. They had lunched at Dalrulzian,
and John was showing his poor little place with a
somewhat rueful civility to the Duke of Lavender's
son. Millefleurs was all praise and admiration, as a
visitor ought to be ; but what could he think of the
handful of a place, the small house, the little wood,
the limited establishment ? They had been recalling
the Eton days, when John was, the little Marquis
declared, far too kind a fag - master. " For I must
have been a little wretch," said the little fat man,
folding his hands with angelical seriousness and simplicity.
Lady Lindores, who had once smiled at his
absurdities with such genial liking, could not bear
them now, since she had taken up the idea that Edith
might be a duchess. She glanced at her daughter to
see how she was taking it, and was equally indignant
with Millefleurs for making himself ridiculous, and

with Edith for laughing. " I have no doubt you were
the best fag that ever was," she said.

Dear Lady Lindores ! always so good and so kind'
said Millefleurs, clasping his little fat hands. " No,
dearest lady, I was a little brute ; I know it. To be
kicked every day would have been the right thing forme
 and Erskine, if I recollect right, had an energetic
toe upon occasions, but not often enough. Boys are
brutes in general :  with the exception of Eintoul,
who, I have no doubt, was a little angel. How could
he be anything else, born in such a house ? "

If you think Lindores has so good an effect, Ein-soul
was not born there," she said, laughing, but half
vexed : for she had not indeed any idea of being
laughed at in her turn, and she was aware that she
had never thought Eintoul an angel. But Lord Millefleurs
went on seriously 

Eintoul will despise me very much, and so, probably,
will Erskine ; but I do not mean to go out
tomorrow. I take the opportunity here of breaking
the news. If it is as fine as this, I shall come out
here (if you will let me) and lie on this delicious
heather, watch you strolling forth, and listen to the
crack of the guns. No ; I don't object to it on principle.
I like grouse, and I suppose that's the best
way to kill them, if you will take so much trouble ;
but for me, it is not my way of enjoyment. I was

not made to be a son of civilisation. Do not laugh,
Lady Edith, please ; you hurt my feelings. If you
take luncheon to the sportsmen anywhere, I will go
with you : unless you, as I suppose you will, despise
me too."

"I don't think it is such a noble thing to shoot
birds, Lord Millefleurs."

But yet you don't dislike grouse  and it must be
killed somehow," said John, somewhat irritated, as
was natural.

My dear fellow, I don't find fault with you. I
see your position perfectly. It is a thing you have
always done. It is an occupation, and at the same
time an excitement, a pleasure. I have felt the same
thing in California with the cattle. But it doesn't
amuse me, and I am not a great shot. I will help to
carry your luncheon, if Lady Lindores will let me,
and enjoy the spectacle of so many healthy happy
persons who feel that they have earned their dinner.
All that I sympathise in perfectly. You will excuse
me saying dinner," said Millefleurs, with pathos.
When we got our food after a morning's work we
always called it dinner. In many things I have quite
returned to civilisation ; but there are some particulars
still in which I slip  forgive me. May we sit
down here upon the heather and tell stories ? I had
a reputation once in that way. You would not care

for my stories, Lady Edith; you know them all by
heart. Now this is what I call delightful," said little
Millefleurs, arranging himself carefully upon the
heather, and taking off his hat. " You would say
it is lovely, if you were an American."

Do you mean the moor ? I think it is very
lovely, with all the heather and the gorse, and the
burns and the bees. Out of Scotland, is there anything
like it ? " Edith said.

Oh yes, in several places ; but it is not the moor,
it is the moment. It is lovely to sit here. It is
lovely to enjoy one's self, and have a good time.
Society is becoming very American," said Millefleurs.
There are so many about. They are more piquant
than any other foreigners. French has become
absurd, and Italian pedantic ; but it is amusing to
talk a foreign language which is in English words,
don't you know."

"You are to come back with them to dinner, Mr
Erskine," Lady Lindores said. She thought it better,
notwithstanding her prevailing fear that Millefleurs
would be absurd, to leave him at liberty to discourse
to Edith, as he loved to discourse. " I hope you are
going to have a fine day. The worst is, you will all
be so tired at night you will not have a word to
bestow upon any one."

I have not too many at any time," said John, with

a glance, which he could not make quite friendly,
at the visitor  who was flowing blandly on with his
lisp, with much gentle demonstration, like a chemical
operator or a prestidigitateur, with his plump hands.
Our young man was not jealous as yet, but a little
moved with envy  being not much of a talker, ashe
confessed  of Millefleurs's fluency. But he had
thrown himself at Edith's feet, and in this position
felt no bitterness, nor would have changed places with
any one, especially as now and then she would give
him a glance in which there was a secret communication
and mirthful comment upon the other who
occupied the foreground. Lady Lindores preferred,
however, that he should talk to her and withdraw
his observation from her daughter. Reluctantly,
against the grain, she was beginning in her turn to
plot and to scheme. She was ashamed of herself, yet,
having once taken up the plan, it touched her pride
that it should be carried out.

I have always found you had words enough whenever
you wished to say them," she said. " Perhaps
you will tell me everybody has that. And Lord
Lindores tells me you don't do yourself justice, Mr
Erskine. He says you speak very well, and have
such a clear head. I think," she added with a sigh,
"it is you who ought to be in Parliament, and not
Kintoul."

That is past thinking of," John said, with a little
heightened colour. He thought so himself; but neither
could the party bear a divided interest, nor had he
himself any influence to match that of Lord Lindores.

"You are going to Tinto on Tuesday," said Lady
Lindores, '' with the rest ? Do you know, Mr Erskine,
my boy has never met his brother-in-law since that
evening here, when some words passed. I never
could make out what they were. E"ot enough to
make a quarrel of ? not enough to disturb Carry "

I do not think so. It was only a  momentary impatience,"
John said.

Mr Erskine, I am going to ask you a great favour.
It is if you would keep in Eintoul's company, keep by
him; think, in a family how dreadful it would be
if any quarrel sprang up. The visit will not last
long. If you will keep your eye upon him, keep
between him and temptation "

John could not help smiling. The position into
which he was being urged, as a sort of governor to
Rintoul, was entirely absurd to his own consciousness.
You smile," cried Lady Lindores, eagerly ; " you
think what right has this woman to ask so much ? I
am not even a very old friend."

I am laughing at the idea that Eintoul should be
under my control; he is more a man of the world
than I am."

"Yes," said his mother, doubtfully, "that is true.
He is dreadfully worldly in some ways; but, Mr Erskine,
I wonder if you will disapprove of me when I say it
has been a comfort to me to find him quite boyish
and impulsive in others? He is prudent  about
Edith for example."

"About  Lady Edith?" John said, faltering, with
a look of intense surprise and anxiety on his face.

There is no doubt that Lady Lindores was herself
a most imprudent woman. She gave him a quick
sudden glance, reddened, and then looked as suddenly
at the other group : Millefleurs, flowing forth in placid
talk, with much eloquent movement of his plump
hands, and Edith listening, with a smile on her face
which now and then seemed ready to overflow into
laughter. She betrayed herself and all the family
scheme by this glance,  so sudden, so unintentional,
the action of one entirely unskilled in the difficult
art of deception. John's glance followed hers with
a sudden shock and pang of dismay. He had not
thought of it before ; now in a moment he seemed to
see it all. It was an unfortunate moment too; for
Edith was slightly leaning forward, looking at her
companion with a most amiable and friendly aspect,
almost concealing, with the forward stoop of her pretty
figure, the rotund absurdity of his. She smiled, yet
she was listening: to him with all the absorbed attention

of a Desdemona; and the little brute had so,
much to say for himself! The blood all ran away
from John's healthful countenance to replenish his
heart, which had need of it in this sudden and most
unlooked-for shock. Lady Lindores saw the whole,
and shared the shock of the discovery, which to her
was double, for she perceived in the same moment
that she had betrayed herself, and saw what John's
sentiments were. Some women divine such feelings
from their earliest rise  foresee them, indeed, before
they come into existence, and are prepared for the
emergencies that must follow ; but there are some
who are always taken by surprise. She, too, became
pale with horror and dismay. She ought to have foreseen
it  she ought to have guarded against it ; but
before she had so much as anticipated such a danger,
here it was !

"I mean," she faltered, "that she should  meet
only the best people, go to the best houses  and
that sort of thing ; even that she should be perfectly
dressed; he goes so far as that," she said, with an
uneasy laugh.

John did not make any reply. He bowed his head
slightly, that was all. He found himself, indeed,
caught in such a whirlpool of strange emotion, that
he could not trust his voice, nor even his thoughts,
which were rushing headlong on each other's heels

like horses broken loose, and were altogether beyond
his control.

"But he is himself as impulsive as a boy," cried
the unlucky mother, rushing into the original subject
with no longer any very clear perception what it was ;
and Mr Torrance's manner, you know, is sometimes
offensive to a sensitive person. He does not mean
it," she added hurriedly ; " people have such different
degrees of perception."

"Yes  people have very different degrees of perception,"
said John, dreamily; he did not mean it asa
reproach. It was the only observation that occurred
to him ; his mind was in too great a turmoil to be
able to form any idea. To think he had never budged
from his place at her feet, and that all in a moment
this should have happened ! He felt as if, like a
man in a fairy tale, he had been suddenly carried off
from the place in which he was, and was hearing
voices and seeing visions from some dull distance,
scarcely knowing what they meant.

Meanwhile Millefleurs purled on like the softest
little stream, smooth English brooklet, without breaks
or boulders. He was never tired of talking, and
himself was his genial theme. "I am aware that I
am considered egoistical," he said. " I talk of things
I am acquainted with. Now, you know most things
better than I do  oh yet ! women are much better

educated nowadays than men ; but my limited experiences
are, in their way, original. I love to talk
of what I know. Then my life over yonder was such
fun. If I were to tell you what my mates called me,
you would adopt the name ever after by way of
laughing at me : but there was no ridicule in their
minds."

"I hope you don't think I would take any such
liberty, Lord Millefieurs."

"It would be no liberty; it would be an honour.
I wish you would do it. They called me Tommy over
there. Now, my respectable name is Julian. Imagine
what a downfall. I knew you would laugh : but
they meant no harm. I acknowledge myself that
it was very appropriate. When a man has the misfortune
to be plump and not very tall  I am aware
that is a pretty way of putting it; but then, you
don't expect me to describe my personal appearance
in the coarsest terms  it is so natural to call him
Tommy. I was the nurse when any of them were
ill. You have no notion how grateful they were,
these rough fellows. They used to curse me, you
know  that was their way of being civil  and ask
where I had got such soft hands." Here Millefieurs
produced those articles, and looked at them with a
certain tenderness. "I was always rather vain of
my hands," he said, with the most childlike naive,

but never so much as when Jack and Tim d d

them, in terms which I couldn't repeat in a lady's
presence, and asked me where the something I had
learned to touch a fellow like that ? It occurred tome
after that I might have studied surgery, and been
of some use that way ; but I was too old," he said,
a soft little sigh agitating his plump bosom  "and
then I ' have other duties. Fortune has been hard
upon me," he added, raising pathetically the eyes,
which were like beads, yet wench languished and
became sentimental as they turned upwards. It was
when he spoke of Jack and Tim that Edith had
looked at him so prettily, bending forward, touched
by his tale ; but now she laughed without concealment,
with a frank outburst of mirth in which the
little hero joined with great good-humour, notwithstanding
the pathos in his eyes.

This pair were on the happiest terms, fully understanding
each other; but it was very different with
the others, between whom conversation had wholly
ceased. Lady Lindores now drew her shawl round
her, and complained that it was getting chilly. " That
is the worst of Scotland," she said  " you can never
trust the finest day. A sharp wind will come round
a corner all in a moment and spoil your pleasure."
This was most unprovoked slander of the northern
skies, which were beaming down upon her at the

moment with the utmost brightness, and promising .
hours of sunshine ; but after such a speech there
was nothing to be done but to go down hill again to
the house, where the carriage was waiting. John,
who lingered behind to pull himself together after his
downfall, found, to his great surprise, that Edith
lingered too. But it seemed to him that he was

o

incapable of saying anything to her. To point the
contrast between himself and Millefleurs by a distracted
silence, that, of course, was the very thing
to do to take away any shadow of a chance he might
still have ! But he had no chance. What possibility
was there that an obscure country gentleman, who
had never done anything to distinguish himself, should
be able to stand for a moment against the son of a 
rich duke, a marquis, a millionaire, and a kind of
little hero to boot, who had been very independent
and original, and made himself a certain reputation,
though it was one of which some people might be
afraid? There was only one thing in which he
was Millefleurs's superior, but that was the meanest
and poorest of all. John felt inclined to burst out
into savage and brutal laughter at those soft curves
and flowing outlines, as the little man, talking con .
tinuously, as he had talked to Edith, walked on in
front with her mother. The impulse made him more
and more ashamed of himself, and yet he was so

mean as to indulge it, feeling himself a cad, and
nothing else. Edith laughed too, softly, under her
breath. But she said quickly  "We should not
laugh at him, Mr Erskine. He is a very good little
man. He has done more than all of us put together.
They called him Tommy in America," said the
traitress, with another suppressed laugh. John was
for a moment softened by the " we " with which she
began, and the gibe with which she ended. But his
ill-humour and jealous rage were too much for him.

He is Marquis of Millefleurs, and he will be
Duke of Lavender," he said, with an energy which
was savage, trampling down the tough heather under
his feet.

Edith turned and looked at him with astonished
eyes. It was a revelation to her also, though for
the first moment she scarcely knew of what. "Do
you think it is for that reason we like him, Mr
Erskine ? How strange ! " she said, and turned her
eyes away with a proud movement of her head, full
of indignation and scorn. John felt himself the
pettiness and petulance of which he had been guilty ;
but he was very unhappy, and it seemed to him
impossible to say or do anything by which he might
get himself pardoned. So he walked along moodily
by her side, saying nothing, while Lord Millefleurs
held forth just a few steps in advance. Edith bent

forward to hear what he was saying, in the continued
silence of her companion, and this was a renewed
draught of wormwood and gall to John, though it
was his own fault. It was with relief that he put
the ladies into their carriage, and saw them drive
away, though this relief was changed into angry
impatience when he found that Millefleurs lingered
with the intention of walking, and evidently calculated
upon his company. The little Marquis, indeed,
took his arm with friendly ease, and turned
him with gentle compulsion towards the avenue.
"You are going to walk with me," he said. "An
excellent thing in Scotland is that it is never too
warm to walk, even for me. Come and talk a
little. I have been telling tales about myself. I
have not heard anything of you. The first is such
an easy subject. One has one's little experiences,
which are different from any one else's ; and wherever
there are kind women you find your audience, don't
you know ? "

"No, I don't know," said John, abruptly. "It
never occurs to me to talk about myself I can't see
what interest anybody can have in things that happen
to me. Besides, few things do happen for that matter,"
he added, in an undertone.

My dear fellow," said Millefleurs, " I don't want to
appear to teach you, who are a man of much more in-vol.

II. L

intelligence than I. But that with a mistake, I must say
it. You can always talk best on the subject you know-best.
Don't you find it a great difference coming hereafter
knocking about the world ? Yes, I feel it ; but
society is quite fresh to me, as fresh as California while
it lasts. Then I have had my eyes opened as to my
duties. My father and mother are as kind as possible.
A friend of mine tells me, and I am partly convinced,
that to keep them comfortable is my chief business.
You are of that opinion too ? there is much to be said
for it. It belongs to civilisation; but so long as

civilisation lasts, perhaps And so I am going to

marry and range myself," Millefleurs said, with his air
of ineffable self-satisfaction, turning up the palms of
his fat pink-tinged hands.

Really ! " John cried, with faint derision, feeling as
if this innocent exclamation were an oath. " And the
lady ? " he added, with a still more fierce laugh.

Millefleurs gave his arm a little squeeze. "Not
settled yet," he said  "not settled yet. I have seen a
great many. There are so many pretty persons in society.
If any one of them would ask me, I have no doubt
I should be perfectly happy; but choice is always
disagreeable. In America also," he added, with some
pathos, " there are many very pretty persons : and
they like a title. The field is very wide. Let us
take an easier subject. Is Beaufort coming to you ? "

His answer is very enigmatical' said John. " I
do not know whether he means to come or not."

He is enigmatical," said Millefleurs. " He is the
queerest fellow. What is the connection between him
and the family here ? "

This question took John entirely by surprise. It was
so sudden, both in form and meaning. He had expected
his companion, before he paused, to go on for
at least five minutes more. He hesitated in spite of
himself.

"There is no connection that I know of between
him and the family here."

Oh yes, yes, there is," said Millefleurs, with gentle
pertinacity ; " think a minute. Erskine, my dear fellow,
forgive me, but you must have Beaufort here. If he
is not near me, he will lose the confidence of my papa
who will think Beaufort is neglecting his precious
son. I speak to you with perfect freedom. Beaufort
and I understand each other. I am in no need of a
governor, but he is in want of a proud. Don't you
see ? By this arrangement everything is made comfortable.
Beaufort understands me. He knows that
control is a mistake in my case. He found me and
brought me home, because I was already on my way :
he keeps me from harm  for what you call harm has
no attraction for me, don't you know. It is only my
curiosity that has to be kept in check, and at present

I have plenty to occupy that ; but my father does not
understand all this. Minds of that generation area
little limited, don't you know. They don't see so
clearly as one would wish them to see. If Beaufort is
long away from me, he will think I am in danger, 
that I may bolt again. Also, it will interfere with
Beaufort's prospects, which the Duke is to take charge
of "

"But this seems to me rather  not quite straightforward
on Beaufort's part," said John.

At this little Millefleurs shrugged his plump
shoulders. " It is permitted to humour our elders," he
said, " It pleases them and it does no one any harm.
Beaufort, don't you know, is not a fellow to walk alone.
He is clever and all that ; but he will never do anything
by himself Between him and me it suits very
well. So, to save the Duke's feelings and to help
Beaufort on, you must stretch a point and have him
here. It will be thought he is watching over me at a
little distance like the sweet little cherub, don't you
know, in the song. What objection have they got to
seeing him here ? "

None that I know of," said John steadily, turning
his face to the other si(ie to escape the scrutiny of
those small black bead-like eyes.

Oh come, come, come ! " said little Millefieurs, remonstrating
yet coaxing, patting him lightly on the

arm, " one sees it must have been one of the daughters.
It will do no harm to tell me. Am I such an ignorant
? These things are happening every day. Is it
this one here ? "

What are you thinking of ? " cried John, angrily.
Lady Edith was only a child."

"Ah! then it was the other one," Millefleurs said,
seriously ; " that suits me better. It would have been
a trifle ridiculous  Beaufort might keep in the background
if there is any reason for it : but we must
really think of the Duke. He will be in a state of
mind, don't you know, and so will my mother. They
will think I have bolted again."

And when is it," said John satirically, for he was
sick at heart and irritable in the discovery which he
had made, 'that Beaufort's mission is to be accomplished,
and the Duke to fulfil his hopes ? "

Millefleurs laughed a soft rich laugh, not loud.
"My dear fellow," he said, "that is when I marry,
don't you know. That is my occupation now in the
world. When I have a wife, the other will be off duty.
I am much interested in my occupation at present.
It brings so many specimens of humanity under one's
eyes. So different  for women are just as different as
men, though you don't think so perhaps. It might
make a man vain," he said, turning out his pink-tinged
palm, " to see how many fair creatures will take notice

of him; but then one remembers that it was not
always so, and that takes one down again. In California
I was liked, I am proud to say, but not admired.
It was, perhaps, more amusing. But I must not be
ungrateful: for life everywhere is very entertaining.
And here are fresh fields and pastures new," said the
little man. "When you have a pursuit, every new
place is doubly interesting. It does not matter

whether you are hunting or botanising or , a

pursuit gives interest to all things. Now is the time
for the country and rural character. I sometimes
think it is that which will suit me best."

Then I suppose you are on a tour of inspection,
and one of our country young ladies may have the
honour of pleasing you," said John, somewhat fiercely.
His companion, looking up in his face with deprecating
looks, patted his arm as a kind of protest.

Don't be brutal, Erskine," he said with his little
lisp ; " such things are never said." John would have
liked to take him in his teeth and shake him as a dog
does, so angry was he, and furious. But little Millefleurs
meant no harm. He drew his old schoolfellow
along with him, as long as John's civility held out.
Then, to see him strolling along with his little hat
pushed on the top of his little round head, and all the
curves of his person repeating the lines of that circle !
John stopped to look after him with a laugh which

he could scarcely restrain so long as Millefleurs was
within hearing. It was an angry laugh, though there
was nothing in the young man to give occasion for it.
-There was nothing really in him that was contemptible,
for to be plump is not an offence by any code.
But John watched him with the fiercest derision going
along the country road with his cane held in two fingers,
his hat curling in the brim, his locks curling the other
way. And this was the man whom even Lady Lindores
 even she, a woman so superior to worldly
motives  condescended to scheme about. And Edith ?
was it possible that she, too  even she ? Everything
seemed to have turned to bitterness in John's soul.
Tinto before him in the distance, with its flaunting
flag, gave emphasis to the discovery he had made.
For mere money, nothing else, one had been sacrificed.
The other, was she to be sacrificed, too ? Was there
nothing but wealth to be thought of all the world over,
even by the best people, by women with every tender
grace and gift ? When he thought of the part in the
drama allotted to himself  to entertain Beaufort, who
was the keeper of Millefleurs, in order that Millefleurs
might be at liberty to follow his present pursuit, John
burst into a laugh not much more melodious than that
of Torrance. Beaufort and he could condole with each
other. They could communicate, each to each, their
several disappointments. But to bring to the neighbourhood

this man whom Carry dared not see, whom
with such tragic misery in her face she had implored
John to keep at a distance  and that it should be her
parents who were bringing him in cold blood in order
to advance their schemes for her sister  was it possible
that anything so base or cruel could be ?

CHAPTER XXIV.

The thing is, that he must be "brought to the point.
I said so in town. He dangled after her all the
season, and he's dangled after her down here. The
little beggar knows better than that. He knows that
sharp people would never stand it. He is trusting to
your country simplicity When a man does not come
to the point of his own accord, he must be led to it 
or driven to it, for that matter," said Eintoul. He was
out of humour, poor fellow. He had gone astray in
his own person. His disapproval of his mother and of
everybody belonging to him was nothing in comparison
with his disapproval of himself. This put him
out in every way : instead of making him tolerant of
the others who were no worse than himself, it made
him rampant in his wisdom. If it was so that he
could not persuade or force himself into the right way,
then was it more and more necessary to persuade or
force other people. He took a high tone with Lady

Lindores, all the more because he had discovered with
astonishment, and a comical sort of indignation, that
his mother had come over to his way of thinking.
He could not believe it to be possible at first, and
afterwards this inconsistent young man had felt disgusted
with the new accomplice whom he had in his
heart believed incapable of any such conversion. But
such being the case, there was no need to manager her
susceptibilities. " Or driven to it," he repeated with
emphasis. " I shall not stand by, I promise you, and
see my sister plant la "

"You have used these words before, Eintoul. They
disgust me, and they offend me," said his mother.
I will not be a party to anything of the kind. Those
who do such things dishonour the girl  oh, far more
than anything else can do. She does not care at all
for him. Most likely she would refuse him summarily."


And you would let her  refuse a dukedom ? " cried
Eintoul.

Refuse a  man whom she does not care for. What
could I do ? I should even like now, after all that has
happened, that it should come to something; but if
she found that she could not marry him, how could I
interfere ? "

Jove ! but I should interfere," cried Eintoul, pacing
up and down the room. " How could you help

interfering? Would you suffer me to throw away all
my prospects ? " Here he paused, with a curious, half-threatening,
half-deprecating look. Perhaps his mother
would be one who would suffer him to sacrifice his
prospects. Perhaps she would sympathise with him
even in that wrong-doing. She was capable of it.
He looked at her with mingled disdain and admiration.
She was a woman who was capable of applauding him
for throwing himself away. What folly ! and yet perhaps
it was good to have a mother like that. But not
for Edith, whose case was of an altogether different
complexion from his own. He made a pause, and then
he added in a slightly louder tone, being excited : " But
he must not be allowed to dangle on for ever. When
a fellow follows a girl into the country he must mean
something. You may take my word for that."

At this moment the handle of the door gave a slight
clink ; a soft step was audible. " Pardon me for disturbing
you, dearest lady," said the mellifluous voice
of Millefleurs. The little Marquis had a foot which
made no sound on the carpet. He was daintily attired,
and all his movements were noiseless. He came
upon the startled conspirators like a ghost. " Send
me away if I am de trop," he said, clasping his plump
hands. " It is my hour of audience, but Pdntoul has
the first claim."

Oh, I don't want any audience," said Rintoul. He

had exchanged an anxious glance with his mother, and
both had reddened in spite of themselves. Not to
betray that you have been discussing some one who
appears, while the words of criticism are still on your
lips, is difficult at all times ; and Eintoul, feeling confused
and guilty, was anxious to give the interrupted
conversation an air of insignificance. "My mother
and I have no secrets. She is not so easy as the
mothers in society," he said, with a laugh.

No ! " said Millefleurs, folding his hands with an
air of devotion. " I would not discuss the chronique
scandaleuse, if that is what you mean, in. Lady Lindores's
hearing. The air is pure here ; it is like living
out of doors. There is no dessous des cartes  no behind
the scenes'

"What does the little beggar mean?" Eintoul said
to himself, feeling red and uncomfortable. Lady Lindores
took up her work, which was her flag of distress.
She felt herself humiliated beyond description. To
think that she should be afraid of any one overhearing
what she said or what her son had said to her ! She
felt her cheeks burn and tingle ; her needle trembled
in her fingers ; and then there ensued a most uncomfortable
pause. Had he heard what they were saying
? Eintoul did not go away, which would have
been the best policy, but stood about, taking up books
and throwing them down again, and wearing, which

was the last thing he wished to do, the air of a man
disturbed in an important consultation. As a matter
of fact, his mind was occupied with two troublesome
questions : the first, whether Millefleurs had overheard
anything ; the second, how he could himself
get away. Millefleurs very soon perceived and shared
in this embarrassment. The phrase which had been
uttered as he opened the door had reached his ear without
affecting his mind for the first moment. Perhaps
if he had not perceived the embarrassment of the
speaker he would not have given any weight to the
words  " When a fellow follows " Funny alliteration
! he said to himself. And then he saw that the
mother and son were greatly disturbed by his entrance.
He was as much occupied by wondering what they
could mean, as they where by wondering if he had
heard. But he was the first to cut the difficulty. He
said, " Pardon me, dear lady, I have forgotten something.
I'll come back directly if you'll let me "  and
went out. Certainly there had been some discussion
going on between mother and son. Perhaps Eintoul
had got into debt, perhaps into love ; both were things
which occurred daily, and it was always best when
such a subject had been started between parent and
child that they should have it out. So he withdrew,
but with that phrase still buzzing in his ears, " When
a fellow follows " It was a comical combination

of words ; he could not get rid of it, and presently it
began to disturb his mind. Instead of going to the
library or any of the other rooms in the house, he went
outside with the sensation of having something to
reflect upon, though he could not be sure what it
was. By-and-by the entire sentence came to his recollection.
"When a fellow follows a girl into the
country  but then, who is it that has followed the

girl into the country ?  Eintoul ? " This cost him

about five minutes' thought. Then little Millefleurs
stopped short in the midst of the path, and clasped his
hands against his plump bosom, and turned up his
eyes to heaven. " Why I it is I ! " he said to himself,
being more grammatical than most men in a state
of agitation. He stood for a whole minute in this
attitude, among the big blue-green araucarias which
stood around. What a subject for a painter if there
had been one at hand ! It was honour confronting
fate. He had not intended anything so serious. He
liked, he would have said loved, the ladies of the
house. He would not have hesitated anywhere to give
full utterance to this sentiment : and to please his
father, and to amuse himself, he was consciously on
the search for some one who might be suitable for the
vacant post of Marchioness of Millefleurs. And he
had thought of Edith in that capacity certainly he
had thought of her. So had he thought of various

other young ladies in society, turning over their various
claims. But it had not occurred to him to come to
any sudden decision, or to think that necessary. Ashe
stood there, however, with his eyes upraised, invoking
aid from that paternal Providence which watches
over marquises, a flood of light spread over the subject
and all its accessories. Though he had not thought of
them, he knew the prejudices of society ; and all that
Eintoul had said about leaving a givlplant4 la was
familiar to him. " When a fellow follows " (absurd
alliteration ! said Millefieurs, with his lisp, to himself)
a girl into the country, he much mean something

and once more he clasped his hands and pressed

them to his breast. His eyes, raised to heaven, took
a languishing look; a smile of consciousness played
about his mouth ; but this was only for a moment,
and was replaced at once by a look of firm resolution.
No maiden owed her scat to Millefieurs : though he
was so plump, he was the soul of honour. Not for a
moment could he permit it to be supposed that he
was trifling with Edith Lindores, amusing himself
any of those pretty phrases in use in society. He
thought with horror of the possibility of having compromised
her, even though, so far as he was himself
concerned, the idea was not disagreeable. In five
minutes  for he had a quick little brain and the finest
faculty of observation, a quality cultivated in his race

by several centuries of social eminence  Millefleurs
had mastered the situation. All the instructions that
Eintoul had so zealously endeavoured to convey to
his mother's mind became apparent to Millefleurs in
the twinkling of an eye. It would be said that he
had left her plaits Id; he allowed himself no illusion
on the subject. So it might be said,  but so it never
must be said of Edith Lindores. He was perfectly
chivalrous in his instant decision. He was not to say
in love  though did Providence bestow any one of
five or six young ladies, among whom Edith stood
high, upon him, Millefleurs felt positively convinced
that he would be the happiest man in the world.
And he was not sure that he might not be running
the risk of a refusal, a thing which is very appalling
to a young man's imagination. But notwithstanding
this danger, Millefleurs, without hesitation, braced
himself up to do his duty. He buttoned his coat, took
off his hat and put it on again, and then pulling himself
together, went off without a moment's hesitation
in search of Lord Lindores.

An hour later the Earl entered his lady' s chamber
with a countenance in which gratification, and proud
content in an achieved success, were only kept in
check by the other kind of pride which would not
permit it to be perceived that this success was anything
out of the ordinary. He told her his news ina

few brief words, which Lady Lindores received with
so much agitation, turning from red to white, and with
such an appearance of vexation and pain, that the
Earl put on his sternest aspect. " What is the meaning
of all this flurry and disturbance ? " he said. " I
hope we are not going to have it all over again, as we
had before Carry's wedding."

Oh, don't speak of poor Carry's wedding in comparison
with this. This, God grant it, if it comes to
pass, will be no degradation  no misery "

Not much degradation, certainly  only somewhere
about the best position in England," with angry scorn
Lord Lindores said.

But the lines were not smoothed away from his
wife's forehead, nor did the flush of shame and pain
leave her face. She looked at him for a moment, to
see whether she should tell him. But why poison his
pleasure? "It is not his fault," she said to herself;
and all that she gave utterance to was an anxious
exclamation : " Provided that Edith sees as we
do!"

She must see as we do," Lord Lindores said.

But when Eintoul came in, his mother went to him
and seized his arm with both her hands. " He heard
what you said 1 " she cried, with anguish in her voice.
Now I shall never be able to hold up my head in
his presence  he heard what you said ! "

VOL. n. M

Eintoul too, notwithstanding his more enlightened
views, was somewhat red. Though it was in accordance
with his principles, yet the fact of having helped
to force, in any way, a proposal for his sister, caused
him an unpleasant sensation. He tried to carry it off
with a laugh. '* Anyhow, since it has brought him
to the point," he said.

This was the day on which Millefleurs was to betaken
to Tinto to see the house and all its curiosities
and wealth. In view of this he had begged that
nothing might be said to Edith, with a chivalrous
desire to save her pain should her answer be unfavourable.
But how could Lady Lindores keep such a
secret from her daughter? While she was still full
of the excitement, the painful triumph, the terror and
shame with which she had received the news, Edith
came in to the morning room, which to-day had been
the scene of so many important discussions. They
had been perhaps half an hour together, going gaily
on with the flood of light-hearted conversation about
anything and nothing which is natural between a girl
and her mother, when she suddenly caught a glimpse
in a mirror of Lady Lindores's troubled face. The girl
rushed to her instantly, took this disturbed countenance
between her hands, and turned it with gentle
force towards her. Her own face grew grave at once.
Something is the matter," she said ; " something has

happened. Oh, mother, darling, what is it ? Something
about Carry ? "

"No, no; nothing, nothing! Certainly nothing

that is unhappy Don't question me now, Edith.

Afterwards, you shall know it all."

Let me know it now," the girl said ; and she
insisted with that filial tyranny against which mothers
are helpless. At last Lady Lindores, being pressed
into a corner, murmured something about Lord Millefleurs.
" If he speaks to you to-night, oh, my darling
if he asks you  do not be hasty; say nothing, say
nothing, without thought."

Speaks to me  asks me ! "  Edith stood wonder-stricken,
her eyes wide open, her lips apart. " What
should he ask me ? " She grew a little pale in spite
of herself.

My dearest ! what should he ask you ? What is it
that a young man asks  in such circumstances ? He
will ask you  perhaps  to marry him."

Edith gave a kind of shriek  and then burst into
a peal of agitated laughter. "Mother, dear, what a
fright you have given me ! I thought  I didn't know
what to think. Poor little man ! Don't let him doit
 don't let him do it, mamma ! It would make us
both ridiculous, and if it made him at all  unhappy;
but that is nonsense  you are only making fun of
me," said the girl, kissing her, with a hurried eagerness

as if to silence her. Lady Lindores drew herself
away from her daughter's embrace.

Edith, it is you who are making yourself ridiculous
 consider how he has sought you all this time 
and he came after you to the country. I have felt
what  was coming all along. My dearest, did not
you suspect it too ? "

Edith stood within her mother's arm, but she was
angry and held herself apart, not leaning upon the
bosom where she had rested so often. " I suspect it !
how could I suspect it ? " she cried. It went to Lady
Lindores's heart to feel her child straighten herself up,
and keep apart from her and all her caresses.

Edith, for God's sake, do not set yourself against
it ! Think, only think "

What has God got to do with it, mother ? " the
young creature cried sternly. " I will set myself
against it  nay, more than that, I am not like Carry ;
nothing in the world will make me do it  not any
reason, not any argument." She was still encircled
by her mother's arm, but she stood straight, upright,
erect as a willow-wand, unyielding, drawing her garments,
as it were, about her, insensible to the quivering
lines of her mother's upturned face, and the softer
strain of her embrace. No, not indifferent  but resisting
 shutting her eyes to them, holding herself apart.

For heaven's sake, Edith I Oh, my darling, think-how
different this is from the other ! Your father has
set his heart on it, and I wish it too. And Millefleurs
is Millefleurs will be "

"Is this how you persuaded Carry?" cried Edith,
with sad indignation ; " but mother, mother, listen 1
not me. It is better that never another word should
be said between us on this subject, for I will never doit,
whatever may be said. If my father chooses to
speak to me, I will give him my answer. Let us say
no more  not another word ; " and with this the girl
unbent and threw herself upon her mother, and
stopped her mouth with kisses, indignant, impassioned
 her cheeks hot and flushed, her eyes full of
angry tears.

It may be thought that the drive to Tinto of this
strange party, all palpitating with the secret which
each thought unknown to the other, was a curious
episode enough. Millefleurs, satisfied with himself,
and feeling the importance of his position with so
much to bestow, found, he thought, a sympathetic
response in the look of Lady Lindores, to whom, no
doubt, as was quite right, her husband had disclosed
the great news ; but he thought that Edith was
entirely ignorant of it. And Edith and her mother
had their secret on their side, the possession of which

was more momentous still. But they all talked and
smiled with the little pleasantries and criticisms that
are inevitable in the conversation of persons of the
highest and most cultivated classes, and did not betray
what was in their hearts.

CHAPTER XXV.

John Erskine was on the steps leading to the great
central entrance when the carriage from Lindores
drove up at the door. It was not by chance that he
found himself there, for he was aware of the intended
visit ; and with the sombre attraction which the sight
of a rival and an adversary has for a man, felt himself
drawn towards the scene in which an act of this
drama in which his happiness was involved, was going
on. He hurried down before the footman to get to
the carriage-door, and hand the ladies out. He had
seen them several times since that day when Lady
Lindores, unused to deception, had allowed the secret
to slip from her. And he had accustomed himself to
the fact that Millefleurs, who was in person and aspect
so little alarming, but in other ways the most irresistible
of rivals, was in full possession of the field before
him. But John, with quickened insight, lead also perceived
that no decisive step had as yet been taken,

and with infinite relief was able to persuade himself
that Edith as yet was no party to the plot, and was
unaware what was coming. He saw in a moment
now that some important change had come over the
state of affairs. Lady Lindores avoided his eye, but
Edith looked at him, he thought, with a sort of appeal
in her face,  a question,  a wondering demand, full of
mingled defiance and deprecation. So much in one
look ! and yet there seemed to him even more than
all this. What had happened ? Milliners was conscious
too. There was a self-satisfaction about him
more evident, more marked than usual. He put out
his chest a little more. He held his head higher,
though he refrained from any special demonstration in
respect to Edith. There was an air about him as of a
man who had taken some remarkable initiative. His
very step touched the ground with more weight : his
round eyes contemplated all things with a more bland
and genial certainty of being able to solve every difficulty.
And Eintoul had a watchful look as of a man
on his guard  a keen spectator vigilantly attentive to
everything ; uncertain whether even yet he might not
be called upon to interfere. All this John Erskine
saw at one glance,  not clearly as it is set down here,
but vaguely, with confused perceptions which he could
not disentangle, which conveyed no distinct information
to his mind, but only a warning, an intimation

which set every vein of him tingling. Lady Lindores
would not meet his eye; but Edith looked at him with
that strange look of question  How much do you
know ? it seemed to say. What do you suspect ? and
with a flash of indignation  Do you suspect me ? Do
you doubt me? He thought there was all this, or
something like it, in her eyes ; and yet he could not
tell what they meant, nor, so far as she was concerned,
what length her knowledge went. He met her look
with one in which another question bore the chief
part. But it was much less clear to Edith what that
question meant. They were all as conscious as it was
possible for human creatures each shut up within the
curious envelope of his own identity, imperfectly comprehending
any other, to be. The air tingled with
meaning round them. They were all aware, strangely,
yet naturally, of standing on the edge of fate.

Lady Caroline and her husband received this
party in the great drawing-room which was used
on state occasions : everything had been thrown
open professedly that Lord Millefleurs should see,
but really that Lord Millefleurs should be dazzled
by, the splendour which Torrance devoutly believed
to be unrivalled. It was in order that he might
see the effect of all the velvet and brocade, all the
gilding and carving, upon the stranger, that he had
waited to receive the party from Lindores with his

wife, a tiling quite unusual to him; and he was
in high expectation and good-humour, fully expecting
to be flattered and gratified. There was a short
pause of mutual civilities to begin with, during which
Torrance was somewhat chilled and affronted to see
that the little Marquis remained composed, and displayed
no awe, though he looked about him with his
quick little round eyes.

You will have heard, Lady Caroline, how I have
lost any little scrap of reputation I ever had,"
Millefleurs said, clasping his plump hands. " I am
no shot: it is true, though I ought to be ashamed
to acknowledge it. And I don't care to follow flying
things on foot. If there was a balloon indeed ! I
am an impostor at this season. I am occupying
the place of some happy person who might make
a large bag every day."

"But there is room for all those happy persons
without disturbing you  who have other qualities,"
said Carry, with her soft pathetic smile. There
was a little tremor about her, and catching of her
breath, for she did not know at what moment might
occur that name which always agitated her, however
she might fortify herself against it.

If not at Lindores, there's always plenty of room
at Tinto," said Torrance, with ostentatious openness.
-''There's room for a regiment here. I have a few

fellows coming for the partridges, but not half enough
to fill the house. Whenever you like, you and your
belongings, as many as you please, whether it's
servants  or guardians," Torrance said, with his
usual rude laugh.

Something like an electric shock ran round the
company. Millefleurs was the only one who received
it without the smallest evidence of understanding
what it was. He looked up in Torrance's face with
an unmoved aspect. "I don't travel with a suite,"
he said, "though I am much obliged to you all the
same. It is my father who carries all sorts of people
about with him. And I love my present quarters,"
said the little Marquis, directing a look towards Lady
Lindores of absolute devotion. " I will not go away
unless I am sent away. A man who has knocked
about the world knows when he is well off. I will
go to Erskine, and be out of the way during the hours
when I am de trop."

"Erskine is filling his house too, I suppose," Torrance
said. And then having got all that was
practicable in the shape of offence out of this subject,
he proposed that they should make the tour of what
had been always called the state apartments at Tinto.
There's a few things to show," he said, affecting
humility ; " not much to you who have been about the
world as you say, but still a few things that we think

something of in this out-of-the-way place." Then he
added, " Lady Car had better be the showman, for she
knows more about them than I do  though I was
born among them." This was the highest possible
pleasure to Pat Torrance. To show off his possessions,
to which he professed to be indifferent, with an intended
superiority in his rude manliness to anything
so finicking, by means of his wife  his proudest and
finest possession of all  was delightful to him. He
lounged after them, keeping close to the party, ready
with all his being to enjoy Lady Car's description
of the things that merited admiration. He was in
high good humour, elated with the sense of his
position as her husband and the owner of all this
grandeur. He felt that the little English lord would
now see what a Scotch country gentleman could be,
what a noble distinguished wife he could get for
himself, and what a house he could bring her to.
Unfortunately, Lord Millefleurs, whose delight was
to talk about Californian miners and their habitudes,
was familiar with greater houses than Tinto, and had
been born in the purple, and slept on rose-leaves all
his life. He admired politely what he was evidently
expected to admire, but he gave vent to no enthusiasm.
When they came to the great dining-room,
with its huge vases and marble pillars, he looked
round upon it with a countenance of complete seriousness,

not lightened by any gratification. "Yes  I
see : everything is admirably in keeping," he said ;
an excellent example of the period. It is so seldom
one sees this sort of thing nowadays. Everybody has
begun to try to improve, don't you know ; and the
mieux is always the ennemi die lien. This is all
of a piece, don't you know. It is quite perfect of
its kind."

What does the little beggar mean ? " it was now
Torrance's turn to say to himself. It sounded, no
doubt, like praise, but his watchful suspicion and
jealousy were roused. He tried his usual expedient
of announcing how much it had cost; but Millefleurs
 confound the little beggar !  received the
intimation with perfect equanimity. He was not
impressed. He made Torrance a little bow, and
said with his lisp, " Yet, very costly always
the materials are all so expensive, don't you
know." But he could not be brought to say anything
more. Even Lady Caroline felt depressed
by his gravity ; for insensibly, though she ought to
have known better, she had got to feel that all the
wealth of Tinto  its marbles, its gilding, its masses of
ornate plate, and heavy decorations  must merit consideration.
They had been reckoned among the things
for which she had been sacrificed  they were part of
her price, so to speak : and if they were not splendid

and awe-inspiring, then her sacrifice had indeed been
made in vain. Poor Lady Caroline was not in a condition
to meet with any further discouragement; and
to feel that her husband was beginning to lose his air
of elated good-humour, gave an additional tremor to
the nervousness which possessed her. She knew what
he would say about " your fine friends," and how he
would swear that no such visitors should ever be asked
to his house again. She went on mechanically saying
her little lesson by heart, pointing out all the great
pieces of modern Sevres and Dresden. Her mind
was full of miserable thoughts. She wanted to catch
John Erskine's eye, to put an imploring question to
him with eyes or mouth. " Is he coming ? " This
was what she wanted to say. But she could not catch
John Erskine's eye, who was gloomily walking behind
her by the side of Edith saying nothing. Lady Caroline
could not help remarking that neither of these
two said a word. Lady Lindores and Eintoul kept up
a kind of skirmishing action around them, trying now
to draw one, now the other, into conversation, and get
them apart. But the two kept by each other like a
pair in a procession  yet never spoke.

The period, dear lady ? " said Millefleurs,  " I am
not up to the last novelties of classification, nor scientific,
don't you know ; but I should say Georgian, late
Georgian, or verging upon the times of the Ptoyal

William "  he gave a slight shiver as he spoke, perhaps
from cold, for the windows were all open, and
there was a draught. " But perfect of its kind," he
added with a little bow, and a seriousness which was
more disparaging than abuse. Even Lady Carry smiled
constrainedly, and Torrance, with a start, awoke to his
sense of wrong, and felt that he could bear no more.

George or Jack' he cried, " I don't know anything
about periods ; this I do know, that it ran away with
a great deal of money  money none of us would mind
having in our pockets now." He stared at Eintoul ashe
spoke, but even Eintoul looked as if he were indifferent,
which galled the rich man more and more.
My Lady Countess and my Lord Marquis," he said,
with an elaborate mocking bow, " I'll have to ask
you to excuse me. I've got  something to do that I
thought I could get off  but I can't, don't you know;"
and here he laughed again, imitating as well as he was
able the seraphic appeal to the candour of his hearers,
which Millefleurs was so fond of making. The tone,
the words, the aspect of the man, taught Millefleurs
sufficiently (who was the only stranger) that he had
given offence ; and the others drew closer, eager to
make peace for Carry's sake, who was smiling with
the ordinary effort of an unhappy wife to make the
best of it and represent to the others that it was only
her husband's " way."

But Torrance's ill-humour was not as usual directed
towards his wife. When he looked at her, his face,
to her great astonishment, softened. It was a small
matter that did it ; the chief reason was that he saw
a look of displeasure  of almost offence  upon his
wife's countenance too. She was annoyed with the
contemptible little English lord as much as he was.
This did not take away his rage, but it immediately
gave him that sense that his wife was on his side, for
which the rough fellow had always longed  and
altered his aspect at once. As he stood looking at
them, with his large light eyes projecting from their
sockets, a flush of offence on his cheeks, a forced laugh
on his mouth, his face softened all in a moment. This
time she was no longer the chief antagonist to be subdued,
but his natural supporter and champion. He
laid his heavy hand upon her shoulder, with a pride
of proprietorship which for once she did not seem
to contest. " Lady Car," he said, " she's my deputy:
she'll take care of you better than I."

Lady Caroline, with an involuntary, almost affectionate
response, put her hand on his arm. " Don't
go," she said, lifting her face to him with an eloquence
of suppressed and tremulous emotion all about her,
which indeed had little reference to this ill-humour of
his, but helped to dignify it, and take away the air of
trivial rage and mortification which had been too evident

at first. Lady Lindores, too, made a step forward
with the same intention. He stood and looked at
them with a curious medley of feeling, touched at
once by the pleasure of a closer approach to his wife,
and by a momentary tragic sense of being entirely
outside of this group of people to whom he was so
closely related. They were his nearest connections,
and yet he did not belong to them, never could belong
to them ! They were of a different species  another
world altogether. Lady Car could take care of them.
She could understand them, and know their ways ;
but not he. They were all too fine for him, out of his
range, thinking different thoughts, pretending even
(for it must surely have been mere pretence) to despise
his house, which everybody knew was the great house
of the district, infinitely grander than the castle or any
other place in the county. He was deeply wounded
by this unlooked-for cutting away of the ground from
under his feet : but Lady Car was on his side. She
could manage them though he could not. Not one of
them was equal to her, and it was to him that she
belonged. He laughed again, but the sound of his
laugh was not harsh as it had been before. " No, no ;
Lady Car will take care of you," he said.

I hope," said Millefleurs in his mellifluous tones,
that it is not this intrusion of ours that is sending
Mr Torrance away. I know what a nuisance people

VOL. n. N

are coining to luncheon in the middle of an occupied
day. Send us away, Lady Caroline, or rather send me
away, who am the stranger. Erskine will take me
with him to Dalrulzian, and another day I shall
return and see the rest of your splendours."

Mr Torrance has really business," said Carry ;
"mamma will show you the other rooms, while I
speak to my husband." She went swiftly, softly, after
him, as his big figure disappeared in the long vista
of the great dining-room. After a moment's pause
of embarrassment, the rest went on. Carry hurried
trembling after her tyrant. When they were out of
hearing she called him anxiously. "Oh, don't go,
Pat. How do you think I can entertain such a party
when they know that you are offended, and will not
stay ? "

You will get on better without me," he said. " I
can't stand these fellows and their airs. It isn't any
fault of yours, Lady Car. Come, I'm pleased with
you. You've stood by your own this time, I will say
that for you. But they're your kind, they're not mine.
Dash the little beggar, what a cheek he has 1 I'm not
used to hear the house run down. But never mind, I
don't care a pin,  and it's not your fault this time.
Car," he said, with a laugh, touching her cheek with
his finger with a touch which was half a blow and
half a caress. This was about as much tenderness ashe

was capable of showing. Carry followed him to
the door, and saw him plunge down the great steps,
and turn in the direction of the stables. Perhaps she
was not sorry to avoid all further occasion of offence.
She returned slowly through the long, vulgar, costly
rooms  a sigh of relief came from her overladen heart ;
but relief in one point made her but more painfully
conscious of another. In the distance Millefleurs was
examining closely all the ormolu and finery. As she
came in sight of the party, walking slowly like the
worn creature she was, feeling as if all the chances of
life were over for her, and she herself incomparably
older, more weary and exhausted than any of them,
and her existence a worn-out thing apart from the
brighter current of every day, there remained in her
but one flicker of personal anxiety, one terror which
yet could make everything more bitter. The group
was much the same as when she left them,  Lady
Lindores with Millefleurs, Edith and John silent behind
them, Pdntoul in a sort of general dictatorship,
keeping watch upon the party. Carry touched John
Erskine's arm furtively and gave him an entreating
look. He turned round to her alarmed.

'' Lady Caroline ! can I do anything ? What is it ?"
he said.

She drew him back into a corner of the great room
with its marble pillars. She was so breathless that

she could hardly speak. " It is nothing rit is only
a question. Are you expecting  people  at Dal-russian
? "

Carry's soft eyes had expanded to twice their size,
and looked at him out of two caves of anxiety and
hollow paleness. She gave him her hand unawares,
as if asking him by that touch more than words could
say. John was moved to the heart.

I think not  I hope not  I have no answer. No,
no, there will be no one," he said.

She sank down into a chair with a faint smile.
"You will think me foolish  so very foolish  it is
nothing to me. But  I am always so frightened,"
said poor Carry, with the first pretence that occurred
to her, " when there is any displace."

"There will be no displace," said John, "in any
case. But I am sure  I can be certain  there will be
no one there."

She smiled upon him again, and waved her hand to
him to leave her. " I will follow you directly," she said.

What emotions there were in this little group !
Carry sat with her hand upon her heart, which fluttered
still, getting back her breath. Every remission
of active pain seems a positive good. She sat still,
feeling the relief and ease flow over her like a stream
of healing to her very feet. She would be saved the
one encounter which she could not bear ; and then for

the moment he was absent, and there would be no
struggle to keep him in good-humour, or to conceal
from others his readiness to offend and take offence.
Was this all the semblance of happiness that remained
for Carry ? For the moment she was satisfied with it,
and took breath, and recovered a little courage, and
was thankful in that deprivation of all things  thankful
that no positive pain was to be added to make
everything worse ; and that a brief breathing-time
was hers for the moment, an hour of rest.

Edith looked at John as he came back. She had
lingered, half waiting for him, just as if he had been
her partner in a procession. In that moment of separation
Eintoul allowed himself to go off guard. She
looked at John, and almost for the first time spoke.
Carry has been talking to you," she said hastily, in
an undertone.

"Yes,  about visitors  people who might be coming
to stay with me."

Is any one coming to stay with you ? " she asked,
quickly.

"Nobody," John replied with fervour; "nor shall
at any risk."

This all passed in a moment while Eintoul was off
guard. She looked at him again, wistfully, gratefully,
and he being excited by his own feelings, and by sympathy
with all this excitement which breathed around

him in so many currents, was carried beyond all prudence,
beyond all intention. " I will do anything' he
said, " to please you, and serve her, you know. It is
nothing to offer. I am nobody in comparison with
others ; but what I have is all yours, and at your
service,  the little that it is "

Oh," said Edith, in a mere breath of rapid, almost
inaudible, response, " it is too much ; it is too much.'
She did not know what she said.

Nothing is too much. I am not asking any return.
I am not presumptuous ; but I am free to give. Nobody
can stop me from doing that," said John, not
much more clearly. It was all over in a moment.
The people within a few yards of them scarcely knew
they had exchanged a word; even Eintoul did not
suspect any communication that was worth preventing.
And next moment they separated. John, panting
and breathless, as if he had been running a race,
went up to where Millefleurs was discoursing upon
some bit of upholstery, and stood by in the shelter of
this discussion to let himself cool down. Edith kept
behind in the shelter of her mother. And just then
Carry came softly out of the door of the great diningroom
from behind the marble pillars, having recovered
herself, and called back the smile to her face. In
the midst of all these emotions, Millefleurs talked
smoothly on.

"My people' he said, "have a place down in
Flintshire that is a little like this, but not so perfect.
My grandfather, or whoever it was, lost confidence
before it was done, and mixed it up. But here, don't
you know, the confidence has been sublime; no
doubt has been allowed to intrude. They say that
in Scotland you are so absolute  all or nothing,
don't you know. Whether in furniture or anything
else, how fine that is ! " said the little Marquis,
turning up his palms. He looked quite absorbed in
his subject, and as calm as a man in gingerbread.
Nevertheless, he was the only person to notice that
slight passage of conversation sotto voce, and the
breathless condition in which John reached him.
What had he been doing to put him out of breath ?

When the house had been inspected, the party went
to luncheon  a very sumptuous meal, which was
prepared in the great dining-room, and was far too
splendid for an ordinary family party such as this
was. John, whose excitement had rather increased
than diminished, and who felt that he had altogether
committed himself, without chance or hope of any
improved relations, was not able to subdue himself to
the point of sitting down at table. He took his leave
in spite of the protests of the party. His heart was
beating loudly, his pulses all clanging in his ears
like a steam-engine. He did not get the chance

even of a glance from Edith, who said good-bye to
him in a tremulous voice, and did not look up. He
saw her placed by the side of Millefieurs at table,
as he turned away. He had all the modesty of
genuine feeling,  a modesty which is sometimes
another name for despair. Why should she take
any notice of him ? He had no right to aspire so
high. Nothing to give, as he said, except as a mere
offering  a flower laid at her feet,  not a gift which
was capable of a return. He said to himself that,
so far as this went, there should be no deception
in his mind. He would give his gift  it was his
pleasure to give it  lavishly, with prodigal abundance
; as a prince should give, expecting no return.
In this he would have the better of all of them,
he said to himself, as he went through the great
house, where, except in the centre of present entertainment,
all was silent like a deserted place. He
would give more liberally, more magnificently, than
any duke or duke's son, for he would give all,
and look for nothing in return. The feeling which
accompanied this dan of entire self-devotion and
abandonment of selfish hope gave him something
of the same calm of exhaustion which was in Carry's
soul. He seemed to have come to something final,
something from which there was no recovery. He
could not sit down at table with them ; but he

could not go away any more than he could stay.
He went out through the vacant hall, where nobody
took any notice of his going or coming, and emerged
upon the wide opening of the plateau, sheltered by
fir-trees, upon which the house stood dominating
the landscape. His was the only shadow that crossed
the sunshine in front of the huge mass of building
which was so noiseless outside, so full of life and
emotion within. He could not go away any more
than he could stay. He wandered to the fringe of
trees which clothed the edge of the steep cliff above
the river, and sat there on the bank gazing down
on the depths below, till the sound of voices warned
him that the party was moving from the diningroom.
Then he hastened away to avoid them, taking
the less frequented road which led by the Scar.
He had passed that dangerous spot, but the way
was still narrow between the bushes, when he heard
the hoofs of Torrance's great black horse resounding
upon the path. Pat was returning home after what
had evidently been a wild gallop, for the powerful
animal had his black coat flecked with foam, and
was chewing the bit in his mouth. Torrance had
almost passed without perceiving John, but catching
a glimpse of him as he pushed along, suddenly drew
up, making his horse rear and start. He had an
air of heat and suppressed passion which corresponded

with the foam and dishevelled looks of the
horse. " Hollo ! " he cried, " you, Erskine, have they
broken up ? " and sat swaying his great bulk with the
impatient movements of the fagged yet fiery beast.
John answered briefly, and was about to pass on,
when Torrance gave him what was intended to bea
playful poke with the end of his whip. " When's
your visitor coming ? " he said, with his harsh laugh.

"My visitor! I expect no visitor," said John,
stepping back with anger which he could scarcely
restrain. It was all he could do not to seize the
whip, and snatch it out of the other's hand. But
neither the narrow path, nor the excited state in
which both men were, was safe for any scuffle. John
restrained himself with an effort.

Oh yes, you are ! " cried Torrance ; " you let it
out once, you know  you can't take in me. But
I'm the last man in the world to find fault. Let
him come 1 We'll have him up to Tinto, and make
much of him. I told you so before."

'' You seem to know my arrangements better than
I know them myself," John said, white with suppressed
fury. " I have no visitor coming. Permit
me to know my own affairs."

Ah ! so you've forbidden him to come ! Let me
tell you, Mr Erskine, that that's the greatest insult
of all. Why shouldn't he come? he, or any fellow?

Do you think I'm afraid of Lady Car?" and here
his laugh rang into all the echoes. " Not a hit ;
I think more of her than that. You're putting a
slight on her when you ask any man not to come.
Do you hear?"

I hear perfectly, and would hear if you spoke
lower. There's enough of this, Torrance. I suppose
it's your way, and you don't intend to be specially
objectionable  but I am not going to be questioned
so, nor will I take the lie from any man," cried
John, with rising passion. There was scarcely room
for him to stand in safety from the horse's hoofs,
and he was compelled to draw back among the
bushes as the great brute pranced and capered.

What ! will you fight ? " cried Torrance, with
another laugh ; " that's all exploded nowadays  that's
a business for ' Punch.' Not that I mind : any way
you please. Look here ! here's a fist that would soon
master you. But it's a joke, you know, nowadays ;
a joke, for * Punch.' "

So much the worse," cried John, hotly. " It was
the only way of keeping in order a big bully like

you."

Oh, that's what you call me ! If there was anyone
to see fair play  to you (for I'm twice your size)
I'd let Black go, and give you your fill of that."

John grasped instinctively at the bridle of the big

black horse, which seemed charging down upon him ;
and for a moment the two men gazed at each other,
over the tossing foam-flecked head, big eyeballs, and
churning mouth. Then John let go the bridle at which
he had caught, with an exclamation of scorn.

Another time for that, if that is what you want,"
he said.

'' No," cried the other, looking back, as the horse
darted past,  " no, that's not what I want ; you're an
honest fellow  you shall say what you please. "We'll

shake hands " The horse carrying him off lost

the rest of the words in the clang of jingling reins and
half-maddened hoofs.

John went on very rapidly, excited beyond measure
by the encounter. His face was flushed and hot ;
his hat, which had been knocked off his head, was
stained with the damp red soil. He had torn his sleeve
in the clutch he had made at the bridle. He dashed
along the narrow road at a wild pace to calm himself
down by rapid movement. A little way down he encountered
a keeper crossing the road, who disappeared
into the woods after a curious glance at his excited
looks and torn coat. Further on, as he came out of
the gate, he met, to his great astonishment, old Rolls,
plodding along towards Tinto in company with
another man, who met him at the gate. " Bless
me, sir ! what's the matter ? Ye cannot walk the

highroad like that!" was the first exclamation of
old Rolls.

"Like what? Oh, my sleeve! I tore it just now
on a  on a  catching a runaway horse. The brute
was wild, I thought he would have had me down."
There was nothing in this that was absolutely untrue,
at least nothing that it was not permissible to
say in the circumstances, but the explanation was
elaborate, as John felt. "And what are you doing
here ? " he said, peremptorily. " What do you want
at Tinto ? " It seemed almost a personal offence to
him to find Rolls there.

"I have something to say to Tinto, sir, with all
respect. My father was a tenant of his father  a
small tenant, not to call a farmer, something between
that and a cotter  and I'm wanting to speak a good
word for my brother-in-law, John Tamson, that you
will maybe mind."

Upon this the man by Rolls's side, who had been
inspecting John curiously, at last persuaded himself
to touch, not to take off, his hat, and to say : " Ay, sir,
I'm John Tamson. I was the first to see ye the day
ye cam' first to Dalrulzian. I hae my wife over by
that's good at her needle. Maybe ye'll step in and
she'll she your coat-sleeve for you. You canna gang
like that all the gate to Dalrulzian. There's no saying
who ye may meet."

John Erskine had not been awakened before to the
strangeness of his appearance. He looked down upon
his torn coat with a vague alarm. It was a start of
the black horse while he held its bridle which had
torn the sleeve out of its socket. While he was looking
at this, with a disturbed air, the lodge-gates were
thrown open and the Lindores's carriage came through.
Lady Lindores waved her hand to him, then bent forward
to look at him with sudden surprise and alarm ;
but the horses were fresh, and swept along, carrying
the party out of sight. Millefleurs was alone with the
ladies in the carriage  that John noticed without
knowing why.

A minute after, accepting John Tamson's offer of
service, he went over with him to his cottage, where
the wife immediately got her needle and thread, with
much lamentation over the gentleman's " gude black
coat." '' Bless me, sir ! it must have been an ill-willy
beast that made ye give your arm a street like that,"
she said : and John felt that his hand was unsteady
and his nerves quivering. After all, it was no such
great matter. He could not understand how it was
that he had been agitated to such an extent by an
encounter so slight.

CHAPTER XXVI.

Old Rolls went up the road which led by the Scar.
It was shorter than the formal avenue, and less in the
way of more important visitors. He was much distressed
and " exercised in his mind " about the agitated
appearance of his master  his torn sleeve, and clothes
stained with the soil. He pondered much on the sight
as he walked up the road. John was not a man given
to quarrelling, but he would seem to have been engaged
in some conflict or other. " A runaway horse !
where would he get a runaway horse at Tinto ? "
Rolls said to himself; "and Tinto was a man very
likely to provoke a quarrel." He hurried on, feeling
that he was sure to hear all about it, and much concerned
at the thought that any one belonging to himself
should bring discredit on the house in this way.
But whether it was an excited fancy, or if there was
some echo in the air of what had passed before, it
seemed to Rolls that he heard, as he proceeded onwards,

the sound of voices and conflict. "Will he
have been but one among many ? " he said within
himself. " Will they be quarrelling on ?  and me an
unprotected man ? " he added, with a prudent thought
of his own welfare. Then Rolls heard a wonderful
concussion in the air  he could not tell what, and
then a solemn stillness. What was the meaning of
this ? It could have nothing to do with John. He
turned up the narrow road down which John Erskine
had once driven his dog cart, and which Torrance
continually rode up and down. When he came to the
opening of the Scar, and saw the daylight breaking
clear from the shadow of the over-reaching boughs,
Rolls stood still for a moment with consternation.
Broken branches, leaves strewn about, the print of the
horse's hoofs all round the open space as if he had
been rearing wildly, showed marks of a recent struggle,
 he thought of his master, and his heart sank.
But it was some time before his fears went any further.
Where had the other party to the struggle
gone ? Just then he thought he heard a sound, something
like a moan in the depths below. A terrible
fear seized the old man. He rushed to the edge of
the cliff, and gazed over with distracted looks. And
then he gave utterance to a cry that rang through the
woods: "Wha's that lying down there?" he cried.
Something lay in a mass at the bottom of the high

'>

bank, red and rough, which descended to the water's
edge  something, he could scarcely tell what, all
heaped together and motionless. Rolls had opened
his mouth to shout for help with the natural impulse
of his horror and alarm, but another thought struck
him at the moment, and kept him silent. Was it his
master's doing ? With a gasp of misery, he felt that
it must be so; and kneeling down distracted on the
edge of the Scar, catching at the roots of the trees to
support himself, he craned over to see what it was,
who it was, and whether he could do anything for the
sufferer, short of calling all the world to witness this
terrible sight. But the one explanation Rolls gave
seemed to thrill the woods. He felt a hand touch
him as he bent over the edge, and nearly lost his
precarious footing in his terror. '' Isn't you, sir, come
to look at your handiwork ? " he said, solemnly turning
upon the person whom he supposed to be his
master. But it was not his master. It was Lord Ein-soul,
as pale as death, and trembling. " What  what
is it ? " he asked, scarcely able to articulate, pointing
vaguely below, but averting his eyes as from a sight
he dared not look at. Divided between the desire
of getting help and of sparing his master, Rolls drew
back from the Scar and returned to his habitual
caution. " I canna tell you what it is, my lord," he
said; "it's somebody that has fallen over the Scar,
VOL. II.

for all that I can see. But how that came about is
mail than I can tell. We maun rouse the place," said
the old man, " and get help  if help will do any good."

Help will do no good now," cried Eintoul in his
excitement. 'nobody could fall from that height
and live. Does he move?  look  or the horse?"
His tongue, too, was parched, and clujag to the roof
of his mouth.

The horse ! then your lordship kens wha it
is ? Lord in heaven preserve us ! no' Tinto himsel'
? "

Eintoul's dry lips formed words two or three times
before they were audible. " No one  no one but he
ever rides here."

And then the two stood for a horrible moment
and looked at each other. Eintoul was entirely unmanned.
He seemed to quiver from head to foot;
his hat was off, his countenance without a tinge of
colour. "I have never," he said, "seen  such an
accident before "

Did ye see it ? " Rolls cried anxiously ; and then
the young man faltered and hesitated.

"Heard it. I  meant to say  I heard the horse
rearing  and then the fall "

He looked intently at the old man with his haggard
eyes as if to ask  what ? Poor old Rolls was
trembling too. He thought only of his young master

SO kind, so blameless,  was his life to be thus
associated with crime ?

"We must go and get help, my lord," said Rolls,
with a heavy sigh. " However it happened, that
must be our duty. No doubt ye'll have to give a true
account of all ye're seen and all ye're heard. But in
the meantime we must cry for help, let them suffer
that may."

While this scene was proceeding so near her, Carry,
upon the other side of the great house, had retired
to her room in the weariness that followed her effort
to look cheerful and do the honours of her table. She
had made that effort very bravely, and though it
did not even conceal from Millefleurs the position of
affairs, still less deceive her own family, yet at least
it kept up the appearance of decorum necessary, and
made it easier for the guests to go through their part.
The meal, indeed, was cheerful enough ; it was far
too magnificent, Torrance having insisted, in spite of
his wife's better taste, on heaping "all the luxuries
of the season" upon the table at which a duke's son
was to sit. The absence of the host was a relief to
all parties ; but still it required an effort on the side
of Carry to overcome the effect of the empty chair in
front of her, which gave a sense of incongruity to all
the grandeur. And this effort cost her a great deal.

She had gone into her room to rest, and lay on a sofa
very quiet in the stillness of exhaustion, not doing
anything, not saying anything, looking wistfully at
the blue sky that was visible through the window,
with the soft foliage of some birch-trees waving lightly
over it  and trying not to think. Indeed, she was
so weary that it was scarcely necessary to try. And
what was there to think about? Nothing could be
done to deliver her  nothing that she was aware of
even to mend her position. She was grateful to God
that she was to be spared the still greater misery of
seeing Beaufort, but that was all. Even heaven itself
seemed to have no help for Carry. If she could have
been made by some force of unknown agency to love
her husband, she would still have been an unhappy
wife ; but it is to be feared, poor soul, that things had
come to this pass with her, that she did not even wish
to love her husband, and felt it less degrading to live
with him under compulsion, than to be brought down
to the level of his coarser nature, and take pleasure
in the chains she wore. Her heart revolted at him
more and more. In such a terrible case, what help
was there for her in earth or heaven ? Even had he
been reformed  had he been made a better man 
Carry would not have loved him : she shrank from
the very suggestion that she might some time do so.
There was no help for her ; her position could not be

bettered anyhow. She knew this so well, that all
struggle, except the involuntary struggle in her mind,
which never could intermit, against many of the
odious details of the life she had to lead, had died
out of her. She had given in to the utter hopelessness
of her situation. Despair is sometimes an opiate,
as it is sometimes a frantic and maddening poison.
There was nothing to be done for her,  no use in wearying
Heaven with prayers, as some of us do. Nothing
could make her better. She had given in utterly,
body and soul, and this was all that was to be said.
She lay there in this stillness of despair, feeling more
crushed and helpless than usual after the emotions of
the morning, but not otherwise disturbed,  lying like
a man who has been shattered by an accident, but
lulled by some anodyne draught  still, and almost
motionless, letting every sensation be hushed so long
as nature would permit, her hands folded, her very
soul hushed and still. She took no note of time in
the exhaustion of her being. She knew that when
her husband returned she would be sent for, and
would have to re-enter the other world of eternal
strife and pain ; but here she was retired, as in her
chapel, in herself  the sole effectual refuge which she
had left.

The house was very well organised, very silent and
orderly in general, so that it surprised Lady Caroline

a little, in the depth of her quiet, to hear a distant
"noise as of many voices, distinct, though not loud  a
confusion and far-away Babel of outcries and exclamations.
Nothing could be more unusual ; but she felt
no immediate alarm, thinking that the absence of her
husband and her own withdrawal had probably permitted
a little outbreak of gaiety or gossip downstairs,
with which she did not wish to interfere. She
lay still accordingly, listening vaguely, without taking
much interest in the matter. Certainly something
out of the way must have happened. The sounds had
sprung up all at once  a hum of many excited voices,
with sharp cries as of dismay and wailing breaking in.
At last her attention was attracted. " There has been
some accident," she said to herself, sitting upright
upon her sofa. As she did this she heard steps approaching
her door. They came with a rush, hurrying
along, the feet of at least two women, with a heavier
step behind them : then paused suddenly, and there
ensued a whispering and consultation close to her door.
Carry was a mother, and her first thought was of her
children. " They are afraid to tell me," was the thought
that passed through her mind. She rose and rushed
to the door, throwing it open. "What is it? Something
has happened," she said,  " something you are
afraid to tell me. Oh, speak, speak !  the children
"

y

My teddy, it's none of the children. The children
are as well as could be wished, poor dears," said her
own maid, who had been suddenly revealed, standing
very close to the door. The woman, her cheeks
blazing with some sudden shock, eager to speak, yet
terrified, stopped short there with a gasp. The housekeeper,
who was behind her, pushed her a little forward,
supporting her with a hand on her waist, whispering
confused but audible exhortations. " Oh, take
heart  oh, take heart. She must be told. The Lord
will give you strength," this woman said. The butler
stood solemnly behind, with a very anxious, serious
countenance. To Carry all this scene became confused
by wild anxiety and terror. " What is it ? " she
said ; " my mother ? some one at home ? " She stretched
out her hands vaguely towards the messengers of evil,
feeling like a victim at the block, upon whose neck
the executioner's knife is about to fall.

Oh, my teddy ! far worse ! far worse ! " the woman
cried.

Carry, in the dreadful whirl of her feelings, still
paused bewildered, to ask herself what could be worse ?
And then there came upon her a moment of blindness,
when she saw nothing, and the walls and the roof
seemed to burst asunder, and whirl and whirl. She
dropped upon her knees in this awful blank and blackness
unawares, and then the haze dispelled, and she

saw, coming out of the mist, a circle of horror-stricken
pale faces, forming a sort of ring round her. She could
do nothing but gasp out her husband's name  "Mr
Torrance?" with quivering lips.

Oh, my lady ! my lady ! To see her on her knees,
and us bringing' her such awful' news ! But the Lord
will comfort ye," cried the housekeeper, forgetting the
veneration due to her mistress, and raising her in her
arms. The two women supported her into her room,
and she sat down again upon the sofa where she had
been sitting  sitting, was it a year ago ?  in the quiet,
thinking that no change would ever come to her, 
that nothing, nothing could alter her condition  that
all was over and finished for her life.

And it is to be supposed that they told poor Carry
exactly the truth. She never knew. When she begged
them to leave her alone till her mother came, whom
they had sent for, she had no distinct knowledge of
how it was, or what had happened ; but she knew that
had happened. She fell upon her knees before her
bed, and buried her head in her hands, shutting out
the light. Then she seized hold of herself with both
her hands to keep herself (as she felt) from floating
away upon that flood of new life which came swelling
up all in a moment, swelling into every vein  filling
high the fountain of existence which had been so
feeble and so low. Oh, shut out  shut out the light,

that nobody might see ! close the doors and the shutters
in the house of death, and every cranny, that
no human eye might descry it ! After a while she
dropped lower, from the bed which supported her to
the floor, prostrating herself with more than oriental
humbleness. Her heart beat wildly, and in her brain
there seemed to wake a hundred questions clanging
like bells in her ears, filling the silence with sound.
Her whole being, that had been crushed, sprang up
like a flower from under a passing foot. Was it possible?
 was it possible? She pulled herself down,
tried by throwing herself upon her face on the carpet,
prostrating herself, body and soul, to struggle against
that secret voiceless mad exultation that came upon
her against her will. Was he dead?  was he dead?
struck down in the middle of his days, that man of
iron ? Oh, the pity of it !  oh, the horror of it ! She
tried to force herself to feel this  to keep down, down,
that climbing joy in her. God in heaven, was it possible
? she who thought nothing could happen to her
more.

I

CHAPTER XXVII. 

The drive home would have been very embarrassing
to the ladies had not Millefleurs been the perfect little
gentleman he was. Linton, though he ought to have
been aware that his presence was specially desirable,
had abandoned his mother and sister; and the consciousness
of the secret, which was no secret, weighed
upon Lady Lindores so much, that it was scarcely
possible for her to keep up any appearance of the easy
indifference which was her proper role in the circumstances
: while it silenced Edith altogether. They
could scarcely look him in the face, knowing both
the state of suspense in which he must be, and the
false impression of Edith's feelings which he was
probably entertaining. Lady Lindores felt certain
that he was aware she had been informed by her
husband of what had passed, and feared to look at
him lest he might, by some glance of intelligence,
some look of appeal, cal upon her sympathy ; while

on the other hand, it was all-essential to keep him, if
possible, from noticing the pale consciousness of Edith,
her silence and shrinking discomfort, so unlike her
usual frank and friendly aspect. Millefieurs was
far too quick - sighted not to observe this unusual
embarrassment ; but there was no more amiable
young man in England, and it was his part for the
moment to set them at their ease, and soothe the
agitation which he could not but perceive. He talked
of everything but the matter most near his heart with
that self-sacrifice of true politeness which is perhaps
the truest as it is one of the most difficult manifestations
of social heroism. He took pains to be amusing,
to show himself unconcerned and unexcited ; and, as
was natural, he got his reward. Lady Lindores was
almost piqued (though it was so great a relief) that
Edith's suitor should be capable of such perfect calm ;
and Edith herself, though with a dim perception of
the heroism in it, could not but console herself with
the thought that one so completely self-controlled
would 'get over" his disappointment easily. Their
conversation at last came to be almost a monologue
on his part. He discoursed on Tinto and its treasures
as an easy subject. " It has one great quality  it is
homogeneous," he said, 'which is too big a word fora
small fellow like me. It is all of a piece, don't
you know. To think what lots of money those good

people must have spent on those great vases, and
candelabra, and things ! We don't do that sort of
thing nowadays. We roam over all the world, and
pick up our bric--brac cheap. But, don't you know,
there's something fine in the other principle there's
a grand sort of spare-no-expense sentiment. I'd like
to do it all over again for them  to clear away all that
finery, which is mere Empire, and get something really
soot, don't you know. But at the same time, I respect
this sort of thing. There is a thoroughness in
it. It is going the 'whole animal,' as we say in
America. Mr Torrance, who is a fine big man, just
like his house, should, if you'll allow me to say so,
have carried out the principle a little further ; he
should not have gone so entirely into a different genre
in his wife."

"You mean that Carry is  that Carry looks

She is not very strong," said Lady Lindores, with involuntary
quickening of attention, taking up instantly
an attitude of defence.

Dear Lady Lindores," cried little Millefleurs, " entirely
out of keeping ! A different genre altogether ;
a different date  the finest ethical nineteenth century
against a background Umpire ! preposterous altogether.
We have no style to speak of in china, or that sort of
thing  which is odd, considering how much we think
of it. We can't do anything better than go back to

Queen Anne for our furniture. But in respect to
women, it's quite different. We've got a Victorian
type in that, don't you know. I am aware that it is
the height of impertinence to make remarks. But
considering the family friendship to which you have
been so good as to admit me, and my high appreciation
 Lady Caroline, if you will allow me to say sois
a different genre. She is out of keeping with the
decoration of her house."

Poor Carry ! " Lady Lindores said with a sigh ;
and they were thankful to Millefleurs when he ran
on about the china and the gilding. It was he, with
those keen little beady eyes of his, who saw John
Erskine disappearing among the trees. He had possession
of the stage, as it were, during all that long
way home, which to the ladies seemed about twice
as long as it had ever been before.

Lord Lindores had not accompanied the party. He
did not come in contact with his son-in-law, indeed,
any more than he could help. Though he had taken
up Tinto so warmly at first, it was not to be supposed
that a man of his refinement could have any pleasure
in such society; and though he made a point of keeping
on scrupulously good terms with Torrance, even
when the latter set himself in opposition to the Earl's
plans, yet he kept away from the spectacle afforded
by his daughter and her husband in their own house.

If Lord Lindores's private sentiments could have been
divined, it would probably have been apparent that in
his soul he thought it hard upon poor Caroline to have
married such a man. There were reasons which made
it very desirable, even necessary ; but it was a pity,
he felt. In the present case, however, there was nothing
but congratulations to be thought of. Edith was,
there could be no doubt, a thoroughly fortunate young
woman. Nobody could say a word against Millefleurs.
He had shown himself eccentric, but only in a way
quite approved by his generation ; and there was no
doubt that a wife, at once pretty and charming, and
sufficiently clever, was all that he wanted to settle
him. Not Carry  Carry was too intellectual, too
superior altogether, for the democratic little Marquis ;
but Edith had just the combination of simplicity and
mental competence that would suit his position. It
was the most admirable arrangement that could have
been devised. Lord Lindores sat in his library with
much satisfaction of mind, and thought over all the
new combinations. He had no. doubt of the Duke's
content with the alliance  and through the Duke, the
whole Ministry would be affected. It would be felt
that to keep a man of Lord Lindores's abilities in the
hopeless position of a mere Scotch lord, would be a
waste prejudicial to the country. With Millefleurs for
his son-in-law, a mere representative seat in the House

of Lords no longer seemed worth his while  an
English peerage would be his as a matter of course.
He had said a few words to Eintoul on the subject
before the party left the house. There could be no
harm in drawing the bonds tighter which were to produce
so admirable an effect. " There is Lady Eeseda,
a very charming girl' he said. " It is time you were
thinking of marrying, Pdntoul. I don't know any girl
that has been more admired."

'' One doesn't care for one's wife having been admired'
said Eintoul, somewhat sulkily. " One would
rather admire her one's self."

His father looked at him with some severity, and
Eintoul coloured in spite of himself. Perhaps this
was one reason why his temper was so unpleasant at
Tinto, and moved him to fling off from the party in
the midst of their inspection of the place, and declare
that he would walk home. In his present temper,
perhaps he would not have been much help to them,
whereas Millefleurs managed it all capitally, being
left to himself.

They got home only in time to dress for dinner, at
which meal Eintoul did not appear. It was unlike
him to stay behind and dine at Tinto ; but still there
was nothing impossible in it, and the minds of the
*four people who sat down together at table were all
too much absorbed by the immediate question before

them to have much time to consider Rintoul. Lady
Lindores's entire attention was given to Edith, who,
very pale and with a thrill of nervous trembling in
her, which her mother noted without quite understanding,
neither ate nor talked, but pretended, at
least, to do the first, veiling herself from the eyes of
her lover behind the flowers which ornamented the
centre of the table. These flowers, it must be allowed,
are often a. nuisance and serious hindering of conversation.
On this occasion they performed a charitable
office. There was one plume of ferns in particular
which did Edith the most excellent service. She had
been commanded to repair to the library when she
left the table, to await her father there. And if she
trembled, it was with the tension of high-strung nerves,
not the hesitation of weakness, as her mother thought.
Lord Lindores, for his part, watched her too, with an
uneasy instinct. He would not allow himself to imagine
that she could have the folly to hesitate even;
and yet there was a sensation in him, an unwilling
conviction that, if Edith resisted, she would be, though
she was not so clever, a different kind of antagonist
from poor Carry. There arose in him, as he glanced
at her now and then, an impulse of war. He had no
idea that she would really attempt to resist him : but
if she did ! He, too, had little to say during dinner.*
He uttered a formal sentence now and then in discharge

of his duty as host, but that was all ; and by
intervals, when he had leisure to think of it, he was
angry with his son. Eintoul ought to have been thereto
take the weight of the conversation upon him:
Eintoul ought to have had more discrimination than
to choose this day of all others for absenting himself.
His mother was of the same opinion. She, too, was
almost wroth with Eintoul  to leave her unsupported
without any aid at such a crisis was unpardonable.
But Millefleurs was quite equal to the emergency.
He took everything upon himself. The servants,
closest of all critics, did not even guess that anything
was going on in which " the wee English lord " was
involved. They made their own remarks upon Lady
Edith's pallor and silence, and the preoccupation of
Lady Lindores. But Millefleurs was the life of the
company; and not even the butler, who had seen a
great deal in his day, and divined most things, associated
him with the present evident crisis. It was
amazing how much he found to say, and how naturally
he said it, as if nothing particular was going on,
and no issues of any importance to him, at least, were
involved.

When the ladies left the table, Lady Lindores would
have detained her daughter with her. " Come into
the drawing-room with me first, Edith. Your father
cannot be ready for you for some minutes at least."

VOL. n. p

No, mamma. I must keep all my wits about me,"
Edith said, with a faint smile. They were in the
corridor, where it was always cold, and she shivered a
little in spite of herself.

You are chilly, Edith  you are not well, dear. I
will go myself and tell your father you are not able to
talk to him to-night."

Edith shook her head without saying' anything.
She waved her hand to her mother as she turned
away in the direction of the library. Lady Lindores
stood looking after her with that strange struggle in
her mind which only parents know, the impulse to
take their children in their arms as of old, and bear
their burdens for them, contradicted by the consciousness
that this cannot be done  that the time has come
when these beloved children can no longer be carried
over their difficulties, but must stand for themselves,
with not another to interfere between them and fate.
Oh the surprise of this penetrating the heart ! Lady
Lindores went back to the drawing-room with the
wonder and pain of it piercing her like an arrow, to
sit down and wait while Edith  little Edith  bore
her trial alone. It was intolerable, yet it had to be
endured. She stood aside and let her child do what
had to be done; any trial in the world would have
been easier. The pang was complicated in every way.
There seemed even an ingratitude in it, as if her child

preferred to stand alone ; and yet it was all inevitable
a thing that must be. She waited, the air all rustling
round her, with expectation and suspense. What
would the girl find to say ? Caroline had wept and
struggled, but she had yielded. Edith would not
weep, she would stand fast like a little rock ; but,
after all, what was there to object to ? Millefleurs
was very different from Torrance of Tinto. Why
should he not please the girl's fancy as well as
another ? He had so much in him to please any girl's
fancy ; he was clever and amusing, and romantic even
in his way. If Edith would but content herself with
him ! True, he was little; but what did that matter
after all ? He would no doubt make the best of
husbands  unquestionably he would make the best
of sons-in-law. And then, your mind must be impartial
indeed if you are impervious to the attractions
of an English dukedom. Who could be indifferent to
that? With a little laugh of nervous pleasure, Lady
Lindores permitted herself to think how amusing it
would be to see her little girl take precedence of her.
Alas ! things were far from being so advanced as
that ; but yet she could not help more or less being
on the side of ambition this time. The ambition that
fixed upon Torrance of Tinto was poor enough, and
shamed her to think of it ; but the Marquis Millefleurs,
the Duke of Lavender, that was an ambition

which had some justification. lot love him ! Why
should not she love him ? Lady Lindores even went
so far as to ask herself with some heat. He was
delightful ; everything but his stature was in his
favour. He was excellent ; his very failings leant to
virtue's side.

While, however, her mother was thus discussing
the question with so strong a bias in favour of
Millefleurs, Edith was standing in her father's library
waiting for him, not entering into any argument with
herself at all. She would not sit down, which would
have seemed somehow like yielding, but stood with
her hand upon the mantelpiece, her heart beating
loudly. She had not summoned herself to the bar
of her own judgment, or asked with any authority
how it was that she neither could nor would for a
moment take the qualities of Millefleurs into consideration.
The question had been given against
him before even it was put; but Edith would not
allow herself to consider why. No doubt she knew
why ; but there are occasions in which we do not wish
to see what is going on in our spirits, just as there are
occasions when we turn out all the corners and summon
everything to the light. She heard the door of the
dining-room open, then the voices of the gentlemen as
they came out, with a sudden tightening of her breath.
What if little Millefleurs himself were coming instead

of her father ? This idea brought a gleam of a smile
over her face ; but that was driven away as she
heard the heavy familiar step approaching. Lord
Lindores, as he came along the corridor, had time
enough to say to himself that perhaps he had been
foolish. Why had he determined upon speaking
to Edith before he allowed her lover to speak to
her ? Perhaps it was a mistake. He had his reasons,
but it might be that they were not so powerful ashe
had supposed, and that he would have done better
not to have interfered. However, it was now too
late to think of this. He went into the library,
shutting the door deliberately, asking himself why
he should have any trouble about the matter, and
what Edith could feel but happiness in having such
a proposal made to her; but when he turned round
and met Edith's eye his delusions fled. Surely there
was nobody so unfortunate as he was in his children.
Instead of their perceiving what was for their own
interest, he was met by a perpetual struggle and
attempt to put hin in the wrong. It was inconceivable.
Was it not their interest solely which
moved him? and yet they would resist as if he
were plotting nothing but wrong. But though these
thoughts passed though his mind with a sweep of
bitterness, he would not indulge them. He went
up to Edith with great urbanity, putting down all

feelings less pleasant. '' I am glad to find you here,"
he said.

Yes, papa ; you wanted me, my mother told me."

"I wanted you. As I came along the corridor,
I began to ask myself whether I was doing right
in wanting you. Perhaps I ought to have let you
hear what I am going to say from  some one who
might have made it more agreeable, Edith."

Oh, let me hear what you want, please, from
yourself, papa."

He took her hand, which trembled in his hold,
and looked down on her with fatherly eyes  eyes
which were tender, and admiring, and kind. Could
any one doubt that he wished her well ? He wished
her everything that was best in the world  wealth
and title, and rank and importance,  everything
we desire for our children. He was not a bad man,
desiring the sacrifice of his child's happiness. If
he had, perhaps, made something of a mistake about
Carry, there was no mistake here.

Edith, I want to speak to you about Lord Mille-fleurs.
He came here, I believe, on your own invitation
"

At this Edith started with sudden alarm, and her
hand trembled still more in her father's easy clasp.
She had an indefinite pang of fear, she could not tell


has been here now for some time. I was glad
to ratify your invitation by mine  nothing could have
pleased me better. I like his family. His father
and I have always thought alike, and the Duchess
is a most excellent woman. That your mother and
you should have taken him up so much, was very
good for him, and quite a pleasure to me."

I don't know why you should say we took him up
very much," said Edith, with some confusion. "He
took us up  he came to us wherever we were. And
then he was Robin's friend. It was quite natural 

there was nothing " She paused, with a painful

eagerness to excuse herself : and yet there was nothing
to excuse. This changed the position for the moment,
and made everything much more easy for the indulgent
father, who was so ready to approve what his
child herself had done.

It is perfectly natural, my dear  everything about
it is natural. Lord Millefleurs has been quite consistent
since he first saw you. He has explained
himself to me in the most honourable way. He
wishes  to marry you, Edith. I don't suppose this
is any surprise to you?"

Edith was crimson; her temples throbbed with
the rush of the blood, which seemed to rise like
an angry sea. " If it is so, he has had opportunity
enough to tell me so. Why has he taken so unfair

an advantage ? Why  why has he gone to
you?"

"He has behaved like an honourable man. I see
no unfair advantage. He has done what was right 
what was respectful at once to you and to me."

Oh, papa,  honourable ! respectful ! " cried the
girl. " AVhat does that meaning our position ? Could
he have been anything but honourable  to me ? You
forget what kind of expressions you are using. If
he had that to say, it is to me he ought to have
come. He has taken an unkind  a cruel advantage!"
Edith cried.

This is ridiculous," said her father. " He has
done what it is seemly and right to do  in his
position and yours. If he had gone to you, as you
say, like a village lad to his lass, what advantage
could there have been in that ? As it is, you have
your father's full sanction, which, I hope, you reckon
for something, Edith."

Father," she said, somewhat breathless, collecting
herself with a little effort. The wave of hot colour
died off from her face. She grew paler and paler as
she stood firmly opposite to him, holding fast with
her hand the cool marble of the mantelpiece, which
felt like a support. " Father, if he had come to meas
he ought to have done, this is what would have
happened,  I should have told him at once that it

was a mistake, and he would have left us quietly
without giving you any trouble. How much better
that would have been in every way!"

"I don't understand you, Edith. A mistake? I
don't see that there is any mistake."

That is very likely, papa," she said, with returning
spirit, "since it is not you that are concerned.
But I see it. I should have told him quietly, and
there would have been an end of the matter, if he
had not been so formal, so absurd  so old-fashioned
as to appeal to you."

This counterblast took away Lord Lindores's breath.
He made a pause for a moment, and stared at her ;
he had never been so treated before. " Old-fashioned,"
he repeated, almost with bewilderment. " There is
enough of this, Edith. If you wish to take up the
role of the advanced young lady, I must tell you it is
not either suitable or becoming. Millefleurs will, no
doubt, find an early opportunity of making his own
explanations to you, and of course, if you choose to
keep him in hot water, it is, I suppose, your right.
But don't carry it too far. The connection is one
that is perfectly desirable  excellent in every point
of view."

It is a pity, since you think so, that it is impossible,"
she said in a low tone.

Lord Lindores looked at her, fixing her with his

eye. He felt now that he had known it all along  
that he had felt sure there was a struggle before him,
and that his only policy was to convince her that he
was determined from the very first. " There is nothing
impossible," he said, " except disobedience and
folly. I don't expect these from you. Indeed I can't
imagine what motive yoti can have, except a momentary
perverseness, to answer me so. No more of it,
Edith. By to - morrow, at least, everything will be
settled between you and your lover "

Oh, papa, listen ! don't mistake me," she cried.
He is not my lover. How can you  how can you
use such a word ? He can never be anything to me.
If he had spoken to me, I could have settled it all ina
moment. As it is you he has spoken to, why give
him a double mortification? It will be so easy for
you to tell him : to tell him  he can never be anything
to me."

Edith, take care what you are saying ! He is to
be your husband. I am not a man easily balked in
my own family."

We all know that," she cried, with bitterness ;
"but I am not Carry, papa."

He made a step nearer to her, with a threatening
aspect. '' What do you mean by that ? Carry ! What
has Carry to do with it ? You have a chance poor
Carry never had  high rank, wealth,  everything

that is desirable : and a man whom the most fantastic
could not object in any way to."

There is scarcely any situation in the world into
which a gleam of ridicule will not fall. It takes us
with the tear in our eye  it took Edith in the nervous
excitement of this struggle, the most trying moment
which personally she had ever gone through. Millefleurs,
with his little plump person, his round eyes, his
soft lisp of a voice, seemed to come suddenly before
her, and at the height of this half-tragical contention
she laughed. It was excitement and high pressure as
well as that sudden flash of perverse imagination. She
could have cried next moment  but laugh she did, in
spite of herself. The sound drove Lord Lindores to
fury. " This is beyond bearing," he cried. " It seems
that I have been deceived in you altogether. If you
cannot feel the honour that has been done you  the
compliment that has been paid you  you are unworthy
of it, and of the trouble I have taken."

I suppose," said Edith, irritated too, " these are the
right words for a girl to use to any man who is so good
as to think she would suit him. I was wrong to laugh,
but are not you going too far, papa? I am likely to
get more annoyance by it than honour. Please, please
let me take my own way."

She had broken down a little when she said this, in
natural reaction, and gave him a pitiful look, with a

little quiver of her lip. After such a laugh it is so
likely that a girl will cry, as after a sudden self-assertion
it is to be expected that she will be subdued and
humbled. She looked at him with a childlike appeal
for pity. And he thought that now he had her securely
in his hands.

My love," he said, " you will regret it all your life
if I yield to you now. It is your happiness I am
thinking of. I cannot let a girl's solly spoil your
career. Besides, it is of the highest importance to
everybody,  to Eintoul, even to myself,  that you
should marry Millefleurs "

I am very sorry, papa ; but I shall never  marry
Lord Millefleurs "

Folly ! I shall not allow you to trifle with him,
Edith  or with me. You have given him the most
evident encouragement  led him on in every way,
invited him here "

Edith grew pale to her very lips. " Papa, have pity
on me ! I never did so ; it was all nothing  the way
one talks without meaning it  without thinking "

That is all very well on our side, but on the

other I tell you, I will permit no trifling, Edith.

He has a right to a favourable answer, and he must
have it "

Never, never ! if I have been wrong, I will ask his
pardon "

You will accept him in the first place," said Lord
Lindores, sternly.

I will never accept him," Edith said.

Her father, wound up to that pitch of excitement at
which a man is no longer master of what he says, took
a few steps about the room. "Your sister said the
same," he cried, with a short laugh, " and you know
what came of that."

It was an admission he had never intended to make,
for he did not always feel proud of his handiwork, 
but it was done now, and could not be recalled. Edith
withdrew even from the mantelpiece on which she had
leant. She clasped her hands together, supporting herself
" I am not Carry," she said, in a low tone, facing
him resolutely as he turned back in some alarm at
what he had been betrayed into saying. He had become
excited, and she calm. He almost threatened
her with his hand in the heat of the moment.

"You will obey your parents," he cried.

No, papa," she said.

He remembered so well, too well, what Carry had
done in the same circumstances  she had wept and
pleaded. When he demanded obedience from her she
had not dared to stand against him. He recollected
(too well for his own comfort sometimes) every one of
those scenes which brought her to submission. But
Edith did not weep, and was not shaken by that final

appeal. She was very pale, and looked unusually
slight and young and childlike standing there with
her hands clasped, her steadfast eyes raised, her little
mouth close  so slight a thing, not stately like Carry.
He was confounded by a resistance which he had not
foreseen, which he could not have believed in, and
stood 'staring at her, not knowing what next to say
and do. Matters were at this point when all at once
there arose a something outside the room, which not
even the solid closed doors and heavy curtains could
keep out,  not positive noise or tumult, but something
indescribable  a sensation as of some unknown dread
event. Ordinarily all was still in the well-ordered
house, and my lord's tranquillity as completely assured
as if he had been Prime Minister. But this was something
that was beyond decorum. Then the door was
hastily opened, and Eintoul ghastly, his face grey rather
than pale, his hair hanging wildly on his forehead, came
into the room.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

This extraordinary interruption put a stop at once
to the struggle between the father and daughter.
They both came to a sudden pause, not only in their
conversation, but in their thoughts, which were suspended
instantly by the breaking in of something
more urgent. " What is it ? What has happened ? "
they both cried in a breath ; and Edith, after a
moment, added, "Carry  there is something wrong
with Carry," scarcely aware what she said.

Eintoul came to the table on which stood a crystal
jug of water. He filled himself out a large glass and
drank it. He was in a tremor which he attempted
to conceal from them, though with no success. Then
he said, " There is nothing the matter with Carry ; buta
dreadful accident has happened,"  and stopped, his
mouth being parched, his very articulation difficult.

What is it ? what is it ? The children ? "

Eintoul turned his face away from Edith and

directed himself towards his father. He made a
great effort over himself, as if what he had to say
w-as almost beyond his powers. Then he said with
a strange hoarseness of voice, " Torrance  has been
killed."

Torrance ! killed ! Good God! Eintoul."

It is so. Instantaneous, they say. He cannot
have suffered much, thank God."

Rintoul was not emotional or used to show very
much feeling, but the lines of his face were drawn
and his lips quivered as he spoke.

Killed ! But how did it happen ? where ? Was

it accident, or For heaven's sake tell us all ! "

cried his father. Edith stood by struck dumb, yet
with a host of sudden rising thoughts, or rather
images, in her breast. It was to her sister that her
mind suddenly reverted, with a perception of everything
involved so clear and vivid that her very
spirit was confused by the distinctness of her sight.

"Accident," said Rintoul almost with a stammer,
stumbling on the word. " He must have been riding
home by the Greenland road, which was his favourite
way. He and his horse were found at the foot of
the Scar. The brute must have reared and lost its
footing. The ground was soft with the rain. That's
all that any one knows."

"And he is dead? Good God!"

A shiver came over Eintoul. Who would-have
thought he had so much feeling? and concerning
Torrance, whom he had never been able to endure.
"It's dreadful," he said in a low tone; "but it's
true. One moment never to be recalled, and that big

fellow with all his strength O Lord, it's terrible

to think of it. It has taken all the strength out of me."

Edith hurried to him, trembling herself, to clasp
his arm in hers and soothe her brother. She was
almost too much excited and agitated to be aware
that he repulsed her, though unconsciously, but this
increased the general impression of pain and horror
on her mind. There was so strong a thrill of agitation
in him that he could not bear to be touched or
even looked at. He put her away, and threw himself
down into the nearest chair. A hundred questions
were on the lips of both ; but he looked as if he had
said all that was possible  as if he had no power
to add anything. Lord Lindores, after the first pause
of horror, of course pursued his inquiries, and they
gathered certain details as to the way of finding
"the body," and the manner in which horse and
man seemed to have fallen. But Eintoul evidently
had been too much impressed by the sight to be
able to dwell on the subject. He wiped the perspiration
from his forehead, and took again large draughts
of water as he brought forth sentence after sentence.

VOL. II. Q

Get me some wine, or brandy, or something  I am
done," he cried; but when his father rang the bell,
Rintoiil recoiled. "Let Edith fetch it; don't let
ns have any prying servants about here." "There
is no reason why we should be afraid of prying
servants," said Lord Lindores, with surprise and
disapproval. "It is not a matter to be concealed.
I suppose there is nothing to conceal ? " " Oh no,
no," said Rintoul, with a groan  "nothing to be
concealed ; you can't conceal a dead man," and he
shuddered, but added directly, raising himself to
meet his father's eye, " it was accident  nothing but
accident,  everybody has warned him. I said myself
something was sure to happen sooner or later
at the Scar." Edith, who had flown to bring him
the wine he asked for, here came back with it,
having sent away the officious butler, anxious to
hear all about it, who hovered near the door. Her
brother took the decanter from her hand without
a word of thanks, and poured out the wine lavishly,
but with a shaking hand, into the glass from which
he had been drinking water. It brought a little
colour back into his cheeks. To Edith the emotion
he showed was a new revelation. She had never expected
from Rintoul so much tenderness of feeling.
But Lord Lindores went on with his questions.
Something sure to happen ? Yes  to children

or people incapable of taking care of themselves ;
but Torrance, who knew it all like his own hand !
had he  been drinking, poor fellow ? "

Not that I know of; but how can I tell ? Nobody
knows."

Some one must have seen him before the accident
happened. There must be some one who can tell.
Of course everything must be investigated. Where
had he been ? Why was he not with you, when you
went by appointment to see the place ? It was surely
very extraordinary "

"He was with us at first," said Eintoul, "but he
took offence at some of Millefleurs's criticisms ; and
then John Erskine "

"What had John Erskine to do with it?"

'they had some words. I can't remember; something
passed. Erskine left early too. Now that
I think of it," said Eintoul, suddenly, " Erskine must

have gone that way, and perhapS' But no, no ; I

mistake  they did not meet."

They had no words," said Edith, eagerly ; " there
was no quarrel, if that is what you mean. Mr Torrance
was annoyed because Lord Millefleurs But

Mr Erskine had nothing to do with it," she added,
her colour rising. Lord Lindores paced up and down
the room, stopping at every turn to ask another question.
Eintoul sat leaning his head upon his hand,

this face concealed by it; while Edith, to whom
this reference had given animation, stood between
them, her senses quickened, her mind alert. But they
were both too deeply occupied to notice the change in
her which was made by the mention of this name.

Of course there must be a thorough investigation
into all the circumstances," Lord Lindores said.

Who can do that ? I thought there were no coroners
in Scotland ? " said Eintoul, rousing himself. " I
was thinking, indeed, what a good thing for poor
Carry to be spared this. Besides, what can investigation
do? He went off from among us excited.
Very likely, poor fellow, he had been drinking. He
rode off in haste, thundering down that dangerous
road, as was his custom. Everybody knows it was
his custom. It was his way of blowing off steam.
Coming back, the road was soft with the rain, and he
still excited and in a nervous state. He pushed Black

Jess a step too close. She reared, and I don't

know what you can find out more by any investigation."
Eintoul wiped his forehead again and poured
himself out more wine.

That may be, but there must be an investigation
all the same," said Lord Lindores. "A man of importance
like poor Torrance does not disappear like
this in a moment without any notice being taken of
it. If he had been a ploughman, perhaps "

Here the door was opened hastily, and Lady Lindores
hurried in. " What is this ? " she cried ; " what
is this I hear?  the servants are full of it. Something
about Torrance and a bad accident. What
does it mean?"

Edith ran to her mother, taking her by the arm,
with the instinct of supporting her against the shock ;
and Lord Lindores gave her the information, not without
that almost pleasure in recounting even the most
terrible news, which is the instinctive sentiment of
those whose hearts are not deeply concerned. Lady
Lindores heard it with horror,  with the instant and
keen self-question as to whether she had done justice
to this man, of whom no one now could ask pardon, 
whose wrongs, if he had any, could never be remedied
which, in a generous mind, is the first result of
such a tragedy. Out of keen excitement and horror
she shed a few tears, the first that in this house at
least had been expended on the dead man. A pang
of wondering pity was in her heart. The sight of
this softer feeling stilled the others. She arrested
every other sentiment in a natural pause of terrified
compassion. She who had never called him by it in
his life, suddenly found his Christian name come to
her lips : " Oh, poor Pat ! poor Pat ! like that  in a
moment  with his home close by that he was so
proud of, and all his good things  summoned in a

moment. God, have mercy upon him!" she
cried.

It is too late for that," said Lord Lindores, gravely,
for the moment ashamed of all other questions. " Short
as the time is, and dreadful as it is to think of it, his
account must bemade by this time. It is a terrible
lesson to us all "

God, have mercy upon him ! I cannot think it
is ever too late for that," cried Lady Lindores through
her tears. And there was a pause. She did not, sofar
as we know, entertain any heterodox ideas about
the after state ; but nature spoke in her, which
is stronger than creeds. And they were all silent,
ashamed to have thought of anything else than this.
Eintoul still sat with his head hid in his hands. He
had not looked at his mother. He did not say anything
to help out the narrative which his father, of
course, had given minutely. He had made a great
effort to get over his personal agitation and the tremor
of his nerves, but he was not used to such violent
emotions, and it was hard to get them under control.

Then Lady Lindores rose from the chair upon which
she had sunk in the first shock. " I must go to Carry
at once," she said. " Poor Carry ! how must she be
feeling ? In a moment  without time for a word "

Now at this there was a slight movement on the
part of the two men  even in Eintoul, though he was

SO much overcome. They thought it was the usual
feminine hypocrisy. Carry had never pretended to
be a fond or loving wife. The shock was great, but it
brought her deliverance. A touch of indignation and
of wonder at what they considered that incomprehensible
female nature, which one moment brought
them back by sheer natural tenderness to a loftier
state of feeling, and the next disgusted them with
mere conventionalism and make-believe, stirred in
their minds. They durst not say anything, for of
course it was needful to the world to keep up this
fiction, and take it for granted that Carry was heartbroken
; but in their hearts they despised the false
sentiment, as they thought it. Nobody understood
that divine compunction in Lady Lindores's heart 
that terrible and aching pity for the unworthy on
her own part  that sense of awful severance from a
human creature with whom there had been nothing
in common, with whom there could be no hope of
reunion, which, she felt, must be in her daughter's
mind. God help poor Carry ! What could she be
but glad to be free ? Her m-other's heart bled for her
in this awful satisfaction and misery. Meanwhile her
husband rang the bell and ordered the carriage for.
her, with a sensation not quite unlike contempt,
though he was pleased, too, that she should be able
to keep up the natural superstitions, and go through

all traditional formalities so well. He made a pause,
however, when he found Edith hastily preparing to go
too.

There is Lord Millefleurs to he thought of? What
am I to do," he said, " with Millefleurs ? "

"At such a moment surely everything of the kind
must he suspended," said Lady Lindores. " You cannot
think that Edith could  go on with this  while
her sister "

Millefleurs himself made his appearance on the
stairs while she was speaking. It was a curious
scene. The great hall-door was open, the night wind
blowing in, making the light waver, and penetrating
all the excited group with cold. Lady Lindores,
wrapped in a great cloak which covered her from
head to foot, stood below looking up, while Edith
paused on the lower steps in the act of tying a white
shawl about her head. The servants, still more excited,
stood about, all anxious to help, by way of
seeing everything that was going on. Eintoul stood
in the doorway of the library, entirely in shadow,  a
dark figure contrasting with the others in the light.
To these actors in the drama came forth Millefleurs
in his exact evening costume, like a hero of genteel
comedy coming in at the height of the imbroglio. . " I
need not say how shocked and distressed I am," he
said, from his platform on the landing. " I would go

away at once, but that would not help you. Never
think of me ; but I feel sure you would not do me
the injustice to think of me in presence of such a
catastrophe."

Lady Lindores waved her hand to him as she hurried
out, but he overtook Edith on the stairs. It was
impossible that he should not feel that she knew all
about it by this time ; and after all, though he was so
humble-minded, Millefleurs was aware that the heir of
a great Duke is not usually kept in suspense. " Lady
Edith," he said in an undertone, " should I go away ?
I will do what you think best."

He had faded entirely out of her mind in the excitement
of this new event. " Lord Millefleurs

Oh, I cannot tell," she said; "it will be painful for
you in the midst of this horror and mourning "

You cannot think that is what I mean," he said
anxiously. " If I could be of any use ; a cooler person is
sometimes of use, don't you know  one that can sympathise
and  without being overwhelmed with  feelings."

"We shall not be overwhelmed. Oh, you have

seen, you know, that it is not so much grief as

It is Carry we all must think of  not poor Mr

Torrance. I am sorry  I am sorry with all my heart
but he did not belong to us, except by "

Marriage  that is not much of a tie, is it ? " said
little Millefleurs, looking at her with a mixture  of

half-comic ruefulness and serious anxiety. " But this
is not a moment to trouble you. Lady Edith, do you
think I may stay ? "

At this moment her mother called her from the
door, and Edith ran hastily down the steps. She
scarcely knew whether she had said anything, or what
she had said. It was only " Oh," the English ejaculation
which fits into every crisis ; but it was not " No,"
Lord Millefleurs said to himself, and he hastened after
her to close the carriage-door, and bid Lady Lindores
good-night. As the carriage drove off he turned and
found himself in face of Lord Lindores, who had a
somewhat anxious look. "I have been asking if I
should go or stay," he said ; " I know your hospitality,
even when you are in trouble "

There is no trouble in having you in the house,
even in the midst of this calamity ; but what did they
say to you ? " asked Lord Lindores.

Nothing, I think ; but I will stay if you Avill let
me, Lord Lindores, till we can see. And may I hear
the details of the accident  if it was an accident."

You think there is something more in it ? " cried
Lord Lindores, quickly.

Into ; how can I tell ? I should like to hear everything.
Sometimes a looker-on, who is not so much
interested, sees more of the game, don't you know."

"It is a tragic game," said Lord Lindores, shaking

his head ; " but there is no agrarian crime here, no
landlord killing, no revenge. Poor Torrance had not
an enemy, so far as I know."

All this time Eintoul stood motionless in the doorway,
concealed by the shadow; but here he seemed
piqued to speak. "He had plenty of enemies," he
said hastily. "A man of such a temper and manners,
how could he help having enemies ? "

De mortuus nil nisi bonum," said his father,  " say
no harm of the dead "

That is all very well ; but it is of more importance
to do no injustice to the living," said Pdntoul, with a
sort of sullen solemnity; and he suddenly gave place
to the others and went off in the direction of his own
den, a little room in which he smoked and kept his
treasures. Lord Lindores took his guest into the
library, gravely apologetic. '' I have never seen Ein-soul
so upset; his nerves seem to have received a
shock. I don't think he cares to go over the melancholy
story again."

"It is very natural," said little Millefleurs. "A
man who has been always at home, who has never
roughed it in the world, naturally loses his head when
he first comes in contact with tragedy,. don't you know.
I did myself in California the first time I touched
actual blood. But that was murder, which is a different
sort of thing."

"Very different," said Lord Lindores ; and he proceeded
to satisfy his guest with an account of all the
particulars, to which Millefleurs listened very seriously.
He had the Scar described to him with much minuteness,
and how it might be possible that such an
accident could happen. Instinctively Lord Lindores
made it appear that the wonder was it had not happened
before. " I warned poor Torrance repeatedly,"
he said ; although he had in equal good faith expressed
his amazement that such a thing could happen
to a man who knew the place so well, only a short
time before. Millefleurs listened to everything very
gravely, giving the profoundest attention to every
detail.

The house was full of agitation and excitement, and
Lord Lindores sent repeatedly for his son to consult
with him over what ought to be done; but Pdntoul
was not to be found. He had gone out, the servants
said; and the general impression was that he had
returned to Tinto, though he could only have done
that by a long walk through the gloomy night. Millefleurs
went out into the grounds while this question
was proceeding. He had a great many things to
think about. He lit his cigar and wandered about,
thoughtfully discussing with himself various questions.
Did Edith mean that he should stay? Had
he any right to stay in the circumstances of the

family? He had a strong desire to do so that was
not entirely connected with Edith. To be sure, the
suspense in which he was kept, the impossibility of
addressing her at such a moment, would have made a
passionate lover very restless ; but Millefleurs was not
the sort of stuff out of which passionate lovers are
made. He thought Edith would make him a delightful
wife, and that with such a wife he would be a very
happy man ; but he did not feel that heaven and earth
would be changed to him without Edith, and therefore
other motives were free to come in. He had something
in his mind which for the moment almost obliterated
all thoughts of her. He walked up and down
in the darkness, turning it over and over in his mind.
Vaguely, one way or another, this thought was associated
with Edith too. After some time he perceived
another red spark in the darkness, and became aware
of some one else smoking like himself a thoughtful
cigar. He called out to Eintoul and came upon him
at the end of an alley. Millefleurs had an internal
conviction that Eintoul wished to avoid him, so he
went up to him quickly and caught him by the
arm.

It was thought that you had gone back to Tinto,"
he said, putting his arm familiarly through his. He
had to reach up on tiptoe to do it, but this was what
pleased Millefleurs.

What ! walking at this time of night ? I am not
so eager about it," said Rintoul. "Besides, what
should I do there ? Everything is settled so far as it
can be for to-night, and my mother and Edith have
gone to Carry; there is no need for me."

I wish you would tell me all about it, my dear
Eintoul."

Didn't my father tell you ? "

Yes, in his way ; but that is different. You want
the details from an eyewitness, don't you know. You
want to see it through the eyes that have seen it. I
have a great curiosity about that kind of thing ever
since I have been in California, where it is an incident
of everyday life."

It is not an incident of everyday life here, and
I'm sick of it," cried Eintoul. 'don't question meany
more  it's too terrible. It must have been instantaneous
they say ; that is the only comfort about the
business  everything else is hideous from beginning
to end."

Ah, from the beginning  that is just what I want
to talk to you about," said Millefleurs.

He felt a thrill in the arm he held, and an inclination
as if to throw him off, but he was not to be
thrown off; he was small but very tenacious, and
clung to his hold.

"That is what I want to know. The beginning.

Did he meet any one ? had he any dispute or altercation
in the wood?"

"None that I know of," said Eintoul. He spoke
sulkily, almost in an undertone, so that Millefleurs
had to concentrate his attention upon the voice,
which was interrupted by all the sounds in the air,
the rustling of the trees, the sough of the river faraway.


"Did you see any one about?" said Millefleurs.

The two men were in the dark,  they could not see
each other's faces, yet they stopped and looked at
each other, anxiously, suspiciously, each at the red
end of the other's cigar, which disclosed a moustache,
a shadow above.

"Any one about? I don't think there was anyone
about," said Eintoul, still more sullenly. " What
should put that into your mind ? You were not there?"

This was a curious question, but Millefleurs made
no note of it, his mind being possessed by an entirely
different idea. He said, "No, I was not there. I
drove home with your mother, don't you know. To
think we should have passed without the least knowing
it, the place which so soon was to be the scene
of such a tragedy."

Don't romance about it. It's bad enough as it is.
You did not pass the scene. It was on the other
road, a long way from yours."

At which side ? "

The left side," said Eintoul, carelessly. " I wish,
if you don't mind, that you would change the subject.
My nerves are all Wrong. I didn't know I was such
a feeble beggar. I'd rather not dwell upon it, if you
don't mind."

"The left side?" said Millefleurs, with a sigh 
and then there was a pause. "You are quite sure,"
he added anxiously, " that you did not see any one in
the wood ? "

Eintoul almost thrust this question away. " I tell
you I won't be questioned," he said. Then, composing
himself with an effort, " I beg your pardon,
Millefleurs  I never liked the man, though he was
my brother-in-law; and to see all at once a fellow
whom perhaps you had been thinking badly of two
minutes before, wishing no good to  to see him lying
there stiff and stark "

I beg you a thousand pardons, Eintoul," Millefleurs
said gravely. And they went in together, saying
no more.

Chapter XXIX.

Lady Lindores and Edith were carried along through
the darkness of the night with that curious sense of
rapid unseen movement which has in it a kind of
soothing influence upon suspense and mental distress.
They spoke to each other in the darkness of Carry 
poor Carry ! how would she take it ? but yet never
ventured, even to each other, to express the innermost
feeling in their minds on this subject. As they drove
along, the gleam of other lamps went rapidly past
them close to the gate of Dalrulzian, leading back
their thoughts for a moment to other interests. " It
is John Erskine's dog-cart. Is he going away? is it
some one arriving ? has he been dining somewhere ? "
Lady Lindores said, with the unconscious curiosity of
the country. Then she said with a little shudder, " I
wonder if he can have heard?"  that first question
which always suggests itself in the face of a great event.
How strange to think that some one has been peace-vol.

II. R

fully dining out while that has been happening  so
near ! " Edith answered only by pressing her mother's
arm in which her own was entwined, as they sat
close together for mutual consolation. She had other
troubled wandering thoughts aching in her own heart ;
but of these she said nothing, but watched the lamps
turning up the Dalrulzian avenue with a thrill of
mingled feeling, half angry that he should not have
divined she was in trouble, half glad that he thus
proved his ignorance of all that had occurred. Thus
unknowing. Carry's mother and sister crossed in the
dark another new actor in Carry's history, of whom no
one as yet had thought.

Carry was seated in her own room alone. It washer
natural refuge at such a moment. A fire had been
lighted by the anxious servants  who saw her shiver
in the nervous excitement of this great and terrible
event  and blazed brightly, throwing ruddy gleams of
light through the room, and wavering ghostly shadows
upon the wall. The great bed, with its tall canopies
and heavy ornaments, shrouded round with satin curtains,
looped and festooned with tarnished gold lace
and every kind of clumsy grandeur, stood like a sort
of catafalque, the object of a thousand airy assaults
and attacks from the fantastic light, but always dark,
a funereal object in the midst ; while the tall
polished wardrobes all round the room gave back

reflections like dim mirrors, showing nothing but the
light. Two groups of candles on the high mantelpiece,
twinkling against the dark wall, were the only-other
illuminations. Carry sat sunk in a big chair
close to the fire. If she could have cried,  if she
could have talked and lamented,  if she could have
gone to bed or, failing this, if she had read her Bible,
the maids in the house, who hung about the doors
in anxiety and curiosity, would have felt consoled for
her. But she did none of these. She only sat there,
her slight figure lost in the depths of the chair, still
in the white dress which she had worn to receive
her guests . in the morning. She had not stirred 
the women said, gathering round Lady Lindores in
whispering eagerness  for hours, and had not even
touched the cup of tea they had carried to her. " Oh,
my lady, do something to make her cry," the women
said. "If she doesn't get it "out it'll break her heart."
They had forgotten, with the facile emotion which
death, and especially a death so sudden, calls forth,
that the master had been anything but the most devoted
of husbands, or his wife other than the longest
of wives. This pious superstition is always ready to
smooth away the horror of deaths which are a grief to
no one. " Your man's your man when a's done, even
if he's but an ill ane," was the sentiment of the awestricken
household. "Ye never ken what he's been

to ye till ye lose him." It gave them all a sense of
elevation that Lady Caroline should, as they thought,
be wrapped in hopeless grief,  'it made them think
better of her and of themselves. The two ladies went
into the ghostly room with something of the same
feeling. Lady Lindores felt that she understood it 
that she had expected it. Had not her own mind
been filled by sudden compunction  the thought that
perhaps she had been less tolerant of the dead man
than she ought ; and how much more must Carry,
poor Carry, have felt the awe and pang of an almost
remorse to think that he was gone without a word
against whom her heart had risen in such rebellion, yet
who was of all men the most closely involved in her
very being ? Lady Lindores comprehended it all ; and
yet it was a relief to her mind that Carry felt it so,
and could thus wear the garb of mourning with reality
and truth. She went in with her heart full, with
tears in her eyes, the profoundest tender pity for the
dead, the deepest sympathy with her child in sorrow.
The room was very large, very still, very dark, save
for that ruddy twilight, the two little groups of pale
lights glimmering high up upon the wall, and no sign
of any human presence. " Carry, my darling ! " her
mother said, wondering and dismayed. Then there
was a faint sound, and Carry rose, tall, slim, and
white, like a ghost out of the gloom. She had been

sitting there for hours, lost in thoughts, in dreams, and
visions. She seemed to herself to have so exhausted
this event by thinking of it, that it was now years
away. She stepped forward and met her mother,
tenderly indeed, but with no effusion. " Have you
come all the way so late to be with me, mother ? How
kind, how kind you are ! And Edith too "

Kind ! " cried Lady Lindores, with an almost angry
bewilderment. '' Did you not know I would come.
Carry, my poor child. But you are stunned with this
blow "

I suppose I was at first. Yes, I knew you would
come  at first ; but it seems so long since. Sit down,
mother; you are cold. You have had such a miserable
drive. Come near to the fire "

Carry, Carry dear, never mind us ; it is you weare
all thinking of. You must not sit there and drive
yourself distracted thinking."

Let me take off this shawl from your cap, mamma.
Now you look more comfortable. Have you brought
your things to stay ? I am ringing to have fires lit
in your rooms. Oh yes, I want you to stay. I have
never been able to endure this house, you know, and
those large rooms, and the desert feeling in it. And
you will have some tea or something. I must give

orders "

Carry," cried her mother, arresting her hand on

the bell, " Edith and I will see to all that. Don't pay
any attention to us. I have come to take care of you,
my dearest. Carry, dear, your nerves are all shattered.
How could it be otherwise ? You must let me get
you something,  they say you have taken nothing, 
and you must go to bed."

I don't think my nerves are shattered. I am quite
well. There is nothing the matter with me. You
forget," she said, with something like a faint laugh,
how often we have said, mamma, how absurd to send
and ask after a woman's health when there is nothing

o

the matter with her, when only she has lost "

Here she paused a little, and then said gravely, " Even
grief does not affect the health."

Very often it does not, dear ; but, Carry, you must
not forget that you have had a terrible shock. Even

I, who am not so nearly involved  even I " Here

Lady Lindores, in her excitement and agitation, lost
her voice altogether, and sobbed, unable to command
herself. " Oh, poor fellow ! poor fellow ! " she said,
with broken tones. " In a moment. Carry, without
warning ! "

Carry went to her mother's side, and drew her head
upon her breast. She was perfectly composed, without
a tear. " I have thought of all that," she said ;
I cannot think it matters. If God is the Father of
us all, we are the same to Him, dead or living. What

can it matter to Him that we should make preparations
to appear before Him? Oh, all that must be
folly, mother. However bad I had been, should I
have to prepare to go to you ? "

Carry, Carry, my darling ! It is I that should be
saying this to you. You are putting too much force
upon yourself  it is unnatural ; it will be all the more
terrible for you after."

Carry stood stooping over her mother, holding Lady
Lindores's head against her bosom. She smiled faintly,
and shook her head. " Has it not been unnatural
altogether ? " she said.

To Edith standing behind, this strange scene appeared
like a picture  part of the phantasmagoria of
which her sister had for years been the centre : her
mind leapt back to the discussions which preceded
Carry's marriage, the hopeless yielding of the victim,
the perplexity and misery of the mother. Now they
had changed positions, but the same strange haze of
terror ;and pity, yet almost indignation, was in her
own breast. She had been the judge then  in a
smaller degree she was the judge now. But this plea
stopped her confused and painful thoughts. Has it
not been unnatural altogether ? Edith's impulse was
to escape from a problem which she could not deal
with. " I will go and see the children," she said.

The children  poor children ! have you seen

them, Carry ? do they know ? " said Lady Lindores,
drying the tears  the only tears that had been shed
for Torrance  from her cheeks.

Carry did not make any reply. She went away to
the other end of the room and took up a white shawl
in which she wrapped herself. " The only thing I feel
is cold," she said.

"Ah, my love, that is the commonest feeling. I
have felt sometimes as if I could just drag myself to
the fire like a wounded animal and care for nothing
more."

But, mother, you were never in any such terrible
trouble."

"Not like this  but I have lost children," said
Lady Lindores. She had to pause again, her lip
quivering. " To be only sorrow, there is no sorrow
like that."

She had risen, and they stood together, the fantastic
firelight throwing long shadows of them all over the
dim and ghastly room. Suddenly Carry flung herself
into her mother's arms. " Oh my innocent mother ! "
she cried. " Oh, mother ! you only know such troubles
as angels may have. Look at me ! look at me ! I am
like a mad woman. I am keeping myself in, as you
say, that I may not go mad  with joy ! "

Lady Lindores gave a low terrible cry, and held her
daughter in her arm, pressing her desperately to her

heart as if to silence hex. " No, Carry  no, no," she
cried.

It is true. To think I shall never be subject to
all that any more  that he can never come in here
again  that I am freethat I can be alone. Oh,
mother, how can you tell what it is ? Never to be
alone : never to have a corner in the world where 
some one else has not a right to come, a better right
than yourself. I don't know how I have borne it. I
don't know how I can have lived, disgusted, loathing
myself. No, no ; sometime else I shall be sorry when
I have time to think, when I can forget what it is that
has happened to me  but in the meantime I am too
happy  too "

Lady Lindores put her hand upon her daughter's
mouth. "No, no. Carry  no, no; I cannot bear it 
you must not say it," she cried.

Carry took her mother's hands and kissed them, and
then began to sob  the tears pouring from her eyes
like rain. " I will not say anything," she cried ; " no,
no  nothing, mother. I had to tell you to relieve my
heart. I have been able to think of nothing else all
these hours. I have never had so many hours to myself
for years. It is so sweet to sit still and know
that no one will burst the door open and come in.
Here I can be sacred to myself, and sit and think:
and all quiet  all quiet about me." Carry looked up.

clasping her hands, with the tears dropping now and
then, but a smile quivering upon her mouth and in
her eyes. She seemed to have reached that height of
passionate emotion  the edge where expression at its
highest almost loses itself, and a blank of all meaning
seems the next possibility. In her white dress, with
her upturned face and the wild gleam of rapture in
her eyes, she was like an unearthly creature. But to
describe Lady Lindores's anguish and terror and pain
would be impossible. She thought her daughter was
distraught. Never in her life had she come in contact
with feeling so absolute, subdued by no sense of
natural fitness, or even by right and wrong. Her only
comfort was that Edith had not been present to hear
and see this revelation. And the truth was that her
own heart, though so panic-stricken and penetrated
with so much pity for the dead, understood, too, with
a guilty throb, the overwhelming sense of emancipation
which drove everything else from Carry's mind.
She had feared it would be so. She would not allow
herself to think so ; but all through the darkness of
the night as she drove along, she had been trembling
lest she should find Carry not heart-broken but happy,
yet had trusted that pity somehow would keep her in
the atmosphere of gloom which ought to surround a
new-made widow. It hurt Lady Lindores's tender
heart that a woman should be salad when her husband

died, however unworthy that husband might have
been. She did her best now to soothe the excited
creature, who took her excitement for happiness.

We will talk of this no more to-night, Carry ; by-and-by
you will see how pitiful it all is. You will feel
as I feel. But in the meantime you are worn out.
This terrible shock, even though you may think you
do not feel it, has thrown you into a fever. You must
let me put you to bed."

Not here," she said with a shudder, looking round
the room ; " not here  I could not rest here."

That is natural," Lady Lindores said with a sigh.
"You must come with me. Carry."

Home, mother home ! Oh, if I could !  not even
to Lindores,  to one of the old poor places where we
were so happy "

When we had no home," the mother said, shaking
her head. But she, too, got a wistful look in her eyes
at the recollection. Those days when they were poor,
wandering, of no account; when it mattered little to
any one but themselves where they went, what the
children might do, what alliances they made,  what
halcyon days these were to look back on ! In those
days this miserable union, which had ended so miserably,
could never have been made. Was it worth
while to have had so many additional possessions
added to them  rank and apparent elevation  for

such a result ? But she could not permit herself to
think, with Carry sitting hj, too ready to relapse into
those feverish musings which were so terrible. She
put her arm round her child and drew her tenderly
away. They left the room with the lights against the
wall, and the firelight giving it a faux air of warmth
and inhabitation. Its emptiness was scarcely less
tragic, scarcely less significant, than the chill of the
other great room  the state chamber  in the other
wing, where, with lights burning solemnly about him
all night, the master of the house lay dead, unwatched
by either love or sorrow. There were gloom and
panic, and the shock of a great catastrophe, in the
house. There were even honest regrets ; for he had
not been a bad master, though often a rough one : but
nothing more tender. And Carry lay down with her
mother's arms round her and slept, and woke in the
night, and asked herself what it was ; then lay still ina
solemn happiness  exhausted, peaceful  feeling as
if she desired nothing more. She was delivered: as
she lay silent, hidden in the darkness and peace of the
night, she went over and over this one certainty, so
terrible yet so sweet. " God forgive me ! God forgive
me ! " she said softly to herself, her very breathing
hushed with the sense of relief. She had come out of
death into life. Was it wrong to be glad ? That it
was a shame and outrage upon nature was no fault

of poor Carry. Sweet tears rolled into her eyes, her
jarred and thwarted being came back into harmony.
She lay and counted the dark silent hours striking oneby
one, feeling herself all wrapped in peace and ease,
as if she lay in some sacred shrine. To-morrow would
bring back the veils and shrouds of outside life  the
need of concealment, of self-restraint, almost of hypocrisy
 the strain and pain of a new existence to be
begun ; but to-night  this one blessed night of 
her own.

Chapter XXX.

It was late when John Erskine got home on the
afternoon of this eventful day. John Tamson's wife
mended his coat for him, and he got himself brushed
and put in order ; then his excitement calming down,
he walked slowly home. He argued with himself ashe
walked, that to take any further notice of Torrance's
violence would be unworthy of himself. The fellow
had been drinking, no doubt. He had been stung in
his tenderest point  his pride in his fine house and
tawdry grandeur,  he had felt himself altogether out
of place in the little company, which included his
nearest connections. Not much wonder, poor wretch,
if he were twisted the wrong way. John forgave him
as he grew calmer, and arriving at home, tired out,
and somewhat depressed in mind, began at last to feel
sorry for Pat Torrance, who never had been framed
for the position he held. The first thing he found
when he arrived, to his alarm and dismay, w as a telegram

from Beaufort announcing his arrival that very-night.
"Obliged to come; cannot help myself," his
friend said, apologetic even by telegraph. Nothing
could well have been more unfortunate. John felt as
if this arrival must put a gulf between him and Carry's
family altogether  but it was too late now for any
alteration, even if he could have, in the circumstances,
deserted his friend. Perhaps, too, in the crisis at
which he had arrived, it would be well for him to have
some one upon whom he could fall back, some one
who had been more unfortunate than himself, to whom
he could talk, who would understand without explanation,
the extraordinary crisis to which his history had
come. It was not his doing, nor Edith's doing,  they
had not sought each other : no intention had been in
her mind of making a victim of her rural neighbour ;
no ambitious project in his, of wooing the Earl's
daughter. Everything had been innocent, unwitting.
A few meetings, the most innocent, simple intercourse
and lo ! the woe or weal of two lives was concerned.
It seemed hard that so simply, with so little foresight,
a man might mar his happiness. John was not a
sentimentalist, determining that his whole existence
was to be shattered by such a disappointment. He
repeated to himself, with a little scorn, 

** Man's love is of man's life a thing apart."

But the scorn was of the sentiment, and not any

protest against the application of it to his own case.
The broken tie between Beaufort and Carry was not
an example of that superficial poetic deliverance. He
himself was not like Beaufort, nor Edith like her
sister. She would never marry a man whom she
could not love ; nor would he allow himself to dally
with all the objects of life, and let everything slip
past him. But he knew what would happen, he said
to himself in the quietness of the silent hours. Life
would lose its crown altogether. He would " get on "
as if nothing remarkable had befallen him  but the
glory and the joy would be over without ever having
been his. And if she shared his feelings, there would
be the same result on her side,  her life would be
lonely like his, the flower of existence would be stolen
from her. Only  if it were possible that Edith did
share his feelings, then there was still something to
be done,  there was a fight for it still before them.
He would not give in like Beaufort, nor she take any
irremediable step of desperation like Carry. This
stirred him a little and restored him to himself ; but
on the whole, despondency was his prevailing feeling
a sense of impossibility, the sensation as of a blank
wall before him, which it was impossible to surmount.
He had a lonely dreary evening. His dinner was
served to him by one of the maids, who was frightened
and lost her head, EoUs still being absent, to the great

alarm of the household. Bauby, who did not remember
the time when her brother had thus forsaken
his duties, had been so disturbed in her preparations
by anxiety, that it had almost happened to John as
to King Louis, that he had to wait for his meal. " I
canna gie my mind to my dinner. Whaup's Tammas 'i
and who's to take ben the dishes?" Bauby cried.
When the housemaid, arrayed in her best cap and
apron, and with what she herself called " a red face,"
blushing like a peony in the unusual responsibility
and honour, had managed to fulfil the service of the
table, Bauby went out to the kitchen-door and then to
the avenue to watch. " Something'll have happened
to him," she said, drying her eyes. " Na, na, he's no'
the man to forget himself It's been something he
could avide. The Lord grant it's no deadly  that's
a' I say. We've never had an accident in or family,
no' since my grandfather that tumbled down the
Broken Brig and broke himself a' to bits, and walkit
wi' a crutch ever after." Bauby had got the length
of despair by the time the dog-cart came up the
avenue bringing " the gentleman " from the station,
whom Marget the housemaid, once more tying on
her best apron, and looking in the glass to see if she
had not yet got rid of that " awful' red face," prepared
to attend upon. It was at this moment, when Bauby
found it required her whole attention to keep her tears
VOL. II. S

from dropping upon the bird, which was cooked to a
turn for Beaufort's supper, that a sudden welcome
voice made her jump and almost drop the savoury
morsel. " Eh, Tammas ! what I've gain through this
night ! " she cried. " I thought you were drowned in
the water, or a' your banes broken." "Hold your
peace," said Rolls, with a gloomy countenance ; " nothing
has happened to me." And he took the tray
out of Marget's hands without a word. The women
stood aghast to see him so scowling, dark, and uncommunicative,
proceeding thus into the presence of
his master, without any attention to his dress. " Without
your class 1 " Bauby said. " Hold your peace,"
repeated her brother. And he paused as he went out
of the kitchen and turned round solemnly, " We have
all a handle mair to think of this night than my
class." The solemnity of this address, it is needless
to say, made an enormous impression upon the maids,
who were wont to consider Rolls, next to the minister,
as one of the greatest lights of the parish. Andrew
the gardener came in soon after on some domestic
errand, and from him they heard something of what
had happened at Tinto. " I'm no' sure what but the
maister here is in it," Andrew said. " You gomeril !
how can Mr John be in it, and him biding quiet at
hame, and no' looking the gait Pat Torrance was on ? "
Weel, I'm saying, I ken nothing about it, but that

something's happened to Tinto and his muckle near 
and the maister's into it," Andrew replied.

Meanwhile Rolls had carried in the supper. The
library where John always sat was cheerful with light
and fire. The farther north the traveller goes, the
more sure he is, with or without occasion, to find a
tire. It scarcely enters into the Italian's idea of comfort
at all, though he shivers with cold  but it is
indispensable to a Scotsman's, though it may be warm.
The night was soft and mild, the windows wide open,
but the ruddy glow made everything cheerful, and
John Erskine had brightened to meet his visitor : he
was sitting cheerfully in the light, asking Beaufort the
hundred questions with which a man a little withdrawn
from society assails one who has kept within
it. Beaufort himself was older and graver : a man
with a fine picturesque head, somewhat long ; a forehead
exceptionally white, from which the hair had
begun to wear off a little round the temples ; a slightly
feeble querulous drop of the lip under his moustache.
He was very tall, very slim, With long white hands,
which clasped each other in a nervous habitual motion.
Neither the one nor the other took any notice of
Rolls. They were in full flood of talk about old
associations, for they had not met for years. Rolls
made his preparations very deliberately, almost rubbing
against his master on repeated occasions as he went

and came. Three or four times over John drew his
chair out of the way, a little surprised, but paying no
particular attention. When this happened, however,
for the fifth or sixth time, he looked up impatiently.
What are you after ? " he cried. Rolls looked at him
with a steady meaning gaze, his eyes staring, his
mouth rigid  he shook his head slightly, very slowly.
What's the matter ? " cried John. Beaufort had
seated himself at the table, and had begun his meal.
The others were in the shade behind him, between the
fireplace and the door.

There's much the matter, sir,  much the matter,"
said Rolls ; " more than will be made up for this many
a day."

What do you mean ? What is it ? You look as if
something had happened with which I had to do,"
John said, half alarmed, half amused. The only
answer Rolls gave was to shake his head once more
very gravely as he turned away. His look spoke all
that he did not say. Tragedy was in it, and horror,
and pity, and reproach. John grew excited in spite of
himself. " Hey, here Rolls ! Rolls, I say ! What is
the meaning of this ? " he cried. Rolls opened the
door slowly, solemnly, and disappeared. " Confound
the fellow ! " cried John, and rose hastily and followed,
with a hurried word to Beaufort. " I suppose the
mare has fallen lame, or there is a tile off the roof," he

said, half laughing. Rolls was standing in the partial
gloom outside the door. The hall door was open, and
the whole darkness of the night showing beyond.
Over their heads hung the lamp, flickering in the
night air, throwing its light upon the impenetrable
blackness opposite to it in the open doorway, but
leaving the two figures in shadow below. Rolls stood
as if he expected his master. He left him no time to
ask any question, but said at once, " Yon was death,
sir," in a low and solemn tone.

Yon ! What was death ? I don't understand
you," John cried, in wonder and alarm. " Quick,
quick ! tell me what you mean."

It's but over easy to tell ;  yon was death. He's
never stirred. Horse and man one heap, and no' a
breath or a tremble in it. It's easy  easy to tell."

Good God ! Rolls, what do you mean ? Not  not
the Scar,  not "

That's what I mean," Rolls replied almost sternly.
A bonnie morning's work. Just Tinto, poor fellow,
with all his faults, and, maybe, the drink in him that
made it easy. Dead  dead."

There was a sort of guttural sob in the old man's
voice. His heart was wrung, not for Tinto, but with
a deeper and closer horror. But John neither thought
nor understood this. He fell back a step and leaned
against the wall in horror and bewilderment. " Good

God ! " he repeated with pale lips, with that instinctive
appeal which we make without knowing it in the face
of every mystery. Under any circumstances, the suddenness
and terribleness of the event would have appalled
him ; but now, at this moment, with Beaufort
under his roof!  he could only gasp for breath  he
could not speak. And he was not aware how eagerly
Rolls was noticing every look and gesture, and how
his agitation struck the old servant to the heart.
He asked a few further questions in profound horror
and dismay, then went back to his friend with a
ghastly countenance, shaken to the bottom of his
heart. The very consciousness that behind this sudden
and terrible death stood life, added to the effect.
He went back to tell Beaufort of it. That was indeed
his first intention, but second thoughts presented to
him the embarrassing nature of such a communication
at the very moment of his friend's arrival. Beaufort
did not notice  being occupied with his supper  the
pallor and agitation which had produced so great an
effect upon old Rolls. But after a while, as John said
nothing, he turned half round and said, " I hope nothing
serious has happened to the mare "

The mare Oh yes, it was something very

serious  not to be made a jest of. A fatal accident
has happened  to one of my neighbours. It is appalling
in any case to hear of anything so sudden ; but

what makes it worse is, that I spent some part of today
in his company. It is not above four or five hours
since I parted with him. We had even a little altercation,"
said John, with a slight shudder. " There's a
bitter lesson for you ! To quarrel with a man without
a thought of any harm, and a little while after to hear
that he is dead, with an unkind thought of you in his
heart, and you with hard thoughts of him ! "

Beaufort answered gravely and sympathetically as
became such an announcement. " Was he a man you
liked ? Was he a friend ? "

No : neither a friend nor a man I liked, but young
and strong ; such a frame of a man !  worth you and
me put together ; and to think that in a moment "

How did it happen ? " Beaufort asked.

I scarcely asked. He must have fallen, he and his
horse, down a precipice  the Scar,  a place he had
often been cautioned against, I believe. Good heavens !
to think of it ! I thought he must have gone over
as we spoke."

And John got up and walked about the room in his
excitement. This interrupted altogether the lively
flow of conversation with which they had begun the
evening. There were one or two attempts made to
resume it. But Erskine relapsed in a few moments
either into exclamations of dismay, or into restless and
uncomfortable silence of thought. The fact was, not

only that Torrance's sudden death had startled his
imagination and awoke some compunctions in his
mind, as in that of Lady Lindores, but that it opened
to him a whole confusing sea of speculations and possibilities.
" It was extraordinary that on the very day
which should see this happen, Beaufort had arrived.
And what would Lady Caroline now say  she who,
with such self-betraying emotion, had entreated John
to keep his friend away? What might happen now
were they to meet ? John shrank from the suggestion
as from an impiety, and yet it would come back. It
was evident to Beaufort that his friend was out of
sorts and profoundly agitated. He withdrew early to
his room, pleading that he was tired, to leave John to
himself. It did not concern him (Beaufort) to be sure,
but it must, he felt, touch Erskine more than he was
willing to show. And it was a relief to John to be
alone. His mind, left to itself, pursued the question,
not so much of the dead as of the living. He did not
call back Piolls to question him on the accident as he
had intended to do ; for it was Carry he thought of, not
poor Torrance, after the first moment. What would
Carry do ? What would she think when she found, in
the first moment of her freedom, Beaufort so near ?
The idea overwhelmed him. There seemed a certain
indelicacy and precipitancy in the thought. He had
risen in his restlessness and opened the window, as he

had been in the habit of doing, to breathe the freshness
of the night air, when Rolls came in, pale, and with
a harassed stealthy look. He came up to his master,
and seeing that he was not observed, touched him on
the arm. " If you are going out, sir, to take a walk 
or that," he said, with quivering lips, " I've brought you
a coat and some laps "

John looked at him with surprise. The old man
was grey and ghastly; his lip quivered. He had a
dark coat carefully folded over his arm, several comforters
and a plaid. There was a tremor in his whole
figure, and his eyes had a wild look of inquiry and fear.

' Take a walk ! Why should I take a walk at this
time of night ? "

Oh, I'm no' saying : gentlemen has strange fancies.
I'm not one to pry. Ill put the laps here, in case
you should want them. You'll find a drop brandy in
your flask, and a few sandwiches in the pocket," he
added in an undertone.

Sandwiches ! You must be taking leave of your
senses. Where do you suppose I should want to go ? "

I would rather not know, sir," said Rolls, solemnly
turning away. " What good would it do me to know ?
I'll not listen nor look. I have no-thing ado with it ;
but oh, if you'll take my advice, go  go out of harm's
way."

*' I believe you are mad, Rolls,"

I have plenty to make me sae, at the least of it,"
Rolls said, and putting down the coat ostentatiously
on a chair, he hobbled out of the room, closing the
door carefully behind him. John could hear his steps
going stealthily up-stairs to the window in the gallery
above, where they seemed to pause, and the window
was carefully opened. A wild bewilderment seized
upon his mind. Of what was it that the old servant
was afraid ? :

CHAPTER XXXI.

Next day the country - side far and near thought
and talked of nothing but the fatal accident at Tinto,
which was such a public event as moved everybody.
There was no figure in the district more widely
known than that of Pat Torrance on his black mare,
a powerful horse and powerful man, looking as if
they could defy every power of nature ; and it thrilled
every village far and near, every lone farm-steading
and cluster of cottages for miles round, to be told
that Black Jess and her master had both been ended
by one false step, and that Pat Torrance, strong
and rich and potent as he was, had died the death
of a dog, unaided, unseen. The news ran from
village to village like the fiery cross  everywhere
expanding into new details and a deeper and deeper
horror of description. First the bare fact, then all
these additional circumstances, making it more and
more visibly evident to every excited listener.

filled the air. Each new passer-by was like a
new edition of a newspaper, and had heard something
more. How the two bodies had been found,
horse and man ; how Tinto had been warned over
and over again of the danger of the Scar, and
would listen to no advice on the subject, but insisted
on leaving it as it was, either for the sake
of the view (though it was little he was heeding
about views), or for the brag, which was more likely ;
and how he was got up with much trouble, and
carried in dead to his own house, which he had
left in all his pride an hour or two before. What
ground for reflection upon the vicissitudes of life
was here ! There was not a group of two or three
people anywhere but one at least would shake the
head and lift up the voice of wisdom, bidding the
others note how in the midst of life we were in
death. And when this first horror was exhausted,
there ensued the brief summing up of character and
life, the rapid history in which our neighbours
epitomise us as soon as we are ended. There were
no illusions on the subject of wild Pat Torrance ;
but on the whole he fared well in the hands of the
rude country-folk, whose taste was not fine enough
to be offended by his roughnesses. In spite of all
his vices and extravagances, he had a certain good-fellowship
with his inferiors in position, a rough

familiarity of address which passed for kindness,
and conciliated the common mind. On every side
the wild incidents of his youth were recalled, not
unkindly. " Eh, poor Tinto, poor fallow ! I mind

when he was a young lad " the commentators

began on every side. And the women concluded
that perhaps if he had gotten a wife more like himself,
things might have been different. The rural
imagination accepted him as he was, with many a sage
reflection, but little censure on the whole  winding
up the story of his feats and frolics, his stormy, wild
career, with a big rustic sigh for the ploughboy-gentleman,
the rude Laird who was so near to them.
The tragedy was as complete and typical as the
primitive historian could desire. And the man who
would take no warning, but kept the dangerous spot
unguarded that he might get his death on it, was as
broad an example of human rashness and blindness
as could have been selected. Wild Pat Torrance,
poor fallow ! It was just the end which everybody
might have expected, it was allowed on all hands.

But presently there arose a chill whisper, like the
first creeping upward of an east wind, bringing greyness
and blight over earth and sky. Who can say
how this atmospheric influence rises, which one moment
is not, and the next has covered the country
with an ungenial chill? It was the same with this

moral cloud, which came, nobody knew from whence,
nor how, rising in a moment. The origin of it could
not be brought home to any individual, but there it
was. After all, how could it be that Black Jess, used
to every step of the way, went over the Scar ? In a
moment the tide of popular comment changed, and
those who had pointed out the awful justice of fate
by which Pat Torrance had been made to bring about
his own fate by his obstinacy, began to say that so
bold a rider never could have lost his life on so well-known
a road  without foul play. Accident ! how
could it be accident, without some human hand to
help ? It was not till the second morning that this
development of the tragedy came; and it took the
whole of that day to establish the connection  which
flashed upon the general mind like lightning at last 
between John Erskine's torn sleeve and dishevelled
appearance and the fate of Torrance. John Tamson
swore with angry oaths afterwards that it was not
from him the tale came ; but others had seen young
Dalrulzian, flushed and muddy, coming from the gate
of Tinto on that eventful afternoon; and when the
community began to think it over and compare notes,
nothing could be more natural than the conclusion to
which they came. If the original news had flown
over the country like the war-signal of the old clans,
this was like the spreading of a sheet of flame  it

burst out at point after point after the merest touch
of contact. Young Dalrulzian was little known. The
country knew no stories of his youth to endear him.
He had been brought up far away. He was an Englishman,
almost an alien. And Tinto, it was well
known, was rough of speech, and " could bide " the
dainty and delicate. What if they met in the wood ;
what if there had been a struggle  if the weaker man
who had no chance against the stronger had seized
Black Jess by the bridle, and driven the high-spirited
animal frantic? The groups who had been recalling
all the old stories of Tinto, now changed like magic
into little committees of accusation, with their heads
close together, framing their indictment. The question
was given against John Erskine all over the
country before the ending of the second day.

There is no coroner's inquest in Scotland. When a
death is attended by doubtful circumstances, the procedure
is slower and more elaborate, and private individuals
are reluctant to move in a matter so painful.
But yet the atmosphere of suspicion and popular condemnation
stole into Dalrulzian as it had crept over
the whole country. It conveyed itself to the supposed
criminal himself in a subtle sense of something wrong.
He had not a notion what it was  neither did he
know at first that it was he who was the object disapproved
of; but it was impossible not to feel that

something was wrong. The aspect of EoUs himself,
conjoined with his extraordinary behaviour on the
night of Torrance's death, was remarkable enough to
excite alarm. The old servant seemed to have grown
ten years older in a single night. His face was furrowed
with deep lines, his shoulders bowed, his step
tottering. The pathos and earnestness of the looks
which he bent upon his young master were indescribable.
The air, half critical, half paternal, with which
he had been wont to regard him, was gone. He no
longer interfered in every arrangement with that sense
of superior wisdom which had amused John from the
moment of his arrival. All the humour of the situation
was over. Intense gravity, almost solemnity, was
in the countenance of Rolls ; he was constantly on the
watch, as if he expected unwelcome visitors. Beaufort,
who was not given to mirth, was roused out of
his gravity by the melancholy aspect of Methuselah,
as he called him. " One would think your servants
expected you to be carried off to prison for high treason,"
he said, laughing  for Rolls was not the only
one in the house who regarded John with these
alarmed and solemn eyes. Bauby, who on ordinary
occasions had nothing but a broad smile and look of
maternal admiration for her young master, was continually
visible, gazing at him from unexpected corners
with her apron at her eyes. When he asked her

if she wanted aiiytliing with him, she would murmur,
Oh, Mr John ! " and cry. The other maids supporting
her behind, fled from his presence. The gardener
regarded him with a sort of stern inquiry when he
passed carrying his basket of vegetables to the house.
John was disturbed, as a man of sympathetic nature
cannot help being disturbed, by this curious atmosphere
of discomfort. He could not tell what it was.

Beaufort was not an inspiriting companion for a
man thus perplexed and confounded. To find himself
in the district where Carry lived, to be in her neighbourhood,
yet separated from her as by walls of iron,
impressed his languid mind with a deeper shade of
that sentimental consciousness which was habitual to
him. Her name had not yet been mentioned between
the friends; but Beaufort walked about the country
roads in a constant state of expectation, feeling that
every carriage he heard approaching might reveal to
him the face which he longed yet feared to see. And
for the first three or four days this was all the entertainment
which John provided for his friend. He
was full of embarrassment as to the situation altogether.
Lady Lindores and Edith were, he had heard,
at Tinto, where he could not disturb them; and he
felt no inclination to make his appearance at Lindores
in their absence. Torrance's death and Beaufort's
presence seemed, indeed, to place impossible barriers

VOL. n. T

between him and them. It would have been sufficiently
uncomfortable, he had felt, to produce his
friend there in the lifetime of Carry's husband ; but to
present him now, when so unexpectedly, so tragically.
Carry was once more free, became an impossibility.
In every way John felt himself paralysed. The air
affected him, he could not tell how. He took his
companion out walking all over the country, and
drove him to long distances in his dogcart, but introduced
him to no one, nor ever went to any other
house. And nobody called during this curious interval.
The two men lived like hermits, and talked of
their old comrades and associations, but never of the
new. John even answered Beaufort's question about
Tinto, which was one of the first points in the landscape
which attracted his curiosity, without telling
him of the tragedy which had happened there. " It
belongs to the Torrancess," he had said abruptly, and
no more. It did not seem possible to tell Beaufort
that her husband was dead. Troublesome as his coming
was at any time, it seemed almost an immodest
intrusion now ; and John was disturbed and harassed
by it. His mind was sufficiently troubled and uneasy
on his own account ; and this seemed like an odious
repetition, intensification of his own circumstances.
Two unfortunate lovers together, with the two ladies
of their choice so separated from them, though so

near ; and now this utterly bewildering and distracting
new element brought into the dilemma, throwing
a wild and feverish gleam of impious possibility on
what had been so impossible before. He could not
speak of it: he could not breathe Edith's name or
Carry's into the too sympathetic, anxious ear of his
friend. He held him at arm's-length, and talked of
Dick and Tom and Harry, the comrades of the past,
but never of what was so much more deeply interesting
and important to both of them now.

Look here, Erskine," said Beaufort ; " I thought
you were seeing a great deal of  your neighbours :
and that Millefleurs would have come to me before
now. I shall have to send him word I am
here."

"To be sure. I had forgotten Millefleurs," said
John. "You forget I only knew of your coming a
few hours before you arrived."

But I thought  people in the country see so much
of each other generally."

They have been  engaged  with family matters,"
said John.

Do you mean to say it is all settled ?  and that
Millefleurs is to marry "

"I know nothing about marrying," cried John,
harshly; and then, recollecting himself, he added,
in a subdued tone, "There can be nothing of that

sort going on at present. It is death, not marriage,
that occupies them now."

Beaufort opened his languid eyes and looked with
curiosity in his friend's face. " Is it so ? Yet Millefleurs
stays on. That looks as if very intimate relations
had been established, Erskine."

Does it ? I don't know what relations have been
established," John said, with visible impatience. And
he got up and went out of the room abruptly, breaking
off all further discussion. Beaufort sent a note
to his pupil that evening. It was the fourth or fifth
day after his arrival. " I made sure I should have
seen you, or I would have let you know my whereabouts
sooner," he wrote. He was himself oppressed
by the atmosphere round him, without knowing why.
He had expected a genial Scotch house, full of company
and life, with something of that exaggeration of fancy
which had made Dalrulzian so wonderfully disappointing
to John himself  a house where, amid the movement
of lively society, his own embarrassing position
would have been softened, and he might even have
met his former love in the crowd without special
notice or more pain than was inevitable. But he
seemed to have dropped instead into a hermitage,
almost into a tomb.

Millefleurs made his appearance next morning,
very grave too, as everybody seemed in this serious

country, and with none of his usual chirruping confidence.
" I never guessed you were here," he said ;
everything of course, at Lindores, is wrapped in
gloom."

There has been a death " said Beaufort.

"A death!  yes. Has not Erskine told you? A
tragedy : nothing so terrible has happened here forages.
You've heard, Erskine," he said, turning round
suddenly upon John, who was in the background,
"that there are suspicions of foul play."

John came forward into the light ; there was
embarrassment and annoyance in his face. "I have
said nothing to Beaufort about it  he did not know
the man  why should I? What did you say there
were suspicions of ? "

Millefleurs looked him full in the face, with a
curious direct look, and answered, with a certain
sternness, oddly inappropriate to his cast of countenance,
"Foul play."

John was startled. He looked up with a movement
of surprise, then returned Millefleurs's gaze with
a mingled expression of astonishment and displeasure.
Foul play ! " he said ; " impossible ! "  then added,
Why do you look at me so ? "

Millefleurs did not make any reply. He turned
to Beaufort, who stood by puzzled, looking on. "I
ought not to stay," he said ; " but Lord Lindores

seems to wish it, and there are some things to be
settled; and I am very much interested besides.
There is no coroner in Scotland, I hear. How will
the investigation be managed ? " he said, turning to
John again.

"Lord Millefleurs," said John, who was not unwilling,
in his general sense of antagonism and annoyance,
to pick a quarrel, " your look at me requires
some explanation. What does it mean ? "

There was a moment's silence, and they stood
opposite to each other, little Millefleurs's plump
person, with all its curves, drawn up into an attitude
of dignity, his chubby countenance set, while John
looked down upon him with an angry contempt,
merging towards ridicule. The group was like that
of an indignant master and schoolboy; but it was
evident that the schoolboy meant defiance.

"It means  just such an interpretation as you
choose to give it," said Millefleurs.

"For heaven's sake," said Beaufort, "no more of
this ! Millefleurs, are you out of your senses ? Erskine,
you must see this is folly. Don't make up a
quarrel out of nothing."

John made a distinct effort to control himself '' Tome
it appears nothing," he said ; ''I cannot even guess
at any meaning that may be in it ; but Millefleurs means
something, Beaufort, as you can very easily see."

At this moment Rolls put his head in at the door.
It's Sir James Montgomery come to see you. I
have showed him into the drawing-room, for it's on
business," the old man said. He was standing behind
the door when John came out, and his master
could not help remarking that he was trembling in
every limb. " The Lord help us a' ! you'll be cautious,
sir," Rolls said.

John, in his perplexity and gathering wonder,
seized him by the arm. " In God's name, Rolls, what
do you mean ? "

Swear none, sir," said the old servant  " swear
none ; but oh, be cautious, for the love of God ! "

John Erskine walked into the room in which Sir
James awaited him, with a sense of wonder and
dismay which almost reached the length of stupefaction.
What did they all mean ? He had not a
clue, not the faintest thread of guidance. Nothing
had in his own thoughts connected him even with the
tragedy at Tinto. He had been doubly touched and
impressed by it in consequence of the fact that he had
seen the unfortunate Torrance so short a time before ;
but that he could, by the wildest imagination, be
associated with the circumstances of his death, did not
occur to him for a moment. The idea did not penetrate
his mind even now, but he felt that there was
some shadow which he could not penetrate lying upon

him. A blinding veil seemed thrown over his faculties.
There was a meaning in it, but what the meaning was
he could not tell. He went in to his new visitor with
a confusion which he could not shake off, hoping,
perhaps, that some sort of enlightenment might begot
through him. Sir James was standing against
one of the windows, against the light, with his hat
in his hands. His whole attitude told of embarrassment
and distress. He made no movement as if
intending to sit down  did not step forward heartily,
as his custom was, to enfold John's hand in his own
with cheerful cordiality, but stood there against the
light, smoothing his hat round and round in his hand.
It petrified John to see his old friend so. He went upas
usual with outstretched hand, but Sir James only
touched the tip of his fingers with an embarrassed bow.
Instead of his usual genial aspect, he half-averted
his face, and kept his eyes on his hat, even when he
spoke.

Mr Erskine," he said, with hesitation, " I came to
see you. I mean, I wanted to have some little conversation
with you, if you have no objections  about 
about this sad affair."

What sad affair ? " John was bewildered, but
still more angry than bewildered. "What was the
meaning of it all? Was the entire world in a conspiracy
against him ?

"Sir," said the old general, giving him one look

of reproof, " such events are not so common in our
quiet country-side that there should be any doubt as
to what I mean."

Unless what you mean is to drive me distracted "
cried John. " What is it ? First Millefleurs, then
you! In heaven's name, what do you mean? What
have I done, that your aspect is changed  that you

speak to me like a stranger, like a culprit, like

Speak out, by all means ! What is this sad affair ?
In what way have I wronged any man ? Why should
my friends turn upon me, and call me Sir, and Mr
Erskine? What have I done?"

I wish to judge no man," said Sir James ; " I wish
to act in the spirit of charity. It was the opinion,
not only of myself  for I have not that much confidence
in my own judgment  but the opinion of two
or three gentlemen, well-judging men, that if I were
to make an appeal to you in the matter, to implore
you in confidence  that is, if there is any explanation
that can be given. We are all inclined to that view.
I may seem harsh, because my heart is just sick to
think of it ; but we are all inclined to believe that an
explanation would be possible. Of course, it is needless
to say that if there is no explanation, neither the
law permits, nor would we wish to lead, any one to
criminate himself."

"Sir James," said John, "you have made me a
strange speech. There is a great deal of offence in it ;

but I do not wish to notice the offence. Speak out !
T know no dreadful event that has happened in the
country but poor Torrance's death. Do you mean to
tell me that you suspect me of having any hand in
that?" "

Sir James looked up at him from the hat which he
was pressing unconsciously in his hands. His countenance
was full of distress, every line moving, his eyes
moist and agitated. " My poor lad ! " he said, " God
knows, we're all ready to make allowances for a
moment's passion ! A man that has been hurried by
impulse into a sudden step  that has consequences
he never dreamt of,  he will sometimes try to hide it,
and make it look far worse  far worse ! Openness is
the only salvation in such a case. It was thought
that you might confide in me, an old man that has
ever been friendly to you. For God's sake, John
Erskine, speak out ! "

What do you suppose I can have to say ? " said
John, impressed, in spite of himself and all his instinctive
resistance, by the anxious countenance and pleading
tones of the kind old man who had been charged
with such an office. He was so much startled and
awed by the apparent consent of so many to attribute
something to him  something which he began dimly
to divine without even guessing how far public opinion
had gone  that the colour went out of his cheeks,
and his breath came quick with agitation. Such signs

of excitement may be read hi many ways. To Sir
James they looked like remorseful consciousness and
alarm.

"We are all very willing to believe," he said,
slowly, "that you took the beast by the bridle, perhaps
in self-defence. He was an incarnate devil when
he was roused  poor fellow ! He would have ridden
a man down in his temper. You did that, meaning
nothing but to hold him off  and the brute reared.
If you had raised an alarm then and there, and told the
circumstances, little blame, if any, could have been laid
on you. Silence was your worst plan  your worst
plan ! That's the reason why I have come to you.
You took fright instead, and hurried away without a
word, but not without tokens on you of your scuffle.
If you would open your heart now, and disclose all
the circumstances, it might not be too late."

John stood gazing speechless, receiving into his
mind this extraordinary revelation with an almost
stupefying sense of how far the imagination had gone.
What was it his countrymen thought him guilty of ?
Was it murder  murder ? The light seemed to fail
from his eyes for a moment ; his very heart grew sick.
He had time to run through all the situation while the
old man laboured slowly through this speech, hesitating
often, pausing for the most lenient words, anxiously
endeavouring to work upon the feelings of the
supposed culprit. With horror and a sudden panic,

he perceived how all the circumstances fitted into this
delusion, and that it was no mere piece of folly, but a
supposition which might well seem justified. He remembered
everything in the overpowering light thus
poured upon the scene : his torn coat, his excitement
nay, more, the strong possibility that everything
might have happened just as his neighbours had imagined
it to have happened. And yet it had not been
so ; but how was he to prove his innocence ? For a
moment darkness seemed to close around him. Sir
James's voice became confused with a ringing in his
ears ; his very senses seemed to grow confused, and
failed him. He heard the gasp in his own throat to
get breath when silence ensued  a silence which fell
blank around him, and which he maintained unconsciously,
with a blind stare at his accuser's most
gentle, most pitying countenance. How like it was
to the scare and terror of blood-guiltiness suddenly
brought to discovery !

But gradually this sickness and blankness cleared
off around him like a cloud, and he began to realise
his position. " Sit down," he said, hoarsely, " and I
will tell you every particular I know."

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.

1-7

;x-;M

-.J

'V

4y
Mrs Oliphant

/-

F

00'

Wf

il

Mi

1' r-

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

  AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

?s rsf };

MAY 2 3 11)88

fsewea''

C'Pp

ypr

r'-i. ,*''

.-s=

L161 O-1096

Cymheline.

LADIES LINDORES

BY

MES OLIPHANT

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. ITL

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXTTT

THE LADIES LINDOEES.

Chapter XXXII.

Left to themselves, Millefleurs and Beaufort stood
opposite to each other for a moment with some embarrassment.
To have anything to do with a quarrel
is always painful for the third person ; and it was so
entirely unexpected, out of the way of all his habits,
that Beaufort felt himself exceptionally incapable of
dealing with it. "Millefleurs," he said with hesitation,
" I don't understand all this. That was a very
strange tone to take in speaking to  a friend."

He felt for the first time like a tutor discharging an
uncomfortable office, knowing that it must be done,
yet that he was not the man to do it, and that of all
the youthful individuals in the world, the last person
to be so lectured was Millefleurs.

Naturally you think so. The circumstances make
VOL. III. A

all the difference, don't yon know," said Millefleurs,
with his ordinary composure. "And the situation.
In 'Frisco it might not have been of any great consequence.
Helping a bully out of the world is not
much of a crime there. But then it's never hushed
up. No one makes a secret of it: that is the thing
that sets one's blood up, don't you know. Not for
Torrance's sake  who, so far as I can make out, was a
cad  or poor Lady Car's, to whom it's something like

a deliverance "

Torrance ! " cried Beaufort, with a gasp. " Lady

Car! Do you mean to say "

"Then " said Millefleurs, "he never told you?

That is a curious piece of evidence. They do things
straightforward in Denver City  not like that. He
never spoke of an event which had made the country

ring "

Torrance ! " repeated Beaufort, bewildered. The
world seemed all to reel about him. He gazed at his
companion with eyes wide opened but scarcely capable
of vision. By-and-by he sat down abruptly on the
nearest chair. He did not hear what Millefleurs was
saying. Presently he turned to him, interrupting him
unconsciously. " Torrance ! " he repeated ; " let there
be no mistake. You mean the man  to whom Carry
Lady Caroline was married ? "

Millefleurs fixed upon him his little keen black eyes.

He recalled to himself tones and looks wliicli had
struck him at the moment, on which he had not been
able to put any interpretation. He nodded his head
without saying anything. He was as keen after any
piece of human history as a hound on a scent. And
now he was too much interested, too eager for new
information, to speak.

And it happened," said Beaufort, " on Thursday 
on the day I arrived?" He drew a long breath to
relieve his breast, then waved his hand. " Yes ; if that
is all, Erskine told me of it," he said.

"You have something to do with them also, old
fellow," said Millefleurs, patting him on the shoulder.
I knew there was something. Come along and walk
with me. I must see it out; but perhaps we had
better not meet again just now  Erskine and I, don't
you know. Perhaps I was rude. Come along ; it is
your duty to get me out of harm's way. Was there
anything remarkable, by the way, in the fact that this
happened just when you arrived ? "

Beaufort made no reply ; he scarcely heard, so
violently were his pulses beating in his ears, so high
was the tide of new life rising in his veins. Who can
think of the perplexities, even the dangers, of another,
when something unparalleled, something that stirs up
his very being, has happened to himself? But he
allowed himself to be led out into the open air, which

was a relief  to the road leading to Lindores, from
which they soon came in sight of Tinto dominating
the country round from its platform. Millefleurs
stopped at the point where this first came in view, to
point out how high it rose above the river, and how
the path ascended through the overhanging woods.
The Scar itself was visible like a red streak on the
face of the height. "You can see for yourself that
horse or man who plunged over that would have little
hope," Millefleurs said. But Beaufort did not hear
him. He stood and gazed, with a sense of freedom
and possibility which went to his head like wine.
Even the ordinary bonds of nature did not seem to
hold him. His mind seemed to expand and float away
over the wide country. Of all people in the world he
was the last who could cross that distance actually,
who could present himself to the lady there  the
widow  the woman who had married Torrance. He
could not offer his services or his sympathy to Carry ;
he alone of all the world was absolutely shut out from
her, more than a stranger : and yet he stood gazing at
the place where she was, feeling himself go out upon
the air, upon the empty space, towards her. The
sensation dizzied his brain and bewildered all his
faculties. Millefleurs flowed on, making a hundred
remarks and guesses, but Beaufort did not hear him.
He would have said afterwards, that as he never spoke.

it was impossible lie could have betrayed himself.
But he betrayed himself completely, and something
more than himself, to the keen little eyes of Millefleurs.
The day passed as days full of agitation pass 
looking long, protracted, endless  blank hours of
suspense following the moment of excitement. Sir
James Montgomery had gone away shaking his good
grey head. He had not believed John Erskine's
story  that is, he believed that there was something
suppressed. He had listened with the profoundest
interest up to a certain point, but after that he had
shaken his head. "You would have done better
to tell me everything," he said, as he went away.
It would have been more wise  more wise." He
shook his head; the very truth of the story went
against it. There was so much that fitted into the
hypothesis of the country-side. But then there came
that suppressio veri which took all the value from
the statement. Sir James went away fully determined
to repeat the story in the most favourable
way  to give the best representation of it possible ;
but he was not satisfied. It was with a most serious
face that he mounted his horse and rode away, shaking
his head from time to time. " No, no," he said
to himself, " that will never hold water  that will
never hold water ! " When this interview was over,
John went back to his library and sat down in his

usual chair with a sense of exhaustion and hopelessness
which it would be difficult to describe. He
had told his story as best he could, searching his
memory for every detail; but he had not been believed.
He had gone on, growing impassioned in
his self-defence  growing indignant, feeling himself
powerless in face of that blank wall of incredulity,
that steady incapacity to believe. "Why should
I tell you a lie ? " he cried, at last. " Do not you
see? Have you not said that it was for my interest
to tell you the truth ? " "I am not saying you have
told a lie," Sir James said, always shaking his head.
No, no  no lie. You will never be accused of that."
When he went away, he had laid his heavy old hand
on John's shoulder. " My poor lad, if you had only
had the courage to open your heart all the way ! "
he said. John felt like a victim in the hands of
the Inquisition. What did they want him to confess ?
Half maddened, he felt as if a little more pressure,
a few more twists of the screw, would make him
accuse himself of anything, and confess all that they
might require.

He did not know how long he sat there, silent,
doing nothing, not even thinking anything, alone
with himself and the cloud that hung over his life,
with a consciousness that all his movements were
watched, that even this would be something? against

him, a proof of that remorse which belongs to guilt.
And thus the slow moments, every one slower than
the other, more full of oppression, rolled over him.
Beaufort had disappeared, and did not return till
late in the afternoon, when the twilight was falling.
A few words only passed between them, and
these related solely to Beaufort's thoughts, not
to Erskine's.

It is her husband who has been killed," Beaufort
said ; " you never told me."

I could not tell you. It was too extraordinary ;
it was an impiety," John said.

But neither did he ask himself what he meant,
nor did Beaufort ask him. They said nothing more
to each other, except such civilities as are indispensable
when men eat together,  for they dined all
the same, notwithstanding the circumstances. In
every crisis men must still dine ; it is the only thing
that is inevitable, in trouble or in joy.

And then the night followed. Night is horrible, yet
it is consolatory to those who are in suspense. John
could not suppose that his trials were over, that nothing
was to follow ; but by ten o'clock or so he said to
himself, with relief, that nothing could happen tonight.
EoUs, too, had evidently arrived at the same
conclusion. He was heard to close and bolt the door
ostentatiously while it was still early, and there was

something in the very noise he made which proclaimed
the satisfaction with which he did it. But after this
there was a long black evening still, and hours of darkness,
to follow, which John did not know how to get
through. Almost he had made up his mind to step
out of the window at midnight, as EoUs had suggested,
and withdraw from all this alarm and unjust suspicion.
He did go out, and felt the cool freshness of the
night caress him, hot and weary as he was, and thought
with a sigh of distant places far away, where he might
be safe from all these frets and passions. But he
knew, if he did so, that his cause would be lost forever
 that nothing could save him or his reputation.
Perhaps in no case could anything save him : but if
he fled, his ruin was certain. " What did it matter,"
he thought, with bitterness, " that he had no witnesses
to produce, that nobody would believe him ? And if
he were condemned, what would any one care ? His
mother, indeed, would feel the shame, but more the
shame than anything else ; and her name was not
Erskine, nor that of any of her family. There was no
one who actually belonged to him in the wide world,
to whom his living or dying could be of any consequence."
As he stood alone with these bitter thoughts,
on the terrace, looking out upon the night, feeling the
wind blow upon him from the fields of sleep, but no
other trace in the darkness of the great wide landscape

which he knew lay stretched out like a map
under cover of the clouds, something breathed another
name in his ear. Ah ! how did he know if she
would care ? Sometimes he had thought so, hoped so,
vaguely, with a tremor of alarmed delight. But if this
shadow of crime came over him, would Edith stoop
under it to say a word of consolation?  would she?
could she ? He stood still for a long time on the terrace,
with the lighted window and common life behind
him, and all the secrets of the hidden night before, and
asked himself what she would do. What would she
do ? That question, and not the other, was, after all,
the great one in life.

Next morning John awoke with the sense of a coming
trial, which made his heart jump in his breast the
moment he opened his eyes, though it was some time
before he recollected what it was. But he did so at
last, and accepted the certainty with outward calm.
He came down-stairs with a steady conviction of what
was about to happen. To make up his mind to it was
something. He sat down at the breakfast-table opposite
to Beaufort  who was restless and uncomfortable
with a calm which he felt to be fictitious, but which
nevertheless was calm.

You must remember," he said, " Beaufort, whatever
happens, that Dalrulzian is altogether at your
command."

What can happen ? " Beaufort asked.

I scarcely know. I can be taken away, I suppose,
and examined somewhere. You had better come with
me. You are a barrister, and might help ; and besides,
it will always be for your advantage to get a
little insight into Scotch law."

I might be of use, perhaps ; but in that case, you
must tell me everything," Beaufort said.

"I ask no better," said the young man; and he
repeated the narrative which he had told to Sir James
Montgomery. "Don't you disbelieve me. What I
say to you is the whole truth," he said,  " everything
that there is to say."

To disbelieve you would be impossible," said Beaufort,
which was the first gleam of consolation he had.
They had a long consultation, some of which was surprised
by EoUs, who went and came, busy about the
door, with sombre and undisguised anxiety.

Beaufort scouted the idea that there could be any
question of murder. " Had you done as they suppose
seized the bridle in self-defence, and forced the
horse a step too far  it would still only be accident,"
he said,  "at the very worst and bitterest, manslaughter
; though I don't see how it could bear even
such a verdict as that. There is no occasion for unnecessary
alarm. Anything more is impossible."

At this moment Rolls came in ; his countenance

was lightened, yet excited. "There is one  that
would like to speak to you, sir," he said.

There could be no doubt as to what the summons
was. Rolls lingered behind when his master, with
changing colour, but self-possession, left the room. He
came up to Beaufort stealthily. " Sir," he said  " sir,
will yon be all true ? "

What ? ISTeither Mr Erskine nor myself is in the
habit of saying what is not true."

That's no doubt the case. I'm saying nothing of
him ; but you might have smoothed it off a bit, just to
soothe him. Will it be all exact yon you said about
manslaughter? Manslaughter is just culpable homicide,
so far as I can see. And what's the punishment
for manslaughter (as you call it), if you'll be so kind
as say ? "

"That depends on the gravity of the case, on the
character of the judge, on many things. A year's, two
years' imprisonment  perhaps only a month or two.
I have known it but a day."

And previous character would be taken into account
? " said Rolls ; " and aggravation, and  many a
thing more ? "

No doubt ; it is a thing upon which no certain rule
can be observed. It may be next to no harm at all, or
it may be close upon murder. In such a case as this,
severity is very unlikely."

12 THE LADIES LINDORES.

But it will make a parting," said Rolls, solemnly,
atween him and all he mast cares for. I'm no' of
the young maister's mind myself. There are some
would have set him far better, and in every way more
suitable ; but what a man likes himself, it's that will
please him, and no' what another man likes. It takes
us a' a lang time," said Rolls, shaking his head, " to
learn that. Many's the one in my place would think
here's just a grand opportunity to part him and 
them ; but you see I take his ain wishes into consideration."


The old servant spoke less to Beaufort than to himself;
but the visitor was not accustomed to hold such
colloquies with a family butler. He stared, then grew
impatient, and disposed to resent the old fellow's familiarity.
The next moment the bell rang, and Rolls
hurried away. Beaufort followed him out into the
hall, where a man was standing evidently on guard.
John was at the door of the drawing-room, pale, but
perfectly composed. " The dogcart immediately," he
said to Rolls, and beckoned to Beaufort to come in.
I am going before the sheriff-substitute about this
matter," he said. " Beaufort, you will come with me.
Mr Granger, this is my friend Mr Beaufort, an English
barrister. He may go with me, I suppose, to watch
over my interests ? You see that what we were threatened
with yesterday has come to pass."

I see, indeed," said Beaufort, " with sorrow and
surprise.  What is it that has to be done now ? "

The sheriff will make no objection," said the head
of the county police, a plain, grave man, with regret in
his face. " It's my duty to take Mr Erskine before the
sheriff. The result of the examination will be, let us
hope, that he'll come cannily home again, when all
has been inquired into in due form. There is no reason
to take a gloomy view. The sheriff will maybe find
there's no case : and I'm sure I wish so with all my
heart."

They all sat round with the utmost gravity to listen
to this little speech. It was not a moment for lightheartedness.
John sat between the table and the door,
in perfect self-command, yet very pale. Notwithstanding
all the respect shown to him, and the good feeling
from which he had everything to hope, the most innocent
of men may be excused a feeling of dismay when
he is, to all intents and purposes, arrested on a criminal
charge, with issues to his good fame and social
estimation, even if nothing more, which it is impossible
to calculate. They sat in silence while the dogcart
was getting ready, a strange little company. After
a while, the officer, to lessen the embarrassment of the
moment, and make everything pleasant, began to
address various little remarks about the weather and
other commonplace topics to the two gentlemen, such

as, " This is a very agreeable change from all the wet
we've been having ; " or, " The news this morning is
more satisfactory about that Afghan business." The
responses made, as may be supposed, were not very
effusive. It was a relief when the dogcart came to the
door. Old EoUs stood and watched it go down the
avenue, with his countenance firmly set, and a stern
resolution gathering about his mouth. Bauby stole
out and stood by his side in the morning light, with
her apron to her eyes, and her capacious bosom convulsed
with sobs. " Eh, that I should have lived to
see this day, and shame come to or dwelling' ! " cried
Bauby; " and as bonny a young lad as ever stepped,
and as good!"

Hold your peace, woman ! " said her brother ; " ye
may see shame come nearer hame or a's done."

Eh, Tammas, man ! what do you ca' nearer hame ?
My heart's just broken ; and what will his mamma
say ? " the faithful creature cried.

Meanwhile it might have been a party of pleasure
that threaded its way among the trees, somewhat
closely packed in the dogcart, but no more than they
might have been, starting for the moors. John Erskine
drove himself to the examination which was to decide
his fate one way or another, with all the appearance of
a perfectly free agent. The horse was fresh, the morning
bright; and though the four men where a heavy

load, they skimmed along the country road as gaily as
if all had been well. Tinto was visible for the greater
part of the way. They passed by the very gates of
Lindores. John had shaken himself together as he
took the reins in his hand, and with perhaps a little
unconscious bravado, paused now and then to indicate
a favourite point of view to his friend. But he had
harder work in store. Just before they reached Dun-earn,
he perceived drawn up by the roadside Lady
Lindores's carriage, in which Edith was seated alone.
Impossible to describe the feelings with which, as
across a gulf of pain and trouble, the unfortunate young
man, at this crisis of his fate, looked at the girl with
whom, when he last saw her, he had been so near the
edge of a mutual understanding. It was impossible
for him now to do other than draw up by the side of
the carriage to speak to her ; and there, in the hearing
of the two men who formed his escort, and whose presence
was heavy on his heart, the following conversation
took place. Edith looked up at him with a smile and
an expression of pleasure which brightened her whole
aspect. She was in mourning, and somewhat pale.

I am waiting for mamma," she said. " One of her
pensioners is ill in that cottage. I was glad of the
chance of bringing her out for a little air. We are
with poor Carry, you know."

How is Lady Caroline ? " John asked.

Oh, well enough, when one considers all things,"
said Edith, hastily; and to escape that subject, which
was not to be entered on before strangers, she said,
You ere going to Dunearn ? "

On painful business," he said. " I wonder if I may-ask
you one thug ? " She looked up at him with a
smile which said much  a smile of trust and belief,
which might have encouraged any man to speak.
Edith had no fear of what he might ask her. For
John it was more difficult to command himself and
his voice at that moment than at any previous one
since his trial began. He cleared his throat with an
effort, and his voice was husky. " You will hear
things said of me  that may make you turn from  an
old friend altogether. I want you not to believe them.
And tell Lady Lindores. Do not believe them. It is
not true."

Mr Erskine, what is it  what is it ? You may be
sure I shall believe nothing against you  nor mamma

either! Is it  is it " her eyes fixed upon him

anxiously and upon the stranger beside him, whose
face was unknown to her, and who sat blank and
passive like a servant, yet who was not a servant.
Edith rose in the carriage in her great anxiety, and
gazed as if she would have read a volume in John's

o

face. What it cost him to look at her and to keep a
kind of smile on his, it would be hard to tell.

' I cannot enter into explanations now. I may not
be able to do so soon. Only  tell Lady Lindores."

She held out her hand to him, which he stooped to
touch  it was all he could do  and once more gave
him an anxious, tender smile. " You may trust both
mamma and me," she said.

And in another moment, so it seemed, the dogcart
stopped again. John went over the streets of Dunearn
like a man in a dream  in a sort of exquisite anguish,
a mingled sweetness and bitterness such as never went
into words. Their looks seemed to clings together, as,
visit a start, the horse went on ; and now they stopped
again and got down  for a very different encounter.
Even now, however, John's progress was to be interrupted.
Some one called to him as he was about to
go into the sheriff's court in the little Town-house of
Dunearn. " Is that you, John Erskine ? and what has
brought you here ? " in peremptory tones. He turned
round quickly. It was Miss Barbara in her pony-carriage,
which Nora was driving. The old lady leaned
across the young one and beckoned to him with some
impatience. " Come here. What are you doing in
Dunearn without coming to me? It's true I'm out,
and you would not have found me ; but Janet would
have understood to be prepared for your luncheon.
And what's your business in the Town - house this
fine morning, and with strange company ? " Miss

VOL. m. B

Barbara said. She cast a keen glance at the man,
who stood aside respectfully enough, and yet, backed
by his assistant, kept a watchful eye on John.

I am afraid I cannot wait to tell you now. It is
not pleasant business," John said.

Come round here," said the old lady, imperiously ;
can I keep on stretching to you before all the town ?
Come round here." Her keen eyes took in the whole
scene : John's glance at his grave companion, thea
most imperceptible gesture with which that person
made way for him. Miss Barbara's perceptions were
keen. She gripped her nephew by the arm. "John
Erskine, have ye done anything to bring ye within the
power of the law ? "

Nothing," he said firmly, meeting her eye.

Then what does that man mean glowering at you ?
Lord guide us ! what is it, boy ? It cannot be money,
for money has none of these penalties now."

It is not money  nor anything worth a thought."

Mr Erskine," said the officer, civilly, " the sheriff'
is waiting." And after that, there was no more to
be said.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

EoLLS went up-stairs and dressed himself in his best 
his " blacks," which he kept for going to funerals and
other solemnities  not the dress in which he waited at
table and did his ordinary business. The coat, with
its broad, square tails, gave him an appearance something
between that of a respectable farmer and a parish
minister  a little too solemn for the one, too secular
for the other ; and to show that he was " his own man,"
and for to-day at least no man's servant, he enveloped
his throat in a large black silk neckerchief, square in
shape, and folded like a substantial bandage with a
little bow in the front. His forehead was lined with
thought. When he had finished his toilet, he opened
the large wooden " kist " which stood in a corner of his
room, and was the final receptacle of all his worldly
goods. Out of that he took a blue-spotted handkerchief,
in which a pocket-book was carefully wrapped
up, and took from it a few somewhat dirty pound-notes.

Then restoring the pocket-book, he locked the
kist carefully, and went down-stairs with the key  a
very large one  in his hand. This he gave to Bauby,
who still hung about the door with her apron to her
eyes. " You should go ben to your work, my woman,"
said Rolls-rand no make the worst of what's happened
: in a' likelihood the master will be back afore
the dinner's ready." " Do you think that, Tammas ?
do you really think that ? " cried Bauby, brightening
up and showing symptoms of an inclination to cry for
joy as she had done for sorrow. " I'm no' saying what
I think. I'm thinking mony things beyond the power
o' a woman-person to fathom," said Rolls, solemnly.
And if the maister should be back, it's real possible I
magna be back. You'll just behave conformably, and
put dorrit Marget. If she wasna so frightened, she's
no' a bad notion at a' of waiting at table. And if
there's ony question where I am, or what's become
of me "

Oh, Tammas, what will I say ? It will be the
second time in a week. He'll no' like it," cried Bauby,
diverted from one trouble to another. The absence of
her brother when the dinner was ready was almost as
extraordinary as her master's conveyance away to unknown
dangers by the functionaries of the law.

If he's here to be angry, a' will be well," said
Rolls, grimly ; and the he handed her the key. " If

there should be any question about me, when I'm no,
here to answer for myself, you'll inform whoever it
concerns that the kist is yours and everything in it, in
proof of which you'll produce the key. That's no' to
say but what you'll respect the bits of things in it, and
hand me back possession when I come, soon or late,"
said Rolls. " You'll mind what I say to you, Bauby.
It's yours in the one case, but no' in the other. You'll
take possession if there is ony other claimant ; but me
being back, you'll respect my rights."

"I fuss I would ken what you meant first," said
Bauby, gazing at him wistfully. Rolls had an air of
satisfaction on his face for the first time : he was
pleased to have puzzled her. His face relaxed almost
into a smile as he said, " According to a' probabilities,
you'll soon understand that."

With these words he set out from the hall-door,
walking very deliberately, and crushing the pebbles
under his feet at every step. He had taken his best
silk umbrella, which, loosened from its habitual folds,
and used as a stick, made a sort of flapping accompaniment
to his progress, like a large bird walking by him.
As he turned from the door the solemnity of his aspect
returned. He walked slowly, thinking as he went 
thinking so profoundly that he scarcely saw Peggy at
the lodge, and passed her, taking no notice of her in
the gravity of his preoccupation. She said afterwards

that it was awful' evident he had something on his
mind. She told Jean Tamson, who was in the lodge
at the moment  come for a crack, and talking of
nothing else but this very subject,  "I would
wonder," she said, " but Mr EoUs kens more about it
than any of us." This at least was what she informed
the world she had said to her gossip when all was
known.

It was four miles to Dunearn ; but old Rolls was a
steady, good walker, with no irregularity about him.
Every step he took was just of the same length as the
step before. Yard for yard he did his four miles in
the regulated time, neither shorter nor longer. Ashen
he arrived at the Town - house, there was a little
flutter about the door as of people dispersing; but
there had not been any number of people, and though
the rumour of what had transpired had begun to blow
about the place, there were not as yet many gazers.
By-and-by, as he stood outside, his master came outwith
one of the emissaries of the morning close by
him, and Beaufort behind. John Erskine was pale;
but there was a sort of smile on his face  a smile
which had no pleasure in it, but some contempt, and
that sort of outward looking to heaven and earth, with
the head held high, and the nostrils somewhat dilated,
which is so often the aspect of a man unjustly accused.
He was making light of it to himself  persuading

himself that it was nothing and meant nothing. He
saw EoUs standing by, and waved his hand to him.
What ! have you walked all this way," he said, " old
Truepenny,"  with something of the same levity of
despair which dictated the same words to Hamlet, 
to see the last of me ? "

It's not come to that, sir, I hope," said EoUs, with
a seriousness which was as solemn as if what John
had said was real. The young man laughed.

You will pack my portmanteau and send it after
me : I suppose I may be allowed that ? " he said.
The of&cer who was in attendance bowed his head.
The people about gathered round, staring at John with
too much surprise to express any other emotion ; and
by-and-by the party drove off again, nobody apparently
divining exactly what it all meant. There were a
number of petty cases to be tried by the sheriff, who
was in the Town-house, as it was called, and as many
different interests as there were loungers about. Rolls
went in with hesitating steps after his master had disappeared.
The old man had come, in full expectation
of the event which had happened ; but fact is always
different from anticipation. When he saw what he
had only looked for, the effect upon him was something
overwhelming. He stood staring and gaping in
the little crowd which gradually drew together, realising
only after it was over what had taken place before

their eyes. "What's wrong with the young maister,
Mr Rolls ? " said one of the bystanders. " Let me
be ! " cried the old man, shaking himself free ; and he
went into the Town-house with tottering steps. He
had intended taking certain bold and immediate steps,
carrying out the project he had been framing in his
mind ; but his nerves were shaken when the moment
came. The law terrified him. If his master, in all
the strength and confidence of his youth, was thus
peremptorily dealt with, what aggravations might not
he, an old and humble individual  nothing but a
servant  look for? He was cowed. He stole up to
an attendant and made faltering inquiries. "What
will they have settled about yon case ? " he said.
About what case ?  the sheep-lifting, or the unlawful'

wounding, or the robbery at William Tamson's "

Name o' the things  name o' the things," said old
Rolls. " It's about young Mr Erskine of Dalrulzian."
Oh, ay, ay," said the attendant, shaking his head ;
that's very serious. The circumstances a' point to
some agent mair than accident  that's what the sierra
says, and he canna see his way to discharging the
panel." " The panel !   he's nae panel !  mind what
you're saying," cried Rolls. "Well, maybe that's
going owe fast. I would say the gentleman under
suspicion. He maun just bide the result of a mair

1 Scottish accused.

formal examination  that's a' I can tell ye; I have
nae time to enter into particulars," the official said.

Rolls, who had meant such heroic things, turned
away tremulously. He went out again, scarcely
knowing where he was going, into the streets of Dun-earn.
There everybody looked at him with curious
eyes. The town had at last become conscious of what
had happened : from a public-house in the environs a
stone had been thrown at John Erskine as he went
past, and hooting had risen on his path. This roused
the population fully, and now the streets were full of
groups discussing the matter. Torrance, as has been
said, was popular in his way, especially now in that
warmth of pity and charity which follows a sudden
and unexpected death; and John Erskine was comparatively
unknown. The tide was strongly against
him, as a semi-foreigner  a man who had come from
abroad." " He'll find here that gentle and simple
must keep the laws alike," said one. " A man daurna
ride roughshod over his fellows here."

Old EoUs heard the growl of popular excitement,
and it alarmed him still more. "If it was me
they would tear me in bits," he said to himself.
His alarm on this point, as much as his original
intention, drove him in at Mr Monypenny's door,
which was in his way. He was afraid of being recognised
as the butler at Dalrulzian {" for everybody

kens me," lie said to himself, with mingled pride and
panic), and he was anxious to consult the " man of
business " who had Dalrulzian estate in his hands.

Mr Monypenny was out ; and Rolls requested permission
to sit down and wait. He had a long time of
quiet to think over his plan again, and he did think it
over, and recovered his courage. After a time Mrs
Monypenny, hearing who it was, sent to request him
to have some cold beef in the kitchen, an offer of
which Rolls availed himself at once. " For what is
the use of punishing yourself ? " he said. " A man's
more qualified for everything when he has eaten his
dinner." He was very serious, and unlike his usual
cheerfully communicative mood, in Mr Monypenny's
kitchen. The maids did not know what had come
over him. To have such a grand subject of discourse
as his master's arrest, and yet to be so silent, struck
them with astonishment ; but they, too, remarked his
perturbed countenance afterwards, and said to one
another, " I told you there was mair in him than met
the eye."

Meanwhile Miss Barbara and her young companion
had been driving up and down in the pony-carriage
in a state of great excitement. They had passed the
Town-house half-a-dozen times, always looking for
the reappearance of John ; but he, as was to be expected,
had come out and gone away in the interval

between. Miss Barbara had maintained during the
whole time a lively monologue, scarcely interrupted
by her young companion. "I've heard what they
dared to say," Miss Barbara cried; 'ras if one of my
family would stoop to soil his fingers with any Tinto
of them all! AVhat were the Torrancess but bonnet-lairds
till old Torrance married the railway man's
daughter? But I never thought they would have
dared to do anything against an Erskine. Times are
changed. (Go round by the Stone Bridge, Nora ; it's
an easier road for the pony.) What would my father
have said if he had heard a descendant of his event
with one of that race ? That's what your Radicalism
comes to."

But death is the same, whether it comes to a saint
or  a bully ; and life has to be protected," said Nora,
fired with political ardour.

Life  and death. They're grand words to use : a
drunk man falling over a steep bank that it was the
wonder of the whole country-side he had not gone over
years and years before."

Nora did not say any more. She was not so warm
a partisan as Miss Barbara's companion ought to have
been. She drove along quietly, taking no further part
in the talk, which the old lady maintained alone.
How can I go in to my peaceful house and eat my
comfortable dinner, not knowing but my own flesh and

blood may be shut up iu a jail ?" she said. Then she
added quickly, " There's that lad, young Kintoul. I'm
not fond of any of his family; but I suppose he's a
gentleman. He'll go in and ask what has happened.
Fast  to your right hand, Nora. Now draw up. He
sees what I mean. Lord Pdntoul," added Miss Barbara,
" I have a favour to ask of you. You may have
heard my nephew John Erskine's name bandied about
these late days. He's been in the Town-house before
the sheriff and the procurator-fiscal this hour and a
half or more. It's not for me to ask the town-bodies
about what has happened. AVill you go and bring me
word?"

Kintoul stood silent for a moment before he made
any reply. Her voice seemed to have called him from
painful reflections of his own, the chain of which he
could not in a moment break. He gave her a half-bewildered
look, then turned to Nora, who looked at
him more gently, with sympathetic eyes. How haggard
he looked, and worn !  he who had been so ruddy
and manly, only too much flesh and blood, almost too
little inclination to be moved by emotion or sentiment,
was all this because of the sudden death of his
brother-in-law, a man for whom he cared nothing ?
Nora was extraordinarily impressed by Interchanged
appearance. Miss Barbara, preoccupied by
her own anxieties, scarcely noticed him at all.

In the Town-house with the sheriff ? What does
that mean ? "

"I forgot you were English," said Miss Barbara
with a touch of contempt. " It means some examination
of witnesses anent the death of Pat Torrance,
your brother-in-law. What my nephew should have
to do with it, I cannot tell you. It's just that I would
have you inquire."

He can have nothing to do with it," said Eintoul ;
and then he stopped short, and the momentary animation
died out of his face. He shivered as he stood in
the sunshine, which was as warm as September ever is
in Scotland. " It must be a mistake ; we have heard
nothing of this," he said. " I am sure Carry  would
be averse to any fuss. It was such a thing for her
that there was no coroner's inquest. I made sure we
were all safe. You must be mistaken," he said.

Lord Piintoul," said Nora, who was given to opposition,
"though there is no coroner's inquest, there
must be justice; and if they think Mr Erskine has
anything to do with it "

''He has nothing to do with it," said Eintoul, with
petulant impatience. Miss Barbara stretched her
hand over Nora to grasp his, but this gesture seemed
to drive him back into himself He withdrew a little
from the side of the pony-carriage, and made a pretence
of not seeing the old lady's outstretched hand.

Miss Barbara was shocked, and gave him a curious
look ; but she was not prepared for disrespect, and
did not expect it. She went on more eagerly than
before

And here I am helpless," she said. '' I cannot go
in myself. I will not send ISTora. Will you do my
errand. Lord Eintoul ? Bring me word, not here, but
to my house. I am going home."

He gave a little bow of assent, and stood on the
pavement looking after them as they drove away. He
stood longer than was necessary for that, till they had
disappeared round the corner of the High Street, till
the children about  of whom there was always a large
supply in Dunearn  began to gape at him with expectations
of amusement. "Look at the man glowering
frae him," these spectators cried, and a small pebble
tumbled along the flags where he stood  a harmless
experiment to see if there was any fun in him. He
did not notice this, nor any other outside occurrence,
but after a while got slowly under way again, as if
the operation was difficult, and went on to the Townhouse.
When he got there, he went in reluctantly,
with evident disinclination. The attendant who had
talked to Rolls made way for him respectfully. The
other people about opened the doors and took off their
hats to the young potentate. A small case which was
going on at the time was even suspended while the

sheriff, not nearly so great a man, answered his lordship's
questions in his own person. " Yes, there has
been an examination," the sheriff said. " The circumstances
are very suspicious. I have thought it best to
order that young Erskine should be detained till there
can be a more complete investigation. That, it is to
be hoped, will clear the matter up ; but if not "

Lord Eintoul's fair and ruddy countenance was dark
with anxiety and pain. " You cannot mean," he said,
"that you believe Erskine "

I believe nothing but what there is evidence for,"
the sheriff said. " We are not men of theories. Lord
Eintoul. Experience shows every day that men do
the most unlikely things. I hear he's shown an
animus,  and there are two or three points very
strange. I saw it my duty to give orders that he
should be detained "

You have sent him to prison, do you mean ? "
There was a sharp tone as of personal anguish in
Eintoul's voice. *' But you'll admit him to bail ?
My father, I, Millefleurs, any gentleman in the
country "

Will be his bail ? I doubt if it's a bailable offence:
but if Lord Lindores where willing to do that, no doubt
it would have a good effect. However, nothing can be
done before the investigation," said the sheriff; "a day
or two will do the young man no harm."

This was all he could elicit. The sheriff was a man
who had a great idea of his office, and it was not often
that he had a case so interesting and important. The
attendants thought Lord Eintoul had been drinking, ashe
stumbled out. He went along the quiet street with
an uncertain step, now and then taking off his hat
that the air might refresh him. He, too, stopped at
Mr Monypenny's door, as Rolls had done a very short
time before. It was afternoon now, and the shadows
were lengthening as he reached Miss Barbara's house.
What a sunny glimpse there was from door to door,
across the little hall to the garden, where the brightness
of the autumn flowers made a flush of colour !
Eintoul saw a figure against the light which was not
Miss Barbara's. There was in him a forlorn desire for
consolation. " Don't tell Miss Barbara I am here just
yet," he said hastily to the maid, and opened the glass-door,
beyond which Nora stood among all the geraniums
and mignonette. There was no agitation about
her. She was not sufficiently interested in John
Erskine to be deeply troubled by the idea of annoyance
to him as his old aunt was, or alarmed by a passing
shadow upon his name. She was serene and calm
in this quiet world of flowers and greenness where no
trouble was. She welcomed him with a smile. " Miss
Barbara is very anxious," she said. " She has gone upstairs
to rest, but I am to let her know when you come."

Wait a little," he said, glad of the interval; "you
are not anxious."

Not so much. Of course I am interested in my
friends' friends  but I don't know very much of Mr
Erskine," said Nora, unable to divest herself altogether
of the imaginative offence that lay between John and
her. " And it cannot do him much harm, can it ? It
will only be disagreeable  till the facts are known.
Young men," she said, with a smile, " have a right to
have something unpleasant happen to them now and
then ; they have so much the best of it in other ways."

Do you think so," he said, with a seriousness which
put her levity to shame. " To be sent to prison  to
have a stigma put upon you  perhaps to be tried for
your life !  that is rather worse than mere unpleasantness."


Nora was greatly impressed, not only by the gravity
of what he said, but the air with which he said it.
It surely cannot be so bad as that : and he  is innocent,
Lord Eintoul ? "

I have no doubt of it," cried Eintoul, eagerly,  " no
doubt of it ! If there is any one to blame, it is someone
 whom most likely nobody suspects. What would
you think of the man who had done it, and yet said
nothing, but let John Erskine suffer for his fault ? "

I do not believe," said Nora, like Desdemona,
that there could be any such man. It is impossible.

VOL. III. C

You think too badly of human nature. How can you
suppose another would do what you know you would
not do yourself ? Oh no, no, never ! Lord Eintoul
She paused after this little outburst, and drawing
a step nearer to him, asked in a low and horror-stricken
tone  "Do you really think that poor Mr
Torrance was  murdered ? "

"No, no!" he cried almost violently  "no, no!"
He stopped short, with a dryness in his throat, as if
he could not speak ; then resumed, in a quieter tone
" But I think in all likelihood there was, as people
imagine, a quarrel, a scuffle  and that somebody  took
hold of the mare's bridle "

Some tramp, no doubt," said Nora, sympathetically,
much affected by his emotion, " who perhaps doesn't
even know "

That is it," said Eintoul, eagerly  " who perhaps
never dreamt at the moment. And even if he knows
now, such a man might think, as you did, that it would
come to nothing with Erskine. I believe it will come
to nothing  a day, or two days, in prison."

But if it should turn out more serious," said Nora,
even a tramp  would give himself up, surely  would
never let an innocent man suffer ? "

We must hope so, at least," said Lord Eintoul.
His countenance had never relaxed all this time. It
was almost solemn, set, and rigid  the muscles about

his mouth unmoving. " There should not be any question
about right and wrong, I know," he said, " but such
a man might say to himself  he might think  Young
Erskine is a gentleman, and I'm only a common fellow
 they will treat him better than they would treat
me. He might say to himself "

I cannot believe it," cried Nora. " In such a case
there could be no question of what any one would do.
It is like ABC. What ! let another man suffer for
something you have done ! Oh no, no  even in the
nursery one knows better than that ! "

I don't think," said Eintoul, " that you ever can
understand all the excuses a man will make for himself
till you've been in the same position. Things
look so different when you've done it  from what they
do when some one else has done it. There are so
many things to be taken into consideration. Punishment
is not the same to all ; it might ruin one, and
not do much harm to another. A man might feel justified,
or at least there would be excuses for him, if
he let another bear the punishment which would not
hurt him much, but would be destructive to himself
Of course it would be his business to make it up
somehow."

Lord Eintoul, this is dreadful doctrine ! " said
Nora ; " if it were carried out, then you might do any
wickedness you wished, and hire somebody to be punished

instead of you.' She laughed half nervously,
shaking ofi the grave turn the conversation had taken.
But this is absurd," she said ; " of course you don't
mean that. I think I know what you mean;  but I
must not delay longer, I must tell Miss Barbara."

"Don't disturb her now," said Eintoul, eagerly.
Besides, I really have not time. If you would say
that it is unfortunately true  that Erskine is  detained
till there can be a full investigation. I am hurrying
off to get bail for him, for of course they must accept
ban  and it will only be for a few days. The investigation
 at which we shall all be examined," he said,
with a nervous tremor,  " will clear up everything, I
hope."

I hope so, with all my heart," said Nora, waving
her hand to him as he hurried away. Eintoul had
reached the garden door on his way out, when he suddenly
paused, and came back to her, and took that
hand, holding it for a moment between his own.

"All this is very hard upon me," he said, incoherently;
"it gives me a great deal of misery. Feel
for me  stand by me. Will you, Nora ? I don't care
for the rest, if you "

And he wrung her hand almost violently, dropped
it, and hurried away. The girl stood looking after
him with wonder and dismay, and yet with a gush of
a different kind of feeling, which filled her heart with

a confusing warmth. " A great deal of misery ! " Was
it the tenderness of his heart for his sister, for the unfortunate
man who had been summoned out of the
world so abruptly  though he did not love him  and
for his friend who was unjustly accused, which made
Eintoul say this? But anyhow, Nora was not capable
of resisting such an appeal. Poor Eintoul :
though he did not show it to any one, how tender
he was, how full of sympathy ! John Erskine (against
whom she could not help entertaining a little grudge)
died out of her mind altogether. She was so much
more sorry for the other, who felt it so deeply though
it was not his concern.

CHAPTER Xxxi.

Beaufort drove home on that eventful afternoon by
himself. He had left his friend in the county jail,
in a state in which surprise was still perhaps the
predominant feeling. John had said little on the
way, except to point out, with something which perhaps
bore the character of bravado, the new features
of the landscape beyond Dunearn. " It is an opportunity
for you to see a little more of the country," he
said, with a smile. Something of the same indignant
amusement which had been his first apparent sensation
on hearing the sheriff's decision was still in his
manner now. He held his head high and a little
thrown back, his nostrils were dilated, his eyes more
widely open and alert than usual, and a smile in which
there was a little scorn was upon his face. Those who
did not know John or human nature might have thought
him unusually triumphant, excited by some occurrence
which enhanced instead of humiliating his pride. " I

cannot tell you how surprised I am to see you here,
Mr Erskine," said the governor of the jail with consternation.
" You cannot be more surprised than I
am," said John. He gave his orders about the things
he wanted in the same tone, taking no notice of the
anxious suggestion that it would only be for a few
days. He was too deeply offended with fate to show
it. He only smiled and said, "The first step is so
extraordinary that I prefer not to anticipate the next''
But they must allow you bail' said Beaufort ; " that
must be my first care." John laughed. He would
not condescend to be anxious. " Or hang me," he
said ; " the one just as sensible as the other." Beaufort
drove away with the strangest feelings, guiding
his friend's horse along the road with which he was
so little acquainted, but from which presently he saw
the great house of Tinto on one side, and on the other
the towers of Lindores appearing from among the
trees. How hard it was to keep his thoughts to John,
with these exciting objects on either side of him !
This country road, which all its length kept him insight
of the big castellated front of Tinto, with its
flag half-mast high  the house in which she was
who had been his love and promised bride  seemed
to Beaufort to have become the very thread of his
fate. That Carry should be there within his reach,
that she should be . free and mistress of herself, that

there should be even a certain link of connection
which brought him naturally once more within the
circle of her immediate surroundings, was so wonderful
that everything else seemed of less importance.
He could not disengage his thoughts from this. He
was not a man in whose mind generosity was the first
or even a primary quality, and it is so difficult to
think first of another when our own affairs are at
an exciting stage. The only step which he could
think of for John's advantage confused him still more,
for it was the first direct step possible to put him once
more in contact with Carry. He turned up the avenue
of Lindores with a thrill of sensation which penetrated
his whole being. He was relieved indeed to
know that the ladies were not there  that he would
not at least be exposed to their scrutiny, and to the
self-betrayal that could scarcely fail to follow ; but
the very sight and name of the house was enough
to move him almost beyond his errand. The last
rays of the sunset had gone out, and the autumn
evening began to darken by the time he got there.
He went on like a man in a dream, feeling the very
air about him tremulous with his fate, although he
made an attempt to think of John first. How could
he think of anything but of Carry, who was free ?
or recollect anything except that the mistress of this
house had allowed him to call her mother ; and that

even its lord, before he was its lord, had not refused
to permit the suggestion of a filial relationship ? There
was a carriage already standing before the door when
he drove np, but his mind was by this time too much
excited to be moved by any outside circumstance.
But when he stepped into the hall upon his mission,
and, following the servant to the presence of Lord Lindores,
suddenly found himself face to face with the
two ladies going out, Beaufort's agitation was extreme.
They were returning to Tinto, after a day's expedition
in search of those " things " which seem always necessary
in every domestic crisis. Lady Lindores recognised
him with a start and cry of amazement. " Mr
Beaufort ! you here ! " she cried, unable to contain herself.
She added, " at such a time ! " in a lower tone, with
the self-betrayal to which impulsive persons are always
liable, and with so much indignation mingled with her
astonishment, that a man in full possession of his
faculties might have drawn from it the most favourable
auguries. But Beaufort, to do him justice, was
not cool enough for this. He said hurriedly, " I came
on Thursday  I knew nothing. I came  because it
was impossible to help it." Edith had come close up
behind her mother, and grasped her arm, half in support,
half in reproof. " You knew Mr Beaufort was
coming, mamma ; why should you be surprised ? " she
said, with a certain disdain in the tone with which she

named him. Edith was unreasonable, like all the
rest. She would have had him throw away everything
rather than come here to interfere with Carry's
comfort, notwithstanding that her own father had invited
him to come, and though it had been explained
to her that all his prospects depended upon the favour
of the Duke, Lord Millefleurs's gracious papa. Her
idea was, that a man should have thrown away all
that, rather than put himself in a false position, or
expose a woman whom he had once loved to embarrassment
and pain. They were all unreasonable together,
but each in his or her characteristic way. After
these first utterances of agitation, however, they all
stopped short and looked at each other in the waning
light, and awoke to a recollection of the ordinary
conventionalities which in such circumstances are so
great a relief to everybody concerned.

'' We must not detain you, Mr Beaufort," Lady Lindores
said ; " you were going to my husband  or Lord
Millefleurs  who is still here."

The last four words were said with a certain significance,
as if intended for a hint,  persuade him, they
seemed to say, that this is not a time to remain here.
It is getting late, mother," said Edith, with a touch
of impatience.

One moment, Lady Lindores. I must tell you
why I have come: not for myself  to ask help for

Erskine, whom I have just left in custody, charged
with having occasioned somehow  I can't tell you
how  the death of  the late accident  your son-in-law,"
Beaufort stammered out.

The next moment he seemed to be surrounded by
them, by their cries of dismay, by their anxious questions.
A sharp keen pang of offence was the first
feeling in Beaufort's mind,  that John should be so
much more interesting to them than he was ! It gave
him a shock even in the excitement of the moment.

This was what he meant "  he could at last hear
Edith distinctly after the momentary babel of mutual
exclamations  " this was what he meant : that we
might hear something, which he might not be able to
explain, but that we were to believe in him  you and
I, mamma."

"Of course we believe in him," cried Lady Lindores;
"but something else must be done, something
more. Come this way, Mr Beaufort ; Lord Lindores
is here."

She called him Mr Beaufort without any hesitation
now  not pausing, as she had done before, with the
more familiar name on her lips. It was John who
was in the foreground now  John who, perhaps, for
anything they knew, had caused the event which had
put them in mourning. With a whimsical mortification
and envy, Beaufort exaggerated in his own mind

the distress caused by this event. For the moment
he looked upon it as a matter of real loss and pain to
this unthinking family who showed such interest in

the person who perhaps But the sentiment did

not go so far as to be put into words ; it resolved
itself into a half indignant wonder at the interest
taken in John, and sense of injured superiority on his
own account  he, of whom no man could say that he
had been instrumental in causing the death even of a
dog.

Lady Lindores led the way hastily into the library,
where three figures were visible against the dim light
in the window as the others came in. Lord Lindores,
seated in his chair ; little Millefleurs, leaning against
the window, half turned towards the landscape ; and
in front of the light, with his back to it, Eintoul, who
was speaking. "With you as bail," he was saying,
"he may be set free to-night. Don't let him be a
night in that place."

"Are you speaking of John Erskine, Robin, my
dear boy ? Oh, not a night, not an hour ! Don't
lose any time. It is too dreadful, too preposterous.
Your father will go directly. Take the carriage, which
is at the door. If we are a little late, what does it
matter ? " said Lady Lindores, coming forward, another
shadow in the dim light. Millefleurs turned half
round, but did not come away from the window on

which he was leaning. He was somewhat surprised
too, very curious, perhaps a trifle indignant, to see all
this fuss made about Erskine. He drew up his plump
little person, altogether indifferent to the pronounced
manifestation of all its curves against the light, and
looked beyond Lady Lindores to Edith,  Edith, who
hurried after her mother, swift and silent, as if they
were one being, moved by the same unnecessary excitement.
Millefleurs had not been in a comfortable
state of mind during these last days. The delay irritated
him ; though Lord Lindores assured him that all
was well, he could not feel that all was well. Why
should not Edith see him, and give him his answer ?
She was not so overwhelmed with grief for that brute.
What did it mean ? And now, though she could not
see him on such urgent cause, she was able to interest
herself in this eager way on behalf of John Erskine !
Millefleurs was very tolerant, and when the circumstances
demanded it, could be magnanimous, but he
thought he had reason of offence here.

There was a momentary pause  enough to show
that Lord Lindores did not share the feeling so
warmly expressed. " I am surprised that you should
all be so inconsiderate," he said ; " you, at least, Ein-soul,
who generally show more understanding. I have
understood that Erskine had laid himself under suspicion.
Can you imagine that I, so near a connection

of poor Torrance, am the right person to interfere on
behalf perhaps of his  mud  that is to say, of the
cause of the instrument "

It is impossible," cried Edith, with such decision
that her soft voice seemed hard  " impossible ! Can
any one suppose for a moment "

Be silent, Edith," cried her father.

Why should she be silent ? " said Lady Lindores.
"Eobert, think what you are saying. We have all
known John Erskine for years. He is as incapable
as I am  as unlikely as any one of us here. Because
you are so near a connection, is not that the very
reason why you should interfere ? For God's sake,
think of that poor boy in prison  in prison ! and lose
no time."

I will do it, mother," said Eintoul.

Oh, God bless you, my boy ! I knew you were
always right at heart."

Rintoul," said his father, " enthusiasm of this sortis
new in you. Let us take a little common-sense
into the question. In the first place, nothing can be
done to-night  that is evident. Then consider a
moment : what does * in prison ' mean ? In the governor's
comfortable rooms, where he will be as well off
as at home; and probably  for he is not without
sense  will be taking the most reasonable view of the
matter. He will know perfectly well that if he deserves

it he will find friends ; in short, that we are all
his friends, and that everybody will be too glad to
assist him  as soon as he has cleared himself "

"As soon as he wants it no longer," cried Lady
Lindores.

"My dear, you are always violent; you are always
a partisan," said her husband, drawing back his chair
a little, with the air of having ended the discussion ;
and there was a pause  one of those breathless pauses
of helplessness, yet rebellion, which make sick the
hearts of women. Lady Lindores clasped her hands
together with a despairing movement. "This is the
curse of our life," she cried. "I can do nothing; I
cannot go against your father, Edith, and yet I am
neither a fool nor a child. God help us women ! we
have to stand by, whatever wrong is done, and submit
submit. That is all that is left for us to do "

Submit ! " Edith said. She was young and strong,
and had not learned her lesson. It galled her beyond
endurance. She stood and looked round her, seeing
the whiteness of the faces, but little else in the evening
gloom. Was it true that there was nothing 
nothing in her power? In poetry, a girl can throw
herself on her knees, can weep and plead  but only
weep and plead ; and she, who had not been trained
to that, who was conscious of her individuality, her
independent mind and judgment in every nerve 

heaven above ! was she as helpless still ? She stood
breathless for a moment, with wondering eyes fixed on
the darkness, with a gasp of proud resistance to fate.
Submit to injustice, to cruel heartlessness of those
who could aid, to still more cruel helplessness  impotence,
on her own part ? She stood for a moment
gazing at the blank wall that seemed to rise before
her, as the poor, the helpless have to do,  as women
have to do in all circumstances. It was her first experience
in this kind. She had been proud to know
that she was not as Carry, that no tyranny could crush
her spirit: but this was different. She had not anticipated
such a trial as this. There came from her
bosom one sob of supreme pain which she could not
keep in. Not for John only, whom she could not help
in his moment of need, but for herself also  to feel
herself impotent, helpless, powerless as a child.

Millefleurs came forward from the window hurriedly.
Perhaps being so much a man of his time it was he
who understood that gasp of suffering best. He said,
Lady Edith, if I can help " quickly, on the impulse
of the moment ; then, thorough little gentleman
as he was, checked himself. " Lady Lindores, though
I am a stranger, yet my name is good enough. Tell
me what to do and I will do it. Perhaps it is better
that Lord Lindores should not commit himself But
I am free, don't you know," he said, with something

of the easy little chirrup of more ordinary times.
Why was it that, at such a moment, Edith, of all
others, in her personal despair, should burst out into
that strange little laugh? She grasped her mother's
arm with both hands in her excitement. Here was a
tragic irony and ridicule penetrating the misery of the
crisis like a sharp arrow which pricked the girl to the
very heart.

This sympathiser immediately changed the face of
affairs. Lord Lindores, indeed, continued to hold himself
apart, pushing back his chair once more; but
even to Lord Lindores, Millefleurs made a difference.
He said no more about enthusiasm or common-sense,
but listened, not without an occasional word of direction.
They clustered together like a band of shadows
against the great window, which was full of the paleness
of the night. Beaufort, who was the person most
acquainted with all the circumstances, recovered his
sense of personal importance as he told his story.
But after all, it was not as the narrator of John
Erskine's story that he cared to gain importance in
the eyes of Carry's family, any more than it was as
bail for John Erskine that Lord Millefleurs desired
to make himself agreeable to the ladies at Lindores.
Both of the strangers, thus caught in the net of difficulties
and dangers which surrounded their old comrade,
resented it more or less; but what could they
VOL. in. D

do? Edith took no further part in the consultation.
She retired behind her mother, whose arm she continued
to hold firm and fast in both her hands.
When she was moved by the talk going on at her side
she grasped that arm tightly, which was her only sign
of emotion, but for the rest retired into the darkness
where no one could see, and into herself, a still more
effectual retirement. Lady Lindores felt that her
daughter's two hands clasping her were like a sort of
anchor which Edith had thrown out in her shipwreck
to grasp at some certainty. She bore the pressure
with a half smile and sigh. She too had felt the
shipwreck with keen passion, still more serious than
that of Edith : but she had no one to anchor to. She
felt this, half with a grateful sense of what she herself
was still good for ; but still more, perhaps, with that
other personal sense which comes to most  that withall
the relationships of life still round her, mother and
wife, she, for all solace and support, was like most of
us virtually alone.

Chapter XXXV.

"Your master is just a young fool. Why, in the
name of a' that's reasonable' cried Mr Monypenny,
did he not send for me ? "

Sir' said EoUs " you're too sensible a man not to
know that the last thing a lad is likely to do is what's
reasonable, especially when he's in that flurry, and
just furious at being blamed."

Mr Monypenny was walking up and down his business
room with much haste and excitement. His
house was built on the side of a slope, so that the
room, which was level with the road on one side, was
elevated on the upper floor at the other, and consequently
had the advantage of a view bounded, as was
general, by "that eternal Tinto," as he was in the
habit of calling it. The good man, greatly disturbed
by what he heard, walked to his window and stared
out as Rolls spoke. And he shook his fist at the distant
object of so many troubles. " Him and his big

Ss>of>""

house and his ill ways  they've been the trouble of
the country-side those fifteen years and more," cried
the excited " man of business " ; " and now we're not
done with him, even when he's dead."

Far from done with him," said EoUs, shaking his
head. He was seated on the edge of a chair with his
hat in his lap and a countenance of dismay. "If I
might make so bold as to ask," he said, " what would
ye say, sir, would be done if the worst came to the
worst ? I'm no' saying to Mr Erskine individually,"
added Rolls  " for it's my belief he's had no-thing ado
with it  but granting that it's some person and no
mere accident "

"How can I tell  or any man?" said Mr Mony-penny.
"It depends entirely on the nature of the
act. It's all supposition, so far as I can see. To
pitch Pat Torrance over the Scar, him and his
big horse, with murderous intent, is more than
John Erskine could have done, or any man I know.
And there was no quarrel or motive. Culpable
homicide "

"That'll be what the English gentleman called
manslaughter."

"Manslaughter is a wide word. It would all
depend on the circumstances. A year; maybe six

months only If it were to turn out so  which

I do not for a moment believe " said Mr Mony-penny,

fixing his eyes upon Rolls with a determination
which betrayed internal feebleness of belief.

Nor me, sir  nor me ! " cried Rolls, with the same
look. They were like two conspirators regarding
each other with the consciousness of the plot, which,
even between themselves, each eyeing the other, they
were determined to deny.

"But if by any evil chance it were to turn out
so  I would advise a plain statement," said Mr
Monypenny  "just a plain statement, concealing
nothing. That should have been done at the moment
: help should have been sought at the moment ;
there's the error. A misadventure like that might
happen to any man. We might any of us be the
means of such an accident: but panic is just the
worst policy. Panic looks like guilt. If he's been
so far left to himself as to take fright  to see that
bio: man on his big horse thundering' over the Scar
would be enough to make any man lose his head,"
the agent added, with a sort of apology in his tone.

"If you could think of the young master as in
that position," said Rolls.

"Which is just impossible," Mr Monypenny said,
and then there was a little pause. 'the wisest
thing," he went on, " would be, just as I say, a plain
statement. Such and such a thing happened. I
lost my head. I thought there was nothing to be

done. I was foolish enough to shrink from the
name of it, or from the coolness it would make between
ie and my friends. Ay, very likely that
might be the cause  the coolness it would make
between him and the family at Lindores "

'you're meaning always if there was anything iu
it at a' ? "

"That is what I'm meaning. I will go and see
him at once," Mr Monypenny said, " and that is the
advice I will give. A plain story whatever it maybe
 just the facts; neither extenuate nor set down
aught in malice. And as for you, EoUs, that seem
to be mixed up in it yourself -"

Ay, sir ; I'm mixed up in it," said Rolls, turning
upon him an inquiring yet half-defiant glance.

It was you that found the body first. It was
you that met your master at the gate. You're the
most important witness, so far as I can see. Lord
bless us, man ! " said Mr Monypenny, forgetting precaution,
"had you not the judgment, when you saw
the lad had been in a tuilzie, to get him out of
other folk's sight, and keep it to yourself?"

"There was John Tamson as well as me," said
Rolls, very gravely; and then he added, "but ye
canna see yet, Mr Monypenny, how it may a' turn."

"I see plenty," said the man of business, impatiently;
and then he added, "the best thing you
can do is to find out all you can about the ground,

and other details. It was always-unsafe ; and there
had been a great deal of rain. Very likely it was
worse than ordinary that day. And call to mind any
circumstances that might tell on our side. Ye had
better come to me and make me acquainted withall
your observations. Neglect nothing. The very
way the beast was lying, if ye can rightly remember,
might be a help. You're not without sense.
EoUs. I've always had a high opinion of your sense,

Now here's a chance for you to prove it And

come back to me, and we'll judge how the evidence
tends. There's no need," he said, standing at the
window once more with his back to his pupil, " to
bring out any points that might turn  the other
way."

I'm not just such a fool as  some folk think," said
EoUs ; '' and yet," he added, in an undertone, " fora'
that, you canna see, Mr Monypenny, how it may
all turn "

Don't haver, Rolls," said the agent, turning upon
him angrily ; " or speak out what you mean. There
is no man can say how a thing will turn but he
that has perfect knowledge of all the circumstances
which is not my case."

That's what I was saying, sir," said Rolls, with
a tranquil assumption which roused Mr Monypenny's
temper; but the old man was so solemn in his air
of superior knowledge, so full of sorrowful decision

and despondency, that anger seemed out of place.
The other grew alarmed as he looked at him.

"For God's sake, man," he cried, "if there's anything
behind that I don't know, tell it ! let me hear
the worst. We must know the worst, if it's to make
the best of it. Hide nothing from me."

I give ye my word, sir, I'll hide nothing  when
the time comes," said Rolls, with a sigh ; " but I
canna just unburden my bozume at this moment.
There's mair thought needful and mair planning.
And there's one thing I would like to make sure of,
Mr Monypenny. If I'm put to expenses, or otherwise
laid open to risk and outlay  there's no doubt but
it would be made up to me ? And if, as might happen,

anything serious was to befall without doubt the

young maister would think himself bound to take good
care o' Bauby ? She's my sister, maybe you'll mind :
an excellent housekeeper and a good woman, though
maybe I should leave her praises to other folk. You
see he hanna been brought up in the midst o' his ain
folk, so to speak, or I would have little doubt."

"I cannot conceive what you mean, Kolls. Of
course I know Bauby and her cookery both; but
what risk you should run, or what she can have
to do with it ! Your expenses of course," said the
agent, with a contemptuous wave of his hand, " you
may be sure enough of. But you must have done

pretty well in the service of the Dalrulzian family,
EoUs. I'm surprised that you should think of this at
such a moment "

"That's just what I expected, sir," said Rolls ; "but
maybe I ken my ain affairs best, having no man of
business. And about Bauby, she's just what I care
for most. I would have her vexed or distress for
silver, or put out of her ordinary. The maister he's
but a young man, and no' attached to us as he would
have been had he been brought up at hame. Ita
great drawback to a young lad, Mr Monypenny"
Rolls broke off his personal argument to say sententiously
 " not to be brought up at hame."

Because he does not get the chance of becoming
attached to his servants ? " said Mr Monypenny, with
an impatient laugh. " Perhaps it may be so, but this
is a curious moment to moralise on the subject."

No' so curious as you think, sir ; but I will not
weary you," said Rolls, with some dignity. "When
I was saying outlay, I meant mair than just a sixpence
here or there. But Bauby's the grand question. I'm
in a strange kind of a position, and the one thing
I'm clear in is my duty to her. She's been a reel guide
sister to me; aye made me comfortable, studies my
ways, took an interest in all my bits o' sykes. I
would ill like either scorn or trouble to come to
Bauby. She's awful' soft-hearted," said the old butler,

solemnly gazing into vacancy with a reddening of his
eyes. Something of that most moving of all sentiments,
self-pity, was in his tone. He foresaw Bauby's
apron at her eyes for him, and in her grief over her
brother, his own heart was profoundly moved. " There
will be some things that nobody can save her from :
but for all that concerns this world, if I could be sure
that no-thing would happen to Bauby "

Well, Rolls, you're past my comprehension," said
Mr Monypenny ; " but so far as taking care of Bauby
in case anything happens to you  though what should
happen to you I have yet to learn."

"That is just so," said Rolls, getting up slowly.
There was about him altogether a great solemnity, like
a man at a funeral, Mr Monypenny said afterwards.
I cannot expect you to know, sir  that's atween me
and my Maker. I'm no' going back to Dalrulzian.
I cannot have my mind disturbed at this awful' moment,
as ye say, with weemen and their ways. If ye
see the English gentleman, ye'll maybe explain. Mar-get
has a very guide notion o' waiting' ; she can do all
that's necessary ; and for me, I've other work in hand."

"You must not look at everything in so gloomy
a spirit, Rolls," said Mr Monypenny, holding out his
hand. He was not in the habit of shaking hands with
the butler, but there are occasions when rules are involuntarily
broken through.

"No' a gloomy spirit, sir, but awful' serious' said
Kolls. " You'll tell the young maister no' to be down-hearted,
but at the same time no' to be that proud. Help
may come when it's little looked for. I'm no' a man
of mony words, but I've been, as you say, sir, attached
to the family all my days, and I have just a feeling
for them more than common. The present gentleman's
mother  her that married the English minister
was no' just what suited the house. Dalrulzian
was no-thing to her ; and that's what I complete o',
that the young man was never brought up at hame,
to have confidence in his ain folk. It would have
been greatly for his advantage, sir," continued Rolls,
if he had but had the discernment to see that our
bonnie Miss Nora was just the person;  but I mustna
think now of making conditions," he said, hurriedly 
we'll leave that to his good sense. Mony thanks to
you, sir, for hearing me out, and shaking my hand as
ye're done ; though there's maybe things I have said
that are a wee hard to understand."

Ay, Rolls," said Mr Monypenny, laughing, " you're
just like the other prophets; a great deal of what
you've said is Greek and Hebrew to me."

No doubt, no doubt," said Rolls, shaking his head ;
there was no smile in him, not a line in his countenance
that marked even incipient humour. Whatever
he meant it was deadly earnest to Rolls. Mr Mony-penny

stood and watched him go out, with a laugh
gurgling low down in his throat. " He was always a
conceited body," he said to himself. But his inclination
to laughter subsided as his visitor disappeared. It
was no moment for laughing. And when Rolls was
gone, the temptation to speculate on his words, and
put meaning into them, subsided also, and Mr Mony-penny
gave himself up with great seriousness to consider
the position. He ordered his little country
carriage  something of the phaeton order, but not
elegant enough for classification  and drove away as
quickly as his comfortable cob would consent to goto
where John was. Such a thing had not happened
to any person of importance in the county since he
could remember. Debt, indeed  debt was common
enough, and plenty of trouble always, about money,
Mr Monypenny said to himself, shaking his head, ashe
went along. There had been borrowings and hypo-elections
of all sorts enough to make a financier's
hair stand on end ; but crime never ! Not that men
were better here than in other quarters; but among
the gentry that had never happened. The good man
ran on, in a rambling inaudible soliloquy, or rather
colloquy with himself, as he drove on, asking how it
was, after all, that incidents of the kind were so rare
among the gentry. Was the breed better ? He shook
his head, remembering himself of various details

which interfered with so easy a solution. Or was it
that things were more easily hushed up? or that
superior education enforced a greater respect for the
world's opinion, and made offences of this sort almost
impossible? It was a strange thing (he thought)
when you came to think of it. A fellow, now, like the
late Tinto would have been in every kind of scrape
had he been a poor man ; but somehow, being a rich
one, he had kept out of the hands of the law. Such a
thing never happened from year's end to year's end.
And to think now that it was not one of our ordinary
Scots lairds, but the pink of education and good
breeding, from England and abroad! This gave a
momentary theoretical satisfaction to his musings by
the way. But immediately after, he thought with
self-reproach that it was young Erskine of whom he
was permitting himself such criticism : young Dalrul-
tian, poor lad ! all the more to be pitied that he had
been brought up, as Rolls said, away from home, and
with no father to look after him. The cob was used
to take his own way along those roads which he knew
so well, but at this point Mr Monypenny touched him
with the indignity of a whip, and hurried along. He
met Beaufort returning, driving, with a little hesitation
at the corner of the road, John's dogcart homeward
; and Mr Monypenny thought he recognised the
dogcart, but he did not stop to say anything to the

stranger, who naturally knew nothing of him. Nor
was his interview with John at all satisfactory when he
came to his journey's end. The young man received his
man of business with that air of levity which, mixed
with indignation, had been his prevailing mood since
his arrest. He laughed when he said, "This is a
curious place to receive you in," and for some time he
would scarcely give any heed to the anxious questions
and suggestions of Mr Monypenny. At length, however,
this veil was thrown off, and John permitted the
family friend, of whose faithfulness he could 'shave no
doubt, to see the depth of wounded feeling that lay
below. " Of course it can be nothing to me," he said,
still holding his head high. "They cannot prove a
falsehood, however they may wish it ; but to think that
of all these men with whom I have eaten and drunk,
who have professed to welcome me for my father's
sake  to think that not one of them would step in to
stand by a fellow, or give him the least support "

When you reflect that even I knew nothing about
it," said Mr Monypenny  " not a word  till old
Rolls came "

Did you hear none of the talk ? " said John. "I
did not hear it, indeed, but I have felt it in the air.
I knew there was something. Everybody looked at
me suspiciously; the very tone of their voice was
changed  my own servants "

"Your servants are very anxious about you, Mr
Erskine, if I may judge from old Rolls. I have
seldom seen a man so overcome; and if you will
reflect that your other friends throughout the county
can have heard nothing, any more than myself "

Then you did not hear the talk ? " said John,
somewhat eagerly. Mr Monypenny's countenance
fell.

"I paid no attention to it. There's some story
for ever going on in the country-side. Wise men
just shut their ears," he said.

Wise men are one thing and friends another,"
said John. " Had I no one who could have told meat
least, on how small a thread my reputation hung ?
I might have gone away," he said, with some vehemence,
"at the height of it. If business, or even
pleasure, had called me, no doubt I should, without
a notion of any consequences. When I think of that
I shiver. Supposing I had gone away ? "

In that case," said Mr Monypenny, clearing his
throat ; but he never got any further. This alarm
affected him greatly. He began to believe that his
client might be innocent altogether  an idea which,
notwithstanding all the disclaimers which he and
Rolls had exchanged, had not crossed his mind
before; but when he heard John's story, his faith
was shaken. He listened to it with the deepest interest,

waiting for the moment when the confession
would be made. But when it ended, without any
end, so to speak, and John finally described Torrance
as riding up towards the house, while he himself
went down, Mr Monypenny's countenance fell. He
was disappointed. The tale was such as he expected,
with this important difference  it wanted a conclusion.
The listener gave a gasp of interest when the crisis
arrived, but his interest flagged at once when it was
over, and nothing had happened. " And then ? " he
said, breathlessly. And then?  but there was no
then. John gazed at him wondering, not perceiving
the failure of the story. " That is all," he said. Mr
Monypenny grew almost angry as he sat gazing at
him across the table.

I have just been telling Rolls," he said, "that the
best policy in such a case is just downright honest
truth. To get into a panic and keep back anything
is the greatest mistake. There is no need for any
panic. You will be in the hands of those that take
a great interest in you, Mr John  begging your
pardon for using that name."

You do not seem satisfied with what I have told
you," John said.

"Oh, me! it's little consequence what I think;
there's plenty to be thought upon before me. I would
make no bones about it. In most things the real

truth is the best, but most especially when you're
under an accusation. I'm for no half measures, if
you will let me say so."

I will let you say whatever you please  so long
as you understand what I am saying. I have told
you everything. Do I look like a man in a panic ? "
said John.

"Panic has many meanings. I make no doubt
you are a brave man, and ready to face fire and sword
if there was any need. But this is different. If
you please, we'll not fail to understand each other
for want of plain speaking. Mr Erskine, I make no
doubt that's all as true as gospel ; but there's more
to come. That's just a part of the story, not the
whole."

"I don't mean to be offended by anything you
say," said John, cheerfully. "I feel that it means
kindness. There is nothing more to come. It is nota
part, but the whole. It is the truth, and everything
I know."

Mr Monypenny did not look up ; he was drumming
his foot softly against the table, and hanging his
head with a despondent air as he listened. He did
not stop the one nor raise the other, but went on
working his under lip, which projected slightly.
There is no such tacit evidence of dissatisfaction or
unbelief. Some little sign invariably breaks the
VOL. in. E

stillness of attention when the teller of a tale comes
to its end, if his story has been believed. There is,
if no words, some stir, however slight  movement of
one kind or another, if only the change of an attitude.
But Mr Monypenny did not pay this usual tribute
when John's voice stopped. It was a stronger protest
than if he had said, " I don't believe you," in
ordinary words.

I understand," said John, after a pause of a full
minute, which seemed to him an hour. He laughed
with something between despair and defiance. " Your
mode of communication is very unmistakable, Mr
Monypenny. It is Scotch, I suppose. One has
always heard of Scotch caution and cannyness." If
he had not been very bitter and sore at heart he
would not have snatched at this aimless weapon of
offence.

Mr Erskine," said the agent, " a sneer is always
easy. Gibes break no bones, but neither have they
any healing in them. You may say what you like
to me, but an argument like that will do you terrible
little good with them that will have to judge at the
end. I am giving no opinion myself. On my own
account I will speak frankly. I would rather not
have heard this story  unless I was to hear "

What ? " cried John, in the heat of personal
offence.

"More," said Mr Monypenny, regretfully  "more;
just another dozen words would have been enough ;
but if there is no more to say "

I am not a man to make protestations of truth.
There is no more to say, Mr Monypenny."

Well-swell," said the agent gloomily, shaking his
head; "we must take just what is given  we must
try to make the best of it. And you think there's
nothing can be proved against you ? " he said, with a
slight emphasis. It required all John's self-command
to keep his temper. He had to remind himself
forcibly of the true and steady and long-tried kindness
with which this doubter had stood by him, and cared
for his interests all his life  a wise steward, a just
guardian. These thoughts kept unseemly expressions
from his lips, but he was not the less sore at heart.
Even after the first blow of the criminal examination
and his detention in prison, it had all seemed to him
so simple. What could be necessary but to tell his
story with sufficient distinctness (in which he thought
he had failed before the sheriff) ? Surely truth and
falsehood were distinguishable at a glance, especially
by those who are accustomed to discriminate between
them. But the blank of unbelief and disappointment
with which Mr Monypenny heard his story chilled
him to the heart. If he did not believe him, who
would ? He was angry, but anger is but a temporary

sentiment when the mind is fairly at bay and finds
itself hemmed in by difficulties and danger. He
began to realise his position, the place in which he
was, the circumstances surrounding him, as he had
not yet done. The sheriff himself had been very
civil, and deeply concerned to be the means of inflicting
such an affront upon a county family ; and
he had added encouragingly that, on his return to
Dunearn, in less than a week, when all the witnesses
were got together, there was little doubt that a different
light might be thrown on the affair; but Mr
Monypenny's question was not so consolatory. " You
think there's nothing can be proved against you ? "
John had been gazing at his agent across the table
while all these painful reflections went through his
mind.

T must be careful what I say. I am not speaking
as a lawyer," he said, with an uncomfortable smile.
What I meant was, that nothing could be proved
which was untrue."

The agent shook his head. " When it's circumstantial
evidence, you can never build upon that," he said.
No man saw it, you may say ; but if all the facts
point that way, it goes far with a jury. There are
some other things you will perhaps tell me. Had you
any quarrel ever with poor Tinto ? Was there ill
blood between you ? Can any man give evidence, for

example, ' I heard the panel say that he would have it
out with Pat Torrance ' ? or "

"For heaven's sake, what is the panel? and what
connection is there between poor Torrance and "

Sir," said Mr Monypenny, sternly, " this is no time
for jests ; the panel is a Scotch law term, meaning the
defender; or what you call the defendant in England.
It's a terrible loss to a young man to be
unacquainted even with the phraseology of his own
country."

That is very true," John said, with a laugh ; " but
at least it is no fault of mine. Well, suppose I am
the panel, as you say  that does not make me a vulgar
brawler, does it, likely to display hostile intentions in
that way ? You may be sure no man can say of me
that I threatened to have it out with Pat torrance



It was inadvertent  it was inadvertent," said Mr
Monypennj, waving his hand, with a slight flush of
confusion ; " I daresay you never said Pat  but what
has that to do with it ?  you know my meaning. Is
there any one that can be produced to say "

I have quarrelled with Torrance almost as often
as I have met him," said John, with obstinate decision.
" I thought him a bully and a cad. If I did
not tell him so, it was out of regard for his wife,
and he was at liberty to find out my sentiments from

my looks if it pleased him. I have never made the
least pretence of liking the man."

Mr Monypenny went on shaking his head. "All
this is bad," he said, " bad !  but it does not make a
quarrel in the eye of the law," he added, more cheerfully
; and he went on putting a variety of questions,
of which John grew very weary. Some of these
questions seemed to have very little bearing upon the
subject; some irritated him as betraying beyond all a
persistent doubt of his own story. Altogether, the
first dreary afternoon in confinement was not made
much more endurable by this visit. The room in
which John had been placed was like the parlour of a
somewhat shabby lodging-house  not worse than he
had inhabited many a time while travelling. But the
idea that he could not step outside, but was bound to
this enclosure, was first ludicrous, and then intolerable.
The window was rather higher than usual, and
there were bars across it. When it became dark, a
paraffin-lamp, such as is now universal in the country
smelling horribly, as is, alas ! too universal also 
was brought in, giving abundance of light, but making
everything more squalid than before. And as Mr
Monypenny made his notes, John's heart sank, and
his impatience rose. He got up and began to pace
about like a wild beast in a cage, as he said to himself.
The sensation was more extraordinary than can be

imagined. Not to be able, whatever might happen, to
leave this shabby room. Whosoever might call to
you, whatsoever might appeal to you, to be fixed there,
all your impulses checked, impotent, unable for the
first time in your life to do what you had done everyday
of your life, to move out and in, to and fro as you
pleased ! John felt that if he had been a theatrical
felon in a play, manacled and fettered, it would have
been easier, more comprehensible. But to know that
these four walls were his absolute boundaries, and that
he could not go beyond them, was more astounding
than any other sensation that had ever happened to
him in his life. And when Mr Monypenny, with his
careful brow, weighted with doubts and fears, unable
to clear his countenance from the disapprobation that
clouded it, got up to take his leave, and stood holding
his client's hands, overwhelmed with sympathy, vexation,
dissatisfaction, and pity, the impatience and
bitter sense of the intolerable in John's mind could
scarcely be restrained. " Whatever there may be more
to say, whatever may come to your mind, you have
but to send me a word, and I'll be at your call night
or day," Mr Monypenny said.

It is very unlikely that I should have anything
more to say," said John ; " but must I stay here ? "
It seemed incredible to him that he should be left
even by his own " man of business." He had seen

Beaufort go away with a sort of contemptuous certainty
of speedy liberation ; but Mr Monypenny had
said nothing about liberation. " Surely there is nothing
to prevent bail being accepted ? " he said, with
an eagerness he could not disguise.

I will see about it," Mr Monypenny said. But
the good agent went away with a dissatisfied countenance
; and with a feeling that he must break
through the walls or the barred window, must make
his escape somehow  could not, would not, endure
this extraordinary intolerable new thing  John Erskine
heard the key turn in his door, and was left shut
up with the paraffin-lamp, flaming and smelling more
than ever, a prisoner and alone. Whether it was
more ludicrous or more terrible, this annoying impossible
farce-tragedy, it was hard to say.

Chapter XXXVI.

The day after John's incarceration was the funeral
day at Tinto. The whole country was moved by this
great ceremonial. The funeral was to be more magnificent
than ever funeral had been before for hundreds
of miles around; and the number of the procession
which followed the remains was greater than that of
any assembly known in the country since the '45,
when the whole district on one side or the other was
out." That everybody concerned should have found
it impossible to think of John in the county jail, in
face of the necessity of "showing respect" on this
great occasion to the memory of Torrance, was natural.
It was, indeed, out of the question to make any comparison
between the two necessities. After all, what
did it matter for one day? Those who were out of
prison, and had never been in prison, and whose
imagination was not affected like John's by that atmosphere
of restraint, did not see any great harm that

could happen. And the ceremony was one which
could not be neglected. A Scotch funeral is somewhat
terrible to those who have been accustomed to
the pathetic and solemn ritual of the English Church ;
but there was something, too, impressive to the imagination,
in that silent putting away of the old garment
of humanity,  a stern submission, an acceptance of
absolute doom, which, if it suggested little consolation,
at least shed a wonderful awe on that conclusion no
longer to be disturbed by mortal prayers or hopes.
But Dr Stirling, the parish minister, was of the new
school of the Scotch Church, and poor Torrance's body
became, as it were, the flag of a religious party as it
was laid in the grave. The great dining-room at
Tinto, the largest room in the county, was crowded
with a silent assembly gathered round the coffin while
the first portion of the ceremony was carried out. It
was such a scene as would have filled the heart of the
dead man with exultation. ISTot one of the potentates
of the county was absent ; and behind them, in close
ranks, with scarcely standing-room, came the smaller
notabilities  bonnet lairds, village doctors, clergymen,
schoolmasters, lost in the sea of the tenantry behind.
At the upper end of the room, a very unusual group,
stood the ladies. Lady Caroline in her widow's weeds,
covered with crape from head to foot, her tall willowy
figure drooping under the weight of those long clinging

funeral robes, her face perfectly pale and more
abstract and high-bred than ever, encircled by the
whiteness of the cap  with her two little children
standing by, and her mother and sister behind to
support her  thrilled many an honest heart in the
assembly. Women so seldom take part in funeral
ceremonies in Scotland, that the farmers and country-folk
were touched beyond measure by this apparition.
It was described in scores of sympathetic houses for
long after : " A snowdrift could not be whiter than the
face of her; and the twa little bairns, pair things,
glowering frae them, the image of poor Tinto himsel."
If there was any sceptic ready to suggest " that my
teddy was never so happy a wife to be sic a mourning'
widow," the spectators had a ready answer : " Eh, but
she would be thinking to herself', if I had maybe been

a wee better to him " Thus the popular verdict

summed up the troubled story. Lady Caroline was
pale enough for the rule of the most impassioned
mourner. She might have been chilled to stone by
grief and pain for anything that was apparent. She
did not speak or take notice of any one, as was
natural. Even for her father she had not a word ;
and when her little boy was led away to follow his
father to the grave, she sank into a chair, having, no
doubt, the sympathetic bystanders thought, done all
that her strength was capable of This roused a very

warm sympathetic feeling for Lady Car throughout all
the country-side. If it had not been just perhaps a
love-match, she had done her duty by Tinto, poor
fellow ! . She had kept him in the right way as far asa
woman could ; and what was scarcely to be expected,
but pleased the lookers-on most of all, she had presented
an aspect of utter desolation at his funeral.
All that a widow could feel was in her face,  or so at
least the bystanders thought.

The solemn procession filed out of the room : little
Tom Torrance clinging to his grandfather's hand, looking
out with big projecting e3'es like his father's upon
all the wonderful scene, stumping along at the head of
the black procession. Poor little Tommy ! he had a
feeling of his own importance more than anything
else. His little brain was confused and buzzing. He
had no real association in his mind between the black
thing in front of him and papa ; but he knew that he
had a right to walk first, to hold fast hold of grand-papa's
finger, and keep with his little fat legs in
advance of everybody. It is difficult to say how soon
this sense of importance makes up for other wants and
troubles. Tommy was only four, but he felt it ; and
his grandfather, who was nearly fifteen times as old,
felt it too. He felt that to have this child in his
hands and the management of a great estate for so
long a minority, was worth something in the list of

his ambitions ; and thus they all went forth, trooping
into the long line of carriages that shone in the veiled
autumnal sunlight, up and down the avenue among
the trees in endless succession. Even to get them
under way was no small matter; and at the lodge
gates and down the road there was almost as great
a crowd of women and poor people waiting to see
them go by. John Tamson's wife, by whose very
cottage the mournful line passed, was full of tragic
consciousness. " Eh ! " she said, with bated breath,
to think that yon day when our John brought ben
young Dalrulzian a' torn and disjasket to hae the dirt
brushed off o' him  that yon day was the beginning

of a' " "Hold your tongue, woman," said John

Tamson ; " what has the ane to do with the other ?
Ye're pitting things thither that hae nae natural
sequence; but ye ken nothing of logic." "No' me,"
said the woman; "and I fuss that poor young lad
just kent as little. If he hanna been so book-learned
he would have been mair friendly-like with them that
were of his ain kind and degree." And as the black
line went past, which after a while became tedious,
she recounted to her gossips once more the story which
by this time everybody knew, but all were willing to
hear over again under the excitement of this practical
commentary. " Lost ! would he leave him lying there
and never cry for help ? " some of the spectators said.

It was never our master that did that," said Peggy
Blair from the Dalrulzian lodge, who had declared
boldly from the beginning that she " took nae interest "
even in this grand funeral. " And if it wasna your
maister, wha was it that came ben to me with the red
soul on his class and his coat a' torn ? " said Janet
Tamson. ''I wasna here and I canna tell," Peggy
said, hot and furious. " I would never say what might
happen in a moment if a gentleman was angry  and
Pat Torrance had an awful' tongue, as the hall county
kens  but leave a man groan in' at the fit o' a rock,
that's what our maister never did, if I were to die
foret," the woman cried. This made a little sensation
among the beholders ; but when it was remarked that
Dalrulzian was the only gentleman of the county who
was absent from the funeral, and half-a-dozen voices
together proclaimed the reason,  " He could be twa
places at once ; he's in the jael for murder," Peggy
was quenched altogether. Grief and shame were too
much for her. She continued to sob, "No' our
master ! " till her voice ceased to be articulate in the
midst of her tears.

Dr Stirling was seated in full canonicals  black
silk gown and cambric bands  in one of the first
carriages. It was he that his wife looked for when
the procession passed the manse ; and she put on
her black bonnet, and covered herself with a veil,

and went out very solemnly to the churchyard to
see the burial. But it was not the burial she thought
of, nor poor Tinto, nor even Lady Car, for whom
all day she had been uttering notes of compassion :
it was the innovation of the funeral service which
occupied the mind of the minister's wife. With
mingled pride and trembling she heard her husband
in the silence begin his prayer by the side of the
vault. It was a beautiful prayer  partly, no doubt,
taken from the English liturgy, for which, she said,
'Hie Doctor always had a high admiration;" but
partly  "and that was far the best"  his own. It
was the first time anything of the kind had been
done in the county ; and if ever there could be a
funeral important enough for the introduction of a
new ceremonial to mark it, it was this one : but
what if the Presbytery were to take notice of the
innovation? Perhaps the thrill of excitement in
her enhanced the sense of the greatness of the step
which the Doctor was taking, and his nobility in
doing it. And in her eyes no ritual could have been
more imposing. There were a great many of the
attendants who thought it was "just Popery," and
a most dangerous beginning; but they were all
hushed and reverential while the minister's voice
went on.

When every one had left, and the house was perfectly

silent after the hum and sound of so many-feet,
Lady Car herself went forward to the window
and drew up the blind which covered it. The gloom
disappeared, and the noonday sunshine streamed in
in a moment. It was premature, and Lady Lindores
was grieved that she had not been quick enough
to forestall her daughter; for it would have been
better, she thought, if her hand had been the first
to let in the light, and not that of the new-made
widow. Carry went further, and opened the window.
She stepped out upon the heavy stone balcony outside,
and received the light full upon her, raising her
head to it, and basking in the sunshine. She opened
her pale lips to draw in great draughts of the sweet
autumn air, and threw up her arms to the sunshine
and to the sky. Lady Lindores stepped out after
her, laying her hand upon her arm, with some alarm.

"Carry  my darling, wait a little " Carry did

not make any reply. She said, "How long is it,
mother ? " still looking up into the clear depths of
the sky. " How long is what, my love ? " They
were a strange group. A spectator might have
thought that the pale creature in the midst, so ethereal,
so wan, wrapped in mourning so profound, had gone
distraught with care ; while her child at her feet
sat on the carpet in front of the window, the emblem
of childish indifference, playing with her new shoes,

which glittered and pleased her; and the two
attendant figures, the anxious mother and sister,
kept watch behind. In Carry the mystery all
centred ; and even those two who were nearest
to her were bewildered, and could not make her
out. Was she an Ophelia, moved out of her
sweet wits by an anguish beyond bearing ? Was shea
woman repentant, appealing to heaven for forgiveness
? Carry was none of these things. She who
had been so dutiful all her life, resisting nobody,
fulfilling all requirements to the letter, bearing the
burden of all her responsibilities without rebellion
or murmur, had ceased in a moment to consider outside
necessities, even the decorum of her sorrowful
condition. She gave a long sigh, dismissing, as
it were, a weight from her breast. " It is five years
and a half," she said. " I ought to remember, I that
have counted every day,  and now is it possible, is
it possible?"

"What, my dearest? Carry, come in; you are
excited "

Not yet, mother. How soft the air is ! and the
sunshine flooding everything. I have been shut up so
long. I think the colours never were so lovely before."

"Yes, my darling; you have been shut up for a
whole week. I don't wonder you are glad of the
fresh air."

VOL. in. F

"A week!" Carry said. "Five years: I have got
no good of the sunshine, and never tasted the sweetness
of the air, for five years. Let me feel it now.
Oh, how have I lived all this time ! What a beautiful
country it is ! what a glorious sky ! and I have
been in prison, and have never seen them ! Is it true ?
is it all over ?  all, all ? " She turned round and
gazed into the room where the coffin had been with
a gaze full of meaning which no one could mistake.
It was gone  all was gone. "You must not be
horrified, mother," she said. "Why should I be
false now? I think if it had lasted any longer I
must have died or run away."

Dear Carry, you would have done neither ; you
would have done your duty to the end," her mother
said, drawing Carry into her arms. " It is excitement
that makes you speak so."

"ISTot excitement, but deliverance," said Lady Car
with solemnity. " Yes, mother, you are right ; I
should have stood to the end ; but do you think
that would have been a credit to me ? Oh, you don't
know how hard falsehood is ! Falsehood and slavery
they are the same thing ; they make your heart
like iron : you have no feeling even when you ought
perhaps to have feeling. I am cruel now ; I know
you think I am cruel : but how can one help it ?
slaves are cruel I can afford to have a heart now."

"Come to your room, Carry. It is too dismal for
you here."

No, I don't think it is dismal. It is a fine handsome
room  better than a bedroom to sit in. It is
not so much like a prison, and the view is lovely.
There is poor Edith looking at me with her pitiful
face. Do you think I ought to cry ? Oh, I could
cry well enough, if that were all  it would be quite
easy; but there is so much to smile about," said
poor Lady Car; then suddenly, leaning upon her
mother's shoulder, she burst into a flood of tears.

It was at this moment that the housekeeper came
in, solemn in her new mourning, which was almost
as " deep " as Carry's, with a housemaid in attendance,
to draw up the blinds and see that the great room
was restored to order. The gentlemen were to return
for the reading of the will, and it was meet that
all should be prepared and made ready. And nothing
could so much have touched the hearts of the women
as to see their mistress thus weeping, encircled in
her mother's arms. " Poor thing ! he was not over
good a man to her; but there's nae rule for judging
married folk. It's ill to hae and war to want with
them. There's nobody," said the housekeeper, "but
must respect my lady for her feeling heart." Lady
Caroline, however, would not take the credit of this
when she had retired to a more private room. She

would not allow her mother and sister to suppose
that her tears were tears of sorrow, such as a widow
ought to shed. " You were right, mother  it is the
excitement," she avowed; "every nerve is tingling.
I could cry and I could laugh. If it had not been
for your good training, mamma, I should have had
hysterics; but that would be impossible to your
daughter. When shall I be able to go away? I
know : I will not go sooner than is right. I
will do nothing I ought not to do ;  but you
could say my nerves are shattered, and that I want
rest."

And very truly. Carry," said Lady Lindores ; " but
we must know first what the will is. To be sure,
your fortune is secured. You will be well off  better
than any of us ; but there may be regulations about
the children  there may be conditions."

Could the children be taken from me ? " Carry
said, but not with any active feeling ; her powers of
emotion were all concentrated on one thought. Lady
Lindores, who was watching her with all a mother's
anxious criticism, fearing to see any failure of right
sentiment in her child, listened with a sensation of
alarm. She had never been contented with herself in
this particular. Carry's children had been too much
the children of Pat Torrance to awaken the grandmother's
worship, which she thought befitting, in her

own heart. She felt a certain repulsion when she
looked at these black-browed, light-eyed creatures,
who were their father's in every feature  not Carry's
at all. Was it possible that Carry, too, felt the same ?
But by-and-by Carry took up that little stolid girl on
whom Lady Lindores could not place her tenderest
affections, do what she would, and pressed her pale
cheek against that undisturbed and solid little countenance.
The child's face looked bigger than her
mother's, Lady Lindores thought  the one all mind
and feeling, the other all clay. She went and gave
little Edith a kiss in her compunction and penitence
for this involuntary dislike ; but fortunately Carry
herself was unconscious of it, and caressed her babies
as if they were the most delicate and beautiful in the
world.

Carry was not present at the reading of the will.
She shrank from it, and no one insisted. There were
father and brother to look after her interests. Eintoul
was greatly shaken by the events of the day. He was
ghastly pale, and very much excited and agitated.
Whatever his sister might do, Eintoul certainly exhibited
the truest sentiment. Nobody had given him
credit for half so much feeling. He carried back his
little nephew asleep after the long drive home, and
thrust him into Carry's arms. '' I am not much of a
fellow," he said, stooping over her, with a voice full of

emotion, "but I'll do a father's part to him, if I'm
good enough for it, Carry." Carry by this time was
quite calm, and wondered at this exhibition of feeling,
at which Lady Lindores shed tears, though in her
heart she wondered too, rejoicing that her inward
rebellion against Torrance's children was not shared
by her son. " Robin's heart was always in the right
place," she said, with a warmth of motherly approval,
which was not diminished by the fact that Eintoul's
emotion made her still more conscious of the absence
of "right feeling" in herself There was not much
conversation between the ladies in the small morning
room to which they had withdrawn  a room which
had never been used and had no associations. Carry,
indeed, was very willing to talk ; but her mother and
sister did their best, with a natural prejudice and
almost horror of the manner in which she regarded
her own circumstances, to keep her silent. Even
Edith, who would have dissolved the marriage arbitrarily,
did not like to hear her sister's cry of satisfaction
over the freedom which death had brought her.
There was something impious and cruel in getting free
that way. If it had been by a divorce or separation,
Edith would have been as glad as any ; but she was
a girl full of prejudices and superstitions, and this
candour of Carry's was a thing she shrank from as an
offence to human nature. She kept behind-backs.

often with her little niece on her knee, but sometimes
by herself, keeping very quiet, revolving many thoughts
in her heart ; while Lady Lindores kept close to Carry,
like a sick-nurse, keeping watch over all her movements.
It was dusk when the reading of the will was
over, and the sound in the house of footsteps going
and coming began to cease. Then Lord Lindores
came in with much subdued dignity of demeanour,
like an ambassador approaching a crowned head. He
went up to Carry, who lay back in a great easy-chair
beside the fire with her hands clasped, pursuing the
thoughts which she was not permitted to express, and
gave her a formal kiss on the forehead : not that he
was cold or unsympathetic as a father, but he had
been a little afraid of her since her marriage, and
she had not welcomed the condolences he had addressed
to her when he saw her first after Tinto's
death.

My dear," he said, " this is not a moment for congratulations
: and yet there is something to a woman
in having earned the entire confidence of her husband,
which must be a subject of satisfaction "

Carry scarcely moved in her stillness. She looked
at him without understanding what he meant. " It
would be better, perhaps," she said, "father, not to
speak of the circumstances."

"I hope I am not likely to speak in a way that

could wound your feelings, Carry. Poor Patrick  has
done you noble justice in his will."

A hysterical desire to laugh seized poor Lady Car.
Lord Lindores himself was a little confused by the
name he had coined on the spot for his dead son-in-law.
He had felt that to call him Torrance would be
cold, as his wish was to express the highest approval ;
and Pat was too familiar. But his " Poor Patrick "
was not successful. And Carry knew that, even in
the midst of her family, she must not laugh that day,
whatever might happen. She stopped herself convulsively,
but cried, " Papa, for heaven's sake, don't talk
to me any more ! "

Do you not see, Eobert, that she is exhausted ? "
said Lady Lindores. " She thinks nothing of the will.
She is worn out with  all she has had to go through.
Let her alone till she has had time to recover a little."

His wife's interposition always irritated Lord Lindores.
" I may surely be permitted to speak to Carry
without an interpreter," he said, testily. "It is no
doubt a very  painful moment for her. But if anything
could make up Torrance has behaved nobly,

poor fellow ! It must be gratifying to us all to seethe
confidence he had in her. You have the control
of everything during your boy's minority, Carry.
Everything is in your hands. Of course it was understood
that you would have the support of your family.

But you are hampered by no conditions : he has behaved
in the most princely manner ; nothing could be
more gratifying," Lord Lindores said.

Carry sat motionless in her chair, and took no notice
her white hands clasped on her lap ; her white face,
passive and still, showed as little emotion as the black
folds of her dress, which were like a tropic framework
round her. Lady Lindores, with her hand upon the
back of her daughter's chair, came anxiously between,
and replied for her. She had to do her best to say
the right thing in these strange circumstances  to
be warmly gratified, yet subdued by the conventional
gloom necessary to the occasion. " I am very glad,"
she said  " that is, it is very satisfactory. I do not
see what else he could have done. Carry must have
had the charge of her own children  who else had any
right ?  but, as you say, it is very gratifying to find
that he had so much confidence "

Lord Lindores turned angrily away. " Nerves and
vapours are out of place here," he said. " Carry ought
to understand  but, fortunately, so long as I know
what I am about  the only one among you "

At this Carry raised herself hastily in her chair.
She said " Papa," quickly, with a half gasp of alarm.
Then she added, without stopping, almost running her
words into each other in her eagerness, " They are my
children ; no one else has anything to do with them ;

I must do everything  everything ! for them myself ;
nobody must interfere."

Who do you expect to interfere ? " said her father,
sternly. He found himself confronting his entire
family as he turned upon Carry, who was so strangely
roused and excited, sitting up erect in her seat, clasping
her pale hands. Eintoul had gone round behind
her chair, beside his mother; and Edith, rising up
behind, stood there also, looking at him with a pale
face and wide-open eyes. It was as if he had made
an attack upon her  he who had come here to inform
her of her freedom and her rights. This sudden siding
together of all against one is bitter, even when the
solitary person may know himself to be wrong. But
Lord Lindores felt himself in the right at this moment.
Supposing that perhaps he had made a mistake in
this marriage of Carry's, fate had stepped in and made
everything right. She was nobly provided for, with
the command of a splendid fortune  and she was free.
Now at least his wisdom ought to be acknowledged,
and that he had done well for his daughter. But notwithstanding
his resentment, he was a little cowed
in the circumstances " by this gathering of pale faces
against him. Nothing could be said that was not
peaceful and friendly on the day that the dead had
gone out of the house.

Do you think I am likely to wish to dictate to

her," lie said, with a short laugh, " that you stand
round to defend her from me ? Carry, you are very
much mistaken if you think I will interfere. Children
are out of my way. Your mother will be your
best adviser. I yield to her better information now.
You are tired, you are unhappy  you are  left desolate
"

Oh, how do you dare to say such words to me ? "
cried Carry, rising, coming forward to him with feverish
energy, laying her hands upon his shoulders, as
if to compel him to face her, and hear what she had
to say. '' Don't you know  don't you know ? I was
left desolate when you brought me here, five years 
five dreadful years ago. Whose fault is that ? I am
glad he is dead  glad he is dead ! Could a woman be
more injured than that ? But now I have neither
father nor mother," she cried. " I am in my own
right ; my life is my own, and, my children ; I will
be directed no more."

All this time she stood with her hands on his
shoulders, grasping him unconsciously to give emphasis
to her words. Lord Lindores was startled beyond
measure by this personal contact  by the way in
which poor Carry, always so submissive, flung herself
upon him. " Do you mean to use violence to me ? do
you mean to turn me out of your house ?" he said.

"Oh, father ! oh, father! how can I forgive you?"

Carry cried, in her excitement and passion ; and then
she dropped her hands suddenly and wept, and begged
his pardon like a child. Lord Lindores was very glad
to take advantage of this sudden softening which he
had so little expected. He kissed her and put her
back in her chair. " I would recommend you to put
her to bed," he said to his wife ; " she has been overdone."
And he thought he had got the victory, and
that poor Carry, after her little explosion, was safe in
his hands once more. He meant no harm to Carry.
It was solely of her good and that of her children that
he thought. It could do no harm either to the one or
the other if they served his aims too. He drove home
with his son soon after, leaving his wife behind him :
it was proper that Carry should have her mother and
sister with her at so sad a time. And the house of
Tinto, which had been so dark all these nights, shone
demurely out again this evening, at a window here and
there,  death, which is always an oppression, being
gone from it, and life resuming its usual sway. The
flag still hung half-mast high, drooping against the
flagstaff, for there was no wind. " But I'm thinking,
my lord, we'll put it back tomorrow," said the butler
as he stood solemnly at the carriage-door. He stood
watching it roll down the avenue in that mood of
genial exhaustion which makes men communicative.
It's a satisfaction to think all's gave well and everybody

satisfied," he said to his subordinate; "for a
death in a family is worse to manage than ony other
event. You're no' just found fault with at the moment,
but it's minded against you if things go wrong, and
sour * want o' feeling.' My lady will maybe think it
want o' feeling' if I put up the flag. But why should
I no' ? For if big Tinto's gave, there's wee Tinto, still
mair important, with all the world before him. And
if I let it be, they'll say it's neglect."

My lady will never fash her head about it," said
the second in command.

How do you ken ? Ah, my lad, you'll find a
change. The master might give you a damn at a
moment, but he wasna hard to manage. We'll have
all the other family, her family, to give us our orders
now."

CHAPTER XXXVII.

It is a strange experience for a man whose personal
freedom has never been restrained to find himself in
prison. The excitement and amazement of the first
day made it something so exceptional and extraordinary,
that out of very strangeness it was supportable
: and Erskine felt it possible to wind himself upto
the necessity of endurance for one night. But the
dead stillness of the long, long morning that followed,
was at once insupportable and incomprehensible to
him. What did it mean ? He saw the light brighten
in his barred window, and persuaded himself, as long
as he could, that it was as yet too early for anything
to be done ; but when he heard all the sounds of life
outside, and felt the long moments roll on, and listened
in vain for any deliverance, a cold mist of amazement
and horror began to wrap John's soul. Was he to be
left there ? to lie in jail like any felon, nobody believing
him, abandoned by all? He could not do anything

violent to relieve his feelings ; but it was within
him to have dashed everything wildly about the room,
to have flown at the window and broken it to
pieces,  to have torn linen and everything else to
shreds. He stood aghast at himself as this wild fury
of impatience and misery swept over him. He could
have beaten his head against the wall. To sit still,
as a man, a gentleman, is compelled to do, restraining
himself, was more hard than any struggles of Hercules.
And those slow sunny moments stole by, each one of
them as long as an hour. The sun seemed to be
stationary in the sky : the forenoon was a century.
When he heard some one at last approaching, he drew
a long breath of satisfaction, saying to himself that
now at last the suspense would be over. But when
it proved to be Miss Barbara with her arms full of
provisions for his comfort, her maid coming after,
bearing a large basket, it is impossible to describe
the disappointment, the rage that filled him. The
effort to meet her with a smile was almost more than
he was capable of. He did it, of course, and concealed
his real feelings, and accepted the butter and eggs
with such thanks as he could give utterance to ; but
the effort seemed almost greater than any he had ever
made before. Miss Barbara, for her part, considered
it her duty to her nephew to maintain an easy aspect
and ignore the misery of the situation. She exerted

herself to amuse him, to talk as if nothing was amiss.
She told him of Tinto's grand funeral, with which the
whole countryside was taken up. " Everybody is
there," Miss Barbara said, with some indignation, 
"great and small, gentle and simple, as if auld Torrance's
son was one of the nobles of the land."

"They care more for the dead than the living,"
John said, with a laugh. It was well to laugh, for
his lip quivered. No doubt this was the reason why
no one had leisure to think of him. And his heart
was too full of his own miseries to be capable of even
a momentary compassion for the fate of Torrance  a
man not very much older than himself, prosperous
and rich and important  snatched in a moment from
all his enjoyments. He had been deeply awed and
impressed when he heard of it first ; but by this time
the honours paid to the dead man seemed to John
an insult to his own superior claims  he who was
living and suffering unjustly. To think that those
who called themselves his friends should have deserted
him to show a respect which they could not feel for
the memory of a man whom they had none of them
respected while he lived ! He was no cynic, nor fond
of attributing every evil to the baseness of humanity,
but he could not help saying now, between his closed
teeth, that it was the way of the world.

He had another visitor in the afternoon, some time

after Miss Barbara took her departure, but not one
of those he expected. To his great surprise, it was
the white erect head of old Sir James which was the
next he saw. The veteran came in with a grave and
troubled countenance. He gave a shudder when he
heard the key turn in the door. "I have come to
see if there was  anything I could do for you ? " Sir
James said.

John laughed again. To laugh seemed the only
possible way of expressing himself. It is permissible
for a man to laugh when a woman would cry, and the
meaning is much the same. This expressed indignation,
incredulity, some contempt, yet was softened by
a gentler sentiment, at sight of the old soldier's kind
and benign but puzzled and troubled face. " I don't
know what any one can do for me but take me out
of this," he said, " and no one seems disposed to do
that."

John Erskine," said the old General solemnly, " the
circumstances are very serious. If you had seen, as
1 have seen, a young, strong man laid in his grave
this day, with a little toddling bairn, chief mourner."
His voice broke a little as he spoke. He waved his
hand as if to put this recollection away. " And your
story was not satisfactory. It did not commend itself
to my mind. Have patience and hear me out. I
came away from you in displeasure, and I've done

VOL. in. G

nothing but turn it over and over in my' thoughts
ever since. It's very far from satisfactory ; but I
cannot find it in my heart to disbelieve you' the old
man cried, with a quiver of emotion in his face. He
held out his large, soft, old hand suddenly as he spoke.
John, who had been winding himself up to indignant
resistance, was taken entirely by surprise. He grasped
that kind hand, and his composure altogether failed
him.

I am a fool," he cried, dashing the tears from
his eyes, " to think that one day's confinement
should break me down. God bless you, Sir James !
I can't speak. If that's so, I'll make shift to bear the
rest."

"Ay, my lad, that's just so. I cannot disbelieve
you. You're a gentleman, John Erskine. You might
do an act of violence,  any man might be left to himself;
but you would not be base, and lie. I have
tried to think so, but I cannot. You would never
deceive an old friend."

If I had murdered poor Torrance in cold blood,
and meaning it," said John, "there is no telling, I
might have lied too."

No, no, no," said Sir James, putting out his hand
" at the worst it was never thought to be that ; but
you have no look of falsehood in you. Though it's a
strange story, and little like the truth, I cannot disbelieve

you. So now you will tell me, my poor lad,
what I can do for you. We're friends again, thank
God ! I could not bide to be friends  and my
old wife was at me night and day."

"If Lady Montgomery believes in me too "

Believes in you ! she would give me no rest, I
tell you  her and my own spirit. She would not
hear a word. All she said was, ' Hoots, nonsense, Sir
James ! ' I declare to you that was all. She's not
what you call a clever woman, but she would not
listen to a word. ' Hoots, nonsense ! ' that was all.
We could not find it in our hearts."

He was a little disposed, now that he had made his
avowal, to dwell upon it, to the exclusion of more
important matters; but when at last he permitted
John to tell him what his expectations had been, and
what his disappointment, as the long, slow morning
stole over unbroken. Sir James was deeply moved.
"Why did not Monypenny come to me?" he said.
He was taken up, no doubt, with what was going on
to-day. But I would have been your bail in a moment.
An old friend like me  the friend not only of your
father, but of your grandfather before him ! " But
when he had said so much he paused, and employed
a little simple sophistry to veil the position. " The
sheriff will be round in the end of the week. I would
not trouble him, if I were you, before that. What's

three or four days ? You will then come out with
every gentleman in the county at your back. It's
not that I think it would be refused. People say so,
but I will not believe it, for one ; only I would not
stir if I were you. A day or two, what does that
matter? My pride would be to bide the law, and
stand and answer to my country. That is what I
would do. Of course I'll be your caution, and any
other half dozen men in the county ; but I'll tell you
what I would do myself,  I would stand it out if I
were you."

You never were shut up in a jail. Sir James ? "

Not exactly in a jail," said the old soldier ; " but
I've been in prison, and far worse quarters than this.
To be sure, there's an excitement about it when you're
in the hands of an enemy "

In the hands of an enemy," cried John  ''a thing
to be proud of ; but laid by the heels in a wretched
hole, like a poacher or a thief!"

I would put up with it if I were you. There is
nothing disgraceful in it. It is just a mistake that
will be put right. I will come and see you, man,
every day, and Lady Montgomery will send you books.
I hope they will not be too good books, John. That's
her foible, honest woman. You seem to be victualled
for a siege," Sir James added, looking round the room.
That is Miss Barbara Erskine, I will be bound."

I felt disposed to pitch them all out of the window,"
said John.

"Nothing of the sort; though they're too good to
fall into the hands of the turnkeys. Keep up your
heart, my fine lad. I'll see Monypenny to-night
before I dine, and if we cannot bring you out with
flying colours, between us, it will be a strange thing
to me. Just you keep up your heart," said Sir James,
patting John kindly on the back as he went away.
The sheriff will be round here again on the doth, and
we'll be prepared for the examination, and bring you
clear off. It's not so very long to wait."

With this John was forced to be content. The
25th was four days off, and to remain in confinement
for four days more was an appalling anticipation ; but
Sir James's visit gave him real cheer. Perhaps Mr
Monypenny, too, on thinking it over, might turn to a
conviction of his client's truth.

While Sir James rode home, pleased with himself
that he had obeyed his own generous impulse, and
pleased with John, who had been so unfeignedly consoled
by it. Lord Lindores and his son were driving
back from Tinto together in the early twilight. There
was not a word exchanged between them as they
drove down the long avenue in the shadow of the
woods ; but as they turned into the lighter road, Lord
Lindores returned to the subjects which occupied his

mind habitually. " That is a business well over," he
said, with a sigh of satisfaction. " It is always a relief
when the last ceremonies are accomplished ; and
though Carry chose to meet me with heroics, it is
very satisfactory to know that her position is so good.
One could never be sure with a man of Torrance's
temper. He was as likely as not to have surrounded
his widow with annoyances and restraints. He has
erred just a little on the other side now, poor fellow !
Still he meant it, no doubt, for the best." Lord Lindores
spoke to his son with an ease and confidence
which he could not feel with the other members of
his family. Eintoul himself, indeed, had been somewhat
incomprehensible for a little time past; but
indigestion, or any other trifling reason, might account
for that. " And now that all is over, we must think
of other matters," he continued. " This business about
Edith must be settled. Millefleurs must have his
answer. He has been very patient; but a young
fellow like that knows his own importance, and Edith
must hear reason. She will never have another such
chance."

Eintoul made a little movement in his corner, which
was all that stood for a reply on his part; and his
father could not even see the expression of his face.

I can only hope that she will be more amenable
to his influence than to mine," said Lord Lindores,

with a sigh. " It is strange that she, the youngest of
my children, should be the one to give me the most
trouble. Eintoul, it is also time that I should speak
to you about yourself. It would give your mother
and me great satisfaction to see you settled. I married
early myself, and I have never had any reason
to repent it. Provided that you make a wise choice.
The two families will no doubt see a great deal of
each other when things are settled between Edith and
Millefleurs ; and I hear on all hands that his sister.
Lady Eeseda  you met her several times in town "

"Yes,  I met her," said Eintoul, reluctantly. He
turned once more in his corner, as if he would fain
have worked his way through and escaped ; but he
was secured for the moment, and in his father's power.

And you admired her, I suppose, as everybody
does ? She is something like her brother ; but what
may perhaps be thought a little  well, comical  in
Millefleurs, is delightful in a girl. She is a merry
little thing, the very person I should have chosen for
you, Eintoul: she would keep us all cheerful. We
want a little light-heartedness in the family. And
though your father is only a Scotch peer, your position
is unimpeachable ; and I will say this for you,
that you have behaved very well ; few young men
would have conducted themselves so irreproachably
in such a sudden change of circumstances. I feel

almost certain that though a daughter of the Duke's
might do better, you would not be looked upon with
unfavourable eyes."

"I  don't know them. I have only met them 
two or three times "

"What more is necessary? You will be Millefleurs's
brother-in-law "

Are you so sure of that ? " asked Pdntoul. There
was something in his tone which sounded like
nascent rebellion. Lord Lindores pricked up his
ears.

I do not willingly entertain the idea that Edith
would disobey me," he said with dignity. " She has
high flown notions. They are in the air nowadays, and
will ruin the tempers of girls if they are not checked.
She makes a fight to have her own way, but I cannot
believe that she would go the length of downright
disobedience. I have met with nothing of the kind
yet "

'' I think you are likely to meet with it now," said
Eintoul ; and then he added, hastily, " Carry has not
been an encouraging example."

Carry ! " said Lord Lindores, opening his eyes.
I confess that I do not understand. Carry ! why,
what woman could have a nobler position? Perfect
control over a very large fortune, a situation of entire
independence  too much for any woman. That

Carry's unexampled good fortune should be quoted
against me is extraordinary indeed."

But," cried Eintoul, taken by surprise, " you could
not hold up to Edith the hope of what might happen
if  Millefleurs were to "

Break his neck over a scar," said Lord Lindores,
almost with a sneer. He felt his son shrink from him
with an inarticulate cry, and with instant perception
remedied his error in taste, as he thought it. " I
ought not to speak so after such a tragedy ; you are
right, Eintoul. No: Millefleurs is a very different
person ; but of course it is always a consolation to
know that whatever happens, one's child will be abundantly
and honourably provided for. My boy, let us
look at the other matter. It is time you thought of
marrying, as I say,"

Rintoul flung himself against the side of the carriage
with a muttered curse. "Marrying I  hanging
is more what I feel like!" he cried.

"Eintoul!"

"Don't torture me, father. There is not a more
wretched fellow on the face of the earth. Link an
innocent woman's name with mine ? Ask a girl
to ? For heaven's sake let me alone  let me be ! "

"What is the meaning of this?" Lord Lindores
cried. "Are you mad, Eintoul? I am altogether
unprepared for heroics in you."

The young man made do reply. He put his head
out to the rushing of the night air and the soft darkness,
through which the trees and distant hills and
rare passengers were all like shadows. He had looked
stolidly enough upon all the shows of the external
world all his life, and thought no more of them than
as he saw them.

A primrose by the river's brim,
A yellow primrose was to him."

There had been no images or similitudes in light or
darkness ; but now another world had opened around
him. He had a secret with the silence  the speechless,
inanimate things about knew something of him
which nobody else knew : and who could tell when
they might find a voice and proclaim it to the world ?
He uncovered his head to the air which blew upon
him and cooled his fever. The touch of that cool
fresh wind seemed the only thing in earth or heaven
in which there was any consolation. As for Lord
Lindores, he sat back in his corner, more angry than
concerned, and more contemptuous than either. A
woman has perhaps some excuse for nerves ; but that
his son, upon whose plain understanding he could
always rely, and whose commonsense was always
alive to the importance of substantial arguments,
should thus relapse into tragedy like his sisters, was
more than he could tolerate. He would not even

contemplate the idea that there was any cause for it.
Eintoul had always been well behaved. He was in
no fear of any secrets that his son might have to
reveal.

Eintoul," he said, after a pause, " if you have got
into any scrape, you should know well enough that I
am not the sort of man to take it tragically. I have
no faith in making molehills into mountains. I don't
suppose you have done anything disgraceful. You
must be off your head, I think. What is it? You
have been'out of sorts for some time past."

These words came like beatings of a drum to Ein-soul's
ears, as he leant out into the rushing and sweep
of the night air. There was a composure in them
which brought him to himself Anything disgraceful
meant cheating at cards, or shirking debts of honour,
or cowardice. Practically, these were about the only
things disgraceful that a young man could do. An
entanglement," a heavy loss at cards or on the turf,
any other minor vice, could be compounded for. Lord
Lindores was not alarmed by the prospect of an explanation
with his son. But that Eintoul should become
melodramatic, and appeal to earth and heaven,
was contemptible to his father. This cool and commonsense
tone had its natural effect, Lord Lindores
thought. Eintoul drew in his head, sat back in his
corner, and was restored to himself

I have been out of sorts," he said  " I suppose
that's what it is. I see everything en noir. All this
business  seeing to things  the black, the house shut
up "

"Let me warn you, Eintoul; don't cultivate your
susceptibilities," said his father. " What is blackmore
than blue or any other colour? This sort of
thing is all very well for a woman ; but I know what
it is. It's stomach  that is really at the bottom of all
tragedy. You had better speak to the doctor. And
now, thank heaven, this Tinto business is over; we
can get back to the affairs of life."

The rest of the drive passed in complete silence.
And all the time they were together, Pdntoul said nota
word to his father about John Erskine. His situation
was altogether ignored between them. It was
not that it was forgotten. If these two men could
have opened Dunnottar jail  nay, could they have
swept John Erskine away into some happy island
where he would have been too blessed to think anything
more about them  they would have done it, 
the one with joyous alacrity, the other with satisfaction
at least. This gloomy incident was over, and
Lord Lindores had no desire to hear any more of it.
It was just the end that anybody might have expected
Torrance to come to. Why could not the officious
blockheads of the country-side let the matter alone?

But he did not feel that desire to help and right John
Erskine which his warm adoption of the young man
to his friendship would have warranted. For why?
such an incident, however it ended, would certainly
spoil young Erskine's influence in the county. He
would be of no more advantage to any one. A quarrel
was nothing ; but to escape from the consequences of
that quarrel, to let a man die at the foot of a precipice
without sending help to him, that was a thing which
all the country-side turned against. It was this that
had roused so strong a feeling against John, and Lord
Lindores made up his mind philosophically, that
though Erskine would probably be cleared of all
imputation of blood-guiltiness, yet, innocent or guilty,
he would never get over it, and, consequently, would
be of no further use in any public projects. At the
same time, his own views had changed in respect to
the means of carrying these projects out. Lord Millefleurs
was a better instrument than country eminence.
A seat gained was of course always an appreciable
advantage. But it was not certain even that the seat
could have been gained ; and a son-in-law in hand is
better than many boroughs in the bush. The Duke
could not ignore Lord Lindores's claims if Edith was
a member of the family. This was far more important
than anything that could concern John Erskine,
though Lord Lindores would have been heartily thankful

 now that he was good for nothing but to excite

foolish sympathies  if he could have got John Erskine
happily out of the way.

Millefleurs had reached Lindores some time before :
he had returned direct from the funeral along with
Beaufort, who, much marvelling at himself, had stood
among the crowd, and seen Carry's husband laid in
his grave. The sensation was too extraordinary to be
communicated to any one. It had seemed to him that
the whole was a dream, himself a spectre of the past,
watching bewildered, while the other, whom he had
never seen, who was nothing but a coffin, was removed
away and deposited among the unseen. He had not
been bold enough to go into the house to see Carry,
even from the midst of the crowd. Whether she was
sorrowing for her husband, or feeling some such thrills
of excitement as were in his own bosom at the thought
that she was free, Beaufort could not tell ; but when
he found himself seated at table that evening with her
father and brother, he could not but feel that his
dream was going on, and that there was no telling in
what new scene it might unfold fresh wonders. The
four gentlemen dined alone, and they were not a lively
party. After dinner they gathered about the fireplace,
not making any move towards the forsaken
drawing-room. " This is a sad sort of amusement to
provide for you," Lord Lindores said. " We hoped to

have shown you the more cheerful side of Scotch
life."

I have had a very good time : what you might
call a lovely time' said Millefleurs. Then he made a
pause, and drawing closer, laid his plump finger on
Lord Lindores's arm. " I don't want to make myself
a nuisance now ; but  not to be troublesome  if I am
not likely soon to have an opportunity of addressing
myself to Lady Edith, don't you think I had better go
away ? "

You may well be tired of us ; a house of mourning,"
said Lord Lindores, with a smile of benevolent
meaning. " It was not for this you came into those
wilds."

They are far from being wilds : I have enjoyed
myself very much," said little Millefleurs. " All has
been new ; and to see a new country, don't you know,
is always the height of my ambition. But such a
thing might happen as that I wasn't wanted. When
a lady means to have anything to say to a fellow, I
have always heard she lets him know. To say nothing
is, perhaps, as good a way of saying no as any. It
may be supposed to save a man's feelings "

Am I to understand that you have spoken to my
daughter, Millefleurs ? "

I have never had the chance. Lord Lindores. On
the very evening, you will remember, when I hoped to

have an explanation, this unfortunate accident happened.
I am very sorry for the gentleman whom, in
the best of circumstances, I can never now hope to
call my brother-in-law ; but the position is perhaps a
little awkward. Lady Edith is acquainted with my
aspirations, but I  know nothing, don't you know ? "
said the little Marquis. He had his hand upon his
plump bosom, and raised himself a little on one foot
as he spoke. " It makes a fellow feel rather small 
and, in my case, that isn't wanted," he added, cheerfully.
Nothing less like a despairing lover could be
imagined ; but though he resembled a robin-redbreast,
he was a man quite conscious of the dignities of his
position, and not to be played with. A cold chill of
alarm came over Lord Lindores.

"Edith will return tomorrow, or next day," he
said ; " or if you choose to go to Tinto, her mother
regards you so much as a friend and favourite, that
she will receive you gladly, I am sure. Go,
then "

No," said Millefleurs, shaking his head, " no, that
would be too strong. I never saw the poor fellow but
once or twice, and the last time I had the misfortune
to disagree with him ; no  I can't convey myself to
his house to learn if I'm to be taken or not. It is
a droll sort of experience. I feel rather like a bale of
goods, don't you know, on approval," he said with a

laugh. He took it with great good-humour; but it
was possible that even Millefleurs's good-humour might
be exhausted.

I undertake for it that you shall not have to wait
much longer," said Lord Lindores.

VOL. in. H

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

EiNTOUL had bad nights, and could-not sleep. He
had been in such constant movement that day that he
was fatigued, and had hoped for rest; but after tossing
on his uneasy bed, he got up again, as for several
nights past he had been in the habit of doing, and
began to pace up and down his room. The house was
all buried in repose and silence  the woods rustling
round, the river flowing, the silence outside tingling
with the never altogether hushed movements of nature ;
but indoors nothing stirring  all dark ; nothing but
the heavy breath of sleep within the thick old walls.
The fire was dying out on the hearth ; the candles,
which he lighted hastily, did not half light the room,
but rather cleared a little spot in the darkness, and
left all else in gloom. A nervous tremor was upon the
young man,  he to whom nerves had been all folly,
who had scoffed at them as affectation or weakness ;
but he had no longer that command of himself of

which he had once been proud. His mind strayed
involuntarily into thoughts which he would fain have
shut out. They dwelt upon one subject and one scene,
which he had shut his mind to a hundred times, only
to feel it the next moment once more absorbing every
faculty. His shadow upon the window paced up and
down, up and down. He could not keep quiet. He
did not care to have the door of his room behind him,
but kept it in sight as if he feared being taken at
a disadvantage. What did he fear ? he could not tell.
Imagination had seized hold upon him  he who had
never known what imagination was. He could not
rest for it. The quiet was full of noises. He heard
the furniture creaking, as it does at night, the walls
giving out strange echoes ; and never having kept any
vigil before, thought that these strange voices of the
night had to do with himself, and in his soul trembled
as if he had been surrounded by enemies or spies
searching his inmost thoughts.

Thus he walked up and down the room, keeping his
face to the door. Did he expect any one, anything to
come in ? No, no ; nothing: of the kind. But it is
certain that sometimes along the long passage he heard
sounds as of a horse's hoofs. He knew it was nonsense.
It was the sound of the river, to which he was
perfectly accustomed; but yet it sounded somehow
like a horse's hoofs. He never would have been surprised

at any moment to see the door pushed open and
something come in. He knew it was ridiculous, but
still he could not help the feeling. And the silence
of the house was a pain to him beyond telling. One
of these nights one of the servants had been ill, and
Eintoul was glad. The sense that some one was
waking, moving about, was a relief It seemed somehow
to give him a sort of security,  to deliver him
from himself But while he thus felt the advantage
of waking humanity near him, he was thankful beyond
description that the society of the house was diminished
 that his mother and Edith were away. He
knew that they must have found him out  if not what
was in his mind, at least that there was something on
his mind. During the last twenty-four hours particularly
they would have been worse spies than the trees
and the winds. How could he have kept himself to
himself in their presence, especially as they would
have besieged him with questions, with incitements todo
something. They would have assumed that they
knew all about it in their ignorance. They ! They
were always assuming that they knew. There was
a fierce momentary satisfaction in Eintoul's mind to
think how completely out they would be, how incapable
of understanding the real state' of the case. They
thought they knew everything ! But he felt that there
was a possibility that he might have betrayed himself

in the very pleasure he would have had in showing
them that they knew nothing. And it was better, far
better, that they should be out of the way.

He did not, however, yield to this fever of the mind
without doing what he could manfully to subdue it.
He made a great effort now to fix his mind upon what
his father had said to him  but the names of Millefleurs
and Lady Reseda only swept confusedly through
his brain like straws upon the surface of the stream.
Sometimes he found himself repeating one of them
vaguely, like a sort of idiotical chorus, while the real
current of his thoughts ran on. Lady Reseda, Lady
Reseda : what had she to do with it ?  or Millefleurs,
Millefleurs !  they were straws upon the surface, showing
how rapidly the torrent ran, not anything he could
catch hold of. There was one name, however, round
which that dark current of his thoughts eddied and
swirled as in a whirlpool  the name of John Erskine.
There could not be any doubt that lie had something
to do with it. He had thrust himself into a matter
that did not concern him, and he was paid for his
folly. It was not his place to stand up for Carry, to
resent her husband's rudeness  what had he to do
with it ? He was an intrusive, officious fool, thrusting
himself into other people's business. If he brought
himself into trouble by it, was that Rintoul's fault ?
Was he bound to lay himself open to a great deal of

annoyance and embarrassment in order to save John
Erskine from the consequences of his own folly ? This
was the question that would not let him rest. Nothing
Rintoul had been a party to had compromised
John Erskine. It was all his own doing. Why did
he, for his pleasure, take the Scar road at all ? Why
did he stop and quarrel, seeing the other was excited ?
Why rush down in that silly way with his coat torn
to make an exhibition of himself ? All these things
were folly,  folly beyond extenuation. He ought to
have known better ; and whatever followed, was it not
his own fault ?

Along with this, however, there were other thoughts
that flashed at Eintoul, and would not let him carry
on steadily to the conclusion he desired. There are
some things that are permissible and some that are
not permissible. A gentleman need not betray himself:
it is not indispensable that he should take the
world into his confidence, if any accident happens to
him, and he gets himself into trouble ; but he must not
let another get into trouble for him,  that comes into
the category of the " anything disgraceful " which Lord
Lindores was assured his son had never been guilty of.
No ! he had never done anything disgraceful. How
was he to escape it now ? And then, looking back
upon all the circumstances, Eintoul sadly perceived
what a fool he had been not to put everything on a

straightforward footing at once. He reflected that he
could have given almost any account of the occurrence
he pleased. There was nobody to contradict him : and
all vrould have been over without complication, without
any addition from the popular fancy. It seemed
to him now, reflecting upon everything, all the details
that had filled him with an unreflecting panic then,
that nothing could have been easier than to explain
the whole matter. But he had lost that good moment,
and if he made the confession now, every false conception
which he had feared would be realised. People
would say. If this was all, why make any mystery
about it ? Why expose another to disgrace and suffering
? Eintoul had not intelligence enough, though
he had always plumed himself on his commonsense,
to thread his way among those conflicting reasonings.
He grew sick as the harpies of recollection and thought
rushed upon him from all quarters. He had no power
to stand against them,  to silence her who cried, " Why
did you not do this ? "  while he held at bay the other
who swooped down upon him, screaming, " How could
you do that ? " When it grew more than he could bear
he retreated to his bed, and flung himself exhausted
upon it, throwing out his arms with the unconscious
histrionic instinct of excitement, appealing to he knew
not what. How could he do this thing ? How could
he leave it undone? Eintoul in his despair got up

again and found an opiate which had been given him
when he had toothache, long ago, in days when toothache
was the worst torture he knew. He swallowed
it, scarcely taking the trouble to mark how much he
was taking, though the moment after he took a panic,
and got up and examined the bottle to assure himself
that all was right. It was nearly daybreak by the
time that this dose sent him to sleep,  and he scarcely
knew he had been asleep, so harassing were his dreams,
till he came to himself at last, to find that it was
eleven o'clock in a dull forenoon, his shutters all open,
and th-e dim light pouring in. The horrors of waking
when the mind is possessed by great misery is a well-worn
subject,  everybody knows what it is to have
Car seated by his bedside, ready to pounce upon him
when he opens his eyes ; but Eintoul had scarcely
escaped from that dark companion. She had been
with him in his dreams : he felt her grip him now,
with no surprise, if with a redoublement of pain.

It was nearly mi-d-day when he got down-stairs, and
he found nobody. His father was out, Millefleurs
was out. His breakfast was arranged upon a little
table near the fire, his letters laid ready, the county
newspaper  a little innocent broadsheet  by his plate.
But he could not take advantage of any of these luxuries
; he swept his letters into his pocket, flung the paper
from him, then reflected that there might he something in

it, and picked it up again with trembling hands. There
was something in it. There was an account of the private
examination before the sheriff of Mr John Erskine
of Dalrulzian on suspicion of being concerned in the
death of the late lamented Mr Torrance of Tinto.
From circumstances which transpired," the sheriff,
the newspaper regretted to say, had thought it right
to relegate Mr Erskine to Dunnottar jail, there to await
the result of a more formal inquiry, to be held on the
25th at Dunearn. '* We have little fear that a gentleman
so respected will easily be able to clear himself,"
it was added ; and " a tribute of respect to the late
Patrick Torrance,  a name which, for genial bonhomie
and sterling qualities, will long be remembered in this
county," wound up the paragraph. The greater portion
of its readers, already acquainted with the news
by report, read it with exclamations of concern, or
cynical rustic doubt whether John Erskine was so
much respected, or Pat Torrance as sure of a place in
the county's memory, as the ' Dunearn Sentinel ' said ;
but all Ptintoul's blood seemed to rush to his head and
roar like a torrent in his ears as he read the paragraph.
He could hear nothing: but that rushing of excitement
and the bewildered half - maddened thoughts which
seemed to accompany it. What was he to do ? What
was he to do ?

There was a little interval, durin<:j which Rintoul

literally did not know what lie was doing. His mind
was not prepared for such an emergency. He tossed
about like a cork upon the boiling stream of his own
thoughts  helpless, bewildered, driven hither and
thither. He only came to himself when he felt the
damp air in his face, and found himself setting out on
foot on the road to Dunearn: the irregular lines of
the housetops in front of him, the tall tower of the
Town House pointing up to the dull skies, standing
out from the rest of the buildings like a landmark to
indicate what route he was to take. When he caught
sight of that he came violently to himself, and began
at once to recover some conscious control over his
actions. The operations of his mind became clear to
him ; his panic subsided. After all, who could harm
John Erskine ? He had been very foolish ; he had
exposed himself to suspicion ; but no doubt a gentleman
so respected would be able to clear himself  a
gentleman so respected. Pdutoul repeated the words
to himself, as he had repeated the names of Millefleurs
and Lady Eeseda the night before. And what would
it matter to John Erskine to put off till the 25th his
emancipation and the full recognition of his innocence
? If he had  bad cold, it would have the same
result  confinement to the house, perhaps to his room.
What was that ? Nothing : a trifling inconvenience,
that any man might be subject to. And there could

be no doubt that a gentleman so respected There

would be evidence that would clear him : it was not
possible that any proof could be produced of a thing
that never happened ; and the whole county,  if need
be, would bear witness to John Erskine's character 
that he was not quarrelsome or a brawler ; that there

was no motive for any quarrel between him and

Eintoul's feet, which had been going rapidly towards
Dunbar, went on slower and slower. He came to a
pause altogether about a mile from the town. Was it
necessary to go any farther ? What could he do to-day ?
Certainly there would be no advantage to Erskine
in anything he did to-day. He turned round slowly,
and went back towards Lindores. Walking that way,
there was nothing but the long sweep of the landscape
between him and Tinto, to which his eyes could not
but turn as he walked slowly on. The flag was up
again  a spot of red against the dull sky  and the
house stood out upon its platform with that air of
ostentation which fretted the souls of the surrounding
gentry. Eintoul could not bear the sight of it: it
smote him  with a fierce impatience. Scarcely conscious
that his movement of hot and hasty temper
was absurd, he turned round again to escape it, and
set his face towards the emblem of severe justice and
the law, the tower of the Town House of Dunearn.
When this second monitor made itself visible, a kind

of dull despair took possession of him. His steps
were hemmed in on every side, and there was no
escape.

It was while he was moving on thus reluctantly, by
a sort of vague compulsion, that he recognised, with
amazement, Nora Barrington coming towards him. It
was a piece of good fortune to which he had no right.
She was the only creature in the world whose society
could have been welcome to him. They met as they
might have met in a fairy tale : fairy tales are not
over, so long as people do meet in this way on the
commonplace road. They had neither of them thought
of any such encounter  he, because his mind was too
dolorous and preoccupied for any such relief; she,
because Eintoul seldom came into Dunearn, and never
walked, so that no idea of his presence occurred to her.
She was going to fulfil a commission of Miss Barbara's,
and anxious if possible to see Edith, which was far
more likely than Edith's brother. They were both
surprised, almost beyond speech ; they scarcely uttered
any greeting. It did not seem strange, somehow, that
Eintoul should turn and walk with her the way she
was going, though it was not his way. And now a
wonderful thing happened to Eintoul. His ferment
of thought subsided all at once,  he seemed to have
sailed into quiet seas after the excitement of the headlong
current which had almost dashed him to pieces.

He did not know what it meant. The storm ended,
and there stole over him "a sound as of a hidden
brook, in the leafy month of June." And Nora felt
a softening of sympathetic feeling, she did not know
why. She was sorry for him. "Why should she have
been sorry for Lord Eintoul? He was infinitely
better off than she was. She could not account for
the feeling, but she felt it all the same. She asked
him first how Lady Caroline was  poor Lady Caroline
!  and then faltered a little, turning to her own
affairs.

I hope I shall see Edith before I go away. Do
you know when they are coming back ? I am going
home  very soon now," Nora said. She felt almost
apologetic  reluctant to say it,  and yet it seemed
necessary to say it. There were many people whom
she might have met on the road to whom she would
not have mentioned the fact, but it seemed incumbent
upon her now.

Going away ! No, that you must not do  you
must not do it ! Why should you go away ? " he
cried.

"There are many reasons." Nora felt that she
ought to laugh at his vehemence, or that, perhaps, she
should be angry; but she was neither the one nor
the other  only apologetic, and so sorry for him. " Of
course I always knew I should have to go : though I

shall always think it home here, yet it is not home
any longer. It is a great pity, don't you think, to
live so long in a place which, after all, is not your
home ? "

"I cannot think it a great pity that you should
have lived here," he said. " The thing is, that you
must not go. For God's sake, Nora, do not go ! I
never thought of that ; it is the last drop. If you
knew how near I am to the end of my strength, you
would not speak of such a thing to me."

Lord Eintoul ! I  don't understand. What can
it matter ? " cried Nora, in her confusion. She felt
that she should have taken a different tone. He had
no right to call her Nora, or to speak as if he had
anything to do with her coming or going. But the
hurried tone of passion and terror in his voice overwhelmed
her. It was as if he had heard of the last
misfortune that could overwhelm a man.

Matter ! Do you mean to me ? It may not
matter to any one else ; to me it is everything,"
he said, wildly. " I shall give in altogether. I shall
not care what I do if you go away."

Now, Lord Eintoul," said Nora, her heart beating,
but trying to laugh as she best could, "this,
you must know, is nonsense. You cannot mean to

make fun of me, I am sure ; but 1 don't know

what you mean. We had better say no more about

it." Then she melted again. She remembered their
last interview, which had gone to her heart. " I
know," she said, " that you have been in a great deal
of trouble."

You know," said Eintoul, " because you feel for me.
Nobody else knows. Then think what it will be forme
if you go away  the only creature whom I dare to
speak to. Nora, you know very well I was always
fond of you  from the first  as soon as we met "

"Don't, don't, Lord Eintoul! I cannot get away
from you on this public road. Have some respect forme.
You ought not to say such things, nor I to hear."

He looked at her, wondering. " Is it any want of
respect to tell you that you are the girl I have
always wanted to marry ? You may not feel the
same ; it may be only your kindness : you may refuse
me, Nora; but I have always meant it. I have
thought it was our duty to do the best we could for
the girls, but I never gave in to that for myself My
father has spoken of this one and that one, but I have
always been faithful to you. That is no want of respect,
though it is a public road. From the time 1 first
knew you, I have only thought of you."

What an ease it gave him to say this ! All the
other points that had so occupied him before seemed
to have melted away in her presence. If he had but
some one to stand by him,  if he had but Nora, who

felt for him always. It seemed that everything else
would arrange itself, and become less difficult to bear.

As for Nora, she had known very well that Rintoul
was, as he said, fond of her. It is so difficult to conceal
that. But she thought he would "get over it."
She had said to herself, with some little scorn, that he
never would have the courage to woo a poor girl like
herself,  a girl without anything. He had a worldly
mind though he was young, and Nora had never
allowed herself to be deluded, she thought.

*' Don't you believe me ? " he said, after a moment's
pause, looking at her wistfully, holding out his hand.

Yes, I believe you. Lord Eintoul," said Nora ; but
she took no notice of his outstretched hand, though it
cost her something to be, as she said to herself, " so
unkind." " I do believe you ; but it would never be
permitted, you know. You yourself would not approve
of it when you had time to think ; for you are
worldly - minded. Lord Eintoul : and you know you
ought to marry  an heiress  some one with money."

You have a very good right to say so," he replied.
I have always maintained that for the girls : but if
you had ever taken any notice of me, you would have
found out that I never allowed it for myself. Yes, it
is quite true I am worldly-minded; but I never meant
to marry money. I never thought of marrying anyone
but you."

And now there was a pause again. He did not
seem to have asked her any question that Nora could
answer. He had only made a statement to her that
she was the only girl he had ever wished to marry. It
roused a great commotion in her breast. She had
always liked Eintoul, even when his sisters called him
a Philistine; and now when he was in trouble, under
some mysterious shadow, she knew not why, appealing
to her sympathy as to his salvation, it was not
possible that the girl should shut her heart against
him. They walked on together for a few yards in
silence, and then she said, faltering, " I had better go
back now I  did not expect to  meet any one."

Don't go back without saying something to me.
Promise me, Nora, that you will not go away. I want
you ! I want you ! Without you I should go all
wrong. If you saw me sinking in the water, wouldn't
you put out your hand to help me ?  and that is nothing
to what may happen. Nora, have you the heart
to go back without saying anything to me ? " cried
Eintoul, once more holding out his hand.

There was nobody visible on the road, up or down.
The turrets of Lindores peeped over the trees in the
distance, like spectators deeply interested, holding their
breath ; at the other end the long thin tower of the
Town House seemed to pale away into the distance.
He looked anxiously into her face, as if life and death
VOL. in. I

hung on the decision. They had come to a standstill
in the emotion of the moment, and stood facing each
other, trembling with the same sentiment. Nora held
back still, but there was an instinctive drawing closer
of the two figures  irresistible, involuntary.

Your father will never consent," she said, with an
unsteady voice; "and my father will never allow it
against his will. But, Lord Eintoul "

"Not lord, nor Eintoul," he said.

"You never liked to be called Robin," Nora said,
with a half malicious glance into his face. But poor
Eintoul was not in the humour for jest. He took her
hand, her arm, and drew it through his.

I cannot wait to think about our fathers. I have
such need of you, Nora. I have something to tell
you that I can tell to no one in the world but you.
I want my other self to help me. I want my wife, to
whom I can speak "

His arm was quivering with anxiety and emotion.
Though Nora was bewildered, she did not hesitate 
what girl would ?  from the responsibility thus thrust
upon her. To be so urgently wanted is the strongest
claim that can be put forth upon any human creature.
Instinctively she gave his arm a little pressure, supporting
rather than supported, and said "Tell me,"
turning upon him freely, without blush or faltering,
the grave sweet face of sustaining love.

Chapter XXXIX.

EoLLS disappeared on the evening of the day on
which he had that long consultation with Mr Mony-penny.
He did not return to Dalrulzian that night.
Marget, with many blushes and no small excitement,
served the dinner, which Bauby might be said to have
cooked with tears. If these salt drops were kept out
of her sauces, she bedewed the white apron which
she lifted constantly to her eyes. " Maister John in
jyal ! and or Tammas gone after him ; and what
will I say to his mamma ? " Bauby cried. She
seemed to fear that it might be supposed some want
of care on her part which had led to this dreadful
result. But even the sorrow of her soul did not
interfere with her sense of what was due to her
master's guest. Beaufort's dinner did not suffer,
whatever else might. It was scrupulously cooked,
and served with all the care of which Marget was
capable; and when it was all over, and everything

carefully put aside, the women sat down together in
the kitchen, and had a good cry over the desolation
of the house. The younger maids, perhaps, were
not steeply concerned on this point as Bauby, who
was an old servant, and considered Dalrulzian as her
home : but they were all more or less affected by the
disgrace, as well as sorry for the young master, who
had " nae pride," and always a pleasant word for his
attendants in whatever capacity. Their minds were
greatly affected, too, by the absence of Rolls. Nota
man in the house but the stranger gentleman ! It
was a state of affairs which alarmed and depressed
them, and proved, above all other signs, that a great
catastrophe had happened. Beaufort sent for the
housekeeper after dinner to give her such information
as he thought necessary ; and Bauby was supported
to the door by her subordinates, imploring her all the
way to keep up her heart. " You'll no' let on to the
strange gentleman." " Ye'll keep up a good face, and
no' let him see how sir cast down ye are," they
said, one at either hand. There was a great deal of
struggling outside the door, and some stifled sounds
of weeping, before it was opened, and Bauby appeared,
pushed in by some invisible agency behind her, which
closed the door promptly as soon as she was within.
She was not the important person Beaufort had expected
to see ; but as she stood there, with her large

white apron thrown over her arm, and her comely
countenance, like a sky after rain, lighted up with a
very wan and uncertain smile, putting the best face
she could upon it, Beaufort's sympathy overcame the
inclination to laugh which he might have felt in other
circumstances, at the sight of her sudden entrance and
troubled clinging to the doorway. " Good evening"'

he said, "Mrs " " They call me Bauby Rolls, at

your service," said Bauby, with a curtsey, and a
suppressed sob. " Mrs Rolls," said Beaufort, " your
master may not come home for a few days ; he asked
me to tell you not to be anxious ; that he hoped to
be back soon ; that there was nothing to be alarmed
about." " Eh ! and was he so kind as think upon me,
and him in such trouble," cried Bauby, giving way
to her emotions. "But I'm no alarm; no, no, why
should I be ? " she added, in a trembling voice. " He
will be hame, no doubt, in a day or twa, as ye say,
sir, and glad, glad we'll a' be. It's not that we have
any doubt  but oh ! what will his mamma say tome
? " cried Bauby. After the tremulous momentary
stand she had made, her tears flowed faster than ever.
There has no such thing happened among the Erskine
since ever the name was kent in the countryside,
and that's niaist from the beginning, as it's
written in Scripture." "It's all a mistake," cried
Beaufort. ** That it is  that it is," cried Bauby,

drying her eyes. And then she added with another
curtsey, " I hope you'll find everything to your satisfaction,
sir, till the maister comes hame. Tammas 
that's the butler, Tammas EoUs, my brother, sir, if
ye please is no' at hame to-night, and you would
like a lass about to valet ye ; they're all young but
me. But if you would put out your does to brush,
or anything that wants doing, outside your door, it
shall a' be weel attended to. I'm real sorry there's
no' another man about the house : but a' that women
can do we'll do, and with goodwill." " You are very
kind, Mrs Rolls," said Beaufort. " I was not thinking
of myself  you must not mind me. I shall get on
very well. I am sorry to be a trouble to you at such
a melancholy moment." "Na, na, sir, not melancholy,"
cried Bauby, with her eyes streaming; "sin'
ye say, and a'body must allow, that it's just a mistake:
we manna be put about by suchlike trifles. But nae
doubt it will be livelier and mair pleasant for yourself',
sir, when Mr John and Tammas, they faith come
hame. Would you be wanting anything more tonight
? " " Na, I never let on," Bauby said, when she
retired to the ready support of her handmaidens outside
the door  " no' me ; I keepit a stout heart, and
I said to him, ' It's of nae consequence, sir,' I said, 
I'm name cast down ; it's just a mistake  everybody
kens that ; and that he was to put his things outside

his door He got nothing that would go against the
credit of the house out of me."

But in spite of this forlorn confidence in her
powers of baffling suspicion, it was a wretched night
that poor Bauby spent. John was satisfactorily accounted
for, and it was known where he was ; but
who could say where Rolls might be? Bauby sat
up half through the night alone in the great empty
kitchen with the solemn-sounding clock and the cat
purring loudly by the fire. She was as little used
to the noises of the night as Lord Eintoul was, and
in her agony of watching felt the perpetual shock and
thrill of the unknown going through and through
her. She heard steps coming up to the house a
hundred times through the night, and stealing stealthily
about the doors. " Is that you, Tammas ? " she
said again and again, peering out into the night :
but nobody appeared. Nor did he appear next day,
or the next. After her first panic, Bauby gave out
that he was with his master  that she had never
expected him  in order to secure him from remark.
But in her own mind horrible doubts arose. He
had always been the most irreproachable of men;
but what if, in the shock of this catastrophe, even
Tammas should have taken to ill ways ? Drink 
that was the natural suggestion. Who can fathom
the inscrutable attractions it has, so that men yield

to it who never could have been suspected of such
a weakness ? Most women of the lower classes have
the conviction that no man can resist it. Heart-wrung
for his master, shamed to his soul for the
credit of the house, had Rolls, too, after successfully
combating temptation for all his respectable life,
yielded to the demon ? Bauby trembled, but kept
her terrors to herself. She said he might come back
at any moment  he was with his maister. Where
else was it likely at such a time that he should be ?
But Rolls was not with his master. He was on
the eve of a great and momentous act. There were
no superstitious alarms about him, as about Piintoul,
and no question in his mind what to do. Before he
left Dalrulzian that sad morning, he had shaped
all the possibilities in his thoughts, and knew what
he intended ; and his conversation with Mr Mony-penny
gave substance and a certain reasonableness
to his resolution. But it was not in his nature by
one impetuous movement to precipitate affairs. He
had never in his life acted hastily, and he had
occasional tremors of the flesh which chilled his
impulse and made him pause. But the interval,
which was so bitter to his master, although all the
lookers-on congratulated themselves it could do him
no harm, was exactly what Pools wanted in the extraordinary
crisis to which he had come. A humble

person, quite unheroic in his habits as in his antecedents,
it was scarcely to be expected that the extraordinary
project which had entered his mind should
have been carried out with the enthusiastic impulse of
romantic youth. But few youths, however romantic,
would have entertained such a purpose as that which
now occupied Rolls. There are many who would risk
a great deal to smuggle an illustrious prisoner out of
his prison. But this was an enterprise of a very
different kind. He left Mr Monypenny with his
head full of thoughts which where not all heroic. None
of his inquiries had been made without meaning.
The self-devotion which was in him was of a sober
kind, not the devotion of a Highland clansman, an
Evan Diu; and though the extraordinary expedient
he had planned appeared to him more and not less
alarming than the reality, his own self-sacrifice was
not without a certain calculation and caution too.

All these things had been seriously weighed and
balanced in his mind. He had considered his sister's
interest, and even his own eventual advantage.
He had never neglected these primary objects of
life, and he did not do so now. But though all was
taken into account and carefully considered, Rolls's
first magnanimous purpose was never shaken; and
the use he made of the important breathing - time
of these intervening days was characteristic. He

had, like most men, floating in his mind several
things which he intended " some time " to do,  a
vague intention which, in the common course of
affairs, is never carried out. One of these things
was to pay a visit to Edinburgh. Edinburgh to
Rolls was as much as London and Paris and Rome
made into one. All his patriotic feelings, all that
respect for antiquity which is natural to the mind
of a Scot, and the pride of advancing progress and
civilisation which becomes a man of this century,
were involved in his desire to visit the capital of
his own country. Notwithstanding all the facilities
of travel, he had been there but once before, and
that in his youth. AVith a curious solemnity he
determined to make this expedition now. It seemed
the most suitable way of spending these all-important
days, before he took the step beyond which he did
not know what might happen to him. A more serious
visitor, yet one more determined to see everything
and to take the full advantage of all he saw,
never entered that romantic town. He looked like
a rural elder of the gravest Calvinistic type as he
walked, in his black coat and loosely tied white
neckcloth, about the lofty streets. He went to Holy-rood,
and gazed with reverence and profound belief
at the stains of Rizzio's blood. He mounted up to
the Castle and examined Mons Meg with all the

care of a historical observer. He even inspected the
pictures in the National Collection with unbounded
respect, if little knowledge, and climbed the Observatory
on the Calton Hill. There were many spectators
about the streets who remarked him as he
walked about, looking conscientiously at everything,
with mingled amazement and respect ; for his respectability,
his sober curiosity, his unvarying seriousness,
were remarkable enough to catch an intelligent eye.
But nobody suspected that EoUs's visit to Edinburgh
was the solemn visit of a martyr, permitting himself
the indulgence of a last look at the scenes that
interested him most, ere giving himself up to an
unknown and mysterious doom.

On the morning of the 24th, having satisfied himself
fully, he returned home. He was quite satisfied.
"Whatever might now happen, he had fulfilled his
intention, and realised his dreams : nothing could take
away from him the gratification thus secured. He
had seen the best that earth contained, and now was
ready for the worst, whatever that might be. Great
and strange sights, prodigies unknown to his fathers,
were befitting and natural objects to occupy him at
this moment of fate. It was still early when he got
back : he stopped at the Tinto Station, not at that
which was nearest to Dalrulzian, and slowly making
his way up by the fatal road, visited the scene of Tor-ranee's

death. The lodge-keeper called out to him, ashe
turned that way, that the road was shut up ; but
Rolls paid no heed. He clambered over the hurdles
that were placed across, and soon reached the scene
of the tragedy. The marks of the horse's hoofs were
scarcely yet obliterated, and the one fatal point at
which the terrified brute had tinted deeply into the
tough clay, its last desperate attempt to hold its footing,
was almost as distinct as ever.

The terrible incident with which he had so much
to do came before him with a confused perception of
things he had not thought of at the time, reviving, as
in a dream, before his very eyes. He remembered
that Torrance lay with his head down the stream  a
point which had not struck him as important; and
he remembered that Lord Eintoul had appeared out of
the wood at his cry for help so quickly, that he could
not have been far away when the accident took place.
What special signification there might be in these
facts Rolls was not sufficiently clear-headed to see.
But he noted them with great gravity in a little notebook,
which he had bought for the purpose. Then,
having concluded everything, he set out solemnly on
his "way to Dunearn.

It was a long walk. The autumnal afternoon closed
in mists ; the moon rose up out of the haze  the harvest
moon, with a little redness in her light. The

landscape was dim in this mellowed vapour, and
everything subdued. The trees, with all their fading
glories, hung still in the haze ; the river tinkled with
a far-off sound ; the lights in the cottages were blurred,
and looked like huge vague lamps in the milky air, as
Rolls trudged on slowly, surely, to the place of fate.
It took him a long time to walk there, and he did not
hurry. Why should he hurry? He was sure, went
he ever so slowly, to arrive in time. As he went
along, all things that ever he had done came up into
his mind. His youthful extravagances  for Rolls, too,
had once been young and silly; his gradual settling
into manhood; his aspirations, which he once had,
like the best; his mal anchorage, which, if not ina
very exalted post, nor perhaps what he had once
hoped for, was yet so respectable. Instead of the long
lines of trees, the hedgerows, and cottages which
marked the road, it was his own life that Rolls walked
through as he went on. He thought of the old folk,
his father and mother ; he seemed to see Bauby and
himself and the others coming home in just such a
misty autumn night from school. Jock, poor fellow !
who had gone to sea, and had not been heard of for
years ; Willie, who 'listed, and nearly broke the old
mother's heart. How many shipwrecks there had
been among the lads he once knew ! Rolls felt, with
a warmth of satisfaction about his heart, how well it

was to have walked uprightly, to have " won through "
the storms of life, and to have been a credit and a
comfort to all belonging to him. If anything was
worth living for, that was. Willie and Jock had both
been cleverer than he, poor fellows ! but they had
both dropped, and he had held on. Rolls did not
want to be proud; he was quite willing to say, "If

it had not been for the grace of God ! " but yet it

gave him an elevating sense of the far superior pleasure
it was to conquer your inclinations in the days of
your youth, and to do well whatever might oppose.
When the name of Rolls was mentioned by any one
about Dunearn, it would always be said that two of
them had done very well  Tammas and Bauby : these
were the two. They had always held by one another ;
they had always been respectable. But here Rolls
stopped in his thoughts, taking a long breath. After
this, after what was going to happen, what would the
folk say then ? Would a veil drop after to-day upon
the unblemished record of his life? He had never
stood before a magistrate in all his days  never seen
how the world looked from the inside of a prison, even
as a visitor  had no-thing to do, no-thing to do with
that side of the world. He waved his hand, as if
separating by a mystic line between all that was
doubtful or disreputable, and his own career. But
now Thus through the misty darkening road,

with now a red gleam from a smithy, and now a softer
glimmer from a cottage door, and anon the trees
standing out of the mists, and the landscape widening
about him, Rolls came on slowly, very seriously,
to Dunearn. The long tower of the Town House,
which had seemed to threaten and call upon Lord
Eintoul, was the first thing that caught the eye of
Rolls. The moon shone upon it, making a white line
of it against the cloudy sky.

Mr Monypenny was at dinner with his family.
They dined at six o'clock, which was thought a rather
fashionable hour, and the comfortable meal was just
over. Instead of wine, the good man permitted himself
one glass of toddy when the weather grew cold.
He was sitting between the table and the fire, and his
wife sat on the other side giving him her company
and consolation,  for Mr Monypenny was somewhat
low and despondent. He had been moved by Sir
James Montgomery's warm and sudden partisanship
and belief of John Erskine's story ; but he was a
practical man himself, and he could not, he owned,
shaking his head, take a sensational view. To tell
him that there should have been just such an encounter
as seemed probable  high words between two
gentlemen  but that they should part with no harm
done, and less than an hour after one of them be
found lying dead at the bottom of the Scar  that

was more than lie could swallow in the way of a story.
To gain credence, there should have been less or more.
Let him hold his tongue altogether  a man is never
called upon to criminate himself  or let him say all.
"Then you must just give him a word, my dear, to
say nothing about it," said Mrs Monypenny, who was
anxious too. "rebut that's just impossible, my dear,
for he blurted it all out to the sheriff just as he told it
to me." " Do you not think it's a sign of innocence
that he should keep to one story, and when it's
evidently against himself, so far as it goes ? " "A
sign of innocence ! " Mr Monypenny said, with a snort
of impatience. He took his toddy very sadly, finding
no exhilaration in it. " Pride will prevent him departing
from his story," he said. '' If he had spoken out
like a man, and called for help like a Christian, it
would have been nothing. All this fuss is his own
doing  a panic at the moment, and pride  pride now,
and nothing more."

"If ye please," said the trim maid who was Mr
Monypenny's butler and footman all in one  the
table-maid," as she was called  " there's one wanting
to speak to ye, sir. I've put him into the office, and
he says he can wait."

One ! and who may the one be ? " said Mr Mony-penny.


Weel, sir, he's got his hat toon on his brows and a

comforter about his throat, and he looks sore for-fought,
as if he had travelled all the day, and no' a
word to throw at a dog ; but I think it's Mr Rolls, the
butler at Dalrulzian."

Rolls ! " said Mr Monypenny. " I'll go to him
directly, Jeanie. That's one thing off my mind. I
thought that old body had disappeared rather than
bear witness against his master," he said, when the
girl had closed the door.

But oh, if he's going to bear witness against his
master, it would have been better for him to disappear,"
said the sympathetic wife. " Nasty body ! to
eat folk's bread, and then to get them into trouble."

Whisht with your foolish remarks, my dear : that
is clean against the law, and it would have had a very
bad appearance, and prejudiced the Court against us,"
Mr Monypenny said as he went away. But to tell the
truth, he was not glad ; for Rolls was one of the most
dangerous witnesses against his master. The agent
went to his office with a darkened brow. It was not
well lighted, for the lamp had been turned down, and
the fire was low. Rolls rose up from where he had
been sitting on the edge of a chair as Mr Monypenny
came in. He had unwound his comforter from his
neck, and taken off his hat. His journey, and his
troubled thoughts, and the night air, had limped and
damped him ; the starch was out of his tie, and the

VOL. Il K .

air of conscious rectitude out of his aspect. He made
a solemn but tremulous bow, and stood waiting till the
door was closed, and the man of business had thrown
himself into a chair. 'well, Rolls  so you have
come back ! " Mr Monypenny said.

Ay, sir, I've  come back. I've brought you the
man, Mr Monypenny, that did yon!'

"Good Lord, Rolls! that did what? You take
away my breath."

I'll do it more or I'm done. The man that coupit
yon poor lad Tinto and his muckle horse over the
brae."

Mr Monypenny started to his feet. " Do you mean
to tell me  Lord bless us, man, speak out, can't ye !

The man that Are ye in your senses, Rolls ?

And who may this man be ? "

You see before you, sir, one that's nae better thana
coward. I thought it would blow by. I thought
the young master would be cleared in a moment.
There was nae ill meaning in my breast. I did the
best I could for him as soon as it was done, and lostna
a moment. But my courage failed me to say it was
me "

You ! " cried Monypenny, with a shout that rang
through the house.

Just me, and no other ; and what for no' me ?

Am I steel and air, to take ill words from a man
that was no master of mine? Ye can shut me up in
your prison  I meant him no hair  and hang me if
you like. I'll no' let an innocent man suffer instead
of me. I've come to give myself up."

CHAPTER XL.

Dear Mk Erskine, I do not know what words to
use to tell you how pained and distressed we are 
I speak for my mother as well as myself  to find that
nothing has been done to relieve you from the consequence
of such a ridiculous as well as unhappy mistake.
We found my brother Robin as anxious as we
were, or more so, if that were possible, to set matters
right at once ; but unfortunately on the day after,
the funeral took up all thoughts : and what other
obstacles intervened next day I cannot rightly tell,
but something or other  I am too impatient and
pained to inquire what  came in the way; and they
tell me now that tomorrow is the day of the examination,
and that it is of no use now to forestall justice,
which will certainly set you free tomorrow. Oh, dear
Mr Erskine, I cannot tell you how sick and sore my
heart is to think that you have been in confinement
(it seems too dreadful, too ludicrous, to be true), in

confinement all these long days. I feel too angry, too
miserable, to think of it. I have been crying, as if
that would do you any good, and rushing up and
down abusing everybody. I think that in his heart
Robin feels it more than any of us : he feels the injustice,
the foolishness ; but still he has been to blame,
and I don't know how to excuse him. We have not
dared to tell poor Carry  though, indeed, I need not
attempt to conceal from you, who have seen so much,
that poor Carry, though she is dreadfully excited and
upset, is not miserable, as you would expect a woman
to be in her circumstances. Could it be expected ?
But 1 don't know what she might do if she heard what
has happened to you. She might take some step of
her own accord, and that would be not prudent, I suppose
; so we don't tell her. Oh, Mr Erskine, did you
ever think how miserable women are? I never realised
it till now. Here am 1, and, still more, here is my
mother. She is not a child, or an incapable person, I
hope ! yet she can do nothing  nothing to free you.
She is as helpless as if she were a baby. It seems tome
ridiculous that Robin's opinion should be worth taking,
and mine not; but that is quite a different matter.
My mother can do nothing but persuade and plead
with a boy like Robin, to do that which she herself, at
her age, wise as she is, good as she is, cannot do. As
you are a man, you may think this of no importance ;

and mamma says it is nature, and cannot be resisted,
and smiles. But if you suppose she does not feel it !
if she could have been your bail, or whatever it is,
you may be sure you would not have been a single
night in that place ! but all that we can do is to go
down on our knees to the men who have it in their
power, and I, unfortunately, have not been brought upto
go down on my knees. Forgive me for this outburst.
I am so miserable to think where you are, and
why, and that I  I mean lue  can do nothing. "What
can I say to you ? Dear Mr Erskine, our thoughts herewith
you constantly. My mother sends you her love.

Edith."

Edith felt perhaps that this was not a very prudent
letter. She was not thinking of prudence, but of
relieving her own mind and comforting John Erskine,
oppressed and suffering. And besides, she was herself
in a condition of great excitement and agitation.
She had been brought back from Tinto, she and her
mother, with a purpose. Perhaps it was not said
to her in so many words ; but it was certainly conveyed
to the minds of the female members of the
family generally that Millefleurs was at the end of
his patience, and his suit must have an answer once
for all. Carry had been told of the proposal by her
mother, and had pledged herself to say nothing against

it. And she had kept her promise, though with difficulty,
reserving to herself the power to act afterwards
if Edith should be driven to consent against her will.
Another of us shall not do it," Carry said ; " oh, not
if I can help it ! " "I do not believe that Edith will
do it," said Lady Lindores ; "but let us not interfere
let us not interfere ! " Carry, therefore, closed her
mouth resolutely ; but as she kissed her sister, she
could not help whispering in her ear, "Remember that I
will always stand you  always, whatever happens !"
This was at Lindores, where Carry, pining to see once
more the face of the outer world since it had so
chanced to her, drove her mother and sister in the
afternoon, returning home alone with results which
were not without importance in her life. But in the
meantime it is Edith with whom we have to do. She
reached home with the sense of having a certain ordeal
before her  something which she had to pass through,
not without pain  which would bring her into direct
antagonism with her father, and convulse the household
altogether. Even the idea that she must more
or less vex Millefleurs distressed and excited her ;
for indeed she was quite willing to admit that she
was " very fond of" Millefleurs, though it was ridiculous
to think of him in any other capacity than that
of a brotherly friend. And it was at this moment she
made the discovery that, notwithstanding the promises

of Eintoul and Millefleurs, nothing had been
done for John. The consequence was, that the letter
which we have just quoted was at once an expression
of sympathy, very warm, and indeed impassioned 
more than sympathy, indignation, wrath, sentiments
which were nothing less than violent  and a way
of easing her own excited mind which nothing else
could have furnished. " I am going to write to John
Erskine," she said, with the boldness produced by so
great a crisis ; and Lady Lindores had not interfered.
She said, " Give him my love," and that was all. No
claim of superior prudence, or even wisdom, has been
made for Lady Lindores. She had to do the best
she could among all these imperfections. Perhaps she
thought that, having expressed all her angry glowing
heart to John, in the overflowing of impassioned sympathy,
the girl would be more likely, in the reaction
and fear lest she had gone too far, to be kind to
Millefleurs ; for who can gauge the ebbing and flowing
of these young fantastic souls ? And as for Lady
Lindores's private sentiments, she would not have
forced her daughter a hairbreadth; and she had a
good deal of pain to reconcile herself to Millefleurs's
somewhat absurd figure as the husband of Edith.
But yet, when all is said, to give your child the
chance of being a duchess, who would not sacrifice
a little ? If only Edith could make up her mind toit

! Lady Lindores went no further. Nevertheless,
when the important moment approached, she could not
help, like Carry, breathing a word in her child's ear,
*' Remember, there is no better heart in existence,"
she said. " A woman could not have a better man."
Edith, in her excitement, grasped her mother's arms
with her two hands ; but all the answer she gave
was a little nervous laugh. She had no voice to
reply.

You will remember, Millefleurs, that my daughter
is very young  and  and shy," said Lord Lindores, on
the other side. He was devoured by a desire to say,
If she refuses you, never mind  I will make her give
in ;" which indeed was what he had said in a kind
of paraphrase to Torrance. But Millefleurs was not
the sort of person to whom this could be said. He
drew himself up a little, and puffed out his fine chest,
when his future father-in-law (as they hoped) made
this remark. If Edith was not as willing to have him
as he was to have her, she was not for Millefleurs.
He almost resented the interference. " I have no
doubt that Lady Edith and I will quite understand
each other  whichever way it may be," Millefleurs
added with a sigh, which suited the situation. As a
matter of fact, he thought there could not be very
much doubt as to the reply. It was not possible that
they could have made him stay only to get a refusal

at the end  and Millefleurs was well aware that the
girls were very few who could find it in their hearts
to refuse a future dukedom : besides, had it not been
a friendship at first sight  an immediate liking, if not
love ? To refuse him now would be strange indeed.
It was not until after dinner that the fated moment
came. Neither Lord Lindores nor Eintoul came into
the drawing-room; and Lady Lindores, having her
previous orders, left the field clear almost immediately
after the entrance of the little hero. There was nothing
accidental about it, as there generally is, or appears to
be, about the scene of such events. The great drawing
- room, all softly lighted and warm, was never
abandoned in this way in the evening. Edith stood
before the fire, clasping her hands together nervously,
the light falling warm upon her black dress and the
gleams of reflection from its jet trimmings. They had
begun to talk before Lady Lindores retreated to the
background to look for something, as she said ; and
Millefleurs allowed the subject they were discussing to
come to an end before he entered upon anything more
important. He concluded his little argument with
the greatest propriety, and then he paused and cleared
his throat.

Lady Edith," he said, " you may not have noticed
that we are alone." He folded his little hands together,
and put out his chest, and made all his curves

more remarkable, involuntarily, as he said this. It
was his way of opening a new subject, and he was not
carried out of his way by excitement as Edith was.

She looked round breathlessly, and said, " Has
mamma gone ? " with a little gasp  a mixture of
agitation and shame. The sense even that she was
false in her pretence at surprise  for did she not know
what was coming ?  agitated her still more.

"Yet," said Millefleurs, drawing out his lisp into
a sort of sigh. " I have asked that I might see
you by yourself. You will have thought, perhaps,
that for me to stay here when the family was in 
affliction, was, to say the least, bad taste, don't you
know ? "

No," said Edith, faltering, " I did not think so ; I
thought "

That is exactly so," said Millefleurs, seriously.
It is a great bore, to be sure ; but you and I are not
like two nobodies. The truth is, I had to speak to
your father first : it seemed to be the best thing to do,
and now I have been waiting to have this chance.
Lady Edith, I hope you are very well aware that I
am  very fond of you, don't you know ? I always
thought we were fond of one another "

You were quite right, Lord Millefleurs," cried Edith,
nervously; "you have been so nice  you have been
like another brother "

Thanks ; but it was not quite in that way." Here
Millefleurs put out his plump hand and took hers in a
soft, loose clasp  a clasp which was affectionate but
totally unimpassioned. He patted the hand with his
fingers as he held it in an encouraging, friendly way.
"That's very pleasant; but it doesn't do, don't you
know? People would have said we were, one of us,
trifling with the other. I told Lord Lindores that
there was not one other girl in the world  that is, in
this country  whom I ever could wish to marry but
you. He was not displeased, and I have been waiting
ever since to ask ; don't you think wee might marry,
Lady Edith ? I should like it if you would. I hope"
I have not been abrupt, or anything of that sort."

Oh no !  you are always considerate, always kind,"
cried Edith ; " but, dear Lord Millefleurs, listen to me,
I don't think it would do "

No ? " he said, with rather a blank air, suddenly
pausing in the soft pat of encouragement he was giving
her upon the hand ; but he did not drop the hand,
nor did Edith take it from him. She had recovered
her breath and her composure ; her heart fluttered no
more. The usual half laugh with which she was in
the habit of talking to him came into her voice.

No ? " said Millefleurs. " But, indeed, I think it
would do very nicely. We understand each other
very well; we belong to the same milieu'' (how

pleased Lord Lindores would have been to hear this,
and how amazed the Duke !), " and we are fond of
each other. We are both young, and you are extremely
pretty. Dear Edith  mayn't I call you so? 
I think it would do admirably, delightfully ! "

Certainly you may call me so," she said, with a
smile; "but on the old footing, not any new one.
There is a difference between being fond of any one,
and being  in love." Edith said this with a hot,
sudden blush ; then shaking her head as if to shake
that other sentiment off, added, by way of reassuring
herself, " don't you know ? " with a tremulous laugh.
Little Millefleurs's countenance grew more grave. He
was not in love with any passion ; still he did not like
to be refused.

Excuse me, but I can't laugh," he said, putting
down her hand ; " it is too serious. I do not see the
difference, for my part. I have always thought that
falling in love was a rather vulgar way of describing
the matter. I think we have all that is wanted fora
happy marriage. If you do not love me so much as
I love you, there is no great harm in that; it will
come in time. I feel sure that I should be a very
good husband, and you "

Would not be a good wife  oh no, no ! " cried
Edith, with a little shudder, shrinking from him ;
then she turned towards him again with sudden compunction.

" You must not suppose it is unkindness ;
but think,  two people who have been like brother
and sister."

"The only time," said Millefleurs, still more seriously,
" that I ever stood in this position before, it was
the relationship of mother and son that was suggested
to me  with equal futility, if you will permit me to
say so;  brother and sister means little. So many
people think they feel so, till some moment undeceives
them. I think I may safely say that my feelings
have never  except, perhaps, at the very first 
been those of a brother,  any more," he added in a
parenthesis, " than they were ever those of a son."

What Edith said in reply was the most curious
request ever made perhaps by a girl to the man who
had just asked her to marry him. She laid her hand
upon his arm, and said softly, " Tell me about her ! "
in a voice of mild coaxing, just tempered with laughter.
Millefleurs shook his head, and relieved his
plump bosom with a little sigh.

Not at this moment, dear Edith. This affair
must first be arranged between us. You do not mean
to refuse me? Reflect a moment. I spoke to your
father more than a week ago. It was the day before
the death of poor Mr Torrance. Since then I have
waited, hung up, don't you know, like Mahomet's
coffin. When such a delay does occur, it is generally

understood in one way. When a lady means to say
'No, it is only just to say it at once  not to permit a
man to commit himself, and leave him, don't you
know, hanmi](? on."

Dear Lord Millefieurs "

My name is Wilfrid," he said, with a little pathos ;
no one ever calls me by it : in this country not even
my mother  calls me by my name."

In America," said Edith, boldly, " you were called
so by  the other lady "

He waved his hand. " By many people," he said ;
but never mind. Never by any one here. Call me
Wilfrid, and I shall feel happier "

I was going to say that if you had spoken to me, 1
should have told you at once," Edith said. "When
you understand me quite, then we shall call each other
anything you please. But that cannot be, Lord Mille-fleurs.
Indeed you must understand me. I like you
very much. I should be dreadfully sorry if I thought
what I am saying would really hurt you  but it
will not after the first minute. I think you ought to
marry her "

Oh, there would be no hindrance there," said
Millefieurs ; " that was quite unsuitable. I don't
suppose it could ever have been. But with you," he
said, turning to take her hand again, " dear Edith !
everything is as it should be  it pleases your people,

and it will delight mine. They will all love you;
and for my part, I am almost as fond of dear Lady
Lindores as I am of you. Nothing could be more
jolly (to use a vulgar word  for I hate slang) than the
life we should lead. I should take you over there,
don't you know, and show you everything, as far as
San Francisco if you like. I know it all. And you
would form my opinions, and make me good for something
when we came back. Come ! let it be settled
so," said Millefleurs, laying his other hand on Edith's,
and patting it softly. It was the gentlest fraternal
affectionate clasp. The hands lay within each other
without a thrill in them  the young man kind as any
brother, the girl in nowise afraid.

Do you think," said Edith, with a little solemnity,
from which it cost her some trouble to keep out a
laugh, " that if I could consent (which I cannot : it is
impossible), do you think it would not be a surprise,
and perhaps a painful one, to  the other lady  if she
heard you were coming to America so ? "

Lord Millefleurs raised his eyes for a moment to
the ceiling, and he sighed. It was a tribute due to
other days and other hopes. " I think not," he said.
She was very disinterested. Indeed she would not
hear of it. She said she regarded me as a mother,
don't you know ? There is something very strange in
these things," he added, quickly forgetting (as appeared)

his position as lover, and putting Edith's hand
unconsciously out of his. " There was not, you would
have supposed, any chance of such feelings arising.
And in point of fact it was not suitable at all.
Still, had she not seen so very clearly what was my
duty "

I know now," said Edith ; " it was the lady who 
advised you to come home."

He did not reply directly. " There never was anybody
with such a keen eye for duty," he said ; " when
she found out I hadn't written to my mother, don't
you know, that was when she pulled me up. ' Don't
speak to me she said. She would not hear a word.
I was just obliged to pack up. But it was perfectly
unsuitable. I never could help acknowledging that."

Wilfrid," said Edith, half in real, half in fictitious
enthusiasm,  for it served her purpose so admirably
that it was difficult not to assume a little more than
she felt  " how can you stand there and tell me that
there was anything unsuitable in a girl who could
behave so finely as that. Is it because she had no
stupid little title in her family, for example ? You
have titles enough for half-a-dozen, I hope. Are you
not ashamed to speak to one girl of another like
that "

Thank you," said Millefleurs, softly,  " thank you ;
you are a darling. All you say is quite true. But

VOL. in. L

she is not  exactly a girl. The fact is  she is older
than  my people would have liked. Of course that
was a matter of complete indifference to me."

0 oh ! of course," said Edith, faintly : this is a
point on which girls are not sympathetic. She was
very much taken aback by the intimation. But she
recovered her courage, and said with a great deal of
interest, "Tell me all about her now."

Are you quite decided ? " he said solemnly.
"Edith,  let us pause a little; don't condemn me,
don't you know, to disappointment and heartbreak,
and all that, without sufficient cause. I feel sure we
should be happy together. I for one would be the

happiest man "

I could not, I could not," she cried, with a sudden
little effusion of feeling, quite unintentional. A flush
of hot colour ran over her, her eyes filled with tears.
She looked at him involuntarily, almost unconscious,
with a certain appeal, which she herself only half
understood, in her eyes. But Millefleurs understood,
not at the half word, as the French say, but at the
half thought which he discovered in the delicate transparent
soul looking at him through those two involuntary
tears. He gazed at her for a moment with
a sudden startled enlargement of his own keen little
eyes. " To be sure ! " he cried. " How was it I never
thought of that before ? "

Edith felt as if she had made some great confession,
some cruel admission, she did not know what. She
turned away from him trembling. This half comic
interview suddenly turned in a moment to one of
intense and overwhelming, almost guilty emotion.
What had she owned to ? What was it he made so
sure of? She could not tell. But now it was that
Millefieurs showed the perfect little gentleman he
was. The discovery was not entirely agreeable to
his amour 'propre, and wounded his pride a little ; butin
the meantime the necessary thing was to set Edith
at her ease so far as was possible, and make her forget
that she had in any way committed herself. What he
did was to set a chair for her, with her back to the
lamp, so that her countenance need not be revealed for
the moment, and to sit down by her side with confidential
calmness. "Since you wish it," he said,
and are so kind as to take an interest in her, there
is nothing I should like so much as to tell you about
my dear Miss Nelly Field. I should like you to befriends."


Would it were possible to describe the silent hush
of the house while these two talked in this preposterous
manner in the solitude so carefully prepared
for them ! Lord Lindores sat breathless in his library,
listening for every sound, fixing his eyes upon his
door, feeling it inconceivable that such a simple matter

should take so long a time to accomplish. Lady
Lindores in her chamber, still more anxious, foreseeing
endless struggles with her husband if Millefieurs
persevered, and almost worse, his tragical wrath and
displeasure if Millefieurs (as was almost certain) accepted
at once Edith's refusal, sat by her fire in the
dark, and cried a little, and prayed, almost without
knowing what it was that she asked of God. Not,
surely, that Edith should sacrifice herself? Oh no ;
but that all might go well  that there might be peace
and content. She did not dictate how that was to be.
After a while both father and mother began to raise
their heads, to say to themselves that unless he had
been well received, Millefieurs would not have remained
so long oblivious of the passage of time. This
brought a smile upon Lord Lindores's face. It dried
his wife's eyes, and made her cease praying. Was it
possible ? Could Edith, after all, have yielded to the
seductions of the dukedom ? Her mother felt herself
struck to the heart by the thought, as if an arrow
had gone into her. Alas not she pleased ? It would
delight her husband, it would secure family peace, it
would give Edith such a position, such prospects, as
far exceeded the utmost hopes that could have been
formed for her. Somehow, however, the first sensation
of which Lady Lindores was conscious was a
humiliation deep and bitter. Edith too ! she said to

herself, with a quivering smile upon her lips, a sense
of heart-sickness and downfall within her. She had
wished it surely  she had felt that to see her child a
duchess would he a line thing, a thing worth making
a certain sacrifice for ; and Millefleurs had nothing in
him to make a woman fear for her daughter's happiness.
But women, everybody knows, are inaccessible
to reason. It is to be doubted whether Lady Lindores
had ever in her life received a blow more keen than
when she made up her mind that Edith was going todo
the right thing, the prudent wise thing, which
would secure family peace to her mother, and the
most dazzling future to herself.

When a still longer interval had elapsed, and no
one came to tell her of the great decision, which evidently
must have been made, Lady Lindores thought
it best to go back to the drawing-room, in which she
had left Edith and her lover. To think that Edith
should have found the love-talk of Millefleurs so delightful
after all, as to have forgotten how time passed,
and everything but him and his conversation, made
her mother smile once more, but not very happily.
When she entered the drawing-room she saw the pair
at the other end of it, by the fire, seated close together,
he bending forward talking eagerly, she leaning
towards him, her face full of smiles and interest.
They did not draw back, or change their position, as

lovers do, till Lady Lindores, much marvelling, came
close up to them, when Millefleurs, still talking,
jumped up to find a chair for her. "And that was
the last time we met," Millefleurs was saying, too
much absorbed in his narrative to give it up. "An
idea of duty like that, don't you know, leaves nothing
to be said."

Lady Lindores sat down, and Millefleurs stood in
front of the two ladies, with his back to the fire, as
Englishmen love to stand. There was a pause  of
extreme bewilderment on the part of the new-comer.
Then Millefleurs said, in his round little mellifluous
voice, folding his hands,  " I have been telling dear
Edith of a very great crisis in my life. She understands
me perfectly, dear Lady Lindores. I am very
sorry to tell you that she will not marry me ; but weare
friends for life."

Chapter XLL

Carry drove away from Lindores in the afternoon
sunshine, leaning back in her corner languidly watching
the slanting light upon the autumnal trees, and
the haze in which the distance was hid, soft, blue,
and ethereal, full of the poetry of nature. She had
about her that soft languor and delicious sense of
freedom from pain which makes convalescence so
sweet. She felt as if she had got over a long and
painful illness, and, much shattered and exhausted,
was yet getting better, in a heavenly exemption from
suffering, and perfect rest. This sense of recovery,
indeed, is very different from the languor and exhaustion
of sorrow ; and yet without any intention of hers,
it veiled with a sort of innocent hypocrisy those feelings
which were not in consonance with her supposed
desolation and the mourning of her widowhood. Her
behaviour was exemplary, and her aspect all that it
ought to be, everybody felt ; and though the countryside

was well aware that she had no great reason to
be inconsolable, it yet admired and respected her for
appearing to mourn. Her fragility, her paleness, her
smile of gentle exhaustion and worn-out looks, did her
unspeakable credit with all the good people about.
They were aware that she had little enough to mourn
for, but there are occasions on which nature demands
hypocrisy. Any display of satisfaction at another's
death is abhorrent to mankind. Carry in her convalescence
was no hypocrite, but she got the credit of it,
and was all the better thought of. People were almost
grateful to her for showing her husband this
mark of respect. After all, it is hard, indeed, when a
man goes out of this world without even the credit
of a woman's tears. But Carry had no sorrow in her
heart as she drove away from the door of her former
home. It had not been thought right that she should
go in. A widow of not yet a fortnight's standing may,
indeed, drive out to get a little air, which is necessary
for her health, but she cannot be supposed to be able
to go into a house, even if it is her father's. She was
kissed tenderly and comforted, as they took leave of
her. " My darling Carry, Edith and I will drive over
to see you tomorrow ; and then you have the children,"
her mother said, herself half taken in by Carry's
patient smile, and more than half desirous of being
taken in. " Oh yes, I have the children," Carry said.

But. in her heart she acknowledged, as she drove
away, that she did not even want the children. When
one has suffered very much, the mere absence of pain
becomes a delicious fact, a something actual, which
breathes delight into the soul. Even when your back
aches or your head aches habitually, to be free of that
for half an hour is heaven ; and Carry had the bewildering
happiness before her of being free of it for ever.
The world bore a different aspect for her ; the air blew
differently, the clouds floated with another motion. To
look out over the plain, and away to the blue hills
in the distance, with all their variety of slopes, and
the infinite sweet depths of colour and atmosphere
about them, was beyond all example delightful, quite
enough to fill life and make it happy. In the heavenly
silence she began to put her thoughts into words, as
in her youth she had done always when she was
deeply moved. Oh, who are they that seek pleasure
in the world, in society, in feasts and merrymaking,
when it is here, at their hand, ready for their enjoyment?
This was her theme. The sunset upon the
hills was enough for any one ; he who could not find
his happiness in that, where would he find it ? Carry
lay back in her corner, and felt that she would like to
kiss the soft air that blew upon her, and send salutations
to the trees and the sun. What could any one
want more? The world was so beautiful, pain had

gone out of it, and all the venom and the misery. To
rest from everything, to lie still and get better, was of
itself too exquisite. Carry had not for a long tinie
written any of those little poems which Edith and
Nora and some other choice readers had thought so
lovely. Her tears had grown too bitter for such expression
 and to feel herself flow forth once again into
the sweet difficulties of verse was another delight the
more. She was all alone, in deep weeds of widowhood,
and almost every voice within twenty miles had
within the last fortnight more than once uttered the
words " Poor Lady Car ! " but oh, how far from poor
she felt herself ! In what exquisite repose and peace
was she mending of all her troubles !

Sometimes she would ask herself, with a wonder
which enhanced the sweetness, Was it really all over 
all over  come to an end, this nightmare which had
blotted out heaven and earth ? Was it possible ?
never to come back to her again round any corner,
never to have any more power over her. Henceforward
to be alone, alone  what word of joy! It is a
word which has different meanings to different people.
To many in Carry's position it is the very knell of
their lives  to her there was a music in it beyond the
power of words to say. Her weakness had brought
that misery on herself : and now, was it possible that
she was to fare so much better than she deserved,

to get rid of it for ever ? She drew a long breath, and
imagined how different things might have been : she
might have lived to be an old woman under that
yoke ; she might never have got free  her mind, nor
her imagination, nor her life. She shuddered to think
what might have been. But it was over, ended,
finished, and she was free  done with it for ever. She
had not deserved this; it was a happiness which it
was scarcely possible to realise. Poor Carry, futile
even in her anticipations of relief! It never occurred
to her that the two little children to whom she was
returning  now all her own, she was so foolish as to
think  were pieces of Torrance, not done with, never
to be done with as long as her life lasted ; but she
was as unconscious of that, as incapable of thinking
of any harm to come from those round-faced, stolid
babies, as  any other mother could be.

Thus she was driving along, very happy, very still,
exhausted and languid and convalescent, with all the
beautiful world before her, full of consolation and
peace, when Trouble set out to meet her upon her
way. Poor Lady Car ! she had suffered so much, 
did not life owe her a little quiet, a breathing moment
long enough to get better in  quite better, as we
say in Scotland  and get the good of her deliverance?
Indeed it seemed so : but to different souls different
experiences. Some would have escaped, would have

gone on softly, never quite getting over the dismal
preface of their life to the sight of spectators, but in
reality tasting the sweetness of repose  till the inevitable
moment came, as it does to all, when the warfare
has to be taken up again. But to Carry there was
left no interval at all. She so delicate, so sensitive,
all her nerves so highly strung, quiet would have been
everything for her. But quiet she was not to have.
Trouble set out from the gate of Dalrulzian while she
rolled softly along to meet it, unconscious, thinking of
nothing which could justify that sudden apparition 
not a feeling in her going out towards it, or provoking
the sight. The trouble which thus approached Lady
Car was in the shape of Edward Beaufort, his tall
figure slightly stooping, yet in the full vigour of manhood,
his countenance gently despondent, a habitual
sigh hanging, as it were, about him ; the ends of his
luxuriant beard lightly moved by the breeze. He
walked somewhat slowly, musing, with nothing particular
to do, and Carry caught sight of him for sometime
before they met. She gave a low cry and sat
upright. Her convalescent heart lying so still, so
sweetly silent and even in its gentle beatings, like a
creature that had been hurt, and was coming softly to
itself, leaped up with a bound and spring, and began
to go again like a wild thing, leaping, palpitating,
pulling at its leash. The first movement was terror 

for though her tyrant was gone, the tradition of him
was still upon her, and she could not get rid of the
instinct all at once. " My God ! " she said to herself
in the silence, clasping her hands, " Edward ! " with
something of the wild passion of alarm which John
Erskine had once seen. But then all in a moment
again this terror subsided. Her sense of convalescence
and repose flew away like the wind. A wild flood of
joy and happiness rushed into her heart. " Edward ! "
for the first time, feeling herself carried away by a
drowning and dazzling tide of life, which blinded and
almost suffocated her. Carry realised in one moment
what it meant to be free. The effect was too tremendous
for any thought of prudence, any hesitation
as to what his sentiments might be, or what was suitable
to her own position. She called to the coachman
to stop, not knowing what she did, and with her head
and her hands stretched out from the window, met
him as he came up.

Eor the first moment there was not a word said
between them, in the excess of emotion, he standing
below, she looking out from above, her white face
surrounded by the widow's livery of woe, but suddenly
flushed and glowing with life and love, and a kind of
triumphant ecstasy. She had forgotten what it meant
she had not realised all that was in it ; and now it
burst upon her. She could not think, scarcely breathe

but held out her hands to him, with that look beyond
words to describe. And he took them in the same
way, and bent down his face over them, silent, not
saying a word. The coachman and footman on the
box thought it was excess of feeling that made this
meeting so silent. They were sorry for their mistress,
who was not yet able to meet any one with composure ;
and the low brief conversation that followed, sounded
to them like condolence and sympathy. How astounded
the men would have been, and the still landscape
around them, with its houses hidden in the
trees, and all its silent observers about, had they
known what this colloquy actually was.

Edward ! " was the first word that was said  and
then " Carry ! Carry ! but I ought not to call you so."

Oh, never call me anything else," she cried ; " I
could not endure another name from you. Oh, can
you forgive me, have you forgiven me ? I have paid
for it  bitterly, bitterly ! And it was not my fault."

I never blamed you. I have forgiven you always.
My suffering is not older than my forgiveness."

You were always better than I ; " and then she
added eagerly, not pausing to think, carried on by that
new tide that had caught her, " it is over ; it is allover
now."

It was on his lips to say Thank God  but he reflected,
and did not say it. He had held her hands all

the time. There was nobody to see them, and the
servants on the box were sympathetic and silent.
Then he asked, " Will they let me go to you now ? "

You will not ask any leave," she said hastily  " no
leave ! There are so many things I have to say to you
to ask your pardon. It has been on my heart to
ask your pardon every day of my life. I used to think
if I had only done that, I could die."

'' No dying now," he said, with her hands in his.

Ah," she cried, with a little shudder, " but it is by
dying I am here."

He looked at her pitifully with a gaze of sympathy.
He was prepared to be sorry if she was sorry. Even
over his rival's death Edward Beaufort felt himself
capable of dropping a tear. He could go so far as
that. Self-abnegation is very good in a woman, butin
a man it is uncalled for to this degree. He could
put himself out of the question altogether, and looked
at her with the deepest sympathy, ready to condole
if she thought proper. He was not prepared for the
honesty of Carry's profound sense of reopening life.

You have had a great deal to bear," he said, with
a vaoue intention of consoling her. He was thinking

o o o

of the interval that had elapsed since her husband's
death ; but she was thinking of the dismal abyss before,
and of all that was brought to a conclusion by
that event.

More than you can imagine  more than you could
believe," she said ; then paused, with a hot blush of
shame, not daring to look him in the face. All that
she had suffered, was not that a mountain between
them ? She drew her hands out of his, and shrinking
away from him, said, " When you think of that, you
must have a horror of me."

/ have a horror of you ! " he said, with a faint
smile. He put his head closer as she drew back. He
was changed from the young man she had known.
His beard, his mature air, the lines in his face, the
gentle melancholy air which he had acquired, were all
new to her. Carry thought that no face so compassionate,
so tender, had ever been turned upon her before.
A great pity seemed to beam in the eyes that
were fixed with such tenderness upon her. Perhaps
there was not in him any such flood of rosy gladness
as had illuminated her. The rapture of freedom was
not in his veins. But what a look that was ! A face
to pour out all your troubles to  to be sure always of
sympathy from. This was what she thought.

Then in the tremor of blessedness and overwhelming
emotion, she awoke to remember that she was by the
roadside  no place for talk like this. Carry had no
thought of what any one would say. She would have
bidden him come into the carriage and carried him
away with her  her natural support, her consoler.

There was no reason in her suddenly roused and passionate
sense that never again must it be in any one's
power to part them. Nor did she think that there
could be any doubt of his sentiments, or whether he
might still retain his love for her, notwithstanding all
she had done to cure him of it. For the moment she
was out of herself. They had been parted for so long
for so many miserable years  and now they were
together. That was all  restored to each other. But
still, the first moment of overwhelming agitation over,
she had to remember. " I have so much to tell you ! "
she cried ; " but it cannot be here."

When shall I come ? " he said.

Carry's impulse was to say " Now, now ! " It seemed
to her as if parting with him again would be tempting
fate. For the first time since she had got her freedom,
she put forth all her powers consciously, and controlled
herself. It seemed to her the utmost stretch of self-denial
when she said, " To-morrow," with a long-drawn
breath, in which her whole being seemed to go out to
him. The next moment the carriage was rolling along
as it had done before, and Carry had dropped back into
her corner, but not as she was before. Her entire
world was changed. The glow of life which had come
back to her was something which she had not known
for years. It belonged to her early bloom, when she
had no thought of ever being Lady Car or a great

VOL. ITT. M

personage. It belonged to the time when Edward
Beaufort was the lord of the ascendant, and nobody
thought him beneath the pretensions of Carry Lindores.
The intervening time had rolled away and was no
more. She put her hands over her eyes to shut out
everything but this that had been, and was, in spite
of all obstacles. Her heart filled all the silence with
tumultuous joyful beating. It was all over, the prison-time
of her life  the evil time  gone like a bad enchantment
 past and over, leaving no sign. It seemed
to her that she could take up her life where she laid it
down six years ago, and that all would be as though
this interruption had never been.

CHAPTER XLII.

No morning ever broke which brought more exciting
expectations than the morning of the 25th September
in the various houses in which our history lies. Of
the dozen people whose interests were concerned, not
one but awoke early to the touch of the warm autumnal
sunshine, and took up with a start of troubled energy,
painful or otherwise, the burden of existence, of which
for a few hours they had been partially oblivious.
The women had the best of it, which is not usual ; although
in the mingled feelings of Lady Lindores, glad
that her child had carried out her expectations, yet
half sorry, now it was over, that Edith had not accepted
the great matrimonial prize put into her hands
and in those of Edith herself, happy in having so
successfully surmounted the incident Millefleurs, yet
greatly disturbed and excited about the coming events
as concerned John Erskine, and doubtful whether she
ought to have written to him so very frank and undisguised

a letter,  there was as much pain as pleasure.
As for Carry, when she woke in the gloomy
magnificence of Tinto, and all the warmth and glowing
hopes of yesterday came back to her mind with a
bound, there was nothing in her thoughts which prevented
her lying still upon her pillows and letting the
Hood of light sweep into her heart, in a luxury of happiness
and peace which was past describing. She did
not for the moment even need to think of the meeting
to come. Blessedness seemed suddenly to have become
habitual to her once more. She woke to the
delight of life. " Bliss was it in that dawn to be
alive." The past had flown away like a dream : was
it a dream altogether, a nightmare, some dark shadow
of fear and pain, from which the oppressed soul, having
at last awoke, was free ? Beaufort at Dalrulzian got
up a similar feeling. He had been obliged to find
himself something of a failure  but he, too, seemed to
be restored to the hopes and the standing-ground of
youth. He would now have no excuse to himself for
his absence of energy and ambition. His youthful
strength was still unimpaired, though he had made so
much less of it than he ought. And now here were
all the occasions for a fresh beginning  sympathy to
support him and to inspire him. Not only would hebe
happy, but at last he would do something  he
would carry out all hopes and prophecies of him now.

This was the brighter side  but in Lindores the
sentiments of the chief personages in the house were
not so pleasant. Lord Lindores was angry and humiliated,
furious with his daughter and still more with
his wife, who, he had no doubt, with her ridiculous
romance, had filled the girl's head with follies 
and not much less with Millefleurs, who had thus
suffered himself to be foiled. But his disturbed
cogitations were as nothing to the tumult of pain
and alarm which rose up in Eintoul's mind when
he opened his eyes to the morning light. When
the young man awoke he had first a moment of
bewildered consideration, what was the meaning of
the confused sense of disaster of which he became
instantly conscious  and then he sprang from his
bed unable to rest, eager for movement or anything
which would counterbalance the fever of the crisis.
This was the day. He could delay no longer ; he
could not trifle with the situation, or leave things
to chance after to-day. It would be a new beginning
in his life. Hitherto all had gone on serenely enough.
He had gone with the stream, he had never set
himself in opposition to the world or its ways, never
done anything to draw men's eyes upon him. But
after to-day all would be changed. To-morrow his
name would be telegraphed over all the world in
newspaper paragraphs; tomorrow every fellow he

had ever known would be saying: "Eintoul! what

Eintoul ? You never can mean ? " No, they

would all feel it to be impossible. Eintoul who
was so safe, who never got into scrapes, whom they
even laughed at as a canny Scot, though he did
not feel a Scot at all. It would be incredible to all
who had ever known him. And what a scandal,
what an outcry it would make ! In his own family
even ! Eintoul knew that Carry was not a brokenhearted
widow, and yet it seemed to him that, after
she knew, she would never speak to him again.
It made his heart sink to think of all the changes
that in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, would
become inevitable. His father, with what rage, and
misery, and confusion of all his plans and hopes,
would he hear it ! with what consternation his mother
and sister ! As for himself, everything would be
interrupted and set aside, his life in every way
turned upside-down, his ambition checked, his hopes
destroyed. And all this to save John Erskine from
a certain amount of inconvenience ! That was how
at least it appeared to him  really from inconvenience,
nothing more. John was not a man of rank
like himself, full in the eyes of the world  he was
not responsible to a proud and ambitious father.
A short term of imprisonment to him would be like
a disagreeable visit, nothing more. Many people

had to spend a certain part of every year, for instance,
with an old uncle or aunt, somebody from whom
they had expectations. It really would be little or
nothing more than this. And it was not as if it had
been anything disgraceful. The county would not
think the worse of him ; it was an accident, a thing
that might have happened to any one. But to Eintoul
how much more terrible ! he the brother-in-law of the
man, with a sort of interest in his death. He would
have to leave his regiment. All his projects for
life would be interrupted. By the time he was
free again, he would be forgotten in society, and
his name would be fletri for ever. These thoughts
sent him pacing about his room with hasty steps,
the perspiration standing on his forehead. All to
save John Erskine, who was just as much to blame
as he was  for the first quarrel was the one which
had excited that unfortunate fellow ; all to save from
a little inconvenience another man !

Perhaps if he had been placed simply in front
of the question whether he would let another man
be punished for what he had done, Eintoul would
have had spirit enough to say No ; certainly if it
had been put to him quickly for an instant decision,
without time to think, he would have said No,
and held by his honour. But something else more
determined than himself stood before him. Nora !

He might use sophistries for the confusing of his own
intellect  but not hers. She would look at him,
he knew how. She would turn away from him, he
knew how. The anticipation of that glance of high
scorn and unspoken condemnation made Eintoul
tremble to the depths of his being. When he thought
of it he braced himself up with a rapidity and certainty
much unlike the previous hesitating strain of his
thoughts. " It must be done," he said to himself. He
might beguile himself with argument, but he could
not beguile her. The thought might intrude upon him
whether he had been wise to let her know  whether it
might not have been better to keep it to himself ; but,
having done it, the question was now not only whether
he was content to lose Nora  but if he was content to
put up with her scorn and immeasurable contempt.

They all remarked how pale he was when he
came to breakfast  ghastly pale, lines under his
eyes, the corners of his mouth drooping ; his hair,
which he had tried hard to brush as usual, hung
limp, and would not take its accustomed curl. Lady
Lindores tortured him by useless inquiries about
his health. " You are ill  I am sure you are ill.
You must let me send for the doctor." "For goodness'
sake, mother, let a fellow alone. I am as well
as you are," had been his amiable answer. He
all but swore at the servants, all but kicked the

dog, who thrust with confiding importunity his head
under his master's arm. The situation was intolerable
to him  his thoughts were buzzing in his ears
and all about him, so that he did not hear what
the other people said ; and they talked  with what
frivolous pertinacity they talked !  about nothing at
all, about the most trivial things ; while he was
balancing something that, in his excitement, he felt
inclined to call life or death.

But, indeed, Eintoul's impressions as to the gaiety
and lively conversation going on were as far as possible
from the truth. There was scarcely any conversation,
but a general embarrassment. Millefieurs
was the only one who said much. He bore his disappointment
so sweetly, and was so entirely master
of the situation, that Lord Lindores grew more and
more angry. He made various sharp replies, but the
little Marquis took no heed. He gushed forth, like a
flowing stream, a great many pleasant details about
his going home. He was going home in a day or
two. His visit to Lindores was one which he could
never forget; it had gained him, he hoped, friends
for life. Wherever he went he would carry with
him the recollection of the kindness he had received.
Thus he flowed forth, doing his best, as usual, to
smooth down the embarrassment of the others. But
the hour of the repast was somewhat terrible to everybody.

Decorum required that they should all sit a
certain time at the table, and make a fashion of eating.
People have to eat will they nill they, that they
may not betray themselves. They all came to the
surface, so to speak, with a gasp, as Millefleurs said
in his round and velvety voice, " I suppose you
are going to Dunearn to this examination, Lord
Lindores ? "

"It is a private affair, not an open court; but to
show an interest, I suppose I ought to be somewhere

near " was the answer ; and there arose at that

moment a howl of fright and pain from the dog, upon
whom Eintoul had spilt a cup of tea. He got up
white and haggard, shaking off the deluge from his
clothes. "These brutes get insufferable," he cried;
why can we never have a meal without a swarm of
them about ? "

The proceedings had begun at Dunearn before any
of the party from Lindores arrived there. Eintoul,
who was the first to set out, walked, with a sort of
miserable desire of postponing the crisis ; and Lord
Lindores, with a kind of sullen friendliness towards
John, followed in his phaeton. They were both late,
and were glad to be late ; which was very different
from Miss Barbara, who, wound up by anxiety to an
exertion which she could not have believed herself
capable of, had walked from her house, leaning on

Nora's arm, and was waiting on the spot when John
was driven up in a shabby old fly from Dunnottar.
The old lady was at the door of the fly before it could
be opened, putting out her hand to him. " My bonnie
lad, you'll come to your luncheon with me at half-past
one ; and mind that you're not late," she said, ina
loud, cheerful, and confident voice, so that every one
could hear. She took no notice of the lookers-on, but
gave her invitation and her greeting with a fine disdain
of all circumstances. Nora, upon whom she was
leaning, was white as marble. Her eyes were strained
with gazing aloncr the Lindores road. "Who are
you looking for, Nora ? " Miss Barbara had already
asked half-a-dozen times. It was not much support
she got from the tremulous little figure, but the old
lady was inspired. She stood till John had passed
into the Town House, talking to him all the time ina
voice which sounded over all the stir of the little
crowd which had gathered about to see him. " Janet
cannot bide her dishes to be spoilt. You will be
sure and come in time. I'll not wait for you, for
I'm not a great walker ; but everything will be ready
at half-past one."

When she had thus delivered her cheerful message,
Miss Barbara turned homeward, not without another
remark upon Nora's anxious gaze along the road.
You are looking for your fine friends from Lindores ;

we'll see none of them to-day," said the old lady resolutely,
turning her companion away. She went on
talking, altogether unaware how the girl was suffering,
yet touched by a perception of some anxiety in
her. "You are not to be unhappy about John Erskine,"
she said at last. These words came to Nora's
ears vaguely, through mists of misery, anger, bitter
disappointment, and that wrath with those we love
which works like madness in the brain. What did
she care for John Erskine? She had almost said
so, blurting out the words in the intolerance of her
trouble, but did not, restrained as much by incapacity
to speak as by any other hindrance. To think that
he for whom she was watching had proved himself
incapable of an act of simple justice ! to think that
the man whom she had begun by thinking lightly of,
but had been beguiled into loving she did not know
how, sure at all events of his honour and manliness
to think that he should turn out base, a coward,
sheltering himself at the cost of another 1 Oh, what
did it matter about John Erskine ? John Erskine
was a true man  nothing could happen to him.
Then there arose all at once in poor Nora's inexperienced
brain that bitterest struggle on earth, the
rally of all her powers to defend and account for,
while yet she scorned and loathed, the conduct of the
man she loved. It is easy to stand through evil report

and good by those who are unjustly accused, who are
wronged, for whom and on whose behalf you can hold
your head high. But when, alas ! God help them,
they are base, and the accusation against them just !
Nora, young, unused to trouble, not knowing the
very alphabet of pain, fell into this horrible pit in a
moment, without warning, without escape. It confused
all her faculties, so that she could do nothing
save stumble blindly on, and let Miss Barbara talk of
John Erskine  as if John Erskine and the worst that
could happen to him were anything, anything ! in
comparison with this passion of misery which Nora
had to bear.

And she was so little used to suffering. She did
not know how to bear. Spartans and Indians and all
those traditionary Stoics are bred to it  trained to
bear torture and make no sign ; but Nora had never
had any training, and she was not a Spartan or a
Need Indian. She was a woman, which is perhaps
next best. She had to crush herself down ; to turn
away from the road by which Eintoul might still
appear ; to go in to the quiet rooms, to the ordinary
morning occupations, to the needle-work which Miss
Barbara liked to see her do. Anything in the world
would have been easier ; but this and not anything
else in the world was Nora's business. And the sunny
silence of the gentle feminine house, only disturbed by

Miss Barbara's ceaseless talk about John, closed round
her. Janet came " ben " and had her orders. Agnes
entered softly with her mistress's cap and indoor
shawl. All went on as it had done for years.

This calm, however, was soon interrupted. The
Lindores' carriage drew up at the door, with all the
dash and splendour which distinguishes the carriage of
a countess when it stops at a humble house. Miss
Barbara had a standing prejudice against these fine
half-foreign (as she supposed) people. She rose up
with the dignity of an archduchess to receive her
visitors. Lady Lindores was full of anxiety and
sympathy. " We are as anxious as you can be," she
said, kissing Miss Barbara warmly before the old lady
could draw back.

'Deed I cannot say that I am anxious at all," said
Miss Barbara, with her head high. "A thing that
never happened cannot be proved against any man. I
am expecting miy nephew to his luncheon at half-past
one. As there's nothing against him, he can come to
no harm. I will be glad to see your ladyship and
Lady Edith to meet him  at half-past one," the old
lady said, with marked emphasis. She had no inclination
to allow herself to be intruded upon. But Edith
attained what her mother failed to achieve. She could
not conceal her agitation and excitement. She grew
red and pale a dozen times in a minute. " Oh yes,

Miss Barbara, I feel with you. I am not anxious at
all ! " she cried.

Why should she be anxious ? what had she to do
with John? Her flutter of changing colour touched
Miss Barbara's heart in spite of herself. No, she
would not be a suitable wife for John Erskine; an
earl's daughter was too grand for the house of Dal-russian.

But yet Miss Barbara could not help

being mollified. She pushed an easy-chair towards
the mother of this bonnie creature. "It will be a
pleasure to him to hear that there are kind hearts
caring for what happens to him. If your ladyship
will do me the honour to sit down," she said, with
punctilious yet suspicious respect.

Papa is there now," said Edith, whispering to
Nora ; " and Lord Millefleurs came with us, and will
bring us word how things are going. Kintoul started
before any of us "

Eintoul ! " said Nora  at least she thought she
said it. Her lips moved, a warm suffusion of colour
came over her, and she looked wistfully in Edith's
face.

He thought he would get to Dunearn before us, 
but, after all, horses go faster than men. What is the
matter ? Are you ill, Nora ? "

Nora was past making any reply. The cessation of
pain, that is more, a great deal more, than a negative

good. For the first moment, at least, it is bliss, active
bliss  more tliau anything else known to men. Of
course ISTora, when she came to herself, explained that
it was a sudden little spasm, a feeling of faintness, 
something she was used to. She was quite well, she
declared; and so it proved by the colour that came
back to her face. " She has not been herself all the
morning," said Miss Barbara ; " she will be the better
of young company  of somebody like herself."

After this the ladies tried to talk on indifferent subjects.
There were inquiries to be made for Lady
Caroline, " poor thing ! " and she was described as
being " better than we should have dared to hope,"
with as near an approach to the truth as possible ; and
then a scattered fire of remarks, now one, now another,
coming to the front with sudden energy ; while the
others relapsed into the listening and strain of curiosity.
Miss Barbara held her head high. It was she
who was the most steady in the conversation. She
would not suffer it to be seen that she had any tremor
as to what was going on. But the girls were unequal
to this fortitude. They fluctuated from red to white,
and from white to red. They would stop in the middle
of a sentence, their voices ending in a quaver, as if the
wind had blown them out. Why should they be so
moved ? Miss Barbara noted it keenly, and felt with
a thrill of pleasure that John was getting justice.

Two of them !  the bonniest creatures in the county !
How their rival claims were to be settled afterwards
she did not inquire; but in the meantime, at the
moment when he was under so dark a cloud, it
warmed her heart to see him so much thought of:
the Erskiness always were so ; they were a race that
women loved and men liked, and the last representative
was worthy of his sires.

Hours seemed to pass while the ladies thus held
each other in a wonderful tension and restraint, waiting
for the news : until a little commotion in the stair,
a hurried step, brought them all to their feet with one
impulse. It was little Millefieurs who rushed in with
his hat pressed to his breast. " Forgive the intrusion,"
he cried, with pants of utterance ; " I'm out of breath ;
I have run all the way. Erskine is coming after me
with Lord Lindores." He shook hands with everybody
vehemently in his satisfaction. " They let me in
because I was the Duke's son, don't you know; it's
convenient now and then ; and I bolted with the
news. But nobody presents me to Miss Erskine,"
he said, aggrieved. "Madam, I am Millefieurs. I
was Erskine's fag at Eton. I have run miles for him
to buy his buns and jam; but I was slimmer in those
days."

Miss Barbara had sunk upon a chair. Sh said,
with a panting of her ample bosom as if she had been

VOL. in. N

running too, " You are too kind, my Lord Millefleurs.
I told John Erskine to be here at half-past one to his
luncheon. You will all wait and meet him. You will

wait and meet him " She repeated the words with

a little sob of age, half laughter half tears. "The
Lord be praised!  though I never had any doubt of
it," the proud old lady said.

"It has all come perfectly clear," said Millefleurs,
pleased with his position as the centre of this eager
Group. 'the right msfn, the person to whom it really
happened, has come forward most honourably and
given himself up. I don't clearly understand all the
rights of the story. But there it is ; the man couldn't
stand it, don't you know. I suppose he thought nothing
would ever be found out ; and when he heard that
Erskine was suspected and taken, he was stunned at
first. Of course he should have produced himself at
once ; but airs well that ends well. He has done it
now."

The man  that did it ? " It was Nora that said
this, gazing at him with perfectly colourless cheeks,
standing out in the middle of the room, apart from
the others, who were for the moment too completely
satisfied with the news to ask more.

"Don't think it is crime," said Millefleurs, soothingly
" There is every reason to conclude that accident
will be the verdict. In the meantime, I suppose

he will be committed for trial ; but all these are details,
don't you know," he said, in his smooth voice.
"The chief thing is, that our friend is clear and at
liberty; and in a few minutes he'll be here."

They scarcely noticed that Nora disappeared out of
the room in the joyful commotion that followed. She
went away, almost suffocating with the effort to keep
her emotion down. Did he know of whom it was that
he was speaking? Was it possible that he knew?
the son of one, the brother of another to Nora more
than either. What did it mean ? Nora could not get
breath. She could not stay in the room, and see all
their relieved, delighted faces, the undisturbed satisfaction
with which they listened and asked their questions.
Was the man a fool? Was he a creature
devoid of heart or perception? An hour ago Nora
had thought that Eintoul's absence from his post
would kill her, that to see him do his duty was all
she wanted on earth. 'But now the indifference of
everybody around to what he had done, the ease with
which the story was told, the unconsciousness of the
listeners, was more intolerable to her than even that
despair. She could not bear it. She hurried away,
not capable of a word, panting for breath, choked by
her heart, which beat in her throat, in her very ears
and by the anguish of helplessness and suspense,
which was more than she could bear.

CHAPTER XLIII.

John Erskine had received Edith's letter that morning
in his prison. His spirits were at a very low ebb
when it was put into his hand. Four days' confinement
had taken the courage out of him more effectually
than any other discipline could have done ; and
though the prospect of his examination had brought
in a counterbalancing excitement, he was by no means
80 sure that everything would come right as he had
been at first. Having once gone wrong, why should
it come right ? If the public and the sheriff (or whatever
the man was) could entertain such an idea for
four days, why not for four years or a lifetime?
When Edith's letter was put into his hand he was
but beginning to awake, to brace himself up for an
encounter with the hostile world. He had begun to
say to himself that he must get his wits about him,
and not permit himself to be sacrificed without an
effort. And then, in a moment, up his heart went

like a shuttlecock. She had no doubt about him,
thank heaven ! Her " dear Mr Erskine' repeated
when it was not exactly necessary, and which she
had drawn her pen through, burt so lightly that the-cancelling
of the words only made them emphatic,,
seemed to John to say everything that wards could
say. It said more, in fact, than Edith would ever
have said had he not been in trouble and in prison ;
and then that outbreak about feminine impotence at
the end ! This was to John the sweetest pleasantry,,
the most delightful jest. He did not think of her
indignation or bitterness as real. The idea that Lady
Lindores and she would have been his bail if they
could, amused him so that he almost shed tears over
it 'j as well as the complaint that they could do nothing.
Do nothing ! who could do so much ? If all
went well, John said to himself, with a leap of his
heart  if all went well ! It was under the elation of
this stimulant that he got ready to proceed to Dun-earn
; and though to drive there in the dingy fly with
a guardian of the law beside him was not cheerful, his
heart swelled high with the thought that other hearts
were beating with anxiety for him. He thought more
of that than of his defence ; for to tell the truth, he
had not the least idea how to manage his defence. Mr
Monypenny had visited him again, and made him feel
that truth was the last thing that was likely to serve

him, and that by far his wisest plan would be to tell
a lie and own himself guilty, and invent a new set of
circumstances altogether. But he did not feel his
imagination equal to this. He would have to hold
by his original story, keep to the facts, and nothing
more. But surely some happy fortune would befriend
him. He was more excited, but perhaps less hopeful,
when Miss Barbara met him at the door of the Town
House. Her words did not give him the encouragement
she intended. Her luncheon and her house and
her confidence were for the moment intolerable to
John, as are so often the well-meant consolations of
his elders to a young man driven half frantic by
warmer hopes and fears. He came to himself altogether
when he stepped within the place in which he
felt that his fate was to be decided. Though it was
contrary to custom, several of his friends, gentlemen
of the county, had been admitted by favour of the
sheriff to be present at the examination, foremost
among them old Sir James, who towered over the rest
with his fine white head and erect soldierly bearing.
Lord Lindores was admitted under protest when the
proceedings were beginning; and after him, white
with dust, and haggard with excitement, Eintoul, who
kept behind backs, standing  so that his extremely
agitated countenance, his lips, with a slight nervous
quiver, as though he were about to speak, and eyes

drawn together with a hundred anxious lines about
them, were clearly apparent. John remarked this
face over all the others with the utmost surprise.
Eintoul had never been very cordial with him. What
could be the reason for this extraordinary manifestation
of interest now ? John, from his too prominent
place as the accused, had this agitated face confronting
him, opposed to him as it seemed, half defying
him, half appealing to him. Only the officials concerned
 the sheriff, who was a little slow and formal,
making unnecessary delays in the proceedings, and
the other functionaries  could see as John could the
face and marked position of Eintoul; and none of
these personages took any notice. John only felt his
eyes drawn to it instinctively. If all this passionate
sympathy was for him, how could he ever repay Ein-soul
for friendship so unexpected ? No doubt this
was her doings too.

Just as the witnesses were about to be called who
had been summoned  and of whom, though John was
not aware of it, Eintoul, who had (as was supposed)
helped to find the body, was one  an extraordinary
interruption occurred. Mr Monypenny, who to John's
surprise had not approached him or shown himself in
his vicinity, suddenly rose, and addressing the sheriff,
claimed an immediate stoppage of the proceedings, sofar
as Mr Erskine was concerned. He was a very

clear-headed and sensible man ; but be was a countryman
of business"  a Scotch solicitor  and he had
his own formal way of making a statement. It was
so formal, and had so many phrases in it only half
comprehensible to unaccustomed ears, that it was
some time before the little group of friends were fully
aware what the interruption meant.

Mr Monypenny announced, however, to the perfect
understanding of the authorities present, that the person
who had really encountered the unfortunate Mr
Torrance last, and been concerned in the scuffle which
no doubt unfortunately was the cause of the accident,
had come to his house on the previous night and
given himself up. The man's statement was perfectly
clear and satisfactory, and would be supported by
all the circumstantial evidence. He had kept back
nothing, but displayed the most honourable anxiety
to clear the gentleman who had been so unjustly accused
and put to so much personal inconvenience.

Is the man in court ? " the sheriff asked.

The man is here," said Mr Monypenny. The goodman
was conscious of the great effect he was producing.
He looked round upon the group of gentlemen
with thorough enjoyment of the situation; but he, too,
was startled by the extraordinary aspect of Lord
Rintoul. The young man was livid; great drops of
perspiration stood on his forehead ; the lines about his

eyes were drawn tight, and the eyes themselves, two
unquiet watchers, full of horror and astonishment,
looked out wildly, watching everything that was done.
His lips had dropped apart ; he stood like a man who
did not know what the next word might bring upon
him.

This is the man," Mr Monypenny said. Eintoul
made a sudden step forward, striking his foot violently
against the bench in front of him. The sheriff looked
up angrily at the noise. There is something in a great
mental struggle of any kind which moves the atmosphere
around it. The sheriff looked up and saw three
men standing at unequal distances before him : Mr
Monypenny in front of his chair with somebody tranquil
and insignificant beside him, and in the distance
a face full of extraordinary emotion. " Will you have
the goodness to step forward ? " the sheriff said : and
then stopping himself peevishly, "This is all out of
order. Produce the man."

Rolls had risen quietly by Mr Monypenny's side.
He was not like a brawler, much less an assassin.
He was somewhat pale, but in his professional black
coat and white tie, who could have looked more
respectable ? He had " cleaned himself," as he said,
with great care that morning. Haggard and unshaven
as he had been on the previous night after his wanderings,
he would scarcely have made so great a sensation.

as he did now, trim as a new pin, carefully shaved,
carefully brushed. There was a half shout, half cry,
from the little band of spectators, now thoroughly
demoralised and incapable of keeping order. " Rolls,
old Rolls ! " John Erskine cried with consternation.
Could this be the explanation of it? As for Rolls
himself, the outcry acted upon him in the most
remarkable way. He grew red and lost his temper.
It's just me, gentlemen," he said ; " and can an accident
not happen to a man in a humble condition of
life as well as to one of you ? " He was silenced at
once, and the stir of amazement repressed ; but nothing
could prevent the rustle and whisper among the gentlemen,
which would have become tumultuous had
their presence there been more than tolerated. They
all knew Rolls, and to connect him with such an event
was impossible. The tragedy seemed over, and at the
utmost a tragi-comedy, a solemn farce, had taken its
place.

EoUs's statement, however, was serious enough. It
was to the effect that he had met his master coming
down from Tinto in the condition of which so much
had been made, when he himself was going up to
make a request to Mr Torrance about a lease  that he
met Torrance close to the Scar " coming thundering
down the brae " in a state of excitement and temper
such as it was well enough known Tinto was subject

to. Rolls acknowledged that in such circumstances
he ought not to have stopped him and introduced his
suit  but this was merely an error of judgment.
Tinto, he said, received his request very ill, and called
his nephew  for whom he was going to plead  a
ne'er-do-weel  which was not the case, let him say it
that would. And here again Rolls was wrong, he
allowed  it was another error of judgment  but he
was not going to have his own flesh and blood abused.
He stood up for it to Tinto's face that Willie Rolls waa
as respectable a lad as ever ploughed land. It was
well known what Tinto was, a man that had no
thought but a word and a blow. He rode at Rolls
furiously. " I took hold of the beast's bridle to push
her back,  what I could do. She would have had her
hoofs on me in a moment." Then he saw with horror
the rear, the bound back, the false step ; and then
horse and man went thundering over the Scar. Rolls
declared that he lost no time in calling for help  in
trying all he could to save the victim. Lord Eintoul
would bear him witness, for his lordship met him in
the wood, routing like a wild beast. Nothing could
be more consistent, more simple, than the whole story
it bore the stamp of truth on every line  or such at
least was the conclusion of the sheriff, and the procurator,
and the crier, and the town officer, and every
facial about the Town House of Dunearn.

The formidable examination which had excited so
much interest terminated by the return of John's fly
to Dunnotter, with the butler in it, very grave and
impressive in the solemn circumstances. Rolls himself
did not choose to consider his position lightly.
He acknowledged with great respect the salutations of
the gentlemen, who could not be prevented from
crowding to the door of the fly after him. Sir James,
who was the first, thrust something secretly into
Rolls's hand. " They'll not treat you so well as they
treated your master. You must fee them  fee them,
Rolls," said the old general. " It'll be better than I
deserve, Sir James," Rolls said. " Hoot ! nothing will
happen to you, man ! " said Sir James. " He was well
inspired to make a clean breast of it," Mr Mony penny
said. " The truth before all  it's the best .policy."
You're very kind to say sae, sir," said Rolls, solemnly.
As he spoke he met the eye of Lord Eintoul, who stood
behind fixing his regard upon the face of John's substitute.
It was a trouble to Rolls to understand what
the young lord could mean, " glowering " as he did,
but saying nothing. Was he better aware of the facts
of the case than any one suspected ? might he come in
with his story and shatter that of Rolls ? This gave
the old servant a little anxiety as he sat back solemnly
in his corner, and was driven away.

It would be impossible to enumerate all the visitors

who thronged into Miss Barbara Erskine's house that
day. She had three more leaves put into her dining-table,
and Janet added dish to dish with the wildest
prodigality. Sir James Montgomery was one of those
who " convoyed " John to his old relative's house.
He walked upon one side of the hero, and Lord Lindores
upon the other. " I will not conceal my fault
from you, Miss Barbara," he said. " I thought when I
heard his story first it was just the greatest nonsense.
But it worked upon me  it worked upon me; and
then Lady Montgomery, she would not hear a
word."

Women understand the truth when they hear it ;
it's none so often," Miss Barbara said, flushed with
triumph and happiness. Eintoul had come in with
the rest  or rather after the rest. He and John were
the two who were somewhat out of all this tumult and
rejoicing. They had not spoken to each other, keeping
apart with an instinctive repugnance, silent in the
midst of the rejoicing. But the rest of the company
made up the deficiency. Such a luncheon ! a duke's
son from England, an earl, all the best men in the
county : and Janet's dishes praised and consumed to the
last morsel, and the best wine brought up from the cellar,
and the house not big enough to contain the guests.
Miss Barbara sat at the head of the table, with a little
flush of triumph on her cheek. " It's like a marriage

feast," she said to Sir James when they rose from the
table.

And I cannot see what should hinder it to be the
forerunner  but the breakfast shall be at my house,
Miss Barbara, since her parents have no house of their
own here."

Oh, who are you calling her ? " said Miss Barbara,
shaking her head ; and as she spoke she turned
towards a group in a corner  two young figures close
together. Sir James's countenance grew long, but
Miss Barbara's bloomed out in genial triumph. " It's
not the first time," she said, " that we have had a lady
o' title in Dalrulzian  and it will not be the last."
The magic of rank had triumphed even over prejudice.
There could be no denying that Lady Edith Erskine
would be a bonnie name  and a bonnie creature too.

"I got your letter," John said. "I suppose an
angel must have brought it. There is no telling how
wretched I was before, or how happy after."

No angel, but my mother's footman. I am afraid
you thought it very bold, Mr Erskine. I was afraid
after, that I had said too much."

"I think so too,  unless you mean it to kill me
like a sweet poison ; which it will do, unless there is
more "

Mr Erskine, you have not quite come to yourself,
all this excitement has gone to your head."

I want more," said John  " more ! " And Edith's

eyes sank before his. It was not like the affectionate
proposals of Millefleurs, whose voice was audible now
even through those low syllables so different in their
tone. And Lady Lindores at that moment took her
daughter by the arm. "Edith," she said, in a tone
of fright, "Edith !" Oh foolish, foolish mother ! had
she never thought of this till now ?

The window of the dining-room looked out into the
garden. Nevertheless, it was possible to find a covert
where two could talk and not be seen. And while
the gentlemen rose from the table, and Lady Lindores
came to her daughter's rescue, a very different group,
two very agitated pale young people, stood together
there, without a single demonstration of tenderness or
even friendship, looking at each other with eager eyes.
Or rather the girl looked at the man, whose courage
had failed him, who stood before her like a culprit,
not venturing to raise his eyes to her face. "What is
the meaning of it ? " she cried. " Oh, what is the
meaning of it ? " She stamped her foot upon the
ground in her excitement and the intolerable trouble
of her thoughts. " You told me  one thing ; and now
another has happened. What does it mean ? "

Nora," he said, clasping his hands, " don't be so
hard upon me ! "

What does it mean ? " she cried, her soft face
growing stern, her nostrils dilating. " Either what
you said is false, or this is false ; and anyhow, you,

you are false, Lord Eintoul ! Oh, cannot you tell me
what it means ? Is it that you are not brave enough
to stand up by yourself  to say, It was I "

For God's sake, Nora ! I was ready, quite ready todo
it, though it would have been ruin to me. I had
made up my mind. But what could I do when this

man stood up before me and said He told the

whole story almost exactly as  as it happened. I
was stupefied ; but what could I do ? I declare to
you, Nora, when old Monypenny got up and said ' The
man is here,' I jumped up, I stood forward. And
then I was confounded, I could not say a word."
Here he approached a little nearer and put out his
hand to take hers. " Why should I, Nora  now tell
me why should I ? when this other man says it was
he. He ought to know," Eintoul added, with a groan
of faint tentative humour in his voice. He did not
know how far he might venture to go.

Once more Nora stamped her foot on the ground.
Oh, I cannot away with you ! " she cried. It was
one of Miss Barbara's old-fashioned phrases. She was
at the end of her own. She would have liked, she
thought, to strike him as he stood before her deprecating,
yet every moment recovering himself.

If another man chooses to take it upon him, why
should I contradict him ? " Eintoul said, with good
sense unanswerable. " I was stunned with astonishment

; but when you reflect, how could I contradict
him ? If he did it for John Erskine's sake, it would
have spoiled the arrangement."

John Erskine would never make any arrangement.
If he had been to blame he would have borne it. He
would not have shirked or drawn back ! "

"You think better of John Erskine than of me,
Nora. I do not know what it is, but I have no right
to interfere. I'll give the old fellow something when
it's all over. It is not for me he is doing it, whatever
is his reason. I should spoil it all if I said a word.
Will you forgive me now ? " said Eintoul, with a mixture
of calm reason and anxiety. He had quite recovered
himself. And Nora, still in a flutter of slowly
dissipating excitement, could find no argument against
that sturdy good sense of his. For he was strong in
sense, however worldly it might be.

I cannot understand it at all. Do you know who
the man was ? " she said.

And then he laughed  actually laughed  though
he was on the borders of desperation an hour ago.
The echo of it seemed to run round the garden among
the listening trees and horrified Nora. But at his
next word she threw up her hands in consternation,
with a cry of bewilderment, confusion, almost amusement
too, though she would have thought that impossible,
" Old Kolls ! "

VOL. in.

CHAPTEK XLIV.

John Erskine returned to Dalrulzian alone after this
wonderful morning's work. He could scarcely believe
that he was free to walk where he pleased,  to do
what he liked. Four days is not a long period of
time. But prison has an extraordinary effect, and his
very limbs had seemed to tingle when he got the
uncontrolled use of them again. Lord Lindores had
driven him back as far as the gates of Lindores, and
from thence he walked on, glad of the air, the sense of
freedom and movement,  the silence in which to realise
all that had passed. Enough had passed, indeed, to
give full occasion for thought ; and it was only now
that the extraordinary character of the event struck
him. Rolls ! to associate EoUs with a tragedy. In
his excitement John burst into a wild fit of laughter,
which echoed along the quiet road ; then, horrified by
the sound, drew himself quickly together, and went on
with the gravest countenance in the world. But it

must be added that this thought of Rolls was only
momentary,  it came and went, and was dropped into
the surrounding darkness, in which all accidents of
common life were heaped together as insignificant and
secondary, in comparison with one central consciousness
with which his whole firmament was ablaze. He
had demanded " More ! more ! " but had not received
another word. No explanation had ensued. The
mother had come in with soft authority, with a steadfast
blank of all understanding. Lady Lindores would
not see that they wanted to talk to each other. She
had not ceased to hold her daughter by the arm, affectionately
leaning upon her, until they went away :
and Edith had not spoken another word  had not
even met his anxious looks with more than the most
momentary fugitive glance. Thus John had withdrawn
in that state of half certainty which, perhaps,
is more absorbing to the faculties and more transporting
to the heart than any definite and indisputable
fact ever can be. His whole being was in movement,
agitated by a delicious doubt, by an eager breathless
longing to know, which was sweeter than knowledge.
All the romance and witchcraft of passion was in it,
its most ethereal part

Hopes, and fears that kindle hopes 
An indistinguishable throng ;
And gentle wishes long subdued,
Subdued and cherished long."

Such was the potency of this charm, that, after he
had thrown one thought at EoUs, and perceived the
absurdity of the event, and given vent to the excited
commentary of that laugh, John abandoned himself
altogether to the sea of fancies, the questions, the
answers, the profound trains of reasoning which belonged
to that other unresolved and all entrancing
problem. He discussed with himself every word of
Edith's letter, turning it over and over. Did it mean
this ? or peradventure, after all, did it only mean
that ? But if it meant that and not this, would she
have so replied to his looks ? would not she have said
something more definitely discouraging when he appealed
to her for More ! more ? She had not given
him a word more ; but she had replied with no stony
look, no air of angry surprise or disdain, such as

surely Yet, on the other hand, might it not be

possible that compassion and sympathy for his extraordinary
circumstances, and the wrong he had undergone,
might keep her, so sweet and good as she was,
from any discouraging word? Only, in that case,
would she have cast down her eyes like that ? would
they have melted into that unspeakable sweetness ?
So he ran on, as so many have done before him. He
thought no more of the matter which had affected him
so deeply for the last week, or of Torrance, who was
dead, or of Rolls, who was in jail, than he did of last

year's snow. Every interest in heaven and earth concentrated
to him in these endless delightful questions.
When a man, or, for that matter, a woman, is in this
beatific agitation of mind, the landscape generally becomes
a sort of burr of light around them, and, save
to the inward eye, which more than ever at such a
moment is " the bliss of solitude," there is nothing that
is very clearly visible. John saw this much, but no
more, in Miss Barbara's old-fashioned dining-room 
the genial gentlemen still at table, and Miss Barbara
herself, in her white shawl, forming only a background
to the real interest ; and he perceived no more
of the country round him as he walked, or the glow of
the autumn foliage, the distance rolling away in soft
blueness of autumnal mists to Tinto. He managed to
walk along the road without seeing it, though it was so
familiar, and arrived at his own gate with great surprise,
unable to comprehend how he could have come
so far. When he opened the gate, Peggy Fleming
came out with her apron folded over her hands ; but
when she saw who it was, Peggy, forgetting the soapsuds,
which showed it was washing day, flung up her
red moist arms to the sky, and gave utterance to a
wild " sleigh " of welcome and joy. For a moment
John thought nothing less than that he was to be
seized in those wildly waving and soapy arms.
"Eh, it's the master!" Peggy cried. "Eh, it's

himsel' ! Eh, it's lies, every word ; and I never believed
it, no' a moment ! " And with that she threw her
apron over her head and began to sob  a sound which
brought out all her children, one after another, to
hang upon her skirts and eagerly investigate the
reason why.

The warmth of this emotional welcome amused him,
and he paused to say a word or two of kindness before
he passed on. But he had not anticipated the excitement
with which he was to be received. When he
came in sight of his own house, the first sound of his
step was responded to by the watchers within with an
anxious alacrity. A head popped out at a window ; a
white-aproned figure appeared from the back of the
house, and ran back at the sight of him. And then
there arose a " sleigh " of rapture that threw Peggy's
altogether into the shade, and Bauby rushed out upon
him, with open arms, and all her subordinates behind
her, moist and flowing with tears of joy. "Eh, Mr
John ! Eh, my bonny man ! Eh, laddie, laddie  that
I should call you sae ! my heart's just broken. And
have you come hame? and have you come hame?"

"As you see," said John. He began to be rather
tired of this primitive rejoicing, which presupposed
that his detention had been a very serious matter,
although by this time, in the crowd of other thoughts,
it had come to look of no importance at all. But he

remembered that he had a communication to make
which, no doubt, would much lessen this delight ; and
he did not now feel at all disposed to laugh when he
thought of Rolls. He took Bauby by the arm, and
led her with him, astonished, into the library. The
other maids remained collected in the hall. To them,
as to Peggy at the lodge, it seemed the most natural
thing to imagine that he had escaped, and might be
pursued. The excitement rose very high among them :
they thought instantly of all the hiding-places that
were practicable, each one of them being ready to
defend him to the death.

And it was very difficult to convey to the mind of
Bauby the information which John had to communicate.
"Oh ay, sir," she said, with a curtsey; "just
that. I was sure Tammas was at Dunnotter to be
near his maister. He has a terrible opinion of his
maister ; but now you're back yourself', there will be
no-thing to keep him."

"You must understand," said John, gently, "that
Rolls  it was, I have no doubt, the merest accident ; I
wonder it did not happen to myself: Rolls  caught
his bridle, you know "

"Oh ay,  just that, sir," said Bauby; "but there
will be no-thing to keep him, now you're back
courser."

I'm afraid I don't make myself plain," said John.

Try to understand what I am saying. Rolls  your
brother, you know "

Oh ay," said Bauby, smiling broadly over all her
beaming face, "he's just my brother  a'body kens
that  and a real good brother Tammas has aye been
to me."

John was at his wits' end. He began the story a
dozen times over, and softened and broke it up into
easy words, as if he had been speaking to a child. At
last it gradually dawned upon Bauby, not as a fact,
but as something he wanted to persuade her of It
was a shock, but she bore it nobly. " You are meaning
to tell me, sir, that it was Tammas  our Tammas
that killed Pat Torrance, yon muckle man ? Na, 
it's just your joke, sir. Gentlemen will have their
jokes."

My joke ! " cried John in horror ; " do you think
it is anything to joke about ? I cannot understand it
any more than you can. But it is fact ;  it is himself
that says so. He got hold of the bridle "

"ISTa, Mr John; na, na, sir. What is the good of
frightening a poor lone woman? The like of that
could never happen. Na, na."

But it is he himself who has said it ; no one else
could have imagined it for a moment. It is his own
story "

And if it is," said Bauby  " mind ye, Mr John, I

ken no-thing about it ; but I ken our Tammas,  if it
is, he's just said it to save  itbers : that's the way of

it. I ken him and his ways "

"To save  others?" The suggestion bewildered
John.

''Oh ay  it's just that," said Bauby again. She
dried her eyes carefully with her apron, pressing a
tear into each corner. " Him pit forth his hand upon
a gentleman, and a muckle man like Pat Torrance,
and a muckle beast ! Na, na, Mr John ! But he
might think, maybe, that a person like him, no' of
consequence  though he's of awful' consequence tome,"
said Bauby, almost falling back into tears. She
made an effort, however, and recovered her smile.
It's just a thing I can very weel understand."

"I think you must be out of your mind," cried
her master. " Such things are not done in our day.
What ! play with the law, and take upon him another
man's burden? Besides," said John, impatiently,
for whom ? In whom could he be so much interested
as to play such a daring game ? "

Oh ay, sir, that's just the question," Bauby said
composedly. From time to time she put up her apron.
The shock she had received was comprehensible, but
not the consolation. To follow her in this was beyond
her master's power.

"That is the question indeed," John said gravely.

"I think you must be mistaken. It is very much
simpler to suppose what was the case,  that he
gripped at the brute's bridle to save himself from
being ridden down. It is the most wonderful thing
in the world that I did not do it myself"

I'm thinking sae, sir," said Bauby, drily ; and
then she relapsed for a moment to the darker view of
the situation, and rubbed her eyes with her apron.
What will they do with him ?  is there much they
can do with him ? " she said.

She listened to John's explanations with composure,
broken by sudden relapses into emotion ; but, on the
whole, she was a great deal more calm than John had
expected. Her aspect confounded her master : and
when at last she made him another curtsey, and folding
her plump arms, with her apron over them, announced
that " I maun go and see after my dinner,"
his bewilderment reached its climax. She came back,
however, after she had reached the door, and stood
before him for a moment with, if that was possible to
Bauby, a certain defiance. " You'll no' be taking on
another man," she said, with a half-threatening smile
but a slight quiver of her lip, " the time that yon poor
lad's away ? "

This encounter was scarcely over when he had another
claim made upon him by Beaufort, who suddenly
rushed in, breathless and effusive, catching him by

both hands and pouring forth congratulations. It was
only then that it occurred to John as strange that
Beaufort had not appeared at Dunearn, or taken any
apparent interest in his fate ; but the profuse explanations
and excuses of his friend had the usual effect in
directing his mind towards this dereliction from evident
duty. Beaufort overflowed in confused apologies.
I did go to Dunearn, but I was too late ; and I did
not like to follow you to your aunt's, whom I don't

know ; and then  and then The fact is, I had

an engagement," was the end of the whole; and as he
said this, a curious change and movement came over
Beaufort's face.

An engagement ! I did not think you knew anybody."


"No,  nor do I, except those I have known for
years."

The Lindores ? " John said hastily,  " they were
all at Dunearn."

"The fact is " Here Beaufort paused and

walked to the fire, which was low, and poked it vigorously.
He had nearly succeeded in making an end of
it altogether before he resumed. " The fact is,"  with
his back to John,  " I thought it only proper  to call
and make inquiries." He cleared his throat, then
said hurriedly, " In short, Erskine, I have been to
Tinto." There was a tremulous sound in his voice

which went to John's heart. Who was he that he
should blame his brother ? A fellow-feeling makes us
wondrous kind.

Deja ! " was all that John said.

D6ja  yes ; perhaps I ought to have waited. But
when you reflect how long  how long it is : and
all that has happened, and what we both have suffered
"

"Do you mean that you have gone over all that
already ? " John asked, amazed. But Beaufort made
him no reply. The fumes of that meeting were still
in his head, and all that he had said and all that
had been said to him. The master of the house was
scarcely out of it, so to speak ; his shadow was
still upon the great room, the staircases, and passages ;
but Carry had lived, it seemed to her years, since
the decree of freedom was pronounced for her. If
there was indecorum in his visit, she was unaware
of it. To feel themselves together, to be able each
to pour out to the other the changes in their minds,
the difference of age and experience, the unchangeableness
of the heart, was to them both a mystery
a wonder inscrutable. Beaufort did not care a
brass farthing for John's escape ; he had heard all
about it, but he had not even taken it into his mind.
He tried to put on a little interest now, and asked
some confused questions without paying any attention

to the answers lie received. When they met at
dinner they talked upon indifferent subjects, ignoring
on both sides the things that were of the deepest
interest. "Has not Rolls come back with you?
Oh, I beg your pardon,  I forgot," said Beaufort.
And John did not think very much more of Rolls, to
tell the truth.

Lord Millefleurs went away a few days after ; but
Beaufort considered that, on the whole, it would
suit him better to remain in Scotland a little longer.
"What can I do for you?" he said; "the Duke
is deceiving himself You are quite as well able
to look after yourself as I am. Why should I pretend
to exercise functions which we all know are quite
unnecessary ? I have only just come, and Erskine
is willing to keep me. I think I shall stay."

"My dear fellow," said little Millefleurs, "your
sentiments are mine to a T ; but we agreed, don't
you know, that the Duke has a great many things
in his power, and that it might be as well to humour
him. You have eased his mind, don't you know,
and why shouldn't you get the good of it ? You
are too viewy and disinterested, and that sort of
thing. But I am a practical man. Come along ! "
said Millefleurs. When Beaufort continued to shake
his head, as he puffed out solemn mouthfuls of smoke,
planting himself ever more deeply, as if to take

root there, in his easy-chair, Millefleurs turned to
John and appealed to him. "Make that fellow
come along, Erskine; it will be for his good," the
little Marquis said. There was a slight pucker in
his smooth forehead. "Life is not plain sailing," he
went on ; " les convenances are not such humbug as
men suppose. Look here, Beaufort, come along ;

it will be better for you, don't you know "

"I am sick of thinking what is better for me,"
said Beaufort. " I shall please myself for once in my
life. What have the convenances to do with me?"
He did not meet the look of his junior and supposed
pupil, but got up and threw away his cigar and
stalked to the window, where his long figure shut
out almost all the light. Little Millefleurs folded
his plump hands, and shook his round boyish head.
The other was a much more dignified figure, but
his outline against the light had a limp irresolution
in it. He knew that he ought to go away; but
how could he do it? To find your treasure that
was lost after so many years, and then go straightaway
and leave it  was that possible? And then,
perhaps, it had flashed across Beaufort's mind, who had
been hanging on waiting for fortune so long, and
never had bestirred himself,  perhaps it flashed upon
him that now  now  the Duke's patronage, and the
places and promotions in his power, might be of

less importance. But this was only a shadow flying
like the shadows of the hills upon which he was
gazing, involuntary, so that he was not to blame for
it. Millefleurs went away alone next day. He
took a very tender farewell of the ladies at Lindores,
asking permission to write to them. " And if I
hear anything of her, don't you know? I shall tell
you," he said to Edith, holding her hand affectionately
in both of his. "You must hear something of her
you must go and find her," said Edith. Millefleurs
put his head on one side like a sentimental robin.
But it is quite unsuitable, don't you know ? " he
said, and drove away, kissing his hand with many
a tender token of friendship. Lord Lindores could
scarcely endure to see these evidences of an affectionate
parting. He had come out, as sin duty bound,
to speed the parting guest with the proper smile
of hospitable regret; but as soon as Millefleurs
was out of sight, turned upon his heel with an
expression of disgust. " He is a little fool, if he
is not a little humbug. I wonder if he ever was in
earnest at all ? " This was addressed to Eintoul, who
of late had avoided all such subjects, and now made
no reply.

I say, I wonder whether he ever meant anything
serious at all ? " said Lord Lindores, in a tone of
irritation, having called his son into the library after

him ; "and you don't even take the trouble to answer me.
But one thing he has done, he has invited you to Less
Castle ; and as I suggested to you before, there is Lady

Eeseda, a very nice girl, in every way desirable "

"I have had my leave already", said Eintoul,
hastily. " It was kind of Millefleurs ; but I don't see
how I can go "

"I never knew before that there was any such
serious difficulty about leave," said his father. 'you
can cut off your last fortnight here."

I don't think that would do," said Eintoul, with
a troubled look. "I have made engagements  for
nearly every day."

You had better speak out at once. Tell me, what
I know you are thinking, that the .Duke's daughter,
because your father suggests her, is not to be thought
of. You are all alike. I once thought you had some
sense, Eintoul."

"I  I hope I have so still. I don't think it
is good taste to bring in a lady's name "

Oh, d n your good taste," cried the exasperated
father; "a connection of this kind would be
everything for me. What I am trying to obtain
will, remember this, be for you and your children as
well. You have no right to reap the benefit if
you don't do what you can to bring it about."

I should like to speak to you on  on the whole

subject  some time or other," said the young man.
He was like a man eager to give a blow, yet so
frightened that he ran away in the very act of delivering
it. Lord Lindores looked at him with suspicious
eyes."

I don't know any reason why you shouldn't speak
now. It would be well that we should understand
each other," he said.

But this took away all power from Eintoul. He
almost trembled as he stood before his father's too
keen  too penetrating eyes.

Oh, don't let me trouble you now," he said, nervously
; " and besides, I have something to do. Dear
me, it is three o'clock ! " he cried, looking at his watch
and hurrying away. But he had really no engagement
for three o'clock. It was the time when Nora, escaping
from her old lady, came out for a walk ; and they
had met on several occasions, though never by appointment.
Nora, for her part, would not have consented
to make any appointment. Already she began to feel
herself in a false position. She was willing to accept
and keep inviolable the secret with which he had
trusted her ; but that she herself, a girl full of high-mindedness
and honour, should be his secret too, and
carry on a clandestine intercourse which nobody knew
anything of, was to Nora the last humiliation. She
had not written home since it happened; for to write

VOL. in. p

home and not to tell her mother of what had happened,
would have seemed to the girl falsehood. She
felt false with Miss Barbara ; she had an intolerable
sense at once of being wronged, and wrong, in the
presence of Lady Lindores and Edith. She would no
more have made an appointment to meet him than
she would have told a lie. But poor Nora, who was
only a girl after all, notwithstanding these high principles
of hers, took her walk daily along the Lindores
road. It was the quietest, the prettiest. She had
always liked it better than any other  so she said to
herself; and naturally Eintoul, who could not go to
Dunearn save by that way, met her there. She received
him, not with any rosy flush of pleasure, but
with a blush that was hot and angry, resolving that
tomorrow she would turn her steps in a different
direction, and that this should not occur again ; and
she did not even give him her hand when they met, as
she would have done to the doctor or the minister, or
any one of the ordinary passers-by.

You are angry with me, Nora," he said.

I don't know that I have any right to be angry.
We have very little to do with each other, Lord
Rintoul."

Nora ! " he cried ; " Nora ! do you want to break
my heart. What is this ? It is not so very long
since ! "

It is long enough," lie said, " to let me seest

is better that we should not say anything more
about that. One is a fool  one is taken by surprise 
one does not think what it means "

"Do you imagine I will let myself be thrown off
like this?" he cried, with great agitation. "Nora,
why should you despise me so  all for the sake of old
Rolls ? "

It is not all for the sake of old Rolls."

I will go and see him, if you like, to-day. I will
find out from him what he means. It is his own doing,
it is not my doing. You know I was more surprised
than any one. Nora, think ! If you only think,
you will see that you are unreasonable. How could I
stand up and contradict a man who had accused himself?"


I was not thinking of Rolls," cried Nora, who had
tried to break in on this flood of eloquence in vain.

I was thinking of Lord Eintoul, I am not a

person of rank like you  I don't know what lords and
ladies think it right to do  but I will not have clandestine
meetings with any one. If a man wants me,
if he were a prince, he must ask my father,  he must
do it in the eye of day, not as if he were ashamed.
Good-bye ! do not expect me to see you any more."
She turned as she spoke, waved her hand, and walked
quickly away. He was too much astonished to say a

word. He made a step or two after her, but she called
to him that she would not suffer it, and walked on at
full speed. Eintoul looked after her aghast. He tried
to laugh to himself, and to say, " Oh, it is that, is it ? "
but he could not. There was nothing gratifying to his
pride to be got out of the incident at all. He turned
after she was out of sight, and went home crestfallen.
She never turned round, nor looked back,  made no
sign of knowing that he stood there watching her.
Poor Rintoul crept along homeward in the early gloaming
with a heavy heart. He would have to beard the
lions, then  no help for it ; indeed he had always
intended to do it, but not now, when there was so
much excitement in the air.

CHAPTER XLV.

EoLLS in the county jail, sent hither on his own confession,
was in a very different position from John
Erskine, waiting examination there. He was locked
np without ceremony in a cell, his respectability and
his well known antecedents all ignored. Dunnotter
was at some distance from the district in which he
was known, and Thomas EoUs, domestic servant,
charged with manslaughter, did not impress the official
imagination as Mr EoUs the factotum of Dalrulzian
had long impressed the mind of his own neighbourhood
and surroundings. And Rolls, to tell the truth,
was deeply depressed when he found himself shut up
within that blank interior, with nothing to do, and
nothing to support the amour propre which was his
strength, except the inborn conviction of his own
righteousness and exemplary position,  a sight for
all men. But there is nothing that takes down the
sense of native merit so much as solitude and absence

of appreciation. Opposition and hostility are stimulants,
and keep warm in us the sense of our own
superiority, but not the contemptuous indifference of a
surly turnkey to whom one is No. 25, and who cared
not a straw for EoUs's position and career. He felt
himself getting limp as the long featureless days went
on, and doubts of every kind assailed him. Had he
been right to do it ? Since he had made this sacrifice
for his master, there had come into his mind a chill of
doubt which he had never been touched by before.
Was it certain that it was John who had done it?
Might not he, Rolls, be making a victim of himself for
some nameless tramp, who would never even know of
it, nor care, and whose punishment would be doubly
deserved and worthy of no man's interference ? Rolls
felt that this was a suggestion of the devil for his discomfiture.
He tried to chase it out of his mind by
thinking of the pleasures he had secured for himself
in that last week of his life  of Edinburgh Castle
and the Calton Jail and the Earthen Mound, and the
wonders of the Observatory. To inspect these had
been the dream of his life, and he had attained that
felicity. He had believed that this would give him
plenty to think about " for the rest of his life  and
that, especially for the time of his confinement, it
would afford an excellent provision ; but he did not
find the solace that he had expected in musing upon

Mons Meg and the Scottish Regalia. How dreadful
four walls become when you are shut up within them;
how the air begins to hum and buzz after a while with
your thoughts that have escaped you, and swarm about
like bees, all murmurous and resting  these were
the discoveries he made. Rolls grew nervous, almost
hysterical, in the unusual quiet. What would he not
have given for his plate to polish, or his lamps to
trim ! He had been allowed to have what are called
writing materials,  a few dingy sheets of notepaper, a
penny bottle of ink, a rusty steel pen  but Rolls was
not accustomed to literary composition; and a few
books  but Rolls was scornful of what he called
novelle," and considered even more serious reading,
as an occupation which required thought and a mind
free of care. And nobody came to see him. He had
no effusion of gratitude and sweet praise from his
master. Mr Monypenny was Rolls's only visitor, who
came to take all his explanations, and get a perfect
understanding of how his case ought to be conducted.
The butler had become rather limp and feeble before
even Mr Monypenny appeared.

I'm maybe not worthy of much," Rolls said, with
a wave of his hand, " but I think there's one or two
might have come to see me  one or two."

I think so too, Rolls ; but it is not want of feeling.
I have instructions from Mr Erskine to spare no expense

; to have the very best man that can be had.
And I make no doubt we'll carry you through. I'm
thinking of trying Jardine, who is at the very top of
the tree."

And what will that cost, if I may make so bold,
Mr Monypenny ? "

When he heard the sum that was needed for the
advocate's fee, Kolls's countenance fell, but his spirit
rose. " Lord bless us ! " he said,  " a' that for standing
up and discoursing before the Court ! And most
of them are real well pleased to hear themselves speak,
if it were without fee or reward. I think shame to
have a' that silver spent upon me ; but it's a grand
thing of the young master, and a great compliment : it
will please Bauby too."

He ought to have come to see you,  so old a servant,
and a most faithful one," said Mr Monypenny.

Well-well, sir, there's many things to be said : a
gentleman has things to do ; there's a number of calls
upon his time. He would mean well, I make no doubt,
and then he would forget ; but to put his hand in his
pocket like that! Bauby will be very well pleased.
I am glad, poor woman, that she has the like of that
to keep up her heart."

Well, Rolls, I am glad to see that you are so grateful.
Thinking over all the circumstances, and that
you lost no time in giving the alarm, and did your best

to have succour carried to him, I think I may say that
you will be let off very easy. I would not be astonished
if you were discharged at once. In any case it
will be a light sentence. You may keep your mind
easy about that."

It's all in the hands of Providence," said Rolls.
He was scarcely willing to allow that his position was
one to be considered so cheerfully. " It will be a grand
exhibition, o' eloquence," he said ; " and will there be as
much silver spent, and as great an advocate on the
other side, Mr Monypenny ? It's a wonderful elevating
thought to think that the best intellects in the
land will be warstlin' over a simple body like me."

And that is true, Rolls ; they will just waste over
ye  it will bea treat to hear it. And if I get Jardine,
he will do it con amove, for he's a sworn enemy to the
Procurator, and cannot bide the Lord Advocate. He's
a tremendous speaker when he's got a good subject ;
and he'll do it con amor."

Well-well, sir ; if it's con moray or con anything
else, sae long as he can convince the jury," said Rolls.
He was pleased with the importance of this point of
view ; but when Mr Monypenny left him, it required
all his strength of mind to apply this consolation.
If they would but do it quick, I would stand upon
the honour of the thing," he said to himself.

Next day, however, lie had a visitor who broke the

tedium very effectually. EoUs could not believe his
eyes when his door suddenly opened, and Lord Eintoul
came in. The young man was very much embarrassed,
and divided, apparently, between a somewhat fretful
shame and a desire to show great cordiality. He went
so far as to shake hands with Rolls, and then sat down
on the only chair, not seeming to know what to do
next. At length he burst forth, colouring up to his
hair, " I want to know what made you say that ?  for
you know it's not true."

Rolls, surprised greatly by his appearance at all, was
thunderstruck by this sudden demand. " I don't just
catch your meaning, my lord," he said.

Oh, my meaning  my meaning is not very difficult.
What are you here for ? Is it on Erskine's account ?
Did he make any arrangement ? What is he to do for
you ? " said Rintoul hurriedly. " It is all such a mystery
to me, I don't know what to make of it. When
I heard you say it, I could not believe my ears."

Rolls looked at him with a very steady gaze  a gaze
which gradually became unbearable to the young man.
Don't stare at me, he cried roughly, " but answer me.
What is the meaning of it ?  that's what I want to
know."

"Your lordship," said Rolls, slowly, "is beginning
at the hinder end of the subjik, so far as I can see.
Maybe ye will tell me first, my lord, what right ye

have to come into a jael that belongs to the Queen's
mast sacred Majesty, as the minister says, and question
me, a person awaiting my trial ? Are ye a
commissioner, or are ye an advocate, or maybe with
authority from the Procurator himsel' ? I never heard
that you had anything to do with the law."

I'm sure I beg your pardon," said Pdntoul, subduing
himself. " No ; I've nothing to do with the
law. I daresay I'm very abrupt. I don't know how
to put it, you know ; but you remember I was thereat
least I wasn't far off: I was  the first person
that came. They'll call me for a witness at the
trial, I suppose. Can't you see what a confusing sort
of thing it is for me. I know, you know. Don't you
know I how ? Why, how could you have done it

when it was Look here, it would be a great

relief to me, and to another  to  a lady  who takes a
great interest in you  if you would speak out plain."

The eyes of Rolls were small and grey,  they were
not distinguished by any brightness or penetrating
quality ; but any kind of eyes, when fixed immovably
upon a man's face, especially a man who has anything
to hide, become insupportable, and burn holes into his
very soul. Eintoul pushed away his chair, and tried
to avoid this look. Then he perceived, suddenly, that
he had appropriated the only chair, and that Rolls,
whom he had no desire to irritate, but quite the reverse,

was standing. He rose up hastily and thrust the chair
towards him. " Look here," he said, " hadn't you
better sit down? I didn't observe it was the only
seat in the  room."

They call this a cell, my lord, and we're in a jael,
not a private mansion. I'm a man biding the course
of the law."

Oh yes, yes, yes ! I know all that : why should
you worry me?" cried Rintoul. He wanted to be
civil and friendly, but he did not know how. " Weare
all in a muddle," he said, " and don't see a step
before us. Why have you done it ? What object
had he in asking you, or you in doing it ? Can't you
tell me? I'll make it all square with Erskine if
you'll tell me : and I should know better what to do."

You take a great interest in me  that was never
any connection, nor even a servant in your lordship's
family. It's awful' sudden," said Rolls ; "but I'll tell
you what, my lord,  I'll make a bargain with you.
If you'll tell me what reason you have for wanting token,
I will tell you whatfor I'm here."

Eintoul looked at Rolls with a confused and
anxious gaze, knowing that the latter on his side
was reading him far more effectually. " You see,"
he said, " I was  somewhere about the wood. I  I
don't pretend to mean that I could  see what you
were about exactly,  but but I know, you know ! "

cried Rintoul confusedly ; " that's just my reason 
and I want you to tell me what's the meaning? I
don't suppose you can like being here," he said, glancing
round; "it must be dreadful slow work,  nothing
to do. You remember Miss Barrington, who always
took so great an interest in you ? Well, it was she
She  would like to know."

Oh ay, Miss Nora," said Rolls. " Miss Nora was
a young lady I limit weel. It was a great wish of
mine, if we ever got our wishes in this world, that
Dalrulzian and her might have drawn together. She
was awful' fond of the place."

Dalrulzian and ! I suppose you think there's

nobody like Dalrulzian, as you call him," cried Ein-soul,
red with anger, but forcing a laugh. 'well, I
don't know if it was for his sake or for your sake,
Rolls ; but Miss Nora  wanted to know "

And your lordship cam' a' this gait for that
young lady's sake ? She is set up with a lord to do
her errands," said Rolls. " And there's few things I
would refuse to Miss Nora ; but my ain private affairs
are  well, my lord, they're just my ain private affairs.
I'm no' bound to unburden my bosom, except at my
ain will and pleasure, if it was to the Queen herself."

That is quite true  quite true, Rolls. Jove !
what is the use of making mysteries?  if I was
ignorant, don't you see ! but we're both in the same

box. I was  his brother-in-law, you know; that
made it so much worse for me. Look here ! you let
me run on, and let out all sort of things."

Do you mean to tell me. Lord Eintoul, that it was
you that pushed Pat Torrance over the brae ? "

The two men stood gazing at each other. The
old butler, flushed with excitement, his shaky old
figure erecting itself, expanding, taking a commanding
aspect ; the young lord, pale, with anxious puckers
about his eyes, shrinking backward into himself, deprecating,
as if in old Rolls he saw a judge ready to
condemn him. "We are all  in the same box," he
faltered. " He was mad ; he would have it : first,
Erskine ; if it didn't happen with Erskine, it was his

good luck. Then there's you, and me " Eintoul

never took his eyes from those of Rolls, on whose
decision his fate seemed to hang. He was too much
confused to know very well what he was saying. The
very event itself, which he had scarcely been able to
forget since it happened, began to be jumbled up in
his mind. Rolls  somehow Rolls must have had todo
with it too. It was not he only that had seized
the bridle,  that had heard the horrible scramble of
the hoofs, and the dull crash and moan. He seemed
to hear all that again as he stood drawing back before
John Erskine's servant. Erskine had been in it.
It might just as well have happened to Erskine ;

and it seemed to him, in his giddy bewilderment,
that it had happened again also to Rolls. But Rolls
had kept his counsel, while he had betrayed himself.
All the alarms which he had gone through on the
morning of the examination came over him again.
Well ! perhaps she would be satisfied now.

"Then it was none of my business," said Rolls.
The old man felt as if he had fallen from a great
height. He was stunned and silenced for the moment.
He sat down upon his bed vacantly, forgetting
all the punctilios in which his life had been formed.
Then the young master thinks it's me," he added
slowly, " and divines no-thing, no-thing ! and instead
of the truth, will say till himself, ' That auld brute.
Rolls, to save his auld bones, keepit me in prison four
days.' " The consternation with which he dropped
forth sentence after sentence from his mouth, supporting
his head in his hands, and looking out from
the curve of his palms with horror-stricken eyes into
the air, not so much as noticing his alarmed and
anxious companion, was wonderful. Then after a
long pause. Rolls, looking up briskly, with a light of
indignation in his face, exclaimed, " And a' the time
it was you, my lad, that did it ?  I'm meaning," Rolls
added with fine emphasis, " my lord ! and never step-pit
in like a gentleman to say, ' It's me  set free that
innocent man ' "

Rolls, look here ! " cried Eintoul, with passion 
look here ! don't think so badly till you know. I
meant to do it. I went there that morning fully
prepared. You can ask her, and she will tell you.
When somebody said, ' The man's here '  Jove ! I

stepped out ; I was quite ready. And then you

might have doubled me up with a touch ;  you might
have knocked me down with a feather  when I saw
it was you. What could I do ? The words were
taken out of my mouth. Which of us would they
have believed ? Most likely they would have thought
we were both in a conspiracy to save Erskine, and
that he was the guilty one after all."

It was not a very close attention which Rolls gave
to this impassioned statement. He was more occupied,
as was natural, with its effect upon his own
position. " I was just an auld eediot," he said to
himself "just a fool, as I've been all my born days.
And what will Bauby say? And Dalrulzian, he'll
think I was in earnest, and that it was just me !
Lord be about us, to think a man should come to my
age, and be just as great a fool ! Him do it ! No ;
if I had just ever thought upon the subjik ; if I
hanna been an eediot, and an ill-thinking, suspicious,

bad-minded Lord ! me to have been in the

Dalrulzian family this thirty years, and kenned them
to the backbone, and made such a mistake at the

end " He paused for a long time upon this, and

then added, in a shrill tone of emotion, shame, and
distress, " And now he will think a' the time that it
was really me ! "

Eintoul felt himself sink into the background with
the strangest feelings. When a man has wound himself
up to make an acknowledgment of wrong, whatever
it is, even of much less importance than this,
he expects to gain a certain credit for his performance.
Had it been done in the Town House at Dunearn, the
news would have run through the country and thrilled
every bosom. When he considered the passionate
anxiety with which Nora had awaited his explanation
on that wonderful day, and the ferment caused
by Rolls's substitution of himself for his master, it
seemed strange indeed that this old fellow should receive
the confession of a person so much his superior,
and one which might deliver him from all the consequences
of his rashness, with such curious unconcern.
He stood before the old butler like a boy before his
schoolmaster, as much irritated by the carelessness with
which he was treated as frightened for the certain
punishment. And yet it was his only policy to ignore
all that was disrespectful, and to conciliate Kolls. He
waited, therefore, though with his blood boiling, through
the sort of colloquy which Rolls thus held with himself,
not interrupting, wondering, and yet saying to

VOL. in. Q

himself there could be no doubt what the next step
must be.

I am no' showing ye proper respect, my lord' said
Rolls at last ; " but when things is a' out of the
ordinary like this, it canna be wondered at if a man
forgets his manners. It's terrible strange all that's
happened. I canna well give an account o't to myself.

That I should been such an eediot, and you maybe

no' so keen about your honour as your lordship's friends
might desire." Here he made a pause, as sometimes
a schoolmaster will do, to see his victim writhe and
tempt him to rebellion. But Kintoul was cowed, and
made no reply.

And ye have much to answer for, my lord," Rolls
continued, " on my account, though ye maybe never
thought me worth a thought. We've led me to take
a step that it will be hard to win over  that has now
no justification and little excuse. For my part, I
canna see my way out of it, one way or another," he
added, with a sigh ; " for you'll allow that it's but
little claim you, or the like of you, for all your lordship,
have upon me."

I have no claim," said Eintoul, hastily ; and then
he added, in a whisper of intense anxiety, " What are
you going to do ? "

Rolls rose up from his bed to answer this question.
He went to the high window with its iron railings

across the light, from which he could just see the
few houses that surrounded the gates, and the sky,
above them. He gave a sigh, in which there was
great pathos and self-commiseration, and then he said,
with a tone of bewilderment and despair, though his
phraseology was not, perhaps, dignified,  " I'm in a
hobble that I cannot see how to get out of. A man
cannot, for his ain credit, say one thing one afternoon
and another the next day."

"Rolls," said Pdntoul, with new hope, coming a little
closer, " we are not rich : but if I could offer you anything,
 make it up to you, anyhow "

Hold your peace, my lord," said the old man testily
" hold your peace. Speak o' the vulgar !" he added
to himself, in an undertone of angry scorn. " Maybe
you think I did it for silver  for something I was to
get !" Then he returned to his bed and sat down
again, passing Eintoul as if he did not see him. " But
the lad is young," he said to himself, " and it would
be sharp, sharp upon the family, being the son-in-law
and a'. And to say I did it, and then to say I
diana do it, wha would put ony faith in me ? I'm
just committed to it one way or another. It's not what
I thought, but I'll have to see it through. My Lord
Eintoul," said Rolls, raising his head, " you've gotten
me into a pretty pickle, and I canna see my way out
of it. I'm just that way situate that I canna contra-diet

myself'  at least I will not contradict myself"
he added, with an angry little stamp of his foot. " They
may say I'm a homicide, but no man shall say I'm a
leer. It would make more scandal if I were to turn
round upon you and convict ye out of your ain mouth,
than if I were just to hold my tongue, and see what the
High Court of Justiciary will say."

"Rolls !" Rintoul could not believe his ears in the
relief and joy. He wanted to burst forth into a thousand
thanks, but dared not speak lest he should offend
rather than please. " Rolls ! if you will do me such a
kindness, I shall never forget it. No words can tell
what I feel. If I can do anything  no, no, that
is not what I mean  to please you  to show my
gratitude "

I am not one to flatter," said Rolls. " It would
be for none of your sake  it would be just for myself,
and my ain credit. But there are twa three things.
You will sign me a paper in your ain hand of write,
proving that it was you, and no' me. I will make
no use o't till a's blown over ; but I would like the
master to go to his grave, nor to follow me to mine 
as he would be sure to do  thinking it was me. I'll
have that for a satisfaction. And then there's another
bit matter. Ye'll go against our young master in
nothing he's set his heart upon. He is a lad that
is sore left to himself. Good and evil were set before

him, and he  did not choose the good. And the third
thing is just this. Him that brings either saith or
scorn upon Miss Nora, I'll no' put a fit to the ground
for him, if he was the king. Thir's my conditions, my
Lord Eintoul. If ye like them, ye can give your
promise  if no', no' ; and all that is to follow will be
according. For I'm no' a Lindores man, nor have nae-thing
to do with the parish, let alone the family : ye
needna imagine one way or another that it's for your
sake "

If you want to set up as overseer over my conduct,"
cried Rintoul hastily, " and interfere with my
private concerns "

What am I heeding' about your lordship's private
concerns ? No me ! They're above me as far as the
castle's above the kitchen. Na, na. Just what regards
young Dalrulzian, and anything that has to do
with Miss Nora "

Don't bring in a lady's name, at least," cried Rin-soul,
divided between rage and fear.

And who was it that brought in the lady's name ?
You can do it for your purpose, my lord, and I'll dort
for mine. If I hear of a thing that lady's father would
not approve of, or that brings a tear to her bonnie
eyes, poor thing ! poor thing ! "

For heaven's sake, Piolls, hold that tongue of yours !
Do you think I want an old fellow like you to teach

me my duty to  to  the girl I'm going to marty !
Don't drive a man mad by way of doing him a favour.
I'm not ungrateful. I'll not forget it. Whatever I

can do ! but for God's sake don't hit a fellow when

he's down,  don't dig at me as if I hadn't a feeling in
me," cried Rintoul. He felt more and more like a
whipped schoolboy, half crying, half foaming at the
mouth, with despite and humiliation. It is impossible
to describe the grim pleasure with which Rolls
looked on. He liked to see the effect of his words.
He liked to bring this young lord to his knees, and
enjoy his triumph over him. But there are limits to
mortal enjoyment, and the time during which his
visitor was permitted to remain with him was near an
end. Rolls employed the few minutes that remained
in impressing upon Rintoul the need for great caution
in his evidence. " Ye maun take awful' care to keep
to the truth. Ye'll mind that a' ye have to do with
is after you and me met. An oath is no' a thing to
play with,  an oath'* said Rolls, shaking his grey
head, " is a terrible thing."

Rintoul, in his excitement, laughed loud. "You
set me an excellent example," he said.

I hope so," said Rolls gravely. " Ye'll mind this,
my lord, that the accused is no' on his oath ; he canna
be called upon to criminate himself  that's one of the
first grand safeguards of our laws. Whatever ill posterity

may hear of me, there's no' one in the country
can say that Thomas Rolls was mansion 1 "

Eintoul left Dunnotter with feelings for which it
would be difficult to find any description in words.
There was a ringing in his ears as he drove across the
bare moorland country about Dunnotter, a dizzying
rush of all his thoughts. He had the feeling of a man
who had just escaped a great personal danger, and
scarcely realises, yet is tremblingly conscious in every
limb, of his escape. He threw the reins to his groom
when he approached Dunearn, and walked through
the little town in the hope of seeing Nora, notwithstanding
her disavowal of him, to pour out into her
ears  the only ones into which he could breathe it 
an account of this extraordinary interview. But it
was in vain that he traced with eager feet every path
she was likely to take, and walked past Miss Barbara's
house again and yet again, till the lamps began to be
lighted in the tranquil streets and to show at the windows.
The evening was chilly, and Eintoul was cold
with agitation and anxiety. He felt more disconsolate
than any Peri as he stood outside, and looking up saw
the windows all closed so carefully, the shutters barred,
the curtains drawn. There was no chance for him
through these manifold muffling, and he did not
venture to go and ask for her, though she was so
necessary to him,  not only his love and his affianced

wife, as he said to himself, but his only confidant
the sole creature in the world to whom he dared to
speak of that which filled his mind and heart. It was
with the most forlorn sense of abandonment and desolation
that he turned his face towards the house in
which he was so important, and so much love awaited
him, but where nobody knew even the A B C of his
history. His only confidant was offended Nora, who
had vowed to see him no more.

CHAPTER XLVI.

After this there ensued a brief pause in the history
of the family in all its branches : it was a pause ominous,
significant  like the momentary hush before a
storm, or the torrent's smoothness ere it dashes below.
The house of Lindores was like a besieged stronghold,
mined, and on the eve of explosion. Trains were
laid in all directions under its doomed bastions, and
the merest breath, a flash of lightning, a touch of
electricity anywhere, would be enough to bring down
its defences in thunders of ruin. It seemed to stand
in a silence that could be felt, throwing up its turrets
against the dull sky  a foreboding about it which
could not be shaken off. From every side assaults
were preparing. The one sole defender of the stronghold
felt all round him the storm which was brewing,
but could not tell when or how it was to burst forth.
Lord Lindores could scarcely have told whence it was
that this vague apprehension came. Not from any

doubt of Rintoul, surely, who had always shown himself
full of sense, and stood by him. Not from Edith
who had, indeed, been very rebellious, but had done
her worst. And as for Carry : Carry, it was true, was
left unfettered and her own mistress, so to speak ; but
he had never found any difficulty with her, and why
should he fear it now ? An uneasiness in respect to
her future had, however, arisen in his mind. She had
made that violent protest against interference on the
night of the funeral, which had given him a little
tremor of alarm ; but why should he anticipate danger,
he said to himself? It might be needful, perhaps, to
proceed with a little delicacy, not to frighten her  to
go very softly ; but Carry would be amenable, as she
had always been. And thus he endeavoured to quiet
the apprehensions within him.

There was one thing, however, which the whole
family agreed upon, which was, in an uneasy sense,
that the presence of Beaufort in their neighbourhood
was undesirable. If they agreed in nothing else they
agreed in this. It was a shock to all of them to find
that he had not departed with Millefleurs. Nothing
could be more decided than Eintoul was in this
respect. So far as that went, he was evidently disposed
to take to the full the same view as his father.
And Edith, though she had been so rebellious, was
perfectly orthodox here. It was not for some time

after the departure of Millefleurs, indeed, that the
ladies made the discovery, not only that Beaufort
was still at Dalrulzian, but that he had been at
Tinto. The latter fact had been concealed from Lord
Lindores, but it added sadly to the embarrassment and
trouble of the others. They were all heavy with their
secrets  all holding back something  afraid to divulge
the separate course which each planned to take for
themselves. A family will sometimes go on like this
for a long time with the semblance of natural union
and household completeness, while it has in reality
dropped to pieces, and holds together only out of
timidity or reluctance on the part of its members to
burst the bonds of tradition, of use and wont. But on
one point they were still united. Carry was the one
subject upon which all were on the alert, and all
agreed. Eintoul had no eyes for Edith's danger, and
Edith  notwithstanding many an indication which
would have been plain enough to her in other circumstances
 never even suspected him ; but about Carry
the uneasiness was general. " What is that fellow
doing hanging about the place ?  he's up to no good," .
Eintoul said, even in the midst of his own overwhelming
embarrassments. " I wonder," was Lady Lindores's
way of putting it  not without a desire to
make it apparent that she disapproved of some one
else  " I wonder how John Erskine, knowing so much

as he does, can encourage Mr Beaufort to stay."
Mamma ! how can you suppose he encourages him 
can he turn him out of his house ? " cried Edith, flaming
up in instant defence of her lover, and feeling her
own guilt and hidden consciousness in every vein.
There was no tender lingering now upon Beaufort's
name, no hesitation or slip into the familiar " Edward."
As for Ptintoul, he had been providentially, as he felt,
delivered from the necessity of speaking to his father
of his own concerns, by being called away suddenly to
the aid of a fellow officer in trouble. It tore his
heart, indeed, to be out of reach of Nora ; but as Nora
would not see him, the loss was less than it might
have been, and the delay a gain, Edith's story was in
abeyance altogether ; and their mourning, though it
was merely of the exterior, brought a pause in the
ordinary intercourse of social life. They did not go
out, nor receive their neighbours  it was decorous to
refrain even from the very mild current of society in
the country. And this, indeed, it was which made
the pause possible. Lord Lindores was the only member
of the family who carried on his usual activities
unbroken, or even stimulated by the various catastrophes
that had occurred. He was more anxious than
ever about the county hospitals and the election that
must take place next year; and he began to employ
and turn to his own advantage the important influence

of the Tinto estate, which he, as the little heir's grandfather,
was certainly entitled, he thought, to consider
as his own. Little Tommy was but four ; and though,
by a curious oversight, Lord Lindores had not been
named as a guardian, he was, of course, in the circumstances,
his daughter's natural guardian, who was
Tommy's. This accession of power almost consoled
him for the destruction of his hopes in respect to
Millefleurs. He reflected that, after all, it was a more
legitimate way of making himself indispensable to his
country, to wield the influence of a great landed proprietor,
than by any merely domestic means ; and
with Tinto in his hands, as well as Lindores, no man
in the county could stand against him. The advantage
was all the greater, since Pat Torrance had been
on the opposite side of politics, so that this might
reasonably be concluded a county gained to the Government.
To be sure, Lord Lindores was far too high-minded,
and also too safe a man, to intimidate, much
less bribe. But a landlord's legitimate influence is
never to be undervalued ; and he felt sure that many
men who had been kept under, in a state of neutrality,
at least, by Torrance's rough and brutal partisanship
 would now be free to take the popular
side, as they had always wished to do. The influence
of Tinto, which he thus appropriated, more
than doubled his own in a moment. There could

not have been a more perfect godsend to him than
Torrance's death.

But the more he perceived and felt the importance
of this, the more did the presence of Beaufort disturb
and alarm him. It became daily a more urgent subject
in the family. When Lord Lindores got vague
information that Carry had met somewhere her old
lover on the roadside  which somebody, of course,
saw and reported, though it did not reach his ears till
long after  his dim apprehensions blazed into active
alarm. He went to his wife in mingled anger and
terror. To him, as to so many husbands, it always
appeared that adverse circumstances were more or
less his wife's fault. He told her what he had heard
in a tempest of indignation. " You must tell her it
won't do. You must let her know that it's indecent,
that it's shameful. Good heavens, just think what you
are doing !  letting your daughter, your own daughter,
disgrace herself in the sight of the whole county.
Talk about the perceptions of women ! They have no
perceptions  they have no moral sense, I believe.
Tell Carry I will not have it. If you don't, I must
interfere." Lady Lindores received this fulmination
with comparative silence. She scarcely said anything
in her own defence. She was afraid to speak lest she
should betray that she had known more than her
husband knew, and was still more deeply alarmed

than he was. She said, " You are very-unjust," but
she said no more. That evening she wrote an anxious
note to John Erskine ; the next day she drove to
Tinto with more anxiety than hope. Already a great
change had come over that ostentatious place. The
great rooms were shut up; the less magnificent ones
had already begun to undergo a transformation. The
large meaningless ornaments were being carried away.
An air of home and familiar habitation had come
about the house. Carry, in her widow's cap, had
begun to move lightly up and down with a step quite
unlike the languor of her convalescence. She was
not convalescent any longer, but had begun to bloom
with a soft colour and subdued air of happiness out
of the cloud that had enveloped her so long. To see
her so young (for her youth seemed to have come
backs, so fresh and almost gay, gave a wonderful pang
of mingled pain and delight to her mother's heart : it
showed what a hideous cloud that had been in which
her life had been swallowed up, and to check her in
her late and dearly bought renewal of existence was
hard, and took away all Lady Lindores's courage.
But she addressed herself to her task with all the
strength she could muster. " My darling, I am come
to  talk to you," she said.

I hope so, mother dear ; don't you always talk tome
? and no one so sweetly," Carry said, with her lips

upon her mother's cheek, in that soft forestalling of
all rebuke which girls know the secret of. Perhaps
she suspected something of what was coming, and
would have stopped it if she could.

Ah, Carry ! but it is serious  very serious, dear :
how am I to do it ? " cried Lady Lindores. " The first
time I see light in my child's eye and colour on her
cheek, how am I to scold and threaten ? You know I
would not if I could help it, my Carry, my darling."

Threaten, mamma ! Indeed, that is not in your
way."

"No, no; it is not. But you are mother enough
yourself to know that when anything is wrong, we
must give our darlings pain even for their own dear
sakes. Isn't it so. Carry? There are things that a
mother cannot keep still and see her dear child do."

Carry withdrew from behind her mother's chair,
where she had been standing with one arm round her,
and the other tenderly smoothing down the fur round
Lady Lindores's throats. She came and sat down
opposite to her mother, facing her, clasping her hands
together, and looking at her with an eager look as if
to anticipate the censure in her eyes. To meet that
gaze which she had not seen for so long, which came
from Carry's youth and happier days, was more and
more difficult every moment to Lady Lindores.

Carry, I don't know how to begin. You know.

my darling, that  your father is unhappy about you.
He thinks, you know,  perhaps more than you or I
might do,  of what people will say."

Yes, mother."

Carry gave her no assistance, but sat looking at
her with lips apart, and that eager look in her eyes
the look that in old times had given such a charm
to her face, as if she would have read your thought
before it came to words.

Carry, dear, I am sure you know what I mean.
You know  Mr Beaufort is at Dalrulzian."

"Edward? Yes, mother," said Carry, a blush
springing up over her face ; but for all that she did
not shrink from her mother's eyes. And then her
tone sunk into infinite softness  " Poor Edward ! Is
there any reason why he shouldn't be there ? "

Oh, Carry ! " cried Lady Lindores, wringing her
hands, " you know well enough  there can only be
one reason why, in the circumstances, he should wish
to continue there."

I think I heard that my father had invited him,
mamma."

"Yes. I was very much against it. That was
when he was supposed to be with Lord Millefleurs 
when it was supposed, you know, that Edith  and
your father could n6t ask the one without asking the
other."

VOL. in. K

In short," said Carry, in her old eager way, " it was
when his coming here was misery to me,  when it
might have been made the cause of outrage and insult
to me,  when there were plans to wring my heart, to

expose me to Oh, mother, what are you making

me say ? It is all over, and I want to think only
charitably, only kindly. My father would have done
it for his own plans. And now he objects when he
has nothing to do with it."

Carry, take care, take care. There can never bea
time in which your father has nothing to do with
you : if he thinks you are forgetting  what is best in
your position  or giving people occasion to talk."

'' I have been told here," said. Carry, with a shiver,
looking round her, " that no one was afraid I would
go wrong ; oh no  that no one was afraid of that. I
was too proud for that." The colour all ebbed away
from her face ; she raised her head higher and higher.
I was told  that it was very well known there was
no fear of that: but that it would be delightful to
watch us together, to see how we would manage to
get out of it,  and that we should be thrown together
every day. That  oh no  there was no fear I should
go wrong ! This was aU said to your daughter, mother :
and it was my father's pleasure that it should be so."

Oh Carry, my poor darling ! No, dear  no, no.
Your father never suspected "

My father did not care. He thought, too, that
there was no fear I should go wrong. Wrong ! " Carry
cried, starting from her seat in her sudden passion.
Do you know, mother, that the worst wrong I could
have done with Edward would have been whiteness,
innocence itself, to what you have made me do  oh,
what you have made me do, all those hideous, horrible
years ! "

Lady Lindores rose too, her face working piteously,
the tears standing in her eyes. She held out her
hands in appeal, but said nothing, while Carry, pale,
with her eyes shining, poured forth her wrong and
her passion. She stopped herself, however, with a
violent effort. " I do not want even to think an unkind
thought," she said-r" now : oh no, not an unkind
thought. It is over now  no blame, no reproach ;
only peace  peace. That is what I wish. I only
admire," she cried, with a smile, "that my father
should have exposed me to all that in the lightness of
his heart and without a compunction ; and then, when
God has interfered  when death itself has sheltered
and protected me  that he should step in, par example,
in his fatherly anxiety, now ! "

"You must not speak so of your father, Carry," said
Lady Lindores ; " his ways of thinking may not be
yours  or even mine : but if you are going to scorn
and defy him, it must not be to me."

f

Carry put her mother down in her chair again with
soft caressing hands, kissing her in an acres of mournful
tenderness. " You have it all to bear, mother dear 
both my indignation and his  what shall I call it ?  
his over-anxiety for me ; but listen, mother, it is all
different now. Everything changes. I don't know
how to say it to you, for I am always your child,
whatever happens ; but, mamma, don't you think
there is a time when obedience  is reasonable no
more ? "

"It appears that Edith thinks so too," Lady Lindores
said gravely. "But, Carry, surely your father
may advise  and I may advise. There will be remarks
made,  there will be gossip, and even scandal.
It is so soon, not more than a month. Carry, dear, I
think I am not hard ; but you must not  indeed you
must not "

"What, mother?" said Carry, standing before her
proudly with her head aloft. Lady Lindores gazed at
her, all inspired and glowing, trembling with nervous
energy and life. She could not put her fears, her suspicions,
into words. She did not know what to say.
What was it she wanted to say ? to warn her against
what ? There are times in which it is essential for
us to be taken, as the French say, at the half word,
not to be compelled to put our terrors or our hopes
into speech. Lady Lindores could not name the ultimate

object of her alarm. It would have been brutal.
Her lips would not have framed the words.

You know what I mean, Carry ; you know what I
mean," was all that she could say.

"It is hard," Carry said, "that I should have to
divine the reproach and then reply to it. I think that
is too much, mother. I am doing nothing which I
have any reason to blush for ; " but as she said this,
she did blush, and put her hands up to her cheeks to
cover the flame. Perhaps this sign of consciousness
convinced the mind which Lady Lindores only excited,
for she said suddenly, with a tremulous tone : " I will
not pretend to misunderstand you, mamma. You
think Edward should go away. From your point of
view it is a danger to me. But we do not see it in
that light. We have suffered a great deal, both he
and I. Why should he forsake me when he can be a
comfort to me now ? "

Carry, Carry ! " cried her mother in horror  " a
comfort to you ! when it is only a month, scarcely a
month, since "

Don't speak of that," Carry cried, putting up her
hands. " What if it had only been a day ? What is
it to me what people think? Their thinking never
did me any good while I had to suffer,  why should
I pay any attention to it now ? "

But we must, so long as we live in the world at

all, pay attention to it," cried Lady Lindores, more
and more distressed ; " for your own sake, my dearest,
for your children's sake."

My children !  what do they know ? they are
babies ; for my own sake ? Whether is it better, do
you think, to be happy or to be miserable, mother?
I have tried the other so long. I want to be happy
now. I mean," said Carry, clasping her hands, "to
be happy now. Is it good to be miserable ? Why
should I? Even self-sacrifice must have an object.
Why should I, why should I ? Give me a reason for
it, and I will think ; but you give me no reason ! "
she cried, and broke off abruptly, her agitated countenance
shining in a sort of rosy cloud.

There was a pause, and they sat and gazed at each
other, or, at least, the mother gazed at Carry withall
the dismay of a woman who had never offended
against the proprieties in her life, and yet could not
but feel the most painful sympathy with the offender.
And not only was she anxious about the indecorum
of the moment, but full of disturbed curiosity to know
if any determination about the future had been already
come to. On this subject, however, she did not venture
to put any question, or even suggest anything
that might precipitate matters. Oh, if John Erskine
would but obey her  if he would close his doors upon
the intruder ; oh, if he himself (poor Edward ! her

heart bled for him too, though she tried to thwart
him) would but see what was right, and go away !

"Dear," said Lady Lindores, faltering, "I did not
say you might not meet  whoever you pleased  in a
little while. Of course, nobody expects you at your
age to bury yourself. But in the circumstances  at
such a moment  indeed, indeed. Carry, I think he
would act better, more like what we had a right to
expect of him, if he were to consider you before himself,
and go away"

What we had a right to expect ! "What had you
a right to expect ? What have you ever done for him
but betray him?" cried Carry, in her agitation. She
stopped to get breath, to subdue herself, but it was
not easy. 'mother, I am afraid of you," she said.
"I might have stood against my father if you had
backed me up. I am afraid of you. I feel as if I
ought to fly away from you, to hide myself somewhere.
You might make me throw away my life again,  buy
it from me with a kiss and a smile. Oh no, no ! " she
cried, almost violently; "no, no, I will not let my
happiness go again ! "

Carry, what is it ? what is it ? What are you
going to do ? "

Carry did not reply ; her countenance was flushed
and feverish. She rose up and stood with her arm on
the mantelpiece, looking vaguely into her own face in

the mirror. " I will not let my happiness go again,"
she said, over and over to herself.

John Erskine carried his own reply to Lady Lindores's
letter before she returned from this expedition
to Tinto. He, too, was one of those who felt for Lady
Car an alarm which neither she nor Beaufort shared ;
and he had already been so officious as to urge strongly
on his guest the expediency of going away,  advice
which Beaufort had not received in, as people say, the
spirit in which it was given. He had not been
impressed by his friend's disinterested motives and
anxiety to serve his true interests, and had roundly
declared that he would leave Dalrulzian if Erskine
pleased, but no one should make him leave the neighbourhood
while he could be of the slightest comfort to
her. John was not wholly disinterested, perhaps, anymore
than Beaufort. He seized upon Lady Lindores's
letter as the pretext for a visit. He had not been
admitted lately when he had gone to Lindores  the
ladies had been out, or they had been engaged, or
Lord Lindores had seized hold upon him about county
business ; and since the day when they parted at Miss
Barbara's door, he had never seen Edith save for a
moment. He set off eagerly, without, it is to be
feared, doing anything to carry out Lady Lindores's
injunctions. Had he not exhausted every argument?
He hurried off to tell her so, to consult with her as to

what he could do. Anything that brought him into
contact and confidential intercourse with either mother
or daughter was a happiness to him. And he made
so much haste that he arrived at Lindores before she
had returned from Tinto. The servant who opened
the door to him was young and indiscreet. Had the
butler been at hand, as it was his duty to be, it is
possible that what was about to happen might never
have happened. But it was a young footman, a
native, one who was interested in the family, and
liked to show his interest. 'her ladyship's no' at
home, sir," he said to John ; *' but," he added, with a
glow of pleasure, "Lady Edith is in the drawing-room."
It may be supposed that John was not slow
to take advantage of this intimation. He walked
quite decorously after the man, but he felt as if he
were tumbling head over heels in his eagerness to ore
there. When the door was closed upon them, and
Edith, rising against the light at the end of the room,
in front of a great window, turned to him with a little
tremulous cry of wonder and confusion, is it necessary
to describe their feelings ? John took her hands into
both of his without any further preliminaries, saying,
At last ! " with an emotion and delight so profound
that it brought the tears to his eyes. And Edith, for
her part, said nothing at all  did not even look at him
in her agitation. There had been no direct declaration,

proposal, acceptance between them. There was
nothing of the kind now. Amid all the excitements
and anxieties of the past weeks, these prefaces of sentiment
seemed to have been jumped over  to have
become unnecessary. They had been long parted, and
they had come together " at last ! "

it may probably be thought that this was abrupt, 
too little anxious and doubtful on his part, too ready
and yielding on hers. But no law can be laid down
in such cases, and they had a right; like other people,
to their own way. And then the meeting was so unexpected,
he had not time to think how a lover should
look, nor she to remember what punctilios a lady
should require. That a man should go down on his
knees to prefer his suit had got to be old-fashioned
in the time of their fathers and mothers. In Edith's
days, the straightforwardness of a love in which the
boy and girl had first met in frank equality, and afterwards
the man and woman in what they considered to
be honest friendship and liking, was the best understood
phase. They were to each other the only possible
mates, the most perfect companions in the world.

I have so wanted to speak to you," he cried ; " in
all that has happened this is what I have wanted ;
everything would have been bearable if I could have
talked it over,  if I could have explained everything
to you

But I understood all the time," Edith said.

There is something to be said perhaps for this kind
of love-making too.

And the time flew as never time flew before  as
time has always flown under such circumstances ; and
it began to grow dark before they knew : for the days
were creeping in,  growing short, and the evenings
long. It need not be said that they liked the darkness
 it was more delightful than the finest daylight ;
but it warned them that they might be interrupted
at any moment, and ought to have put them on their
guard. Lady Lindores might come in, or even Lord
Lindores, which was worse : or, short of those redoubtable
personages, the servants might make a sudden
invasion to close the windows, which would be worst
of all : even this fear, however, did not break the spell
which enveloped them. They were at the end of the
room, up against the great window, which was full of
the grey evening sky, and formed the most dangerous
background in the world to a group of two figures
very close together, forming" but One outline against
the light. They might, one would think, have had
sense enough to recollect that they were thus at once
made evident to whosoever should come in. But they
had no sense, nor even caution enough to intermit
their endless talking, whispering, now and then, and
listen for a moment to anything which might be going

on behind them. When it occurred to Edith to point
out how dark it was getting, John had just then entered
upon a new chapter, and found another branch of the
subject upon which there were volumes to say.

For look here," he said, " what will your father
say to me, Edith ? I am neither rich nor great. I
am not good enough for you in any way. No  no
man is good enough for a girl like you  but I don't
mean that. Ashen I came first to Dalrulzian and saw
what a little place it was, I was sick with disgust and
disappointment. I know why now  it was because it
was not good enough for you. I roam all over it
every day thinking and thinking  it is not half good
enough for her. How can I ask her to go there ?
How can I ask her father ? "

Oh how can you speak such nonsense, John. If
it is good enough for you it is good enough for me.
If a room is big or little, what does that matter ? And
as for my father "

It is your father I am afraid of," John said. " I
think Lady Lindores would not mind ; but your father
will think it is throwing you away ; he will think I
am not good enough to tie your shoe  and he will
be quite right  quite right," cried the young man,
with fervour

In that case," said a voice behind them in the
terrible twilight  a voice, at the sound of which their

arms unclasped, their hands leapt asunder as by an
electric shock ; never was anything more sharp, more
acrid, more incisive, than the sound,  "in that case,
Mr Erskine, your duty as a gentleman is very clear
before you. There is only one thing to do  Go ! the
way is clear."

Lord Lindores ! " John had made a step back in
his dismay, but he still stood against the light, his face
turned, astonished, towards the shadows close by him,
which had approached without warning. Edith had
melted and disappeared away into the gloom, where
there was another shadow apart from the one which
confronted John, catching on the whiteness of its
countenance all the light in the indistinct picture. A
sob, a quickened breathing in the background, gave
some consciousness of support to the unfortunate
young hero so rudely awakened out of his dream,
but that was all.

Her father, at your service,  entertaining exactly
the sentiments that you have attributed to him, and
only surprised that with such just views, a man who
calls himself a gentleman "

Eobert ! " came from behind in a voice of keen
remonstrance ; and " Father ! " with a cry of indignation.


"That a man who calls himself a gentleman," said
Lord Lindores deliberately, " should play the domestic

traitor, and steal into the affections  what she calls
her heart, I suppose  of a silly girl."

Before John could reply, his outline against the
window had again become double. Edith stood beside
him, erect, with her arm within his. The touch filled
the young man with a rapture of strength and courage
stopped her as she began to speak. " Not you,
dearest, not you ; I," he said : " Lord Lindores, I am
guilty. It is true what you say, I ought to have gone
away. Had I known in time, I should have gone
away  (' Yes, it would have been right : ' this in an
undertone to Edith, who 'at these words had grasped
his arm tighter) ; byt such things are not done by rule.
What can I do now ? We love each other. If she is
not rich she would be happy with me  not great, but
happy; that's something! and nWr home, 'Lord Lindores
! I don't stand upon any right I had to speak
to her  perhaps I hadn't any right  I beg jour pardon
heartily, and I don't blame you for being angry."

Perhaps it was not wonderful that the father thus
addressed, with his wife murmuring remonstrance
behind him, and his daughter before him standing
up in defiance at" her lover's side, should have been
exasperated beyond endurance. " Upon my soul ! ''
he cried. He was not given to exclamations, but what
can a man do ? Then after a pause,  " that is kind,"
in his usual sharp tone, " very kind ; you don't blame

me ! Perhaps with so much sense at your command
you will approve of me before all's done. Edith, come
away from that man's side  this instant ! " he cried,
losing his temper, and stamping his foot on the
ground.

Papa ! no, oh no  I cannot. I have chosen him,
and he has chosen "

Leave that man's side. Do you hear me ? leave
him, or -"

Eobert ! Eobert ! and for God's sake, Edith, do
what your father tells you. Mr Erskine, you must
not defy us." '

I will not leave John, mother ; you would not
have left my father if you had been told "

I will have no altercation," said Lord Lindores.
I have nothing to say to you, Edith. Mr Erskine,
I hope, will leave my house when I tell him to do so."

Certainly I will,  certainly ! ' N6, Edith darling, I
cannot stay,  it is not possible. We don't give each
other up for that ; but your father has the best right
in his own house "

Oh, this is insupportable. Your sentiments are
too fine, Mr Erskine of Dalrulzian ; for a little bonnet
laird, your magnanimity is princely. I have a right,
have I, in my own "

Here there suddenly came a lull upon the stormy
scene, far more complete than when the wind falls at

sea. The angry Earl calmed down as never angry-billows
calmed. The pair of desperate lovers stole
apart in a moment ; the anxious, all-beseeching mother
seated herself upon the nearest chair, and said something
about the shortening of the days. This complete
cessation of all disturbance was caused by the entrance
of a portly figure carrying one lamp, followed by another
slimmer one carrying a second. The butler's fine
countenance was mildly illuminated by the light he
carried. He gave a slight glance round him, with a
serenity which made all these excited people shrink,
in his indifferent and calmly superior vision. Imperturbable
as a god, he proceeded to close the shutters
and draw the curtains. John Erskine in the quiet
took his leave like any ordinary guest.

The mine had exploded ;  the mines were exploding
under all the ramparts. This was the night when
Rintoul came home from his visit; and Lady Lindores
looked forward to her son's composure of mind and
manner, and that good sense which was his characteristic,
and kept him in agreement with his father upon
so many points on which she herself was apt to take
different views. It was the only comfort she could
think of Edith would not appear at dinner at all;
and her mother was doubly afraid now of the explanation
of Carry's sentiments which she would have to
give to her husband. But Eintoul, she felt with relief,

would calm everything down. He would bring in a
modifying influence of outdoor life and unexaggerated
sentiment The commonplace, though it was one of
the bitterness of her life to recognise her son as its
personification, is dearly welcome sometimes ; and
she looked forward to Eintoul's presence with the interest
relief. She gave him a hint when he arrived
of her wishes : " Occupy your father as much as you
can," she said. " He has had several things to think
of ; try and put them out of his head to-night."

I think I can promise I will do that, mother," said
Eintoul. The tone of his voice was changed somehow.
She looked at him with a certain consternation. Alas
Saul also among the prophets? Had Eintoul something
on his mind ? But he bore his part at dinner
like a man, and talked and told his stories of the world
those club anecdotes which please the men. It was
only after she had left the dining-room that Eintoul
fell silent for a little. But before his father could so
much as begin to confide to him what had happened
in the afternoon, Eintoul drew his chair close to the
table, planted his elbow upon it to support himself,
and looked steadily into his father's face. " I should
like to talk to you, if you don't mind  about myself,"
he said.

VOL. "III.

Chapter XLVII.

The profoundest of the many wounds inflicted upon
Lord Lindores, at this terrible period of his life, was
that which he thus received at the hands of Eintoul :
it was so altogether unexpected, so unlike anything
that he had imagined of his son, so sudden, that it took
away his breath. For the first moment he could not
speak in the bitterness of his disappointment and outraged
expectations. Eintoul had always been the
strictly reasonable member of his family,  he had
never given in to any sentimental nonsense. His
reasoning had all been upon substantial data, and led
to distinct conclusions. He had not looked at things
in any visionary way, but as they were contemplated
by the world in general. From the point of view of
personal advantage and family progress, nothing could
have been more judicious or sound than his opinions
in respect to Carry and Edith. He had supported the
Tinto marriage (which had on the whole turned out so

well, better than could have been hoped  the man,
the only objectionable feature in it, being now dead
and out of the way, and all the substantial advantages
secured) quietly but firmly. He had been very earnest
about Millefleurs. It was no fault of his if that arrangement
had proved unsuccessful. In all these concerns,
Lord Lindores had found his son his right hand,
supporting him steadily. He could not help reminding
him of this now, after the first outburst of his wrath
and mortification. "You," he said at length, " Kin-soul
! I have been prepared for folly on the part
of your sisters, but I have always felt I had a tower
of strength in you."

There is no difference in me," said Eintoul,  " I
should be just as ready to back you up about the girls
as ever I was ; but if you will recollect, I never said a
word about myself I consider it as our duty to look
after the girls. Tor one thing, they are not so well
qualified to judge for themselves. They see things all
from one side. They don't know the world. I wouldn't
let them sacrifice their prospects to a bit of silly sentiment
; but I never said a word about myself That's
different. A man has a right to please himself as to
who he's going to marry, if he marries at all. Most
fellows don't marry at all  at least it's usual to say so ;
I don't know that it's true. If you'll remember, when
you spoke to me of Lady Eeseda, I never said anything

one way or another. I have never committed myself.
It has always been my determination in this respect to
take my own way."

Lord Lindores was subdued by this calm speech.
He was almost cowed by it. It was very different
from Carry's tears, and even from Edith's impassioned
defiance. Eintoul knew perfectly well what he was
about. There was no excitement to speak of in his
steady confidence in his own power. And his father
knew very well that there was nothing to be done. A
family scandal might indeed be made : a breach in
their relations,  a quarrel which would amuse the
world. He might withdraw Eintoul's allowance, or
refuse to increase it, but this, though vexatious, was
not in any way final ; for the estates were all strictly
entailed, and his heir would have little difficulty in procuring
what money he needed. It was like fighting
against a rock to struggle with Eintoul. When their
father worked himself up into a rage, and launched
sharp phrases at the girls, bitter cuts and slashes of
satire and fierce denunciations, these weapons cut into
their tender flesh like knives, and they writhed upon
the point of the paternal spear. But Eintoul did not
care. A certain amount of vituperation was inevitable,
he knew, and he did not mind it. His
father might " slang " him as much as he pleased ;
fierce words break no bones, and he knew exactly
how far it could go. Lord Lindores also knew this,

and it had the most curious composing and subduing
effect upon him. What is the use of being
angry, when the object of your anger does not care for
it ? There is no such conqueror of passion. If nobody
cared, the happiest temper would learn to amend itself.
Lord Lindores was aware that Eintoul would hear him
out to the end,  that he would never, so to speak, turn
a hair,  that he would reply with perfect coolness, and
remain entirely unmoved. It would be like kicking
against a blank wall,  a child's foolish instinctive
paroxysm of passion. Therefore he was not violent
with Rintoul, nor sharply satirical, except by moments.
He did not appeal to his feelings, nor stand upon his
own authority. If indeed he could not keep his exasperation
out of his voice, nor conceal his annoyance,
he did this only because he could not help it, not with
any idea of influencing Eintoul. But it was indeed a
very serious blow which he had received,  the most
telling of all.

After this," he said, " why should I go on struggling?
What advantage will it be to me to change
Lindores into a British peerage ? I could not enjoy it
long in the course of nature, nor could I afford to enjoy
it. And as for my son, he will have enough to do
to get bread and butter for his numerous family. A
season in town, and a seat in the House of Lords, will
after this be perfectly out of the question."

I suppose it's just as likely as not that the House

of Lords will be abolished before my time," said
Eintoul calmly,  '' at least they say so."

"They say d d nonsense, sir," cried the earl,

touched at his tenderest point. " The House of Lords
will outlive you and half a hundred like you. They
don't know Englishmen who say so. I had hoped
to see my family advancing in power and influence.
Here was poor Torrance's death, for instance, coming
in providentially to make up for Edith's folly about
Millefleurs." Here Lord Lindores made a little pause
and looked at his son. He had, beyond expectation,
made, he thought, an impression upon him. " Ah,"
he said, *' I see, you forgot the Tinto influence. You
thought it was all up with my claims when Millefleurs
slipped through our fingers. On the contrary, I never
felt so like attaining my point as now."

That is not what I was thinking, father," said
Eintoul in a slightly broken voice. He had risen
from his chair and walked to the window, and stood
there, keeping his face averted as he spoke. " I cannot
tell you," he said more earnestly, " the effect it has
upon me when you speak of getting an advantage
from  what has happened. Somehow it makes my
blood run cold. I'd rather lose everything I have
than profit by that  accident. I can't bear the idea.
Besides," he added, recovering himself, " I wouldn't
build so upon it if I were you. It's all in Carry's

hand, and Carry will like to have things her own
way."

'this exhibition of sentiment in respect to Pat
Torrance takes me altogether by surprise," said Lord
Lindores. " T was not aware you had any such friendship
for him. And as to Carry. Pooh ! Carry has
not got a way of her own."

This subject, though it was so painful to Eintoul,
brought the conversation to an easier level. But when
the young man had left him. Lord Lindores remained
for a long time silent, with his head in his hands, and
a bitterness of disappointment pervading his mind,
which, if it had not a very exalted cause, was still as
keen as any tragedy could require. He had let things
go much as they would before he came to his kingdom
; but when Providence, with that strange sweep
of all that stood before him, had cleared his way to
greatness, he had sworn to himself that his children
should all be made instrumental in bringing the old
house out of its humble estate  that they should everyone
add a new honour to Lindores. Now he said to
himself bitterly that it would have been as well if his
brothers had lived,  if he had never known the thorns
that stud a coronet. What had the family gained ?
His son would have been quite good enough for Nora
Barrington if he had never been more than Robin
Lindores ; and John Erskine would have been no great

match for his daughter, even in the old times. It
would have been as well for them if no change had
come upon the fortunes of the family,  if all had
remained as when they were born. When he thought
of it, there was a moment when he could have gnashed
his teeth with rage and mortification. To have sworn
like a trooper or wept like a woman, would have been
some relief to his feelings ; or even to clench his hands
and his teeth, and stamp about the floor like a baffled
villain on the stage. But he did not dare to relieve
himself by any of these safety-valves of nature. He
was too much afraid of himself to be melodramatic or
hysterical. He sat and gnawed his nails, and devoured
his own heart. His house seemed to be tumbling
about his ears like a house of cards. Why should he
take any further trouble about it? Neither money
nor importance, nothing but love, save the mark !
idiocy  the passing fancy of boys and girls. Probably
they would all hate each other in a year or two, and
then they would understand what their folly had done
for them. He thought of this with a vindictive pleasure
; but even of that indifferent satisfaction he could
not be sure.

Meanwhile there was, as may easily be supposed,
the greatest excitement in the house. Eintoul told
his mother and sister, and was half angered by their
sympathy. Edith, who was herself in great agitation,

received the intimation with delight ; but this delight
was quite distasteful to her brother, who stopped herby
a wrathful request to her not to think this was a
nonsensical affair like her own. " I know what I'm
about ; but as for you, it is just a piece of idiocy," he
said : at which poor Edith, aghast, retired into herself,
wounded beyond description by this rejection of her
sympathy. Having thus snubbed his sister, he defied
the alarmed surprise and tempered disapprobation
with which his mother heard his story. " I know that
you were never a very great friend to Nora," he said.
I suppose when another girl cuts out your own, you
can't be expected to be quite just. But my father and
I understand each other," said Rintoul. He went out
after having thus mowed down the ranks on either
side of him, in a not uncomfortable frame of mind,
carrying with him, in order to post it with his own
hand, the letter to Colonel Barrington, which he had
informed his father had been written on the previous
day. And this was quite true ; but having written it,
Rintoul had carefully reserved it till after his interview
with his father. Had Lord Lindores been very
violent, probably Colonel Barrington would not have
had his letter; not that Rintoul would have given
Nora up, but that he had, like most wise men, a strong
faith in postponement. Wait a little and things will
come right, was one of the chief articles of his creed ;

but as Lord Lindores  kept down by the certainty
that there was very little to be made of Eintoul except
by giving him his own way  had not been violent,
the letter went without delay.

Thus, as it sometimes happens, the worst of the
family misfortunes was the one that was condoned
most easily ; for certainly, in the matrimonial way,
Eintoul's failure was the worst. Daughters come and
daughters go  sometimes they add to the family prestige,
sometimes they do the reverse ; but at all events,
they go, and add themselves to other families, and
cease to be of primary importance as concerns their
own. But the eldest son, the heir, is in a very different
position. If he does nothing to enrich the race, or add
honour to it, the family stock itself must suffer. Nora
Barrington would bring some beauty with her to Lindores
; but not even beauty of an out-of-the-way kind
honest, innocent, straightforward, simple beauty, but
no more,  and no connections to speak of; her uncle,
the head of her family, being no more than a Devonshire
M.P. This was very sad to think of. Ptintoul,
in his matter of fact way, felt it as much as any one.
There were moments even when he seemed to himself
to have been unfairly dealt with by Providence. He
had not gone out of his way to seek this girl,  she had
been put down before him; and it was hard that it
should have so happened that one so little eligible

should have been the one to catch his heart. But todo
him justice, his heart being caught, he made no
material resistance. He was entirely steadfast and
faithful to his own happiness, which was involved.
But it did not occur to him as it might have done to a
feebler mind, that he was in any way disabled from
opposing the unambitious match of his sister in consequence
of the similar character of his own. He held
to his formula with all the solidity of judgment which
he had always shown. When his mother pointed out
to him his inconsistency, he refused to see any inconsistency
in it. " I never would, and never did, say
anything as to myself. I never meant to give up my
own freedom. The girls  that's quite different. It
was your duty and my duty to do the best we could
for the girls. I say now, a stop should be put to
Edith. Erskine's a gentleman, but that's all you can
say. She will never be anybody if she marries him ;
whereas, if she had not been a fool, what a far better
thing for her to have had Millefleurs. I should put a
stop to it without thinking twice ; and I can't imagine
what my father means not to do it." This was Ein-soul's
opinion upon his sister's affairs.

And supposing Colonel Barrington had been of the
same opinion in respect to Nora ? " Lady Lindores said.

"In respect to Nora? I consider," said Pdntoul,
that Nora is doing very well for herself. We are not

rich, but the title always counts. A fellow can't shut
his eyes. I know very well that there are a good
many places where I  shouldn't have been turned
away : though you don't think very much of me,
mother. Colonel Barrington is not a fool ; he knows
Nora couldn't have been expected to do better. You
see cleverness is not everything, mamma."

I think you are very clever, Robin," his mother
said, with a smile and a sigh  a sigh of wonder that
her son (always such a mystery to a woman) should
feel and talk and think so unlike herself; a smile that
he should be so much justified in doing so, so successful
in it. Both the smile and the sigh were full of
wonder and of pain. But she was comforted to think
that Eintoul at least was capable of something heavenly
 of true love and disinterested affection. That
was something, that was much, in the dearth of fame.

Thus Eintoul's marriage was consented to, while
Edith's was first peremptorily denied, then grudgingly
entertained, and made the subject of delays and procrastination
enough to have wearied out any pair of
lovers. But they had various consolations and helps
to support them, the chief of which was that they
lived so near each other, and were able to meet often,
and talk over in infinite detail every step that was
taken, and all the objections seen by others, and all the
exquisite reasons in favour of their love which were

known to themselves. And Lady Lindores was from
the first upon their side, though she respected her
husband's unwillingness to bestow his daughter so
humbly. Carry was to her mother a standing admonition
against any further weakness on this point. In
every word and step by which the young widow showed
her thankfulness for her deliverance, she struck with
horror the fine sense of fitness and reverence which
was in her mother's mind. Lady Lindores had not
been false in the sentiments of pity and remorseful
regret with which she had heard of the death of Torrance.
There are some souls which are so finely
poised that they cannot but answer to every natural
claim, even when against themselves. Had she been
Torrance's wife, all the privileges of freedom would
not have emancipated her from that compassion for
the man struck down in the midst of his life, which
took almost the shape of tenderness and sorrow. And
when Carry exulted, it gave her mother a pang with
which her whole being shivered. God forbid that she
should ever be instrumental in placing another creature
in such a position as Carry's ! She stood very
gently but very firmly against her husband on Edith's
behalf. She would not consent to interfere with the
love and choice of her child.

Carry adopted her sister's cause with a still warmer
devotion. She promised her support, her help in

every possible manner, would have sanctioned an instant
rebellious marriage, and settled half of her own
large jointure upon Edith to justify the step, if she
could have had her own way, and would scarcely listen
to the suggestions of prudence. This nervous partisanship
was not of any great advantage to the lovers,
but still it gave them the consolation of sympathy.
And by-and-by the whole county became aware of the
struggle, and took sides with the warmest feeling. Old
Sir James Montgomery, as everybody knows, had entertained
other views ; but when he heard of Nora's
promotion, and of the position of affairs in general, his
kind old heart was greatly moved. He went off instantly
to talk over the matter with Miss Barbara
Erskine at Dunearn, from whose house Nora had just
departed. " To think that this should have been going
on all the time, and you and me never the wiser," the
old General said,  " the little cutty ! But no doubt
they were left in great tribulation as to what my lord
the Earl's majesty would say."

Young persons have a great notion of themselves
nowadays," said Miss Barbara ; " they will not hear of
advice from the like of you or me. Yet I think
Nora might have said a word to an old friend. I
am getting blind and doited. I never suspected anything.
What my heart was set on was to get her for
my nephew John."

"Just that' said Sir James, nodding his head;
"that was my own idea. But you see John, he
has chosen for himself  and a bonnie creature too,
if she is as good as she is bonny."

I am, not very fond of the family. What are they
but strangers ? My heart is most warm to them that
I know," said Miss Barbara. But this was a very
mild statement, and uttered with little vehemence,
for Miss Barbara was not insensible to the pleasure
of having an earl's daughter in the family. " There
is no doubt about the beauty," she added, " and there's
a great deal of good in her, from all I hear."

"With those eyes ye may be sure there's no
harm," said Sir James, growing enthusiastic. "And
I like the lad that had the sense to see what was
in my little Nora. She'll make a bonny countess,
and I wish" she was here that I might give hera
kiss and tell her so. But this Lady Edith is
a bonny creature too ; and as for Lord Lindores himself,
he's no stranger, you know  he's just little
Lobby Lindores that both you and me mind. The
one that has raised a prejudice, I make no doubt,
is just that foreign wife of his "

She is not foreign that ever I heard "

"Well, well  maybe not according to the letter;
but she has foreign ways, and without doubt it
is her influence that has kept the family from settling

down as we had a right to expect. My Lady Pdntoul
will set that right again. Bless me, who would

have thought that little Nora But we must

let by-gones be by-gones, Miss Barbara. We must
just stand up for the young couple, and defeat the
machinations of the foreign wife."

Sir James laughed at this fine sentence of his;
but yet he meant it. And even Miss Barbara agreed
that this stranger woman was no doubt at the bottom
of the mischief When Sir James departed, the
old lady felt herself nerved to a great exertion. By
this time it was winter, and she went out but seldom,
the pony-chaise being a cold conveyance. But that
night she electrified her household by ordering the
carriage "  the old carriage, never produced but
on occasions of great solemnity  for the next day.
"Where will ye be going?" Janet asked, open-mouthed,
after she had got over the shock of the
announcement. But her mistress did not condescend
to give her any answer. It was through Agnes,
at a later hour, that information descended upon the
household. " Sae far as I can make out, she is just
going to Lindores to settle a' about the two marriages,"
Agnes said in great excitement. "What
two marriages ? Ye think of nothing but marriages,"
said Janet. But nevertheless that excellent person
was as much excited as any one when the huge

vehicle drew up at the door next morning, and stood
out in the rain to hear the orders which were given
to the coachman. Agnes, seated within in attendance
on her mistress, gave her a little nod with her eyelids,
as much as to say, Who's in the right now? " To
Lindores." " Bless me ! " said Janet, " single women
are aye so keen on that subject. They would ken
better if they had ever had a man o' their ain."

And indeed Miss Barbara's magnificent intention
was to make a proposal to Lord Lindores, which must,
she could not doubt, make everything smooth. Lord
Lindores was a gentleman, and took pains not to show
the old lady, to whom the credit of the house of Dal-russian
was so dear, that he did not think the Erskiness
good enough to mate with his family : which was also
a laudable exercise of discretion ; for Miss Barbara
was very strong in dates, and knew when the earldom
of Lindores was founded, and who was the first of
the family, as well as the exact period when the
Erskiness were settled at Dalrulzian. Lord Lindores
forbore, partly out of good feeling, partly from alarm,
and partly because Miss Barbara's offer was not one to
be refused. If it should so happen that he might be
compelled to give in, then the settlement upon Edith
of Miss Barbara's fortune would make a very distinct
difference in the case. He did not intend to give in,

but still The proposal was received with great

VOL. in. T

politeness at least. "There are many things to betaken
into consideration," he said. " I had other

plans Yon will excuse me if I cannot give up

my intentions in a moment, because two young people

have chosen to fall in love with each other " " It

is what we all have to do, my lord," said Miss Barbara,
who was old-fashioned, and gave every man his
title. " It is the only thing, in my experience, that it
is useless to fight against." Then Lord Lindores made
her a fine bow, and declared that this was a most
appropriate sentiment from a lady's lips ; but a man
must be excused if he took a graver view. There was
a sharp accent in his voice which not all his politeness
could quite disguise. " For my part," Miss Barbara
said, " I have just had to swallow my own disappointment,
and think nothing of it; for what I had
set my heart upon was to wed my nephew John to
Nora Barrington, that now it appears, in the arrangements
of Providence, is to be your lordship's daughter-in-law,
my Lady Pdntoul." Lord Lindores jumped up
at this as if a knife had been put into him. He could
scarcely trust himself to speak. " I can't allow it to
be an arrangement of Providence," he cried bitterly,
but recovered himself, and forced a smile upon his
angry countenance, and assured Miss Barbara that her
proposal was most generous. He gave her his arm to
the drawing-room, in which Lady Lindores and Edith

were sitting, and withdrew, with his face drawn into
a certain wolfish expression which his wife was aware
meant mischief, but without betraying himself in
speech. When he got back to his library, he launched
a private anathema at the " old witch " who had taken
it upon herself to interfere. But nevertheless, in Lord
Lindores' mind there arose the conviction that though

he never would consent, yet if he did why, that

Miss Barbara and her proposal were worth making a
note of : and he did so accordingly. Miss Barbara, on
her part, left the Castle half affronted, half mollified.
She was angry that her proposal did not settle everything
in a moment; but she was touched by the
sweetness of Edith, and a little moved out of her prejudices
in respect to Lady Lindores. " She has no
foreign accent," she said suddenly, in the midst of the
drive, to the astonishment of Agnes  "no more than
any of us. And she has none of that sneering way, 
my lord yonder, he just cannot contain himself for
spite and ill will  but I cannot see it in her. No
doubt she's one of them that is everybody's body, and
puts on a fine show  but nothing from the heart."

Some time after this another incident, which had
no small bearing upon the story of one of these young
pairs, occurred at Dalrulzian. Kintoul had never concealed
his opposition, but neither had it ever become a
subject of personal conflict between John Erskine and

himself. He had gone away after his own explanation,
for time did not stand still while these events
were going on, and even a Guardsman has periods of
duty. Shortly after he returned to Lindores, some
question about the boundaries of the estates made it
expedient that there should be formal communications
between the two houses. Eintoul undertook to be the
messenger. He had been with his regiment for the last
two months, and he had not inquired into local events.
He was, therefore, not in the least prepared for the
sicrht that encountered him when he knocked at John
Erskine's door. It was opened to him by Rolls, in all
the glory of shining " blacks " and snowy neckcloth,
as composed, as authoritative, as fully in command of
himself and everything about him, as he had ever
been. Eintoul, though he was a lord and a soldier
and a fine fellow, gave a jump backwards, which
scattered the gravel on the path. " Good lord, Rolls ! "
he cried. It was not an agreeable surprise. He had
done his best to forget Rolls, and he had succeeded.
To have so many painful associations thus recalled
was unpleasant; and the sight of him, so suddenly,
without warning, an undeniable shock.

"Ay, my lord, it's just Rolls," said the butler,
barring, as it were, his entrance. Rolls regarded the
young man with a stern air ; and even when Eintoul,
recovering himself, began to express pleasure at his

return, and great interest in hearing how it was, the
face of Rolls remained unmoved. He changed his
mind, however, about barring the entrance, and slowly
showed Eintoul into the vacant dining-room, which he
entered after him, shutting the door.

- " I'll easy tell your lordship how I got out," he said ;
'* but there's mair pressing matter in hand. They tell
me, my lord, that ye will not yield to have my maister,
John Erskine of Dalrulzian, for Lady Edith's man. I
would like to hear if that's true."

It's a curious sort of question to ask," said Eintoul.
I might ask what's that to you, Rolls ? "

Ay, so ye might  it would be just like you, my
lord ; but I do not think it would be politic in all the
circumstances. What for are you opposing it ? Ye're
to marry Miss Nora, and get your ain will and pleasure.
I wish her much joy, poor thing, and strength
of mind to bear a' that's before her. What is your
lordship's objection to my maister, if I may make so
bold as to ask?"

'you are not very complimentary," said Eintoul,
growing red.

No, I'm no' complimentary, my lord ; it's no' my
line. Will you tell me what's set you against this
marriage ? for that is what I would like to ken."

Eintoul tried to laugh, though it would have pleased
him better to knock his monitor down. " You must

see, Rolls, that a thing like this is my own concern,"
he said.

"It's my concern as well," said Rolls. "There's
mair between you and me, my lord, than I'm wanting
to tell ; but if I was in your lordship's place, I would
not rin counter to them that has proved themselves
your best friend "

Rolls ! what are you doing here ? " cried John
Erskine, with amazement, suddenly opening the door.

The countenance of Rolls was quite impassive. " I
was giving my Lord Eintoul an account of my marvellous
deliverance out o' my prison, sir," he said,
and how it was thought I had suffered enough in
my long wait for the trial. And that was true.
Much have I suffered, and many a thought has gone
through my head. I'm real ripened in my judgment,
and awful' well acquaint with points o' law. But I
hope I may never have anything more ado with such
subjects  if it be not upon very urgent occasion,"
Rolls said. And he withdrew with a solemn bow to
Eintoul, in his usual methodical and important way.

Eintoul had come to see John Erskine upon a matter
of business ; but they had never ceased to be friends 
as good friends, that is, as they ever had been. And
the similarity of their situation no doubt awakened
new sympathies in their minds. At least, whatever
was the cause, this meeting did much to draw them

together. It was now that Eintoul showed to John
the real good feeling that was in him. " I have not
been on your side, I confess," he said. "I have
thought Edith might do better. I don't hide it from
you. But you need not fear that I will stand in your
way. I'm in the same box myself. My lord likes
my affair just as little as he likes yours. But of
course if she sticks fast to you, as she'll certainly do,
what can he make of it ? Everything must come right
in the end."

CHAPTER XLYIIL

Thus between threats and promises, and patience and
obstinacy, it came gradually to pass that Lord Lindores
had to yield. He made that winter a very
unhappy one to his family  and it was not more
agreeable to himself; for it was not long before he
arrived at the conviction that he could make nothing
by his opposition. In Eintoul's case, this had been
evident to him from the very first, but he had tried for
some time to delude himself with the idea that Edith
would and must yield to his will. The successive stages
of wrath, bewildered surprise, impatient certainty, and
then of a still more disagreeable conviction that whatever
he might say or do he would not overcome this
girl, went over him one after another, irritating and
humiliating his arbitrary spirit. A father may consent
to the fact that beyond a certain point he cannot
coerce his full-grown son ; but to be opposed and vanquished
by a chit of a girl, is hard upon him. To see

a soft, small creature, whom he could almost blow
away, whom he could crush in his hand like a butterfly,
standing up in all the force of a distinct and independent
being before him, and asserting her own will
and judgment against his,  this was almost more
than he could bear. He came, however, gradually to
a perception of what can and what cannot be done in
the way of moral compulsion. It had succeeded with
Carry, and he had not been able at first to imagine
that it would not succeed equally with Edith; but
gradually his mind was undeceived. He had in reality
given up the contest long before he would confess to
himself, and still longer before he would allow to the
world that it was so. If he could do nothing else, he
would at least keep his household in suspense, and
make the cup as bitter as possible to them before they
should be allowed to touch the sweet.

Lord Lindores, with all these vexations upon his
head, experienced for a moment an absolute pause in
his individual career and prospects. He was assailed
with that disgust which is one of the curses of age
and experience. Cui bono ? it is the oldest of reflections
and the most persistent. To what good is all
the work and labour under the sun? What did it
matter to him to gain an empty distinction, if his
children were to melt away on all sides of him, and
merge into the lower classes  which was how, in a

moment of natural exasperation, he represented the
matter to himself. But afterwards there was a reaction,
as was equally natural. He reflected that he was
only fifty-five, and that what a man enjoys himself is
more to him than anything his grandchildren are likely
to enjoy. If he was sure of never having any grandchildren,
it would still be worth his while to be Lord
Dunearn in the peerage of Great Britain, and take his
seat and wear his robes in Westminster. Till these
glories were attained, what was he?  a mere Scots
lord, good for nothing. A man's children are not the
only interests he has in life ; especially when they are
married he can shake them off*  he can re-enter the
world without encumbrance. And Lord Lindores remembered
that life and the pleasures of his rank could
be enjoyed soberly with his wife at a moderate expense
if the young people were all off his hand. He had
been but an uncomfortable husband of late years, and
yet he loved his wife as she loved him, in frequent
disagreements, in occasional angers and impatiences,
and much, disappointment. What would become of
the world if love did not manage to hold its footing
through all these ? The boys and girls of the high-flown
kind are of opinion that love is too feeble to
bear the destruction of the ideal Bat that is all
these young persons know. Love has the most robust
vitality in the world  it outlives everything. Lord

Lindores was often irritated beyond description by his
wife, who would not understand his ways, and was
continually diverging into ridiculous by-paths of her
own. And she was more disappointed in him  more
hurt and mortified by his shortcomings than words
can say. But yet they loved each other. So much,
that it gradually began to dawn upon him with a
sense of solace, that when the House of Lords called
him, as he hoped, he and she together, without any
young people to trouble them, would yet take their
pleasure together, and enjoy it and their elevated position,
and be able to afford it, which was the best of
all. She, at fifty, was still a handsome woman ; and
he had a presence which many younger men might
have envied. It is doubtful whether the imagination
of Lady Lindores would have been equally delighted
with this dream: but it would have pleased her to
know that he looked forward to it, which is next best.
Animated by this thought, Lord Lindores gathered
himself together and returned to public business withall
his heart and soul. He took possession unhesitatingly,
as has been said, of the Tinto power and influence.
Torrance had opposed him in politics, and thus
neutralised the advantage of a family union against
which nothing in the county could stand. But now,
with a sigh of satisfaction, Lord Lindores drew into
his hand the influence of Tinto too.

This went on for some time with little warning of
the insecurity of tenure by which he held his power.
Beaufort had at last withdrawn from Dalrulzian,
though it was not absolutely certain that he had left
the neighbourhood. The minds of the family were,
however, eased by his abandonment of the ground sofar.
And Lady Car lived very quietly, seldom making
her appearance out of her own grounds, and never
once appearing at Lindores. She would not, indeed,
on any argument, return to her old home. Though
she was urged by her mother and sister with many
soft entreaties, Carry would never yield on this point.
Her countenance seemed to blanch when it was suggested,
though she would give no reason but a tremulous
oft-repeated " No, no ; oh, no, no." When she
drove out, she would sometimes call at the door to
fetch them, sometimes to convey them home, but they
could not induce her to cross the familiar threshold.
She was uneasy even in the very neighbourhood of
the house, and breathed more freely when it was out
of sight. This extraordinary objection to her father's
house kept her almost a prisoner in her own ; for
where could a widow of but a few months go, except
to her parents ? No other visiting was possible.
She was not even, they thought, very desirous of
Edith's society, but liked to be alone, interesting herself
in the alterations of furniture and new arrangements

she was making; a great many of the faded
grandeurs upon which Pat Torrance prided himself
had already been put away. For the moment this
was the only sign of feeling herself her own mistress
which Lady Car displayed.

Other revolutions, however, were at hand. There
came a moment when it happened that one of the
orders Lord Lindores had given was disobeyed, and
when an explanation was asked, the answer given
was that Lady Car herself had given other orders.
This irritated her father greatly, and he made up
his mind that the uncertainty in which things were
could exist no longer  that he must have an explanation
with his daughter. He set out for this
purpose with a little impatient determination to
bring Carry to her senses. He had been tolerating
much which it was ridiculous to go on tolerating.
All the family had humoured her, he felt, as if
she had been an inconsolable widow, broken-hearted
and incapable of any exertion. At this, he could
not but smile within himself as he thought of it.
It was a pity, perhaps, for Torrance, poor fellow, but
it could not be doubted that it was a most fortunate
accident for Car. To be his wife, perhaps, had its
disagreeable, but there could be no more desirable
position than that of his widow ; and to indulge
Carry's whims as they had all been doing, and keep

every annoyance out of her way as if she had been
heartbroken, was too absurd. He decided that it
would be well to have a clear understanding once for
all. She was left by the will in uncontrolled authority,
and it was full time to show her that this did not,
of course, interfere with the authority of her father,
who was her natural guide and protector. "Your
husband, of course, took this into consideration," he
intended to say. But it cannot be denied that he had
to brace himself up for the interview with a clear
sense that it might be a painful one; and that ashe
went along Lord Lindores did, what was a great
tribute to the altered position of Carry  arranged the
subjects of their interview in his mind, and settled
with himself what he was to say.

A great deal can happen in a neighbourhood even
when it is full of gossiping society, without reaching
the ears of the persons most intimately concerned, and
Lord Lindores had been kept in ignorance of much
which had alarmed and disquieted his wife. She was
aware, but he was not, that Beaufort still lingered in
the vicinity, not living indeed in one place, but making
frequent expeditions from Edinburgh, or from the further
north, sometimes to the little hotel at Dunearn,
sometimes to other little towns in the neighbourhood,
from which he could come for the day, or even for a
few hours, to see Carry in her solitude. Lady Lindores

had discovered this with all the pain of anxiety and
wounded disapproval,  wounded that Carry could
think it right to do what seemed to herself so little
suited to the dignity and delicacy of her position : and
though scarcely a word had been said between them
on the subject, it had brought pain and embarrassment
into their intercourse ; for Carry was irritated and
wounded beyond measure by the consciousness of her
mother's disapproval. She, of whom Torrance had
declared in his brutal way that she was too proud to
go wrong, was incapable indeed even of conceiving the
possibility that " going wrong " should be in any one's
thought of her. In her own mind, the fervour with
which she had turned back to the love of her life, the
eagerness with which, at the very earliest moment, she
had sought his pardon, were the only compensations
she could give him for the falsehood into which she
had been forced and the sufferings that had been inflicted
upon him. How could she pretend to build a
wall of false delicacy around herself and keep him at
a distance, while her heart was solely bent upon making
up to him for what he had suffered, and conscious
of no sentiment but an overwhelming desire for his
presence and society ? That she should be obliged
to enjoy this society almost by stealth, and that her
mother, even her mother, should object and remonstrate,
gave Carry the keen and sharp offence with

which a delicate mind always resents a false interpretation
of its honest meaning. It seemed to her that
her first duty now was to be true  always true. She
had been false with horrible consequences : to conceal
now the eager bound of her heart towards her true
lover would be a lie  especially to him who had suffered,
as she also had suffered, from the lies of her life.
But Lord Lindores, when he made up his mind that
Carry must be brought to her senses, was in no way
aware how difficult the position was, and how far
those senses had gone astray.

He had taken a considerable round to think over
the subject, so that it was getting towards evening
when he rode up the long avenue to Tinto,  so late
that the workmen whom Carry employed in the
changes she was making were leaving their work,
when Lord Lindores went into the house and made his
way towards Carry's sitting-room. He sent away the
butler, who, with an air of alarm and surprise, started
out of the partial twilight to conduct him to his daughter.
It was, he felt, something of a reproach to
him that the man looked so much startled, as if his
mistress's father could be an unwelcome visitor. The
room was not lighted, save by the glow of a large fire,
when Lord Lindores opened the door, after a knock to
which no answer was returned. There was a sound of
several voices, and he was surprised to see the tall

figure of a man standing against the firelight. Avowal
the man who was visiting Carry ? It was not Ein-soul,
nor any one else he knew in the neighbourhood.
Nobody about was so tall, so slight, though there was
something in the outline of the fissure that was familiar
to him. But there was an agitated conversation going
on, which made the speakers scarcely distinguishable
in the twilight, unconscious of the knock of the newcomer
or his entrance. To his surprise it was his
wife's voice which he heard first, saying tremulously:
Mr Beaufort, I can do nothing but return to what I
said before. Qui excuse s accuse. You may have the
very best of reasons, but it is an injury to Carry that
you should stay here."

"An injury to me! How can it be an injury tome?
It is my only consolation, it is the only help
I have. I have told you from the first, mamma.
Edward has been wronged, only not so cruelly
wronged as I was myself ; oh, nobody could be that !
And now that we can make it up to each other 
and learn to forget it,  you would chase him away a
second time  for what ?  because of what people  the
world  those who know nothing about us  may say ! "

Carry was standing by the mantelpiece, her tall
figure in its black clinging dress scarcely distinguishable
at first, but the animation with which she spoke,
and the natural eloquence of her gestures, brought it

VOL. in. u

out against the white marble. Then there came
Beaufort's deeper voice : " You know, Lady Lindores,
I am ready to do whatever is best for her. If I can
comfort her after all that has happened to her, how
can I go away ? I wish to do only what is best for
her."

"I beg to remark," said Lord Lindores, coming
forward, " that I knocked before coming in. This, I
suppose, is why your servant looked alarmed when he
admitted me. Is this gentleman, may I ask, living
here ? "

Carry drew back at the sound of his voice as if she
had received a blow. She clung to the edge of the
tall white mantelpiece, shrinking, her figure drawn
together, an impersonation of terror and trouble.
Beaufort started too, but slightly, and stood instinctively
out of the way to make room for the new-comer.
Lord Lindores went straight forward to the fire and
took up his position with his back to it, with a certain
straightforward ease and authority, like a man in his
own house, who has no doubt of his right to do his
pleasure there. But as a matter of fact, he was by no
means so certain as he looked.

We did not hear you," said Carry, with a breathless
gasp in her voice. "We were talking  over
points on which my mother does not agree with me."

I can easily imagine that," he replied.

And then there was a dreadful pause. Lady Lindores,
on the other side of the fire, did not move or
speak. It was the crisis of Carry's fate, and except
in defence or help of her child, the mother vowed to
herself that she would take no part. It was hard, but
it was best for Carry. Whatever was going to happen
to her, she must decide for herself now.

I asked," said Lord Lindores in that calm, clear,
collected voice, which was so strange a contrast to
the agitation of the others, " whether this gentleman is
living here ? If so, it is very inappropriate and unsuitable.
Your mother would prefer, I am sure, if Mr
Beaufort is here about any business, to offer him a bed
at Lindores."

There was a universal holding of the breath at this
extraordinary proposition. Had he burst into all
the violence of passion, they would have been prepared,
but not for this politeness and calm.

I am not living here, Lord Lindores," said Beaufort,
with some confusion. "I am on my way from
the North. I could not resist the temptation of staying
for an hour or two on my way to inquire "

"That was very kind," he said; "and kindness
which interferes with personal comfort is very rare,
if you are going to Edinburgh, you must remember
you have two ferries to cross."

Probably," Beaufort cried, faltering a little, " I

shall stay all night in Dunearn. Lady Caroline 
had some commissions for me."

You had much better come to Lindores. Commissions,
Carry ! I suppose Mr Beaufort is acting asa
sort of agent for you in your new arrangements.
Is it bric--brac ? You young men are all learned in
that."

Nobody made any reply, but the very air seemed
to tingle with the extraordinary tumult of feeling.
To accept Beaufort as an ordinary caller, and to invite
him to Lindores, was a master-stroke. But the two
people between whom he stood were so surcharged
with passionate feeling, that any touch must produce
an explosion of one sort or another. This touch was
given inadvertently by Lady Lindores, who,  terribly
bewildered by the course that things were taking, but
feeling that if Beaufort could be induced to go to
Lindores, it would cut the thread better than any
other expedient,  rose softly out of the twilight, and
coming forward to him, laid her hand upon his arm :
Yes, yes, that is much the best. Come to Lindores,"
she said.

At which Carry lost the control of herself which
people in their ordinary senses have. Between panic
and passion she was beside herself. Fear has a wild
temerity which goes far beyond courage;  her tall
straight figure seemed to fling suddenly out of the

shade, and launch itself upon this milder group. She
put Lady Lindores away with a vehement gesture.

Mother," she cried, " do not you meddle. Edward !
do not go, do not go ; it is a trap, it is a snare. If
you go it will all be over, all over!" Her voice
rose almost to a scream. She had reached the point
at which reason has no longer any hold, and all the reticence
and modesty of nature yields to the wild excitement
of terror. She was trembling all over, yet
capable of any supreme effort of desperation,  ready
to defend to the last, against the same powers that had
crushed her before, her last hope.

Carry," said Lord Lindores,  he kept up, at incalculable
cost to himself, his tone of conciliation,  " I
do not understand what you fear. Is it I that am to
lay traps or snares ? I forgive you, my poor child ;
but this is a strange way to talk to Mr Beaufort,  he
cannot stay here "

I have no intention of staying here, Lord Lindores,"
said Beaufort hastily. "You may be sure I
will not expose her to any comment."

I am very sure, nevertheless, that you are doing
so," said Lord Lindores.

The contrast of this brief dialogue with Carry's impassioned
tones was extraordinary. She felt it through
the haze of excitement that surrounded her, though
her intelligence of all outside matters was blurred by

the wild strain of her own feelings, which would have
utterance. " Father," she said hoarsely, putting her
hand on his arm, " go away from us  do not interfere.
You know what you made of me when I was in your
hands. Oh, let us alone now ! I am not a girl  I ama
woman. I am the same as you, knowing good and
evil. Oh," she said suddenly, " if you want to keep
any respect for me, go away, go away, for I don't
know what I am saying. My head is turning round.
Mother,  Edward ; don't you. see that I am losing my
reason ? Oh, don't let him interfere  let him go away."
Lady Lindores caught her daughter in her arms, in a
trembling effort to control and calm her. " Carry, my

dearest ! you will be sorry afterwards "

"Oh yes, I shall be sorry," cried poor Lady Car,
drawing herself out of her mother's hold,  " sorry to
have been unkind, sorry to have betrayed myself ; but
I must, I must. I cannot hold my peace. Oh, father,
let me alone ! What good will that do you to make
me wretched? What good has it done you? Nothing,
nothing ! I might have been poor and happy, instead
of all I have come through ; and what difference
would it have made to you ? You have killed me
once ; but oh, think how cruel, how tyrannous, if you
tried to kill me again ! And sou see nobody speaks
for me; I am alone to defend myself Father, you
shall not interfere again."

She had resumed her hold on his arm, grasping it
half to support herself, half to enforce what she was
saying. He now put his hand upon hers and detached
it gently, still keeping down his anger, retaining his
tone of calm. " My poor child, you are overdone ; let
your mother take care of you," he said compassionately.
Mr Beaufort, we are both out of place here at this
moment. Lady Caroline has had a great deal to try
her; we had better leave her with her mother." Nobody
could be more reasonable, more temperate. His
compassionate voice and gentle action, and the way
in which he seemed about to sweep away with him the
somewhat irresolute figure of the man who had no
right to be there, filled Carry with a wild pang. It
seemed to her that, notwithstanding all her protest
and passion, he was about to be victorious once more,
and to rob her of all life and hope again. She
stretched out her arms wildly, with a cry of anguish :
Edward, are you going to forsake me too ? "

Edward Beaufort was very pertinacious in his love,
very faithful, poetically tender and true, but he was
not strong in an emergency, and the calmness and
friendliness of Lord Lindores' address deceived him.
He cried " Never ! " with the warmest devotion : but
then he changed his tone a little : " Lord Lindores is
perhaps right  for the moment. I must not  bring
ill-natured remark "

Lady Car burst into a little wild laugh. " You have
no courage  you either," she said, " even you. It is
only I, a poor coward, that am not afraid. It is not
natural to me, everybody knows ; but when a soul is

in despair Then just see how bold I am," she

cried suddenly, " father and mother ! If there is
any holding back, it is his, not mine. I have been
ready  ready from the first, as I am now. I care
nothing about remark, or what anybody says. I will
hear no reason ; I will have no interference. Do you
hear me, all ? Do you hear what I say ? "

I hear  what I am very sorry to hear, Carry, 
what you cannot mean. Mr Beaufort is too much a
gentleman to take advantage of this wild talk, which
is mere excitement and overstrained feeling."

She laughed again, that laugh, which is no laugh,
but an expression of all that is inarticulate in the
highest excitement. " I am ready  to fulfil our old
engagement, our old, old, broken engagement, that
wee made before God and heaven. I have been like
Dante," she said ; " I have lost my way, and made that
dreadful round before I could find it, through hell and

purgatory; yes, that is it  through hell And

now, whenever Edward pleases. It is not I that am
holding back. Yes, go, go ! " she said ; " oh, though I
love you, you are not like me, you have not suffered
like me ! go  but don't go with my father. He

will find some way of putting everything wrong
again."

The two gentlemen walked solemnly, one behind
the other, to the door : on the threshold Lord Lindores
paused. " I don't suppose you will suspect me of any
designs upon your life," he said, with a bitter smile,
if I repeat that you will be welcome at Lindores."

I had made all my arrangements," said Beaufort,
with some confusion, "to stay at Dunearn."

Lord Lindores paused for a moment before mounting
his horse. " All that she has been saying is folly,"
he said ; " you may be certain that it will not be permitted
"

Who is to stop it ? I don't think, if we are agreed,
any one has the power."

"It will not be permitted. It would be disgraceful
to you. It would be a step that no gentleman could
take. A foolish young woman, hysterical with excitement
and exhaustion and grief "

Lord Lindores, you forget what that young woman
has been to me  ever since I have known her. I have
never wavered "

Then you have committed a sin," the Earl said.
He stood there discomfited, in the darkness of the
night, scarcely remembering the servants, who were
within hearing,  not knowing what further step to
take. He raised his foot to put it in the stirrup, then

turned back again. " If you will not come with me 
where we could talk this out at our leisure  at least
you will go away from here," he said. Beaufort did
not reply in words, but hastened away, disappearing in
the gloom of the avenue. Lord Lindores mounted his
horse, and followed slowly, in a tumult of thought.
He had not been prepared for it,  he was unable
now to realise the power of wild and impassioned
resistance which was in Carry. He was giddy with
astonishment, as if his horse or his dog had turned
round upon him and defied him. But he tried to
shake off the impression as he got further from Tinto.
It was impossible ; it was a mere bravado. She would

no more hold to it than And since there was

delicacy, decorum, propriety  every reason that could
be thought of, on the other side  no, no ! He would
forgive poor Carry's passion, for she could no more

hold to it Even her mother, who had been so

difficult to manage before, her mother would fully support
him now. He tried to console himself with these
thoughts ; but yet Lord Lindores rode home a broken
man.

Lady Lindores sat and cried by the fire, while
Carry swept about the room in her passion, crossing
and recrossing the firelight. The servants at Tinto
were more judicious than those at Lindores. They
were accustomed to scenes in the drawing-room, and

to know that it was indiscreet to can lights thither
until they were called for. In the late Tinto's time
the lamps, when they were carried in abruptly, had
lit up many an episode of trouble,  the fierce redness
of the master's countenance, the redness so
different of his wife's eyes. So that no one interrupted
the lingering hour of twilight. Lady Lindores sat
like any of the poor women in the cottages, unable
to stand against the passion of her child. How
familiar is the scene,  the mother crying by the
fireside, descended from her dignity and power to
sway (if she ever possessed any), to sheer helplessness
and pathetic dictatorship, unable, with all the experience
and gathered wisdom of her years, to suggest
anything or do anything for the headstrong life and
passion of the other woman, who could learn only
by experience as her mother did before her. Carry
paced up and down the room from end to end ;
even the shadowy lines of her figure, even her
step, revealed the commotion of her soul : when she
came full into the firelight she stood still for a
moment, her hands clasped, her head thrown back,
confronting the dim image of herself in the great
mirror against a ruddy background of gloom. And
Carry in her passion was not without enlightenment
too.

No," she said passionately, " no, no. Do you

know why I am so determined? It is because I
am frightened to death. Oh, don't take an advantage
of what I am saying to you. How do I know
what my father might do this time ? No, no. I
must keep out of his hands. I will rather die."

Carry, I will not interfere. What can I do
between you? But these are not all conventionalities,
as you think  there is more in them."

"There is this in them," she said, with a strange
pathetic smile, "that Edward thinks so too. He
is not ready like me to throw away everything. He
might be persuaded, perhaps, if my father put forth
all his powers, to abandon me, to think it was for my
interest "

Carry, I do not wish to support you in your
wild projects: but I think you are doing Edward
injustice."

Thank you, mother dear ; your voice is so sweet,"
she said, with a sudden softening, " why should you
cry ? It is all a black sea round about me on every
side. I have only one thing to cling to, only one
thing, and how can I tell? perhaps that may fail
me too. But you have nothing to cry for. Your
way is all clear and straight before you till it ends
in heaven. Let them talk as they like, there must
be heaven for you. You will sit there and wait and
watch to see all the broken boats come home,  some

bottom upwards, and every one drowned ; some lashed
to one miserable bit of a mast  like me."

Carry," said Lady Lindores, " if that is the case, 
if you do not feel sure  why, in spite of everything,
father and mother, and modesty and reverence, and all
that is most necessary to life, your own good name,
and perhaps the future welfare of your children  why
will you cling to Edward Beaufort ? You wronged
him perhaps, but he did nothing to stop it. There
were things he might have done  he ought to have
been ready to claim you before  to oppose your "

Carry threw herself at her mother's feet, and laid
her trembling hand upon her lips. " E'ot a word, nota
word," she cried. " Do you think he would wrong
my children ? Oh no, no ! that is impossible. His
fault, it is to be too good. And if he did nothing,
what could he do ? He has never had the ground to
stand on, nor opportunity, nor time. Thank God!
they will be his now ; he will prove what is in him
now."

Which was it that in her heart she believed ? But
Lady Lindores could not tell. Carry, when she calmed
down, sat at her mother's feet in the firelight, and
clasped her close, and poured out her heart, no longer
in fiery opposition and passion, but with a sudden
change and softening, in all the pathos of trouble
past and hope returned. They cried together, and

talked and kissed each other, once more mother and
child, admitting no other thought. This sudden
change went to the heart of Lady Lindores. Her
daughter's head upon her bosom, her arm holding her
close, what could she do but kiss her and console her,
and forget everything in sympathy. But as she drove
home in the dark other fears came in. Only one
thing to cling to  and perhaps that might fail her 
one miserable bit of a mast." What did she mean ?
What did Carry believe? that her old love would
renew for her all the happiness of life, as she had
been saying, whispering with her cheek close to her
mother's  that the one dream of humanity, the romance
which is never worn out and never departs,
was now to be fulfilled for her?  or that, even into
this dream, the canker had entered, the sense that
happiness was not and never could be?

Chapter XLIX.

When a pair of lovers are finally delivered from all
those terrible obstacles that fret the current of truelove,
and are at last married and settled, what more is
there to be said about them ? One phase of life is
happily terminated,  the chapter which human instinct
has chosen as the subject of romance, the one
in which all classes are interested,  those to whom it
is still in the future, with all the happy interest of
happiness to come,  those to whom it is in the past,
with perhaps a sigh, perhaps a smile of compassion, a
softening recollection, even when their hopes have not
been fulfilled, of what was and what might have been.
The happiness and the miseries of that early struggle,
how they dwindle in importance as we get older, 
how little we think now of the crisis which seemed
final then  things for which heaven and earth stood
still ; yet there will never come a time in which
human interest will fall away from the perennial

story, continually going on, ever changing, yet ever
the same.

Before proceeding to the knotting up of other
threads, we must first recount here what happened
to Lord Millefleurs. He did not take any immediate
steps in respect to Miss Sallie Field. They corresponded
largely and fully at all times, and he told
her of the little incident respecting Edith Lindores
in full confidence of her sympathy and approval.
Perhaps he gave the episode a turn of a slightly
modified kind, representing that his proposal was
rather a matter of politeness than of passion, and
that it was a relief to both parties when it was
discovered that Edith, as well as himself, considered
fraternal much better than matrimonial relations.
Miss Sallie's reply to this was very uncompromising.
She said : " I think you have behaved like a couple
of fools. You ought to have married. You can
tell her from me that she would have found you
very nice, though your height may leave something
to be desired. I don't myself care for girls  they
are generally stupid ; but it would have been exceedingly
suitable, and pleased your parents  a duty
which I wish I saw you more concerned about."
Lord Millefleurs, in his reply, acknowledged the
weight and sense " as always " of his correspondent's
opinion. " I told dear Edith at once what you said ;

but it (lid not perhaps make so much impression
on her as it would otherwise have done, since she
has got engaged to John Erskine, a country gentleman
in the neighbourhood, which does not please
her parents half so well as a certain other union
would have done. Pleasing one's parents after all,
though it is a duty, is not paramount to all other
considerations. Besides, T have never thought it
was a commandment to which great attention was
paid chez nous!' Miss Field's reply was still more
succinct and decided : " I don't know what you mean
by click nous. I hate French phrases when simple
American will do as well. If you think we don't
love our fathers and mothers, it just shows how far
popular fallacy can go, and how easily you bigoted
Englishmen are taken in. Who was it that first
opened your eyes to the necessity of considering
your mother's feelings ? " Peace was established after
this, but on the whole Lord Millefleurs decided to
await the progress of circumstances, and not startle
and horrify those parents whom Miss Sallie was
so urgent he should please. Some time after she informed
him that she was coming to Europe in charge
of a beautiful young niece, who would have a large
fortune. "Money makes a great deal of difference
in the way in which dukes and duchesses consider
matters," she wrote, enigmatically, " and so far as
VOL. in. X

I can make out from your papers and novels (if there
is any faith to be put in them), American girls are
the fashion." Lord Milliners informed his mother
of this approaching arrival, and with some difficulty
procured from her an invitation to Less Castle for
his Transatlantic friends. " I wish there was not
that girl though," her Grace said ; but Lady Keseda,
for her part, was delighted. " She will go to Paris
first and bring the very newest fashions," that young
lady cried. The ducal mansion was a little excited
by the anticipation. They looked for a lovely
creature dressed to just a little more than perfection,
who would come to breakfast in a diamond necklace,
and amuse them more than anybody had amused
them in the memory of man. And they were not
disappointed in this hope. Miss Nellie F. Field was
a charming little creature, and her "things" were
divine. Lady Eeseda thought her very like Daisy
Miller; and the Duchess allowed, with a sigh, that
American girls were the fashion, and that if Mille-leurs
hould have something out of the way .

But in the meanwhile Milliners left this lovely
little impersonation of Freedom to his mother and
sister, and walked about with her aunt. Bliss Sallie
was about eight or nine and thirty, an age at which
women have not ceased to be pleasant  when they
choose  to the eye as well as to the heart. But the

uncompromising character of her advice was nothing
to that of her toilette and appearance. She wore
short skirts in which she could move about freely
when everybody else had them long. She wore a
bonnet when everybody else had a hat. Her hair was
thin, but she was scrupulous never to add a tress, or
even a cushion. She was not exactly plain, for her
features were good, and her eyes full of intelligence;
but as for complexion, she had none, and no figure to
speak of. She assumed the entire spiritual charge of
Millefleurs from the moment they met, and he was
never absent from her side a moment longer than he
could help. It amused the family beyond measure, at
first almost more than Nellie. But by and by the
smile began to be forced, and confusion to take the
part of hilarity. It was Miss Sallie Field herself at
last who took the bull by the horns, if that is not too
profane a simile. She took the Duke apart one fine
evening, when the whole party had strolled out upon
the lawn after dinner  " Your son," she said, " is tormenting
me to marry him," and she fixed upon the
Duke her intelligent eyes. His Grace was confounded,
as may be supposed. He stood aghast at this middle-aged
woman with her Transatlantic accent and air. He
did not want to be uncivil. " You ! " he said, in consternation,
then blushed for his bad manners, and
added, suavely, " I beg you a thousand pardons  you

mean  your niece." That of itself would be bad
enough. " No," said Miss Sallie, with an air of regret,
"it does not concern ISTellie. I have told him that
would be more reasonable. Nellie is very pretty, and
has a quantity of money; but he doesn't seem to see it.
Perhaps you don't know that this was what he wanted
when I sent him home to his mother ? I thought he
would have got over it when he came home. I consider
him quite unsuitable for me, but I am a little
uneasy about the moral consequences. I am thirty-eight,
and I have a moderate competency, not a fortune,
like Nellie. I thought it better to talk it over
with you before it went any further," Miss Sallie said.
And when he took this middle-aged and plain-spoken
bride to Dalrulzian to visit the young people
there, Millefleurs did not attempt to conceal his consciousness
of the objections which his friends would
no doubt make. " I told you it was quite unsuitable,"
he said, turning up his little eyes and clasping his
plump hands. " We were both perfectly aware of
that ; but it is chic, don't you know, if you will allow
me to use a vulgar word." Edith clasped the arm of
John when the Marquis and Marchioness of Millefleurs
had retired, and these two young people indulged
in subdued bursts of laughter. They stepped
out upon the terrace walk to laugh, that they might
not be heard, feeling the delightful contrast of their

own well-assorted youth and illimitable happiness.
The most delightful vanity mingled with their mirth
that vanity in each other which feels like a virtue.
It was summer, and the air was soft, the moon shining
full over the far sweep of the undulating country,
blending with a silvery remnant of daylight which
lingered far into the night. The hills in the far distance
shone against the lightness of the horizon, and
the crest of fir-trees on Dalrulzian hill stood out
against the sky, every twig distinct. It was such a
night as the lovers babbled of on that bank on which
the moonbeams lay at Belmont, but more spiritual
than any Italian night because of that soft heavenly
lingering of the day which belongs to the north. This
young pair had not been married very long, and had
not ceased to think their happiness the chief and
most reasonable subject of interest to all around them.
They where still comparing themselves with everything
in earth, and almost in heaven, to the advantage of
their own blessedness. They were amused beyond
description by the noble couple who had come to visit
them. " Confess, now, that you feel a pang of regret,"
John said  and they stood closer and closer together,
and laughed under their breath as at the most delightful
joke in the world. Up-stairs the Marchioness shut
the window, remarking that the air was very cold.
What a fool that little thing was not to have you,"

she said ; " you would have done very well together."
"Dear Edith!" said Millefleurs, folding his hands,
it is very pretty, don't you know, to see her so
happy."

The observations made down-stairs, upon the actors
in this little drama, were very free, as was natural.
Rolls himself, who had held a more important role
than any one knew, was perhaps apt to exaggerate the
greatness of his own part, but with an amiable and
benevolent effect. His master, indeed, he looked upon
with benevolent indulgence, as knowing no more thana
child of the chief incident. If Rolls had not been
already bound to the house of Dalrulzian by lifelong
fidelity and by that identification of himself and all
his interests, his pride and self-regard, with his
*' family," which is something even more tenacious and
real than faithfulness, he would have been made so
by the fact that John, without in the slightest degree
realising that Rolls was suffering for him, had given
orders to Mr Monypenny to secure the most expensive
assistance for his trial. The pride, contempt, satire,
and keen suppressed emotion with which this act
filled the old servant's bosom, were beyond description.
It was just downright extravagance," he said to
Bauby ; " they're a' fails, the Erskiness, frae father to
son. Laying out all that silver upon me ; and no' a
glimmer o' insight a' the time. An' he had had the

sense to see, it would have been natural; but how
could he divine my meaning when there was no conscience
in himsel' ? and giving out his money all
the same as if notes were things ye could gather on
the roadside ? " " He might understand ye, Tammas,
but he kent your meaning was good," said Bauby.
Their position was changed by all the changes that
had happened, to the increase of their grandeur if
not of their happiness. Rolls had now a tall and
respectful youth under his orders, and Bauby was
relieved, in so far as she would allow herself to be
relieved, of the duties of the kitchen. It was gratifying
to their pride, but there is little doubt that they
sighed occasionally for the freedom of the time when
PioUs was alone in his glory, dictator of the feminine
household, and Bauby 's highest effort of toilette was
to tie a clean apron round her ample waist. She had
to wear a silk gown now, and endeavour to be happy
in it. Rolls's importance, however, was now publicly
acknowledged both out of doors and in. He was
looked upon with a kind of admiring awe by the
population generally, as a man who had been, as it
were, like Dante, in hell, and came out unhinged 
or in prison, which was nearly as bad, issuing forti
in a sort of halo of innocence and suffering. It might
have been possible that John Erskine or any of the
gentlemen of the country-side had quarrelled with

Tinto and meant mischief; but Rolls could not have
meant anything. The very moment that the eyes of
the rural world were directed to him, it was established
that accident only could be the cause of death, and
everybody felt it necessary to testify their sympathy
to the unwilling instrument of such an event. The
greatest people in the county would stop to speak
to him when occasion offered, to show him that they
thought no worse of him. Even Lord Lindores would
do this; but there was one exception. Eintoul was
the one man who had never offered any sympathy.
He turned his head the other way when Rolls approached
him,  would not look at him when they
were, perforce, brought into contact. While Rolls, for
his part, regarded Lord Eintoul with a cool and cynical
air of observation that was infinitely galling to the
object of it. "Yon lord!" he said, when he spoke
of him, contemptuous, with a scoff always in his tone.
And Rolls had grown to be a great authority in legal
matters, the only person in the neighbourhood, as was
supposed, that knew the mysteries of judicial procedure.
But his elevation, as we have said, was
modified by domestic drawbacks. Instead of giving
forth his sentiments in native freedom as he went
and came with the dishes, direct from one table to
another, it was necessary to wait until the other
servants of the household were disposed of before the

butler and the housekeeper could express confidentially
their feelings to each other. And Bauby, seated in
her silk gown, doing the honours to the Marquis's
man, of whom she stood in great awe, and the Marchioness's
woman, whom she thought a " cutty," was not
half so happy as Bauby, glowing and proud in the
praises of a successful dinner, with her clean white
apron folded over her arms.

This is the lord that my teddy would have been
married upon, had all gone as was intended," Rolls
said. " He's my Lord Marquis at present, and will
be my Lord Duke in time."

Such a bit creature for a' the grand titles," said
Bauby, yawning freely over the stocking which she
was supposed to be knitting. " Eh, Tammas, my man,
do ye hear that clatter? We'll no' have an ashes
left in the house."

It's a piety she diana take him  it would have
pleased a' parties," said Rolls. " I had other views
myself', as is well known, for our maister here, poor
lad. Woman, cannot ye bide still when a person is
speaking to ye ? The ashes are no' your concern."

Eh. and wha's concern should they be ? " cried
Bauby ; " would I let the family suffer and me sit
still ? My lady's just a sweet young thing, and I'm
more fond of her every day. She may not just be
very clever about ordering the dinner, but what does

that matter as lang as I'm to the fore ? And she's
an awful' comfort to my mind in respect to Mr John.
It takes off the responsibility. Me that was always
thinking what would I say to his mamma !"

I have nothing to say against my lady," said Rolls,
but just that I had other views. It's a credit to
the house that she should have refused a grand match
for otter sake. But it will be a fine ploy for an observer
like me that kens human nature to see them a' about
my table at their dinner the morn. There will bethe
Earl himsel', just girning with spite and politeness
and her that would have been my ain choice, maybe
beginning to see, poor thing, the mistake she's made.
Poor thing ! Marriages, in my opinion, is what most
shakes your faith in Providence. It's just the devil
that's at the bottom o' them, so far as I can see."

Hoot, Tammas  it's true love that's at the bottom
o' them," Bauby said.

"Love!" Piolls cried with contempt: and then he
added with a grin of malice  " I'm awful' entertained
to see yon lord at our table-end. He will not look
the side I'm on. It's like poison to him to hear my
voice. And I take great pains to serve him myself,"
he said with a chuckle. ' I'm just extraordinary attentive
to him. There's no person that I take half as
much charge of. I'm thinking his dinner will choke
him some day, for he canna bide the sight o' me."

Him that should go upon his knees to ye everyday
of his life !" cried Bauby indignant.

'we'll say no-thing about that; but I get my
diversion out o' him," said Rolls grimly, " though he's
a lord, and I'm but a common man !"

The marriage of Lady Car took place a little more
than a year after Torrance's death. It was accomplished
in London, whither she had gone some time
before, with scarcely any one to witness the ceremony
but her mother. She preferred it so. She was
happy and she was miserable, with the strangest mingling
of emotions. Lady Lindores made vain efforts to
penetrate into the mind which was no longer open
to her as her own. Carry had gone far away from
her mother, who knew none of the passions which
had swept lier soul, yet could divine that the love
in which she was so absorbed, the postponed and
interrupted happiness which seemed at last to be
within her grasp, was not like the love and happiness
that might have been. When Beaufort was not with
her, her pale countenance, that thoughtful face with
its air of distinction, and sensitive delicacy, which had
never been beautiful, would fall into a wan shadow
and fixedness which were wonderful to see. When he
was with her, it lighted up with gleams of ineffable
feeling, yet would waver and change like a stormy sky,

sometimes with a lightning-flash of impatience, sometimes
with a wistful questioning glance, which gave
it to Lady Lindores all the interest of a poem united
to the far deeper, trembling interest of observation
with which a mother watches her child on the brink
of new possibilities. Averse they for good or evil? 
was it a life of hope fulfilled, or of ever increasing
and deepening disappointment, which lay before Carry's
tremulous feet ? They were not the assured feet of
a believing and confident bride. What is love without
faith and confidence and trust ? It is the strangest?
the saddest, the most terrible, the most divine of human
passions. It is seldom that a woman begins with such
enlightenment in her eyes. Usually it is the growth
of slow and much - resisted experience, the growing
revelation of years. How sweet, how heavenly, how
delightful, when love is blind ! How wise the ancients
were to make him a child  a thing of caprice and
sweet confusion, taking everything for granted ! But
this to Carry was impossible. When her mother took
her into her arms on her wedding morning, dressed in
the soft grey gown which was the substitute for bridal
white, they kissed each other with a certain solemnity.
At such a moment so much is divined between kindred
hearts which words can never say. " I want you
to remember," said Carry, " mother dear  that whatever
comes of it, this is what is best." " I hope all

that is most happy will come of it, my darling' said

Lady Lindores. " And I too  and I too " She

paused, raising a little her slender throat, her face, that
was like a wistful pale sky, clear-shining after the
rain  " But let it be what it may, it is the only good
the only way for me." These were the sole words
explanatory that passed between them. Lady Lindores
parted with the bridal pair afterwards with an
anxious heart. She went home that night, travelling
far in the dark through the unseen country, feeling the
unknown all about her. Life had not been perfect to
her any more than to others. She had known many
disappointments, and seen through many illusions :
but she had preserved through all the sweetness of a
heart that can be deceived, that can forget to-day's
griefs and hope again in tomorrow as if to-day had
never been. As she drew near her home, her heart
lightened without any reason at all. Her husband
was not a perfect mate for her  her son had failed
to her hopes. But she did not dwell on these disenchantments.
After all, how dear they were ! after
all, there was tomorrow to come, which perhaps, most
likely, would yet be the perfect day.

