CHAPTER I.

THE WHITE HOUSE.

ll/rOTHER, I wish you would not make
Jlx such a fuss. It is only Harry quarrelling
with father ; I am sure you ought to be used
to that by this time. It is just as sure to
happen when they get together as that night
will come after day."

I never can be used to it if I should live a
hundred years," said the mother thus addressed.
She was walking up and down a long low room,
wringing her hands as she walked, her brow contracted
with anxiety and alarm. Her daughter
sat tranquilly knitting, following her with eyes
full of calm disapproval as her figure crossed the
glow of the firelight, and went and came into

VOL. I. B

the gloom on either side. The 'occasional sound
of their low voices, the faint rustle of the elder
woman's movements, the crackle of the fire
burning brightly, with now and then a small
explosion and sudden blaze, were all the sounds
that broke the quiet here ; and this made all the
more apparent a growl of deep-voiced talk in an
adjoining room, with now and then a high word,
almost audible, quite comprehensible in its
excited tone. Father and son were in the
dining-room, mother and daughter were in the
parlour, a pleasant division one might have
thought. Outside the wind was blowing down
the valley with a force which might have suggested
storm in other localities, but was natural
and ordinary here. It was April, but scarcely
spring as yet in the north country. "As the
day lengthens the cold strengthens," is the
rule under the Slap Fells. Joan Joscelyn, the
elder daughter of the house, was seated near the
fire with her knitting. She was quite still
save for the twinkle of her knitting needles,
which caught the firelight, and her eyes, with
which she watched her mother without turning
her head. Her shadow upon the drawn curtains
behind her was as still as though cut out of

paper. She was not very young nor had she
any traces of beauty in the somewhat worn and
very fixed and steady lines of her face. Her
dark hair was very smooth, her dress very neat,
everything about her orderly and calm. A slight
look of restrained impatience in her eyes, impatience
mingled with disapproval, and that sort
of faint contempt which children so often feel
for their parents, was the only sign which the
calm daughter of a nervous mother gave of her
feelings. "I wish you would not make such a
fuss, you ought to be used to it by this time,"
was written all over her, and perhaps there was
in her aspect something of that conscientious
superiority felt by Mrs. Hardcastle in the play
when she said, " See me, how calm I am ;" but
all subdued by the natural dictatorship of her
position. What could she do one way or another ?
Then why should she excite herself for nothing?
This was Joan's sensible conclusion  and why
her mother could not adopt it too was a thing
she could not understand.

Mrs. Joscelyn was a pale woman of a very
different aspect. She was, people thought at the
first glance, not so old as her daughter, notwithstanding
the advantage which a calm temper

2

ment is supposed to have over an excitable one.
But it is not always true that the sensitive and
self-tormenting grow old sooner than their
more tranquil companions. Joan had never been
young at all, so to speak. Her mother was young
still in the freshness of a mind which would
not be controlled by experience, which trusted
every new promise and embraced every new
hope, and was as bitterly disappointed by every
failure of her hopes as if she had never known
a disappointment before. How many pangs this
temperament brought to her it would be impossible
to reckon ; but it kept a sentiment of youth
about her, a sense of living such as her daughter in
her best days never knew. Both of them however
agreed in believing that this temperament was a
curse and not a blessing; the daughter with
heartfelt astonishment at the power which her
mother possessed of tormenting herself  if indeed
it were not a fictitious torture which she rather
liked than otherwise, as Joan sometimes imagined
with instinctive contempt ; while the mother as
often sighed. Oh, that she could take things as
quietly, give up making a fuss, bear her troubles
with the same calm as Joan. But neither could
the one bring herself to the level of the other.

nor either understand the different conditions
which made similar action impossible. Joan
for her part followed Mrs. Joscelyn's restless
movements with a wonder which she could
never get over. What good could it do ? Why'
couldn't she sit down and get her work, and
occupy herself? Even, Joan thought, it would be
better to get a book and read (though that was a
waste of time) and " take her mind off," the thing
that so troubled her. " Of course it was a pity
that father and Harry should quarrel ; but then,
bless me," Joan said to herself, *' boys so often
quarrel with their fathers. Why should there
be more fuss made about it here than anywhere
else?" She was knitting a long worsted stocking
which hung down from her hands like a big grey
bag ; now and then she gave it a momentary look,
to see that the ribs were right and the " seam"
kept straight ; but for the most part did not look
at it at all, but watched her mother while the
needles twinkled in the firelight and the big
stocking leg turned round in her hands with an
occasional jerk.

Meanwhile Mrs. Joscelyn walked up and
down wringing her hands. The room was not
very light. There were two candles on the

table ; but it was the brilliant glow of the fire
which lit up the space in front, throwing a ruddy
reflection even into the darkness of the corners.
She paced all the length of the room, crossing
periodically the bar of brighter light. She was
rather tall, but stooped, her shoulders coming
together with the ceaseless movement of her
hands. Harry had put his hand into hers and
vowed to her that he would avoid all subjects of
quarrel, that he would give to his father the soft
answer that turns away wrath. But, alas ! he
must have broken his word. It was not the first
time nor the thirtieth time ; but she felt astonished
and disappointed as if up to that moment
all promises had been kept to her. She was one
who could not get used to suffering. It was
as intolerable to her after so many years of it,
so many pangs, as if she had lived the life of
a spoilt child np to that moment and never
known what contradiction was. The sound of
the voices in the next room seemed to pierce
into her heart. When they rose louder than
usual she would give a low cr} Sometimes she
stood still for a moment to hear the better, sometimes
she spoke half to Joan, half to herself.
I think I must go in  I must go in, I can't

let them go on like this. What if they were to
lift their hands to each other, father and son,
oh ! father and son," and then she made a sudden
impulsive step towards the door ; but paused
again with a convulsive pressure together of her
worn hands.

Let them alone mother," said Joan, " what
good could you do? Only turn both of them
upon yourself."

"I know, I know," moaned the poor lady.
Then she stopped in the middle of the light.
Oh !" she said, raising her arms with a gesture
which would have been theatrical had it not
been so real, " oh ! what have I done, what have
I done that 1 can never have peace in my
house f

Joan never took her eyes from this moving
figure, but the long grey stocking jerked and
turned round in her hands, and the needles
twinkled without intermission.

You expect too much," she said ; " bless me !
there's quarrels in all houses, and lads go wrong,
and all sorts of things happen. Girls too, which
is worse. We should be thankful nothing oi
that kind has happened to us. If Will and
Tom have been a little wild in their time

they've settled down ; and I've always behaved
myself. You have a deal to be thankful for,
mother. As for sons at home when the father
is a hale man like father, they're always quarrelling.
What young fellows want is their own
way. Father's too young to manage Harry, he's
too strong and likely, just as good a man as
any of them. That's my opinion ; so are you
a deal too young. Bless me, you're not a bit older
than I am. If I wasn't so steady I shouldn't
like it, I'd rather have an old wife that would
give in to me and admire me, whatever I
did"

Joan continued the monologue with a little
curve at one corner of her mouth which did duty
for a smile. It was not much more than a
soliloquy, if truth were told. She knew very
well her mother was not listening and did not
hear her. Mrs. Joscelyn had re-commenced the
walk with which she was trying to subdue her restlessness.
And now the voices grew louder than
ever. There was a long volley of sounds, in
the deepest tone, a sort of discharge of musketry,
vituperation rounded off with a large
mouth-filling oath or two ; then a louder noise
like the pushing back of chairs, one of which

was thrown down with a heavy crash on the
floor. Even Joan started at this noise, and her
mother rushed trembling to the door. But
before she could open it the door of the next
room was thrown violently against the wall,
and some one plunged out, rushing across
the hall and flinging forth at the outer door.
Another volley from the deep voice accompanied
this hasty retreat. The mother turned, and
hurrying across the room to the window, disappeared
behind the drawn curtain that covered
it. She opened the shutter as softly and quickly
as her trembling would permit, and looking out
watched the owner of the hasty steps disappearing,
with a clang of the garden gate, in the faint
wintry moonlight, which made the landscape
beyond look like a white mist. She stood and
watched him, shaking her head with a low
moan.

Now he is away to the village," she said
piteously, " oh, my poor lad ! the ' Red Lion,'
that's all the fireside my Harry will get. Oh,
good Lord, good Lord ! and me here breaking my
heart ; and neither sleep nor rest will I get
this night till I hear my boy come home. But
it is not his fault, it's not his fault ; and what

is to be the end of it ?" the poor lady
cried.

Joan, though she was so tranquil, was not
unsjm pathetic. She made a little remonstrative
sound with her tongue in unison with the clicking
of her needles.

Bless me ! dear me ! but he'll take no harm
at the ' Red Lion ;' don't always be thinking the
worst, and making things out more dreadful
than they are," she said.

Mrs. Joscelyn emerged from the heavy dark-heed
curtains with a sigh, but yet there was a
certain softening in her face. Her anxiety was
changed, at least, if not relieved. She came
and stood in front of the fire, holding up a thin
shapely foot to the red glow.

I am so cold," she said, with a nervous shiver.

That's because you will fret so, mother, and
make such a deal of everything," Joan said.

Mrs. Joscelyn made no answer to this reproach.

My feet are like lumps of lead " she said.
It's more like December than April. I think I
will never be warm again."

A little sympathetic moisture softened Joan's
steady eyes. She felt towards her mother as
she might have felt to a tiresome but amiable

child, impatient of her vagaries, yet sorry for
the useless trouble and pain the poor thing gave
herself.

"It's all the fretting," she said, "it's not the
weather. Sit down here by the fire and I'll get
you a shawl. Bless me ! there's father coming
in."

Mrs. Joscelyn retreated hastily from the fireside,
and sat down by the table, where the candles
were shining steadily upon a heap of linen to
mend. She took up something hurriedly without
appearing to notice what it was, and began
to work, or to put on an appearance of working.
It seemed at first a false alarm, but, after a
minute or two of uncertain movement outside,
the door opened and a tall and strong man came
in. There was a great arm-chair standing by the
side of the fire, which evidently, as soon as he
appeared, proclaimed itself to be waiting for
him, his harsh and big domestic throne; a hard,
broad, uncompromising piece of furniture, with
its two great wooden elbows thrust out. He
stood for a moment at the door, looking round
the room  perhaps to see Whether his son had
taken refuge there, perhaps only to find out any
lurking offence. Ralph Joscelyn was a man

whose habit it was to look out for offence meant
or possible. He inspected the downcast faces of
the women, for even Joan now, after one momentary
glance at him, turned her eyes upon
her knitting and the bright space before the fire,
and all the darker corners round. Then his
keen eye caught the ruffled curtain, and the
slight whiteness behind of the moonlight showing
through the shutter, which his wife had left
half open. She had meant to go back when the
rest of the house was quiet, and watch noiseless
at that window till her son came back, and probably
her husband divined this. He walked
straight to the window, pushing the curtains
aside, and with much demonstration closed the
shutters, and with a heavy tug brought the curtains
together again.

"There's no order in this house, nor ever
was," he said, in a strong North country accent.
Then he crossed the room again and threw himself
into the big chair. The house was solidly
built, and the parlour was on the ground floor ;
nevertheless, his step made the floor jar and
creak as if it had found loose boards under the
carpet, and shook the room as though it had been
in a slim villa. The big chair creaked too ashe

threw himself into it. All other sounds had
ceased as by magic, even the click of Joan's
needles, which only occurred at long intervals,
though she worked on with more devotion than
ever. Even the coals made no further explosions,
sent out no little gay jets of gas, but burned
soberly, stolidly under the master's eye. Mrs.
Joscelyn, in her agitation, was less silent. Her
elbow knocked against the table, her needle
stumbled and broke in her work, her reels of
thread fell down and rolled about the carpet.
All this the master contemplated with his keen
spectator-eyes. He had altogether changed the
character of the scene. The two very distinctly
marked individuals, so unlike in nature, though
so closely bound together, who had put forth
unawares each her own phase of life in the
household quiet, were now cowed into a sort of
composed and alarmed opposition, dumbly resistant,
making common cause together ; typical
women merely, not individuals at all. The typical
domestic tyrant who had worked this change
looked round him with a glance in which contempt
for them and a kind of pleasure in their
subjugation were mingled with resentment against
them for the distrust and sudden silence which

he knew his appearance had produced. He
crossed his long legs half way across the hearth,
thrusting up his heavy boot almost in his
daughter's face. Many men do this who mean
no particular harm, but Joscelyn did mean harm,
and did not care who knew it. In a moment the
room had become full of him, and of his oppressive
shadow. He took away and devoured, drawing
into his capacious gullet, the very air they
breathed.

You are a nice cheerful lot for a man to come
in to," he said ; " a nice pleasant home you make
for me, with that click-clack. I don't wonder,
not I, that men turn out to the ale-house, though
I've got to punish 'em for it now and again. No,
I don't wonder, not a bit. A couple of white-faced
women filling up his rooms, taking the
heat out of his fire and the light out of his lamp
for their confounded stockings and rubbish  when
there isn't an old woman in the dale but could
do them a sight better and save all that pretence."


Joan upon this raised her eyes. She was not
timid, though she avoided strife.

"You don't mind, then, about the light and
the fire of other men," she said, " if we where to

give your stockings to other women to knit for
you. Bat you're none so fond of spending your
money even for the yarn, let alone the knitting.
You're a heavy man upon your feet, and wear
out a deal of heels and toes. Some one's bound
to knit them for you. If you like better to pays
I don't mind, you may make sure of that."

You !'' cried her father, " a piece of stale
goods that can't find a market ; who cares for
you ? You should have been the plague of some
other house these ten years, and not sucking the
life out of mine, and setting up your face before
your betters. She don't make any observations ;
and whatever else she is, she's my wife, and has
some right to speak."

Joan's brown eyes gave out a flash. She was
no longer cowed.

** I have had a good lesson," she said. " I can
see how nice it is to be your wife, father, and I
don't want to try it on my own account."

Oh, hush I hush ! Joan," the mother said,
her hands coming together once more.

You don't want to try !" said Joscelyn.
"Who's given you a chance? that's what I'd
like to know. If I had my own way I'd clear
you all out of this house. I'd have no useless

women here. When a man gets sense he knows
what a fool he's been, burdening himself with a
wife and children  a wife that gets old and ugly,
and a set of children that defy him under his
own roof. Good Lord ! think of me, a man in
my prime, with a middle-aged woman like that
saying father to me ! when I might have had my
fling, and been a gay young fellow with the best
of them. There's your son too, madam, just
gone out of here shaking his fist in my face ;
and if I knock him down there will be a great
hulabooloo got up because he's my son. Son !
what's a son ? or daughter either ? A rebellious
scamp that will neither do anything for himself
nor do what you tell him to do. By the Lord
Harry! when I think what a snug comfortable
life I might have been living here with nothing
to trouble me. And now I can't stretch my legs
under my own mahogany but there's a brat of a
boy to contradict me, or come into my own parlour
but there's a brat of a girl no, by Jove

no," he added, with a coarse laugh, " there I'm
going too far ; not a girl, or anything like it  an
old maid. That's what a man makes by marrying
young, like a fool, as I was."

While he thus discharged his volleys on both

sides, the women relapsed into absolute silence.
Mrs. Joscelyn was too much afraid to interfere,
while Joan shrugged her shoulders, with the
philosophy that was natural to her. What
does it matter to me what he says ? she said to
herself; I didn't choose him for a father, and
she expressed her indifference as a Frenchwoman
might have done by that shrug of her shoulders.
He was allowed to talk on without any reply ;
and if there is one thing more exasperating than
another to a violent temper, it is the silence of
the natural antagonists who ought to furnish it
with the means of prolonging its utterances.
He thought, like all other bad-tempered men,
that this was done " a' purpose," and his passion
rose higher.

"Women," he said, snarling, with a furious
fear that he was not really touching them to the
quick, as he intended, " women ! that are supposed
to clean up a house and make it pleasant !
a deuced deal of that we ever see here. Train up
lads in rebellion, and in thinking themselves
wiser than them that's before them, that's
what you can do. And sit about in the warmest
corners and clog up the whole space, so that a

VOL. I. C

man can't move for them  that's women I And
eat of the best like fighting-cocks, and dress
themselves np like peacocks, that's all they think
of. B} Jove ! I'd make a clean sweep of them
out of this house if I had my way."

Then you'd better have your way," said
Joan ; " sweep as much as you please. Mother,
will you mind what I tell you, and not make a
fuss ? I hope I'm worth my salt wherever I go :
and he knows well enough I'm the best servant
he has in the house, and work for no wages, and
stand bullying like ne'er another. What do I
care for that rubbish? Come along upstairs with
me, and let him have his room to himself and his
fire to himself. He should have his house to
himself if it were not for you ; but for mercy's
sake don't you make a fuss, and clasp your
hands like that. Come along upstairs with me,
and let him talk."

Joan ! Joan !" the mother whispered. " Joan I
who will there be to let Harry in if you take me
away? It's too early yet," she said faltering,
aloud. " I've got the things to put away. I've
got many little things to do. I haven't half
finished my mending. Your father's put out, he

does not mean it. It's too early yet to go to
bed."

Then I'll stay and let Harry in," said Joan,
aloud, scorning the whisper. ' Go you and rest,
you look more dead than alive. You may trust
Harry to me."

Then the master of the house, sitting in hfj
chair with his legs stretched out in front of the
fire, poured forth another volley of oaths.

We'll just see if you let Harry in," be ned.
Harry, confound him ! let him stay out, as he's
gone out. I'll have none of his dissipations here,
nor your conniving neither, you fools. Here,
get off with you as you said. I'll lock up your
things, madam. I'll take care of your keys, I'll
see the house shut up. It's my business, and
it's my house, not yours. You'll be cleverer than
I take you for if either one or the other of you
let that confounded young scapegrace in here this
night."

Oh, Joan ! Joan ! hold your peace ! do not
make things worse," cried Mrs. Joscelyn, wringing
her thin hands.

Joan stood confronting her father, looking
him full in the face. She was of a short
and full figure, shapely enough, but without

C 2

a trace in it of her mother's grace. She kept
on knitting in the very midst of the controversy,
standing between the fire and the table.

It will have to come to a crisis one time or
another As well this night as another night,"
she said.

CHAPTER IV.

THE FAMILY IT BELONGED TO.

THE Joscelyns were of what is called an old
family. Though they were of no higher
degree at present than any other yeomen of the
dales, they were of much greater pretensions.
There were no very authentic records of this supposed
historical superiority a well-sounding
name and a bit of old ruin in a corner of the land
which remained to them were as much as they had
to show in support of the tradition. But there
were no other Joscelyns about, so that the family
had evidently at one time or other been an
importation from another district, and though
nobody knew from whence the stock came, it was
understood in the family that they had counted kin
some time or other with very much finer folk.
There were even old people still alive who remembered

the time when the Joscelyns lived with much
greater grandeur than now and gave themselves
all the airs of gentlefolks. These traditions had
dazzled Ljdia Brotherton, who, though she was
only the daughter of a clergyman, and not rich
or accustomed to anything very fine, was still
better bred than Ralph Joscelyn of the White
House, and much more " genteel " and aspiring.
The Brothertons were really " well-connected
people," as everybody knew. They had a baronet
in the family. When there was any specially''
promising boy in the parish for whom an opening
was wanted, the vicar knew whom to write to, and
had written with such effect that one lad at
least from the district had got an appointment
in the custom-house in consequence. When a
man can do that, he proves there is something
in his claims of family. And Miss Brotherton
had been brought up by a governess, which was
to the homely people about, a much finer thing
than going to school : and could sing songs
in foreign languages, and play upon the piano,
both uncommon acquirements, when she came to
the White House. As for Ralph in those days
he had been a very fine young fellow the tallest,
the strongest, the most bright-eyed and high-coloured

young man between Soap and Carlisle.
He was first in all games, nobody venturing
to contend with bim in wrestling, or in any other
exercise were sheer strength was an important
particular. He was not " book-learned," but what
did that matter ? Lydia had been accustomed all
her life to curates who were book-learned, and
her experiences in that kind had made her less
respectful of instruction than might have been
desired. She made a picture to herself of all the
chivalrous qualities which "good blood" ought
to confer ; and the big limbs and pre-eminent
strength of her lover, seemed to her the plainest
evidence that he was a king among men. Nobody
else could throw so far or jump so high. When
he was on his big mare Meg, which was still
bigger in proportion than himself, the two went
through thick and thin, fearing nothing. He
was a man that might have led an army ; that
might have cut down a troop of rebels  there was
no limit to his powers. All the feats of the North-country
ballads and heroes became possible, nay
ordinary, to her when Ralph was by. Her own
slim nervous figure, in which there was no muscular
strength at all, made his fine embodiment of
force all the more attractive to her. There were

rumours that he was " wild," which frightened
her father and mother, but Lydia was not
alarmed. The curates were prim and correct as
well as book-learned ; but she did not like them.
And to big Ralph it seemed natural that there
should be overflowing of his strength and
vigour, that life in him which was so much
more than the life of other men. Temper, too 
no doubt he had a temper could such a man
be expected to be patient and velvet-mouthed like
the Rev. John or Thomas ? " He will never be
ill-tempered to me," she had said with a confident
smile. The parents thought the same
when they looked at their graceful daughter, and
thought what a thing it would be for Ralph
Joscelyn to have such a creature by his side. Of
course it would make a man of him. Very likely
if he had married a farmer's daughter, a nice
rosy-cheeked lass, he too would have dropped
into a mere dalesman without a thought beyond
the " beasts " and an athletic meeting. But with
Lydia, with so much vigour, and a little money and
the best of blood, what might not be hoped from
him ? Lydia would turn his house, which was a
little homely in its appointments, into a gentleman's
house. Her presence alone, along with the

tides, and footstools, and cushions which her
mother was working for her, would make an
instant revolution in the appearance of the house.
For these and many other equally weighty
reasons the contract was concluded, and truelove,
as Mrs. Brotherton remarked, carried
the day  though her daughter might, no doubt,
have looked higher. Ralph got a lieutenancy in
the Yeomanry, which was a great thing. He was
put upon the Commission of the Peace  dfaux air
as of a country gentleman was thrown over him.
After all whether a property is large or small it
makes no difference in the principle of the thing,
Mrs. Brotherton said. You would not put a man out
of his natural rank andcease to consider him a squire
because he had been obliged to part with a portion of
his estate. This lady was something of an invalid,
and a great deal of a casuist it was her part in
the family to explain everything and give the
best of reasons. She was safe to produce a long
list of arguments at ten minutes' notice, fully
justifying, and that on the highest grounds,
whatever the others had decided to do. And she
put forth all her strength in favour of Ralph
Joscelyn, so that he ended by becoming a very
fine gentleman, indeed a patrician of the purest

water, a little subdued by circumstances, but
blue in blood and princely in disposition like the
best.

The White House to which Lydia had been
brought home, as was the custom then, on the
evening of her wedding day, bore very much the
same aspect at that period as at the time, five-and-thirty
years later, at which this story opens.
It was a gray stone house, gray and cold as
the fells against which its square outline
showed, roomy and old-fashioned if not perhaps
quite carrying out the family brag. It stood
upon one of the Tower slopes a little elevated
above the road. Behind it at some
little distance was a small wood of firs softening
down into a fringe of trees less gloomy, in the
little fissure, too small to be called a glen or even
a ravine, nothing more than a cut in the hillside,
where a little brook brawled downwards over its
pebbles, on the west side of the house. Here there
were some hawthorn bushes, big and gnarled and
old, a few mountain ash-trees, and birches clinging
to the sides of the narrow opening, some of
them stooping across the little thread of Vater to
which they formed a sort of fringe : and at one
spot a very homely little bridge overshadowed

b} the birches which clustered together,
dangling their delicate branches over the beck, the
only pretty feature in the scene. Originally the
White House had stood upon the bare hill-side,
with its close grayish turf coming up close to the
door in front, though there was a walled kitchen-garden
on the east side. But when Mrs. Joscelyn
came home a bride, a little flower-garden had
been laid out in front of the door, which gave
something of the air of a suburban villa to the
austere hill-side house. Never was there a more
forlorn little garden. Nothing would grow, and
for many years its proprietors had ceased to
solicit anything to grow. The grass-plots had
grown gray again like the natural turf. I've
flower-beds were overgrown by weeds, and by a
few garden flowers run wild which had lost both
size and sweetness, as flowers so often do when
left to nature. An oblong hall, of considerable
dimensions, from which the doors of the sitting-rooms
opened, and which was hung with guns
and fishing-rods, and with a large stag's head
adorned by enormous antlers opposite the door,
made an imposing entrance to the house ; but the
carpets were all worn, the curtains dingy, the
furniture gloomy and old ; huge mahogany sideboards,

and big tables, vast square-shouldered
chairs ; things heavy and costly and ugly fitted
the rooms ; nothing for beauty, or even comfort.
It seemed hard indeed to know for what such
furniture was made, save for endurance, to wear
as long as possible.

Young Mrs. Joscelyn when she came home had
hung her antimacassars over the chairs, shehadput
out her " Keepsake" and " Friendship's Offering "
upon the table, and placed her guitar in the most
favourable position ; and then she sat down
to be happy. Poor gentle young woman ! She
had been the pet at home, the only daughter.
She had been considered the most accomplished
of girls. Whatever she said had secured the
smiles and admiration of father and mother; all
that she did had been pretty, had been sweet,
not from any quality of its own, but because it
was Liddy who did it. To describe the extraordinary
sensation with which she woke up a few
months after her marriage, perhaps not so much,
to discover that Liddy having done it, made
nothing attractive or charming, would be impossible.
It took away from her all her little confidence
in herself, all her faith in those around her.
Very soon so soon that it seemed immediately,

the next day  her husband made it very clearly
visible that Liddy was the synonym not for
everything that was pleasant, but for all the
awkwardness, the foolishness, the inappropriate
words and inconvenient actions of the house.
It is just like you," he began to say to her,
long before the first summer was over. For a
a time she tried to think it was " Ralph's way," but
that did not stand her long in stead. And with
her opinion of herself, her confidence in everything
else gradually deserted her. She recognised
that the Joscelyns' blue blood did very little for
them, that old Uncle Harry was often less
polite than Isaac Oliver who was his hind,
and more dreadful still, an admission she never
would make to herself, that the very curates
whom she had despised were beside her patrician
Ralph like beings of another world.

Perhaps of all that happened to her in her
after-life there was no shock so terrible as this
first disenchantment. She had a large family,
plunging into all the roughnesses of life, its
nursery prose and bread-and-butter, without any
interval of repose, without money enough or leisure
enough to put any glow of prettiness upon the
rude circumstances, the band of children  noisy

boys who made an end of all her attempts at
neatness, and gobbled their food and tore their
clothes, and were dirty and disorderly as any
cottage brood. She struggled on among them as
best she could, always watching every new baby
wistfully to see if perhaps a something like herself,
a child who would be her very own and
speak her language and understand her meaning
might be born to her. But alas ! they were
Joscelyns every one, big-limbed creatures with
light blue eyes, and great red cheeks, who stared
at her cynically out of their very cradles, and
seemed to demand what she was making a fuss
about when she sang them to sleep. Poor woman,
she was always hopeful; every new child that came
was, she thought, at last the one for whom she
had been pining. Even now she had a lingering
notion that Harry, her youngest boy, was that
child and far more than a notion, a hopeful certainty
that little Liddy at school, the youngest
of all, was exactly what she herself had been
at the same age. These two, were in fact the
least like Joscelyns of all her children. Harry
was a broad-shouldered young fellow indeed, but
he was less tall, and less powerful than his
brothers ; he had taken a little more to books ;

and there were traces in him of something less
matter-of-fact than the stolid, steady nature of
AVill and Tom, and Benjamin and Hartley,
all now established in occupations, and some of
them in houses of their own. Will and Tom were
married ; they had both descended a single step
lower down than the position of their father, marrying,
one of them, the daughter of a farmer, and
the other, the only child of a famous " vet," who
gave her what was understood to be " a tidy bit
of money," and to whose business the young man
hoped to succeed. It was a coming down in
the world to his mother. But how could she help
it ? With so many boys to provide for, the Joscelyn
pride had to be put in their pocket. Hartley was
in Colorado, Ben in New Zealand, all struggling
along in much the same kind of occupation which
their father pursued at home. As for Harry he
had been rather delicate, a circumstance of which
his mother was almost proud, as showing his
affinity to her side of the house. And he was in
an office in Liverpool, an occupation more fit fora
delicate youth than the rough sheep-farming
and horse-selling of the Fells. It was time
now that something should be decided about his
career. Was he to have a little money to invest,

to get him a small share in the concern ? He
had been clerk long enough, Harry thought 
long enough for himself and long enough too for
his employer, who wanted a partner, but no
further clerks.

This was the question which at present agitated
the house. Each of the sons as he established
himself in life had done so with a quarrel,
often a series of wrangling ; but they had all
taken it more easily than Harry. Certainly
Harry was the one most like his mother. Her
heart yearned over him. She took a little pride
in him too, more than it was possible to take in
Tom and Will and their rough affairs. A merchant
in Liverpool sounded better, and Harry
in his black coat looked, his mother thought,
more like a gentleman than any of the others.
For the first time for all these years she had
been able to recall to her mind what a gentleman
looked like, and the pride which had been natural
to a well-connected person, a clergyman's daughter,
had begun to dawn faintly, timidly, once more
within her. Supposing that the baronet, who was
the head of her family, should ever inquire into
the fortunes of his humble relation, Harry was
the one she had always thought who could be

put forward. ' One of her sons is a merchant
in Liverpool," how often had she taken refuge
in this as a thing that might be said to Sir John,
if ever at long and last he should make inquiries
after Liddy Brotherton. The others, alas ! were
not very presentable ; but Harry and Liddy might,
if the inquiry came soon, while they were yet
young and amenable, show themselves with the
best. These were the secret thoughts in sirs.
Joscelyn's heart. She had not given up yet ;
she was always ready to begin again ; day by
day her hope renewed itself, her disappointments
went out of her mind. And thus she went
on daily laying herself open to fresh disappointments
because of these new hopes.

As for her husband, he was no unusual type
of his class. He had a great deal of the rough
arrogance which characterises it. When he was
among his neighbours it got him ill-will, but
still he could hold his own among them;
domineering over the gentler sort, tyrannical to
his servants, but only altogether unjust and unkind
to those who were weak and in subjection
to him. It was his own family who felt this most.
For women he had an absolute contempt, unveiled
by any of those polite pretences with which ordi-

YOL. I. D

nary men holding this opinion sometimes consent

to conceal it from motives of general expedience

His wife had been to him a pretty lass, for

whom he had a passion dans le temps, and

whom he had been rather proud to win, at the

moment, as a lady and full of dainty ways,

superior to those of the other pretty lasses in his

sphere. It was right and natural that he, a

Joscelyn, should have a lady for his wife, one

who would not have looked at any other yeoman

in the county, and who, indeed, had refused one

or two better matches than himself for his sake.

He knew that it was a fine thing to be a

Joscelyn, though he did not know very well in

what this consisted. It entitled him to be called

Ralph Joscelyn, Esq., of the White House, when

the other rough Dalesmen had scarcely so much

as a Mr. to their names, and it gave him a general

vague sense of superiority and of personal elation,

as a man made of a different stuff from that out of

which his neighbours were shaped. But though

he was proud of this, he knew nothing about it.

He was just as capable of investigating into

the old Joscelyns," and tracing them to their

real origin, as he was of exploring the sources of

the Nile. He did not know, even, what it was

which made it such an advantage to him to belong
to those old Joscelyns, but he accepted it
as a benefit which was no doubt to be partially
attributed to his own excellence and high qualities.
After the first flush of youth was over, he
considered his wife no longer as a lady whom it
was a pride to have won, but as a creature belonging
to him, like one of his dogs, but not so
docile or invariably lovable as his dogs. They
all followed and worshipped him obsequiously,
whether he was kind to them or not, condoning
all his contrary actions, and ready to receive
a caress with overflowing gratitude, and
forget the kick by which it had been preceded.
Mrs. Joscelyn had not the sense of the dogs ;
she struggled for a time to get the place which
her imagination had pictured  that of the poetical
mate, the help-meet, the sharer of her husband's
life ; and when sent " to heel" with a
kick, she had not taken it as the dogs did, but
allowed the dismay the disenchantment, the consternation
which overwhelmed her to be seen in
her face. Since then Joscelyn had emancipated
himself altogether from any bondage of affection
or respect. He frankly despised the woman
he owned ; despised her for her weakness, for the

D 2

interruptions of illness to which she was subject,
for her trembling and nervous terrors, in short,
for being a woman and his wife. Their life together
had contained scarcely an element of
beauty or happiness of any kind. She had remained
with him by force of circumstances, because
it had never occurred to her as possible
that she could do anything else. In these
days people did not think of obtaining relief
from the special burdens of their lives, or of
throwing them off. A woman who had a bad or
unkind husband endured him, as she would in
all likelihood have endured a constitutional ailment,
as a thing to be concealed from others as
much as possible and made the best of, without
seeking after doctors or medicines. It was a
cross which had been put upon her to bear.
She had happened badly in the lottery of life,
drawn a bad number, an unhappy lot ; but now
there was nothing for it but to lie upon the bed
that had been made for her, and to cut her coat
according to her cloth.

And thus life had gone on for five-and-thirty
sears. The number of miseries that can be
borne in that time is incalculable, as wonderful
as the tenacity with which human nature can

support them, and rise every morning to a consciousness
of them, yet go on all the same,
scarcely less vigorous, in some cases more vigorous,
than those to whom existence is happiness.
No one in the White House was happy after the
age of childhood, but nobody minded much
except the mother, who had this additional
burden to bear that the expectation of at least
some future happiness in her children, never died
out of her. Perhaps being no wiser than her
neighbours she missed some legitimate if humble
happiness, which she might have had, by not
understanding how much real strength and support
might have been found in the stout and homely affection
of her eldest daughter, who was not in the
least like her, and did not understand her, nor
flatter her with any sympathy, 3'et who stood steadfastly
by her and shielded her, and furthered her
wishes Then the' could be divined, with a friendly,
half-compassionate, sometimes impatient support.
But Joan had been critical from her very cradle,
always conscious of the '* fuss" which her
mother only became conscious of making when
she saw it in the half-mocking question in her
children's eyes. Xo, Mrs. Joscelyn would have
said to herself, Joan was a good girl though it

seemed a misnomer to call her a girl, so mature
as she was, in some indefinable way older than
her mother  a good girl ; but not one that was
like her, or understood her, or knew what she
meant. Perhaps Harry might, if she could get any
good of him, if she did not always live in terror
of a deadly quarrel between him and his father
which would drive her last boy from the
house ; and Liddy, little Liddy would  no doubt
Liddy would when she came back from her
school. But all her other children had been
Joscelyns, not one of them like her. She was
even tremblingly conscious that Harry was growing
less like her side of the house every day;
but she clung to her little girl as her perfect
representative, a last hope and compensation for
the uncomprehended life she had led all these
weary years.

CHAPTER III.

THE YOUNGEST SOX.

HARRY JOSCELYN had been said in the
nursery to be a sweet-tempered child ;
and he had lived upon the reputation through
all the impatient years of youth, during which
he had not been sweet-tempered, but decidedly
"contrary," as all the Joscelyns were. Notwithstanding
the fact that the Joscelyns thought
a great deal of themselves, and the vague grandeur
of their ancestry, education had always been
a very doubtful necessity in the house. Ralph
Joscelyn himself had been at school it was supposed
in the natural course, and could write and
read and make up his accounts, which was all
that was necessary ; and it had not occurred to
him that his sons wanted more. Such nervous
attempts as their mother made to secure for

them advantages to wliicli she on her side,
as a clergyman's daughter, attached a value
which was more superstitious than enlightened,
only strengthened her husband's conviction that
the ways of horses were much better worth learning
than anything that could be got out of books.
Harry had been the exception ; he was the godson
of an old uncle who lived in the nearest town, and
who also had a tidy bit of money to leave behind
him, a qualification which gave him great credit
among his kinsfolk, and made his recommendation
potent. He it Alas who had procured
for Harry the education which made him superior
to his brethren. Uncle Henry had gone
so far as to permit the boy to live in his house
while he attended school, and as this seemed a plain
indication that the boy was to be his heir there
had not been a word to say against it. As for
Mrs. Joscelyn, she had triumphed sadly in the
fate which satisfied her wishes while taking her
solace from her. She thought ever after that
if Harry had not been taken from her at that
susceptible period of his life, he would have been a
comfort to her in his later years, and never would
have forsaken his mother. But we are all apt
to find out afterwards the disadvantages which

attend every piece of good fortune. x\t the first
proposal it bad seemed something too good to
be hoped for. When it was intimated to her
that Harry was to go to the Grammar School
at Wyburgh, at Uncle Henry's cost, and was
to be housed under Uncle Henry's roof and
cared for by his housekeeper, whose only
fault was that she was too kind to the rough
boys  whom she only of all the dependants of
the family, insisted upon calling the young
gentlemen  there was a sort of jyunc Dimittis
in !Mrs. Joscelyn's heart. If only she could
hope for anything as good for Liddy, though
Liddy was but a baby in those days ! But when
Harry, the one who she fondly thought would
understand her, was gone, his mother wrung
her hands over that as over so many other
troubles. From that time forth she had never
again felt that he understood her. He veered
from her side, to which he had been so constant,
and preferred the rough sports of the other boys,
and even to hear his father's stories of desperate
rides, and cunning mares, and all the adventures
cf the stable, better than to walk and talk
with her as he had once done. Perhaps it
was natural, no doubt it was quite natural ;

but what is from one side the thing most
clearly to be expected, is often a most painful
revelation on the other. Harry was for five
years in Uncle Henry's house, during which
time his mother formed many fine visions of
what might happen to him. She thought* he
would most certainly get the exhibition and goto
Cambridge, and become a scholar like his
grandfather, and might then perhaps eventually
become a clergyman, and afford her in the end
of her life a refuge of peaceful sweetness like
that once lightly thought of, but now so fondly
looked back upon, sweet peaceful parsonage of
her girlhood. But Harry, as a matter of fact,
was never within a hundred miles of the exhibition.
It was won by a lad who was nobody,
who had no blood to speak of in his veins, and
nobody to care much whether he succeeded or
not. Then Mrs. Joscelyn thought that Uncle
Henry would very likely draw that long purse,
which was supposed much longer at the White
House than it was in reality, and out of family
pride, and to give himself the satisfaction of a
nephew at college, would send the boy to Cambridge,
even without the exhibition. But even
that was not to be.

Harry himself for his part was not very grateful
to Uncle Henry for his education. He would
rather have been at home riding the colts, in
the middle of all the fun. And he was not
very fond of the education, any more than of the
old man who gave it to him. He saw the disadvantages
much more than the advantages of
his position, as most people, and especially most
young people, do. He had no fervid desire for
learning, though his mother thought so; and to
be as quiet as a mouse in that carefully arranged
bachelor's house was not half so pleasant as
rushing in and out after his own fancy at home.
He obeyed while he was a boy, but he was not
grateful; and when he began to be a young
man and the end of his studies approached, he
was neither grateful nor obedient. He went in
for all the sports in the neighbourhood, and persistently,
though without any temper, defied his
uncle. The result was that instead of being
sent to Cambridge and made a scholar of and
Uncle Henry's avowed heir, which was all on the
cards at one time, Harry was placed in the office
in Liverpool where Uncle Henry had made his
money. It was "a fine opening," the old man
said ; but it did not much please anybody concerned.

Mrs. Joscelyn felt as if she had tumbled
from the top of the stairs to the bottom when she
heard that all her hopes were to come to nothing
better than this. And Harry himself who had begun
to be proud of his education, though he did not
love it, went about with a very grave countenance,
furtively examining the faces of all concerned, that
he might see what hope there was of an alteration
in his fate. But his father had too many sons
to quarrel with any provision for the youngest of
them, and his mother had no power whatever, and
there was nobody else who could help him.
So he went to Liverpool at last, notwithstanding
his own and his mother's reluctance, and once
there soon began to appreciate the advantage
of his liberty and an income of his own. He
had been frugally bred, and had never known
what it was to have money before. His income
seemed a fortune at first, but after a while Harry
did not consider it in this light ; and to tell the
truth his application to his father for funds to
push his fortune, to get advancement and a
partnership, meant also a something, a little
margin to pay sundry debts which his inexperience
had been beguiled into, and which
appalled him as soon as he had discovered

that his income was less inexhaustible than he
thought ; and he had come home for his yearly
holiday with the determination, by hook or by
crook, to get this change in his position effected,
and to be done with debt for ever and ever.

The house in Liverpool where Uncle Henry had
made his fortune was by no means a great
house. It had gone on very steadily since the
old man retired from it, and now there was a
need for new blood. Harry had explained all
this when he went to see his uncle, and had
done all that was possible to do short of asking
for the money to show to Uncle Henry how highly
expedient it was to " come forward" on such an
occasion. But the old gentleman had not taken
the hint. And then Harry had spoken to his
mother, urging her to make an effort to get her
own little fortune, if possible, from his father's
hands, and invest it in the business. To get it
from his fathers hands ! it would have been as
easy to get him the moon out of the skies. Mrs.
Joscelyn would have set out on any journey,
would even have consented to be shot out of a big
cannon, like the hero of M. Jules Verne, in order
to get her boy what he wanted. But get it from
his father ! She sank back upon herself at the

mere suggestion. Nothing in heaven or earth was
less possible.

Then Harry had taken it in hand himself.
He was not one who had ever " got on " with his
father. Notwithstanding his long absence from
home, as soon as they met it seemed that they
could not avoid jangling. An impulse to contradict
everything his father said seemed somehow
the first thing in Harry's mind ; and Joscelyn
himself, always dogmatical, was never so much so,
never so impatient of any expression of opinion
as when it was his youngest son who made it.
It may be imagined then if Mrs. Joscelyn had
reason for her alarm when Harry at last took
the bull by the horns, as he said, and ventured
to propound to his father the tremendous idea
that he wanted money. The young man was a
little alarmed by it himself. He took the bull by
the horns with a weak rush at last, his mind so
deranged by the traditions of the house and the
alarming presence of his father, that his appeal
was quite wanting in the business-like form he had
intended to give it. What he meant to say was,
that here was an excellent opportunity for investing
a little money, that it would bring in
good interest, and would be perfectly safe, and

would give him a great step in life  all these
things together. But instead of this he blundered
and stumbled, and gave his father to understand
that his mother was quite willing and anxious
that her money should be employed in this way,
and that the return would be far better if it
were put into his hands than any other possible
use of it could give.

So you've been plotting with your mother,"
Joscelyn had said. "What the blank has she todo
with it ? AYhat the dash does she mean by
interfering? I've a good mind to kick you out
of the house both her and you."

It is her money," said Harry, confronting
his father ; though, indeed, had it not been for
necessity and opposition the idea of anything
belonging to his mother was the last thought
that would have occurred to him.

"her money!" Joscelyn had cried out in a
tempest of scorn and wrath, filling the room with
whirlwinds of oaths : and what with the fierce
impulse of contradiction in him, and the desire
he had to have his way, Harry had felt his
genuine germ of affection for his mother blown
up into red hot heat and passion by all that his
father proceeded to say. "ser money! Let her

dare to say it was her money  to a man that had
supported and put np with a dashed useless
blank all this time that was no more good in a
house than an old rag ! Let her just come and
say it was her money  he would show her the
difference ; he would tell her whose money it was
that kept up her dashed pretensions. To be sure
it was a lady she was  a parson's daughter with
a fortune of her own. Oh, dash it all  her
money ; this was about too much for any man
to bear." Harry had made a great effort to
keep his temper, and he had allowed all this flood
to pour itself out. He was very much in earnest,
and anxious, now that he had opened the question,
to get some advantage from it. Then he tried
another expedient.

I have never cost you a penny," he said ;
the others have all got something out of you.
You have never spent a penny upon me."

And then the veins swelled upon Joscelyn's
forehead. He swore half a million of oaths,
cursing his son by every possible mode of imprecation.


Cost me nothing ! you dashed puppy !" he
cried ; " you've cost me a deal more than money,
you !" (Though it takes away the spirit

and energy of his steele, and turns it into
lameness, I cannot pretend to report Mr. 's
expletives, having no sufficient knowledge
of the variations to help me in rendering them )
You've cost me that woman's dashed smirking
and smiling, and that old scarecrow's brags and
blows. I'd sooner von had cost me a fortune.
I've had that to put up with as I'll put up with
again from nobody. Made me feel like a beggar,

by ! with that old blank grinning at me,

and poking his advices at me. If it was for nothing
but to spite him you shouldn't have a penny
from me."

*' And do you mean to say," cried Harry, indignant,
" that you will sacrifice my prospects to
show your independence of my uncle ? I could
believe a great deal of you, father (which was a
wrong thing to says, but I couldn't have believed
anything so bad as that."

And then it was that Joscelyn pushed back his
chair, and clenched his fist, and gave his son to
understand what he thought of him.

There's not one of the others but is worth
two of you," he said, " they're a bit like 
; you're your mother's breed, you white-faced
shop-keeping cur. And ask me to put my

VOL. I. E

money in a filthy concern across a counter, me
that have the best blood in all Cumberland in
my veins, and my name to keep up ; I'll see you
at  Jericho first; I'll see you in the churchyard
first. D'ye think I want you to keep up the
family ? If you were the heir there might be
something to be said. Heir, yes ! and something
worth being heir to : Joscelyns. Put your finger
on one blessed peerage in the country that has
as good blood as mine to go with it ; but I've
plenty of lads worth counting on, I don't
want anything to say to you."

Blood won't do much for us, without a little
money," Harry said.

That shows what blood you've come of;
your mother's milk-and-water, not mine. I can't
take the name from you "

What do you mean f cried Harry, springing
to his feet. He had held himself in so long that
now his passion would have vent, though he
knew very well it was upon a fictitious occasion.
What do you mean ?" he cried ; " do you mean
to slander my mother?" and faced this domestic
tyrant with blazing eyes.

Joscelyn laughed scornfully.

"You can take it as you please," he said.

'you're of her breed, not mine. Flare up as
you like, it don't touch me. You're a poor,
weakly piece of goods to carry a big name, but
I can't take it from you. Only mind you what
I say, don't ask a penny from me, for you'll not
get it ; not a sixpence, not a farthing from me."

I'll never trouble you again, that you maybe
sure. It is now or never," cried Harry,
worked to a pitch of passion which he could not
restrain. And again, Joscelyn laughed, with a
shout that blew into Harry's indignant face, and
moved his hair.

This sensation half maddened the young man.
He pushed away his chair, throwing it down
with a clang that rang over all the house, and
crying, " That's settled, then !" darted out and
flung himself forth, out of the flush and heat of
the quarrel into the cool and wintry freshness of
the night.

Other interviews before this had ended in the
same way. It is the worst of domestic quarrels
that they are endless and full of repetition.
What would be decisive between two friends
is not decisive between two members of the same
family, who are forced to meet again, and go
over the same ground for scores of times. Harry

E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF OIIKOIS

Joscelyn had felt the same tingle and thrill as of fire
in his veins before now, the same determination to
fling out of sight, out of recollection of this tyrant
who was his father, and dio became periodically
insupportable to him. He plunged out into the
cold without any upper coat, his body all tingling
with heat and shame, as his mind did. Indeed,
he was at a pass in which body and mind so
sympathize with each other as to feel like one.
He sped along the familiar road in the white soft
mist of the moonlight. The great slope of the
Fells behind was the only object that loomed
through that faint vaporous atmosphere, in which
the light seemed diffused and disintegrated into
a woolly confusing veil. The road lay between
two grey dykes ; there were no trees or bushes
to interrupt or throw shadows into the general
haze. He seemed to breathe it, as well as move
in it ; and after the first minute it chilled him to
the very marrow of his bones. The whiteness
made it colder, cold without and within, in the
body and in the mind. And gradually it had
upon the heated youth the effect of a cold bath,
quenching out the warmth in him. His steps
grew less hurried, he began to be able to think, not
only, with a furious absorption over all his father's

words and ways, bat with a recurring thought
of his overcoat, and all the comfort he might
have got out of it, which, though it was not a
great matter, still gradually set up something
to balance the other matter in his mind.

He walked quickly, his rapid youthful steps
warning whosoever might be out and about, of
his approach. There was no doubtfulness in
these steps ; he was not wandering vaguely, but
had a certain end before him, the parlour of the
"Red Lion," which had made his mother wring
her hands as much as all the other painful circumstances
of the night. He had persuaded
himself, as soon as the first novelty of his return
home was over, that he had nowhere else to go.
To sit between his mother and Joan in the parlour,
they could not suppose that a young fellow
would do that. Women are unreasonable ; they
had supposed it, not knowing in their own
accustomedness and expectancy how dull it
was. There was nothing very lively going on
at the "Red Lion," and a mother and sister
might have been excused for wondering what
charm there was in the dull and drowsy talk,
the slow filling of glasses, the rustic opinions
and confused ideas of the company there. Harry

did Dot find much charm in it, but it was more
congenial than sitting with the women. He was
angry when his father assailed his mother, feeling
it a kind of assault upon his own side, but
his father's ceaseless scorn of her, which he had
known all his life, had influenced him in spite
of himself. To sit at home with two women ina
parlour was out of the question. The other
parlour was not entertaining, but it was not
home, and that was always something. The
"Red Lion" was in the middle of the village,
which lay on a considerably lower level than that
of the White House, clustered upon the stream
which divided the valley. It was quite a small
stream ordinarily, but at present it was swollen
with spring rains and with the melted snow,
and made a faint roar in the night as it swept
under the bridge, with here and there a gleam
of light reflected in it from the neighbouring
houses. It was not with any very highly raised
expectations that Harry turned his eyes towards
these lights. He would get out of the cold, that
was one thing, and into the light, and would
see something different from his father's furious
countenance, or his mother's pale one, or Joan's
eyes, that paid attention to everything but her

knitting. How strange it is that home, which
is paradise at five, and so pleasant a place at
fifteen, should be intolerable at five-and-twenty !
As he approached the corner at which, coming
from his exile at AVyburgh, he had first caught
sight of the lights in the White House, he could
not help remembering the shout of delight he
used to send forth. How pleasant it had been
to come home from Uncle Henrys's prim old place !
but what was home to him now? at the best a
duty, a weariness. As he began to think of this
a kind of desire, a longing to go far away came
over him. Why shouldn't he go away? His
mother would not like it, but nobody else would
mind. His mother Alas the only creature, he
reflected, whom he cared for at home ; and of course
it was his duty to come and see her from time
to time. But an hour at the utmost exhausted
what he had to say to her; indeed, he had never
had so much to say to her as it would take an hour
to tell. Half-an-hour, perhaps, now and then 
that he would like to keep up, just to please
her; and it would please himself too. Bat he
did not care for any more. As for all the rest,
he did not mind, not he ! if he never saw the
White House again.

Thus he was thinking as he hastened along the
road, his hasty feet ringing upon the path notwithstanding
that it was somewhat damp and
the atmosphere dull, giving forth no particular
echo. Some one else was coming along the
Wyburgh Road, a small uncertain blackness in
the white atmosphere. Harry knew very well
at the first glance dio it was, as familiar a
figure as any in the country side. Anybody
would have known him by his step even, that
peculiar step as of one springy foot and one
shuffling one which gave a one-sided movement to
the man, and an unmistakable rhythm to the
sound of him. Perhaps he knew Harry's step
too, for he paused at the corner, turning his face
in the way the young man was coming.

Who will that be?" he said, in the obscurity,
if I'm no mistaken an angry man"

*' It's I, Isaac," said Harry, " angry enough if
that would do me any good."

It's you, Mr. Hairy ! that was what I thought.
No, it does little good ; but so long as you wear
it off in the feet of ye, my lad, and keep it out
o' th' other edit's

very easy talking ! Keep it out of the
other end ! I would like to know for my part,"

cried the young man, glad of utterance, " why
old folks should go against young folks in the
way they do. It's like a disease, as if they
couldn't help it. The more reasonable a thing is,
the more they don't see it. It's enough to make
a fellow break with everything, and take himself
off to the end of the earth."

There might be sense in that  if the ends of
th' earth would take ye from yourself', Mr.
Harry. But that's queer talking for the like of
you that have always had your own gate." He
had come close up to the young man and was
gazing keenly up at him. " Have you no had
your ain gate ? I dreamt it then. T' auld
maister was o' that mind."

Uncle Henry?  Isaac, you're a good old fellow
you've always been kind to me ; but don't talk
nonsense, if you please. Uncle Henry of that
mind ! did he ever let me do anything I
wanted to do ? from the day I went to him till
the day I left."

"Tut, tut, Mr. Harry, he always wished j'ou
weel  always weel; and if sou have patience,
you'll get it all, every penny ; just have patience,"
the new comer said, patting Harry's arm coaxingly.
And then he drew a little closer, still

with his fingers on Harry's arm. "And where
may you be going, my braw Lid, at this hour of
the night with your face turned from home f

"Going? what does it matter where I am
going. I don't mind if it was into the river there,
or out of the world. Well, if you will have it,
I'm going to the 'Red Lion 'to rest a bit and
come to myself."

At this Isaac shook his head; he went on
slinking it as if he had been a little mechanical
figure, which could not stop itself if once started.
T' auld maister would never have allowed that,"
he said.

'* What do I care for the auld master ? I'm
my own master, and nobody shall stand in my
way," cried Harry putting his hand in his turn
on Isaac's arm, and swinging him out of the
path. He was impatient of the interruption.
I'll go where I have a mind and bide where I
have a mind, and I would like to know who'll
stop me," he cried.

Isaac thus suddenly wheeled about and taken
by surprise, went spinning across the road, recovering
himself with an effort. But he did not
show any anger. He stood looking after the
young man as soon as he had recovered his

balance with a '* Tck tck tck" of his tongue
against the roof of his mouth. " It's my duty to
see after him," old Isaac said, at length, slowly
shuffling along in the young man's steps. There
was a certain satisfaction in his tone. The " Red
Lion" was forbidden ground  still if there was a
motive, a suitable reason for it. " Ay, ay,"
said Isaac to himself, " a plain duty; so far as
I can tell, there's never a one to look the gate
he's going but only me."

T

CHAPTER IV.

THE RED LION."

HE parlour of the "Red Lion" was a room with
a sanded floor, protected on the side nestle
door by wooden barriers with seats fixed into
them, which acted the part at once of settles, and
screens to keep out the draught. There was a
bright fire which kept it in a blaze of ruddy light,
outdoing the lamps, which were not remarkable
for their brilliancy. This fire was the great
attraction of the place. The very distant prospect
of it, gleaming out into the night, warmed
and cheered the passer-by. It was like a lantern
ever so far down the river side, on which the back
window, partially veiled with a bit of old red
curtain which let the light shine through and
added a tone of warmth the more, looked out. You
saw this window from the Wyburgh Road, and

from all the cold flats of the water-side. The
poor women at the Smithy-houses, which was the
name of the hamlet to the west, thought it a snare
of Satan, and compared it vindictively to the red
glaring eye of some evil spirit lying in wait to
devour the unwary. But unfortunately the men
were not of that opinion. Old Isaac, who was on
his way home when he encountered Harry, and
who was perfectly sincere in his opinion that
nothing could be worse for his young master than
to go to such a place, felt, notwithstanding, in his
own person a thrill of internal satisfaction when he
saw that it was his duty to follow and watch over
the young fellow. It was wrong  but it was
exhilarating : instead of trudging another slow
mile home, to get into the corner of one of those
wooden settles and feel the glow of the generous
fire, and imbibe slowly a glass of " summit," and
suck slowly at the tubes a long clay pipe, and make
a remark once in five minutes to one of the neighbours,
who each of them took an equally long time
to produce an original observation had all the
delight of dissipation in it. Most strange of
enjoyments ! and yet an enjoyment it was. To
Isaac's eye Mr. Harry did not, by any means,
get the same good out of it. He asked for

siimmat," to be sure, like the others, but swallowed
it as if it had been medicine ; and, instead
of reposing on the settle, sat with his head in
his hands poring over an old local paper, or
walked restlessly about the room, now looking
out at the window, now penetrating into the bar ;
a disturbing influence, interfering fatally with the
drowsy ease of the place. Isaac was a man who
had a just confidence in his own power of setting
things straight and giving good advice, and had
boldly faced temptation in his own person in order
to do a moral service to the young man, for whom
he felt a certain responsibility. But having done
so much, he could not but feel that the young
sinner whom he had risked his soul for, should
have enjoyed it more. All the influences
about the fire, the rest, the pipe, the glass of
summit," were adapted to produce a certain
toleration and deadening of the moral sense. Still
the *' Red Lion" was wrong ; Isaac knew that his
missis gave forth no uncertain sound on this point,
and, for himself, he was also of opinion that it was
wrong; but there could be no doubt that it was
pleasant. Mr. Harry, however, was not taking the
good of it as a man fully aware of the attractions
of the place ought to do, and this gave Isaac energy

after a while to address certain remonstrances to
bird. He went so far as to get up at last out of
that most desirable place in the corner of the settle
near the fire. To abandon that was a piece of self-denial
that proved his sincerity in the most striking
way to himself, and could not fail, he thought,
to overcome even the scepticism of his missis.
I got a fine warm corner just by t' fire, wi' a lean
to my back and a table to hand, and aw as a mon
could desire ; but I op, and I's after Mr. Harry.
Mr. Harry,' says I"  involuntarily this plea
shaped itself in Isaac's mind, as after much hesitation
he rose. He took a long pipe from the table,
not caring to give up his own, and put it in the
corner to keep his place, though with many doubts
of the efficacy of the proceeding; for how could
it be expected that a new-comer, with the chill of
the night upon him, would abstain from taking possession
of the coveted place when protected only by
so slight a sign of previous rights ? "Keep an eye ont'
glass, will ye ?" he said to his neighbour in the
other corner  hoisting himself up with a suppressed
groan. His clothes were hot to the touch with
the intense glow of the fire ; but a labouring man
who has been at work in the cold all day can
brave a great deal of warmth afterwards. Then

he went up to Harry, who just then had thrown
himself into a chair near the window, and tapped
with his long pipe upon his arm.

*' Mr. Harry  summit's ami ss more than ornary.
Nobody longing' would approve to see ye here ;
but been' here, it's expected as you'll take the
good on it  and you're getting no good on't, Mr.
Harry. Lord bless ye, what's gone wrong ?"

Nothing you can help me in, Isaac," said the
young man.

Maybe no ; but aw the same, maybe ay. I've
put myself' in the wa' of harm to be of service
to you, Mr. Harry. I hope it'll no be counted
again' me. I've done what I donne do, not once
in a three months. Not as there's much harm
to be got here ; but it's exciting, that's what it is
carries a man off his feet that isn't just settled
and knows what he's doing. And when you made a
sacrifice for a friend," said Isaac, with a wave of his
pipe, " you donne like to think as it's to be no use."

All this time the drone of the slow rural talk
was going on, now and then with an equally slow
chuckle of laughter ; a pipe waved occasionally
to help out a more than usually difficult delivery ;
a glass set down with a little noise in 'the fervour
of an address accomplished ; a low tranquil hum,

provocative of slumber than excitement one would
have said ; but Isaac thought otherwise. At a
table in the room a few card-players were gathering.
And somebody with a new newspaper full of novel
information  the last was more than a week old 
had just come in. The 3'oung fellow, gloomy behind
backs, and his Mentor, who was so kindly devoting
himself to his service, were losing all that was going
on. To make a little moral slip like this, and
yet lose all the advantage of it, was distracting.

Come, come, Mr. Harry," Isaac said, probing
him in the shoulder with his pipe, partly encouraging,
partly threatening, " out with it, manor
else let it a be and take your pleasure  take
your pleasure, been' here. It's not a place I'd bid
you come  far from it. It's running sour head into
temptation, that's the truth ; but Lord bless us,
been' in foret take the good on't  that's what I
say."

The man with the paper was hovering about
Isaac's seat; but he was not so habituated to
extremes of temperature as Isaac. " Xo, no," he
said with a chuckle, "I'm not a-going to roast yet a
bit. Maybe that'll come after : but I dun no who'd
make a cinder of hissed' as long as he can help
it. No, no, I'll keep my distance ; it's like the

VOL. I. F

fiery furnace in the Bible that's what it's like."
*' It's none too warm for me," said the man at the
other corner of the fire  and then they all laughed,
though why it would be hard to say. Isaac watched
this little episode at a distance, his eyes following
his inclinations, which were all with the humours of
the " company." He chuckled, too, in a kind of regretful
echo of their laughter ; but he was relieved
to see that his place was still kept for him. He
turned again to Harry with that sense of losing all
the fun, which made him vehement. ' Mr. Harry,"
he said, " been' here, take your pleasure a bit ! It
don't do no more harm to be lively like, when you're
here, than to be i' th' dumps. It's again' my principles
; and it'll be moor again' me when the
missis comes to hear on't  but, gosh ! when a
man is here "

You think he might as well get tipsy when
he's about it ? I am much obliged to you for
your advice, but I don't think I'll take it, Isaac,"
said Harry. *' Mind yourself, my old man, or
there's no telling what the missis may say."

*' That's all your fun, Mr. Harry," said Isaac with
dignity ; " there's some you might say that to ;
but I'm a moral man, and always was. You
never heard nought of the sort o' Isaac Oliver.

Coming here as I've told ye is not a thing I
hold wi'  short o' a strong reason like the present
 short o' plucking a brand out o' t' burning
like I'm doing now, you'll not catch me night
nor days, heat nor cold, in a public. I pass the
door," Isaac said with pride, " ten times in a week
or more, but who e'er sees me turn in 'kept for a
strong occasion like the present? Nay, nay, if
you were outside I'd go on my knees to ye to
bide outside ; but I say again, master, been' here,
why, it's best to conduct yourself as if you where
here. What is the good o' looking as if ye were
at t' kirk ? You're not at t' kirk, that's the fac'.
Been' here," he continued, slowly waving his pipe
in the air, and giving himself over to his oratorical
impulse. " Been' here "

Isaac  t' auld maister as you call him  is heat
home f

This sudden interruption was very startling.
Isaac had drunk little ; but there was a sort of
imaginative intoxication abroad in the genial atmosphere
of the " Red Lion," and he was infected
with the drowsy conviviality of the place, to
which half shut eyes and a sleepy complacency
seemed habitual. This sudden question was like
a douche of cold water in his face. He stopped

F 2

short in his speech with a sort of gasp, and
stared at his companion.

"Ay, master  he's at home," said Isaac,
slowly; but being a prudent Northcountry-
man he was sorry for this admission as soon
as he had made it ; "if he haven't started
again," he added, cautiously. "Now and again
he'll start off "

*' That's nonsense," said Harry, sharply. " I
hope I know his ways as, well as you do. I'll
go and see him tomorrow and have it out."

A man may change his ways," said Isaac,
oracularly. " Now and again he'll start off 
given' no notice," he added, with gradual touches
of invention ; " restless like old folks do get
restless, and nobody can deny that." Then he
paused, shuffling and embarrassed. " I wouldn't.
Master Harry, if I was you," he added, in a lower
tone and with great earnestness. "I wouldn't,
Master Harry, if I was you. T'auld master's a droll
un. He's fonder of you than e'er another ; but
he'll never be drove  what he's going to do he'll
do right straight away. He'll not be asked. How
do I know as you're going to ask him for aught?
I donne, and that's the truth ; but I wouldn't if
I was you. Hev patience, just lev a bit of

patience, and ye'll get it all. But he'll never
do what he's bid to do. You was always his pet,
beau' named for him, and so on. He'll leave you
all he's got if you'll lev patience ; but ask him
and he'll not give a penny, not for the best reasons
in all the world."

AVho said I wanted a penny from him f said
the young man, piqued. " You are too fond of
guessing, Isaac, my good fellow  you go too
far."

Isaac made no immediate reply. He knocked
out the ashes of his pipe carefully against the
window-ledge. "I'm maybe good at guessing,"
he said at length, slowly, with a grave countenance,
" and maybe no. But I'm your friend,
Master Harry, and I ken t' auld master. Them
that meddles with him does it at their peril.
Don't you go near him, that's my advice. You'll
lev it all, every penny, if you'll lev a little
patience. He's nearer eighty nor seventy, and
he cannot' last for evermore."

Patience I" cried Harry, tilting back his chair
against the wall. It was all very well for the
elder people to have patience, for Uncle Henry,
perhaps, who had nothing but Death to wait
for that always comes too soon. But young

Harry with life waiting for him, and advancement,
and all that youth can give  youth that
only comes once, and lasts but a little while ; for
him it was a very different matter. And his
heart was hot with passion against his father,
and against fate, which seemed to shut him in.
He was too much excited to keep his voice under
control as he had been doing. " Patience !" he
cried. " Pah ! if that's all, you can keep your
advice to yourself."

This sounded something like a quarrel, and
the " Red Lion" was too warm and drowsy and
comfortable to like the idea of a quarrel. The
people about looked dimly round from amid the
smoke; and a good-humoured person at the
card-table was amiable enough to put himself
in the breach. " Nay, nay, my young gentleman,"
he said ; " patience, bless you 's for them
that can't play at nought else. Take a hand at
cribbage, that's your sort. Whist if ye like,
that's all the fashion ; but to my mind cribbage
is the game "

"Ay, ay, master, a grand game," said two or three
together, wagging their beards in civil backing
up of the first speaker, who stood smiling at the
table, running the cards through his hands like

a stream of water. They all looked vaguely at
Harry with a general look of invitation and
goodwill in their eyes. The atmosphere of the
Red Lion" was against all strenuous action. The
warmth which was so cheerful and bright made
them all drowsy. They sat and blinked at it
with pleasure and peacefulness, purring softly in
the pervading warmth. What had young Harry
to do in such a sleepy place? He let his chair
come down to the floor with a noise that made
the convives jump, and laughed, chiefly at himself.
Come along, then," he said ; " I'll take a hand
since there's nothing else to do."

So rapid were the young man's movements
that Isaac, not so impetuous, was left standing in
the same spot hooking at the chair now standing
composedly on its four legs for a minute after Harry
had taken his place at the card-table. Isaac was
astonished, but he was relieved as well. He
came back slowly to the corner of the settle,
looking at his pipe with an air of remonstrance,
 but gradually feeling his cares relax, and
the pleasure of coming back to the company.
**rm bound to sa}-," was his first utterance, ashe
put himself once more into the corner and
stretched his legs in front of the fire, " as people

couldn't behave more honourable. I never expected
to get my own place again."

Sommat op?" asked his neighbour on the
settle, with a thrust of his elbow towards Harry.
Isaac thrust up his shoulders to his ears, and shook
his head.

' There's always summit op," said Isaac,
oracularly, " as long as there's lads at home,"

"And that's truest'' said another, who took
the opportunity to illustrate the statement
b}'' a long and tedious story, which had been
simmering in him all the evening. After this
the place relapsed into its usual aspect. The
two or three men about the fire basking in the
warmth listened with a mild interest to the slow
current of the tale, and supplemented it by anecdotes
of their own of a like tedious and inconsequent
kind. But nobody was bored ; the talkers
were pleased with themselves, and the listeners
did their part very steadily, not troubled by any
idea of dulness. Isaac, sitting well up in his
corner, so warm that his corduroy almost burned
him when he laid his hand accidentally upon it,
felt for his part that if it had not been well understood
to be the very doorway and vestibule of
another place, the parlour of the " Red Lion" would

be a kind of little Paradise. Perhaps it was the
terribly wicked and risky character of the enjoyment
which gave its humdrum drowsiness so great
a charm. As the evening got on the drowse increased
; one or two even fell half asleep in their
seats, and a reflective air stole on the " company."
The gentleman who had the ear of the house
prosed on, taking a minute's rest between every
two words ; but nobody budged. An alarmed
thought of the missis did indeed now and then
come over Isaac's mind, but he was too tranquil,
too comfortable, too warm to take such a decisive
step as would be necessary to raise himself
frouj the embrace of the settle and get under
weigh. All this time, however, there was a little
stir at the card-table, which pleased the audience
round. When there was any special success,
they would pause in their anecdotes and listen,
with drowsy smiles. This gave a sort of rollicking
character, which would otherwise have been
wanting to it, to the placid gaiety. One of the
quiet drinkers now and then nudged his neighbour,
and asked him what he thought the stakes
were. " As much as would be a fortin for you
or me," Isaac said, and there was a flutter of
respectful admiration. Perhaps Isaac knew that

he was exao;ge rating. He did it for the honour
of the family, of which he was through his master
a kind of rehition. It was in character with the
wild immorality of an evening in the Red Lion
that the young men should be playing for high
stakes ; and this idea made the others enjoy themselves
still more. When they came out, the misty
whiteness of the atmosphere had cleared off a
little, and consolidated itself into dark shadows
in all the corners, and a flood of faint moonlight
dimly marking the gray fells and the dark treeless
country, with its dim lines of dykes and
square grey limestone houses. Harry Joscelyn was
one of the last to leave ; he stood upon the bridge
for some time talking with young Selwyn, with
whom he had been playing. Isaac thought it was
for his own confusion that the young man lingered.
The sentiments likely to be entertained by the
Missis became more and more clear to Isaac with
every step he took after he was forced to get up
from his comfortable corner in the settle. But
he was still warm without and within, his corduroys
keeping the heat of the fire even to the
touch after their long baking, and his heart kept
up by the strengthened influence of all that he
had swallowed. It confused his head a little too.

making it drowsy but kindly. It was through a
faint little steam as of *' summit" warm, dispensing
its odours liberally into the air, that he
seemed in imagination to see his own door, and
the wrathful countenance that would look out
from it ; but the cold outside made this picture
a great deal clearer by degrees, though it did not
clear his faculties. His partial confiscation however
did not make him less sensible of his duty
towards his master's godson. He had sacrificed
himself, he had incurred all those expressions of
the missis's feelings, which were already prophetically
sounding in his ears, for Harry's sake 
and he could not go away now without another
word. " As well be hanged for a sheep as for a
lamb," he said to himself, when the others went
clattering over the bridge and along the branching
ways with their heavy boots, almost all of
them feeling a good deal of alarm about the
sentiments of the missis ; but as Isaac lingered
in the cold moonlight kicking his heels, the uneasiness
grew with every moment that passed.
She would hear old Jack Smethurst stumble
down the way to his cottage, and she would prepare
a still sharper rod in pickle for Isaac later
still. " As well be hanged for a sheep as for a

arab," he repeated to himself. How those young
fellows did talk ! and what could they have to
talk about after spending all the blessed night
playing their games. Ah ! devil's books those
cards were, beguiling folks on and on. Isaac fell
half asleep, leaning against a corner in the shadow
of the " Red Lion." The lights were already out
in that deserted place. There would be no gleam
from the window to keep him a little cheery
as he plodded down the waterside. And what
a clatter these young fellows made! What
could they have to talk about? He leaned
against the wall and let his head droop on his
breast, and for a minute or two Isaac was blissfully
unconscious of everything; but at the end
of that time he came to himself suddenly, and
felt that his corduroys had got quite cold, and
that it was very chilly, that the young men were
still talking, and that he had begun to shiver.
It was cruelty to keep him there, kicking his
heels. All the village seemed so still, no lights
anywhere, and the landlord of the " Red Lion "
turning the key in the door before he mounted up
the creaking stairs to bed. The creaking of these
stairs went to Isaac's heart, and the idea of being
up later than the landlord of the tavern, the abode

of dissipation, of which the whole valley entertained
a wholesome distrust  to be out too, at
that terrible hour, and still to have a mile to walk,
and a talk at the end of it, all for one unruly
young fellow that would stand and jabber therewith
young Selwyn, whom he could see quite
easily tomorrow if he pleased. " He's drunk,
that's it," Isaac, half asleep, chilled, frightened,
and remorseful, and glad to think the worst he
could of Mr. Harry, said to himself. And then
there was an unexpected aggravation ; all at once
when he had got his back comfortable at a new
angle of the wall, lo ! the two shook hands, and
went off in a moment, one to the right hand, the
other to the left, without any warning to Isaac.
He had to pull himself up with a start, and the
trouble he had to get himself into motion was as
great as if he had been a cranky steam-engine,
one of those things (he reflected, muddled,
but all the more ingenious) where you have to
turn a wheel here and touch a spring there-while
all the while Mr. Harry's steps were audible,
young and light, skimming along the road ahead
of him. He had to call after him, waking all the
echoes, and making the most portentous noise ashe
lumbered along in his heavy boots, doing what

he could to run. Luckily Harry heard him and
stopped, just as he came to the cross roads.
"Who is that calling me?" he said.

It's me, Mr. Harry. Lord bless ye, stop a
moment. I've got a  word to say Mr. Harry,"
cried Isaac, panting. "Is that a way to keep
your friends easy in their minds, to stand aw
that time i' the' dark at the dead hour o' th' night,
jabbering nonsense with another as ill as yourself?
How are ye to give an account for this
night, if there were no more ? and leading others
into an ill gate. What would t' auld maister say,
or your missis if we'd got a missis ?"

Poor old Isaac !" said Harry laughing ; " so
that's what you're thinking of. I haven't got a
missis, I am thankful. It is you that have got
to be lectured to-night. Tell her it was all my
fault."

Isaac seemed to take no notice of this contemptuous
recommendation. Pie stuck himself
against the wall that bordered the road, as a
precautionary measure against fatigue and sleep,
and the effect of the not extravagant potations in
which he had been indulging. " I want to say 
a serious word to ye. I have got something to
say."

"Then say it and make haste,' Harry cried,
don't you feel how cold it is, and the moon
will set directly ? I want to get home to
bed."

Oh-h," cried old Isaac : " as if I wasn't colder
and corridor than the like of you ; and more
burdened with a nervousness  like  what you
might call a nervousness for  the walk at the
dead o' tonight and such like. But I've got a
word to say. Mr. Harry, you'll no go near
t'auld master ? Try anybody but him. I've set
my heart on't that you should get his money at
the end, and so you will if you'll lev patience,
just lev a little patience; but don't ye go asking
money of him now ; don't you do it, Mr. Harry,
and spoil aw"

You old ," here Harry paused ; " is this

all you stopped me for? Well, you mean well,
Isaac. Go home to bed, and let's hope the missis
will not tear all the hair out of your head."

I scorn aw that," said Isaac with a wave of
his hand, though his teeth chattered. " I minna
take the trouble to give it a denial ; nay, nay,
settle your ain affairs atween you and her when
ye lev got a missis o' your ain ; I can manage
mine," he said with a little rueful sigh and

contraction of his breast. He thought he could
see her looking out from the cottage door, and
his very soul trembled. "Me, I can manage
mine," he repeated, then added, " but, Mr.
Harry, come back to the right question. Hev a
little patience ; if it was to get me a beaten' (and
she has not the strength for that) I must say it
afore we part. Let him be ; lev a little patience.
If it was my last breath I could give you no
different advice."

Harry paused a moment between offence and
gratitude. Then he suddenly gripped Isaac's
hand, " You mean me well," he said, " and I'll
take your advice, Isaac. Here, lad, you've
always been a friend, wish me good luck and
good-night."

*rand that I do from the bottom of my heart,
Mr. Harry. But gang no more to the ' Red
Lion;' it leads you into many a temptation.
Good luck, to ye, my young gentleman, wherever
you may go  so long as you're no going to
Wyburgh to fright t'auld master out of his wits."

And good night, Isaac, and I wish you well
through with the missis," cried Harry with a
laugh, as he went on waving his hand. Isaac
stood for a moment looking after him as his

alert young figure went off into the distance:
then he sighed a sigh, " I wish you well, my
lad, if I should never see you again," he said,
with a perturbation which referred to his own
troubled mind rather than Harry's prospects ; and
so turned his face, alarmed yet sustained by
conscious virtue, to his own house.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER V.

OUTSIDE THE DOOR.

THE moon was getting low, and threw a level
and somewhat sinister light into the lower
windows of the White House as Harry came
within sight of home. In that bare country,
with so few trees to break the light, all the
changes in the heavens had a direct influence
upon the earth, darkening and lightening it
with instantaneous sympathy, such as is not
felt in regions less exposed. This special
aspect of the light reflecting itself feebly in the
lower windows, gave the house the appearance
of wearing, as a human countenance sometimes
does, a pale and unpleasant smile upon its lips,
in which the rest of the face was not involved.
The young man did not pay any attention to
this at the moment, but when he thought afterwards

of the aspect of the place, this was the
look that occurred to him ; a pale smile, full of
mocking and derision ; the smile of one cognizant
of unknown evil which was about to overwhelm
an unsuspecting victim, and taking pleasure in it.
He went up quite calmly to the door. On
ordinary occasions it was not necessary for Harry
even to knock ; his mother, who disapproved as
much of the " Red Lion" as Isaac Oliver himself,
was always on the watch, stealing down
through the dark house in noiseless slippers tolet
him in, lest he should disturb his father and
a quarrel should ensue. Very often, Harry was
aware, she was at the window looking out for
him, sitting alone in the darkness waiting till
she heard his step. He was aware that one way
or another she was always on the watch. This,
however, did not disturb him, or dispose him
to give up his own way of spending the evening.
He was not a bad son  certainly he had not the
least intention of being so : but that he should
change his habits, or do anything he wished not
to do, because of his mother's little feeble anxieties,
was a thing which had not occurred to
him. All the family knew that she was given
to " making a fuss." Harry supposed she liked

G 2

to sit np and watch for him. Why should she doit
if she didn't like it ? it would be a great deal
easier to let him have the key, or tell a servant
to sit up. But she liked it; she liked to wait
for him at the window, and start up as soon as
Bhe heard any sound. Women do ; or so, at least,
Harry supposed. Joan, to be sure, had never shown
the least inclination to do this ; but then, one of
Joan's chief distinctions was that she was but
little of a woman at all. He came up to the door
as usual and stood there for a moment without
excitement, listening for the little stir within,
which had never failed him, the soft, hesitating,
noiseless step, the little sweep of the dress. He
stood for a minute looking about him ; the moon
was quite low in the sky, throwing his shadow
before him upon the door, so black and close to
him that he was startled for a moment as if it
had been a ruffian facing him, and shining chilly,
with that sinister look which he had already remarked,
in the parlour window. That was his
mother's post when she watched, looking oat for
him ; he had seen the bit of the shutter open,
night after night, just enough to see through
without being herself perceived, if (an unlikely
hypothesis), anyone but Harry should pass that

way. But the shutter was closed to-night, and
did its share of reflection, . sending out a dull
glimmer from its dark paint. All was perfectly
silent in the house.

He could not think what had happened. He
walked back a little and contemplated the place,
which now looked as if a hood had been drawn
over the upper part, leaving that uncomfortable
light below. Now that he was standing still,
Harry felt the chill of the night air, which
had been agreeable to him before. He began to
stamp with his feet to keep them warm, and to
attract, if possible, the notice of his mother.
What did she mean by paying no attention ?
She had always heard him before he came near
the house, always been ready for him before
he reached the door. If she had not accustomed
him to this, Harry thought, he would
have found some other way of getting admission,
though he scarcely knew how ; and he grew impatient,
and very much annoyed and angry with
her. To keep him waiting out here at midnight
in the cold ; it was out of the question ! what
could she be thinking of ? At the same time, he
did not want to rouse his father, and run the
risk of another encounter. To meet a woman's

reproaches, who is silenced if you speak a little
loud, and is pretty sure to cry at the end, is one
thing but to meet a furious man is quite another.
The first risk was not worth taking the
trouble to avoid, but Harry felt that it was certainly
wiser to keep clear of the other. He had
no desire, accordingly, to arouse the house ; but
at the same time, to be left standing there,
chilled to the bone, was out of the question.
After he had walked about for a tinge, impatiently,
but with some precaution, he went so far as to
knock at the door. There was no bell, nor if
there had been one would he have ventured to
ring it, for a bell is alarming, pealing into the
silence of a shut up house. His soft knocking,
however, did no more good than his other
attempts to make himself heard. What could it
mean? He got colder and colder externally,
while within him his temper kindled. What did
she mean by leaving him in the lurch ? If a
mother was good for anything, surely it was to
keep her son out of trouble, to shield him from
another quarrel. She made sass enough about
the quarrel when it occurred, but now she was
allowing things to take their chance, letting that
happen as ill-luck directed, nay, bringing. the

quarrel on, her son felt, indignantly; for if she
had never made a practice of opening to him,
probably he would not have made a practice of
going out, and would not have exposed himself
to the storm, which was sure to come now. The
moonlight stole away by degrees even from the
lower windows, putting out one reflection after another,
and disappearing at last with a sinister
twinkle, as if of triumph. Though the moonlight
had seemed the quintessence of cold and dreariness,
yet the blackness of night seemed still colder and
drearier after it was gone. He seemed to have
been hours standing before that door : and it was
out of the question ! he would not bear it any
longer, happen what might. He began to knock
loudly, filling all the dreary echoes with sound ;
but still nobody stirred in the house.

He had not carried this on for above a minute,
however, when a faint something seemed to stir
in the darkness behind. There was the faint
hiss of a " Hist !" and, he thought, his own
name. He turned round to see if perhaps his
mother had chosen this time to open the back-door
instead of the front, and with a muttered
denunciation of her caprice took his way to
the supposed opening. It was so dark now that

he stumbled even round those corners which
were so well known to him. He was relieved,
yet it made him angry to be obliged to have
recourse to a back way. Could anything be
more foolish, he thought, than to change thus
without cause or warning ?

Where are you ? What's the matter that I
can't come in as usual ?" he said, crossly, as he
groped his way among tubs and piles of wood.

"Hush I" said some one, "hush, for heaven's
sake !"

It was not his mother's voice. And there, in
the corner among the warehouses and other offices,
he saw a glimmer of something white.

Good Lord ! Joan I what's the matter with
my mother f he cried.

*' Hush ! Nothing's the matter with mother ;
father's got her locked up, that is all ; and it's all
your fault. Come on, and hold your tongue now
you are here."

It was a sort of little shed in which she stood,
and he could see nothing but the whiteness of
her lightness, over which she had thrown a
cloak.

Things have gone just as wrong as can be,"
she said ; " warm your hands at the copper, you'll

not find a fire indoors. He's cracked, I think ;
and so are you too, for ever running to that
Red Lion.' What is there that's so entertaining
? If there's any fun to be had I'd like to go
too."

"There's no funthat you could understand,"
said Harry

Joan laughed ; she stood close to the copper
in the dark, warming herself, and so did he.
It was a kind of little excitement to her, she who
had so few excitements, to have had to get up, as
she expressed it, in the middle of the night tolet
her brother in. And though she was sagacious
enough not to put much confidence in the
fun " of the " Red Lion," still it represented
jollity and wildness to her as well as to Isaac
Oliver. She laughed.

Oh, you're very grand, I know ; women folk
can't understand, you are cleverer than we are.
But I wonder you can be so easy pleased ; if
young Selby and Jim Talked, and the common
men of the village, are very entertaining at
the ' Red Lion,' it's more than they are in any
other place."

What do you know about its cried Harry.

She laughed again, which was exasperating.

HARRY JOSCELYN.

Youn men take nothing more amiss than an
impertinent woman's doubts as to the brilliance
of the entertainment in those haunts which
are sacred to their own special enjoyment. He
knew very well at bottom that the *' Red Lion "
was as dull as ditchwater ; but nothing would
have made him confess it ; where else, he said to
himself, had he to go ?

You had better mind your own concerns," he
said, "I'll get my amusement my own way. Has
there been a row that mother's not here ? I don't
mean to say that I am not obliged to you, Joan,
for getting out of bed to let me in. By Jove, if I
had been shut out I know what I'd have done !
Was there a great row f

What would you have done?" said Joan, still
half laughing ; then she started and with a little
cry, said, " What's that?"

"What's what? I'll tell you this, I should
never have crossed the door again in daylight,
be sure of that, that was shut to me in the
night."

Before he had finished this speech, Joan
clutched him by the arm.

"Don't you hear something ?" she said, " come
in, come in, don't lose a minute. What if he

should lock the kitchen door ? Harry, promise me
you'll not stop to say a word, but run up to
your bed."

She was hurrying while she spoke, through
the series of outbuildings, dragging him with
her, breathless, and speaking in gasps. But as
they went on from one to another there could
be no longer any doubt as to what had happened.
The kitchen door, which opened from
these offices, was shut with a loud jar, and the
key turned.

"1 dunno' who's out and about at this hour of
the night," Joscelyn was heard within, "but
whoever it is they'll stay there : some o' the
women out like the cats, dash them, or may bea
good-for-nothing lad. I'll teach them what it
is to roam the country o' nights, You'll stay
there whoever you are."

Joan lost all her self-command in the emergency.
She dropped Harry's hand and threw
herself against the door.

Oh, father, father, open ! do you hear me ?
It's me, Joan. Open! will you let me bide out
in the cold, in the dead of night ? Father ! let
me in, let me in ! you wouldn't have the heart
to shut me out all night. It's me, rne, Joan !"

There was no reply ; his steps were heard
going away mounting the stairs, and a faint
outcry in the distance as of the mother weeping
and protesting. Joan, who was a very simple
person, though so self-commanded in emergencies
which her mother could not face, was altogether
taken by surprise by this. She flung herself
against the door with a burst of weeping.

*' Oh, open, open I" she said, beating upon it
With her hands. Then she called out the names
of the servants one after another. " I'll not be
left here all the night ; open, open I do you hear I
I'll not be left here all the night. I'll die if I
am left out in the dark. I'll not be left I" she
cried with a shriek.

Harry was silenced by this loud and sudden
passion so close to him. It alarmed him, for
Joan was the impersonation of strength and
calm; but the situation was uncomfortable
enough, however it could be taken. The consciousness
that he had some one else to think for,
some one who for the present had lost her head,
and all power to think for herself, changed his
own position. He caught his sister by the arm.

Don't make such a row," he said, " Joan,
you I that was always against a fuss,"

*' Oh," cried Joan half wild, " did I ever think
that I'd be shut out like a bad woman out of the
house at the dead of night me ! that was always
the most respectable, that never stirred a step
even in the evening times, or said a word to a
man. Open I it isn't the cold, it's the character :
me ! me !"

But all her beating and knocking, and all her
prayers were in vain. The maids slept soundly,
all but one trembling girl who heard the voice
without knowing whose it was, and dared not
get up to see what was the matter, especially as
she heard mysterious steps going up and downstairs.
And the mistress of the house sobbed in
her chamber in the dark, wringing her hands.
She had come almost to the length of personal
conflict with her husband for the first time in her
life; but poor Mrs. Joscelyn even in her despair
was no sort of match for the man who lifted
her, swearing and laughing, into her bed, and
locked the door upon her when he went downstairs.
He came up and fiercely ordered her to
be silent.

*' Dash you, hold your blanked tongue. I've
taken it into my own hands, and if you venture to
interfere I'll pitch you out of window as soon as

look at you," he said, " a deal sooner for that
matter for you're not tempting to look at, you
dashed white-faced "

Yes, do," she cried, " throw me out of the
window, throw me out to my children. I'd rather
be dead with my children than living here."
And she rushed to the window and threw it open ;
but he caught her before she could throw herself
out, and perhaps, poor woman, she would not
have thrown herself out; for "1 dare not" very
often waits upon " I would " in such circumstances.
He carried her back crying and struggling
to her bed. Though he had not hesitated
to turn the key upon his son and daughter, he
had no desire to have it whispered in the countryside
that his wife had thrown herself out of window,
because of his cruelty ; but he could not
resist giving her a shake as he threw her upon
her bed.

I'd never have had any fuss in my family if
it hadn't been for you ; just you budge at your
peril," he said, threatening her with his fist.
And there she lay with the cry of her daughter
in her ears, and the sound of the knocking that
seemed to be upon her heart. To tell the truth
she was not very anxious about Joan. Joan

would have a bad cold, that would be all the
damage she would take ; but Harry, Harry !
what would Harry do ?

When Joan had beat the door and her knuckles
almost to a jelly, she came to a sudden pause.
In a moment her mood changed; her passion
wrought itself out almost as suddenly as it
began.

"Well, if I can't have the door opened I'd best
give up trying," she said all at once. Her hands
were fatigued with knocking, and her feet with
kicking. She was hoarse, and her eyes ached
with the hot tears that had poured from them.
She came to herself with a sudden sense of
shame she who was so strenuous in her opposition
to a fuss. She had no sense of cold now,
her shawl hung off her shoulders with the fervour
of her efforts. " My word, but I'll give it
to those lasses," was the next thing Joan said :
and then she laughed at herself to carry off her
sense of shame.

We're both in the same box, Harry," she
said, " well ! two together isn't so bad as one
alone ; come back to the washhouse. I'm glad
I told them to light that copper if it wasn't a
providence ! we'll sit us down there and keep

warm ; and don't you take on, my lad. It's not
so very long to day."

When she recovered, however, it was Harry's
turn. He followed her back to the copper without
a word. He even pulled the bench on which the
tubs stood close to that centre of warmth for her,
and got her something on which to put her feet.
By this time a certain pleasure in the novelty of
the situation had arisen in Joan's mind. "My
word, I made a fine noise. Mother will be in a
terrible way, that's the worst of it. As for father
I'll pay him out. Don't you be afraid; he'll
repent the night he meddled with Joan ; and I'll
give it to the maids. Just as likely as not he's
taken away the key ; but bless us all, what's the
good of being a woman if you can't find out a
way? I'd have done it if he'd stood over me with
a drawn sword. But, Harry, you never speak a
word. Are you cold ? come and sit here by me on
the warmest side. 'Twill be as cosy here as if you
were in a pie ; and I'll give you a bit of my
shawl. Come, lad I pluck up a heart : I've nigh
cried my eyes out ; but that does no good. I
can't see you, Harry ; but I know you're down,
though I can't see."

*' Down !" he said, '* Can a fellow be anything

bat down with a raging wild beast for a father,
and shut out of every shelter through a cold
spring night."

That's very true," said Joan, " and I'm no
example, as you've seen ; but still I'm in the same
box if that's any consolation."

No, it is no consolation," said Harry ; " it
makes it worse ; for if you are here perishing of
cold it's all on my account."

I'm not perishing of cold. I'm as hearty as a
cricket. If he thinks he'll break my spirit he's much
mistaken ; and that's all about. It did touch me
the first minute. I feel that I was just a big
baby. But after all, Harris you will stay out
till all the hours of the night, and go to that 'Red
Lion,' which is known to have ruined many a
lad "

Oh, hold your tongue about the ' Red Lion !' 
you are as bad as old Isaac. Where am I to

gor'

What's to prevent you biding at home f said
Joan. " Dear me, you're not such a deal better
than I am, Harry Joscelyn. Where do I ever go :
I've been as young as you once upon a time, and
what diversion was ever given to me ? and I'm
not to say so dreadful old yet. Can you not

YOL. I. H

HARRY JOSCELYN.

put up for a week with what I have put up withall
my life?"

You don't understand it's quite different,"
said Harry, hotly; "you're a woman, you're
an old Good Lord, can't you see the difference ?
Adhere should you be but at home? but what
would you have me do, stuck between two women
and that  that father of mine ?  " Harry here
menaced the dark world with his fist, and burst,
in his turn, into an outcry of passion. "I'll
neither sleep under his roof nor call him father,
nor reckon myself to belong to him more I You
hear what I say, Joan ; you can bear witness.
Not if I to were starve ; not if I were to die ; not if
I were to cadge about the streets ! White House
has seen the last of me. You can tell my mother
1 think upon her : but she must not expect ever
to see me again."

Tut, tut," said Joan, tranquilly ; " to be sure
you must have your fling. Ay, ay, say away, my
lad ; it's always a relief : and we'll not keep you toit
when you come to yourself."

That's well for you, Joan," said her brother ;
"but for me, I don't mean to come to myself.
He's done it, I can tell you. What did he ever
do for me ? but if he had been the best father in

the world now he's made an end of it. Am I to
be treated like this, home on a visit and I cannot
put my aJBTairs before him, and ask for my share
to buy me into the business, but Fm met with
abuse : and when I go out for a little peace the
door's shut upon me. You can do what you
please, but I'll not stand it. We've all lived a
wretched life, but 1*11 make an end of it. Don't
you think it's all a flash-in-the-pan, and that I
don't mean what I say."

Well, well, lad if it keeps your spirits up a bit.
Are you not sleepy ? Let's make the best of it,
Harry : after all it's but one night. Though this is
not to call an easy seat. I'm that sleepy I shall
go off, I know I shall. If you see me tumbling
be sure you catch me. I cannot keep awake
another minute. Good night, lad, good night."

This was half real, on Joan's part, and half put
on to calm her brother down ; but in that part of
her intention she was not very successful. After a
while she really did as she had threatened, and
fell into a sound, if uneasy, sleep. But Harry had
no inclination that way. He sat and pondered
over all his wrongs, and as he mused the fire
burned. What was home to him ?  nothing. A
place where there was no peace a pandemonium

H 2

and when there was either quarrelling or illness
 dulness beyond description ; either a fight
with his father or a drowse by his mother's side
that was all the comfort he had of his home.
And after all, when he put the question to
himself, and nobody else interfered, he was obliged
to allow that the entertainment at the "Red Lion"
was not of a very exciting character. There was
not much in that to make up for the want of
everything else. He sat upon the edge of the
copper dangling his legs, and, notwithstanding
that warmth, the chill of the night got into his
heart. He had no overcoat, as his mother had
remembered, when he went out ; and as the slow
moments passed on, the night became intolerable
to Harry, and the sense that his enemy, his
father, was chuckling in the warmth upstairs
over his outcast condition, distracted him with
impotent rage. Never again would he subject himself
to such a shame. He clenched his fist and
made a vow within himself, while Joan, leaning
her head against him, slumbered uneasily. After a
while Joan had a little shock in her sleep, half woke,
and felt her pillow displaced, and dreaming, not
knowing where she was, threw herself back against
the copper and settled down somehow again. She

dreamt there had been an earthquake, and that the
copper itself was a volcano and had madeaneruption
and tumbled down upon her, catching her fast by
the feet. A little after, poor Mrs. Joscelyn, lying
awake crying silently and saying her prayers
over and over again, heard a handful of gravel
flung violently against her window and the
sound of footsteps. What did it mean ? The
tyrant had gone to sleep a few minutes before, and
he slept heavily. She crept out of bed with a
sinking heart, and after a great deal of alarmed
searching found the keys, of her own room first,
and then of the doors below. She did not even
turn to find something to cover her, but fled
downstairs, like a ghost, with her naked feet and
a wild flutter in her heart. When she made her
way with some difficulty to the place where her
children had found refuge, she came just in time
to deliver Joan, who had almost broken her
neck in her struggles to get out of the way of
the earthquake, and was lying, with her head
back and her mouth open, among the tubs. Though
she was conscious of being in some convulsion of
nature it was not easy to wake Joan, and there
was no one else to be seen. Mrs. Joscelyn, with
her candle in her hand, went searching into every

Corner while her daughter picked herself up.
Harry," she cried, ** Harry ! oh where is my
boy ?" There was not a trace of him about ; not
even an impromptu couch, like Joan's, made up
of benches and washing tubs. The mother
flitted about into all the offices, while Joan roused
herself with many yawns, rubbing her stiff neck
and knotting up her straggling locks, and gathering
her shawl round her shoulders. "Oh that
copper," Joan was saying, " it's been the saving
of my life."

But where is my boy ? Oh ! Joan, what have
you done with him? Where is my boy f

I have not got him in my pocket," Joan said,
with a sleepy smile. Then as she roused herself
quite up, "To be sure, mother, the lad's not a
fool though we give him the credit of it. He's
gone back to his blessed 'Red Lion,' and is safe in
his bed, as I would like to be. And if I had let
him alone and not poked in where I wasn't
wanted, there's where he would have been from
the first. You see that's just your way. I have
a little bit of it in me, if not much; and, instead
of letting him be, I must meddle. But he's safe
in his bed at the ' Red Lion ;' and you'd better go

back to yours, and let me go to mine, and make
the best of a bad night."

I cannot think he has gone to the 'Red Lion"
said Mrs. Joscel}, standing in her white night-dress,
with her glaring candle, against the great
darkness of the night in the doorway, and investigating
the gloom by that poor assistance
with her anxious eyes.

Then where else would he go to V Joan said.

CHAPTER VI.

A NIGHT WALK.

fTlHE moon had set when Harry Joscelyn left
the White House ; and the night was very
dark, as it is so often after the setting of the
moon. The sky was cloudy, and scarcely a star
was visible. The wind blew cold in his face
when he got beyond the shelter of the walls.
He looked up at the house as he passed it with
a sensation of rage and contempt which it is
only possible to reach when the object we thus
hate and despise is one that ought to be beloved.
He lifted a handful of gravel and threw it
violently at his mother's window. There was
no softening of feeling, no wish to say a farewell,
even if an angry one in this. It was done in
boyish rage, with a simple desire to strike. He
was glad to think the stones struck sharply, and

might, perhaps, have broken a pane and fallen
like shot upon the floor. This was what he
would have wished. When he had discharged
that parting volley, he pulled down his hat over
his ears, and put up his coat-collar. It was all
he could do against the wind, which blew through
and through him. Not even an overcoat ! They
were determined that he should have nothing;
that he should be expelled without even the
poorest covering ; that he should be exposed to
everything dangerous, everything disagreeable.
To be sure, that was what they wanted ! Revenge
filled the young fellow's heart as he went along
in the dark, shivering at first, till his rapid
progress set his blood in motion. Not only
without a home, without a roof to shelter him,
or a bed to lie upon, but without even a coat.
He turned his back upon his father's house with
a bitterness that was indescribable. He could
remember the time when it was delightful to him
to go home; but that was long ago, when he
was a boy and knew no better. Even then,
what had his father been to him ? a terror even
in his lighter moods, which might turn into fury
at any moment. His mother? oh, his mother
had been kind enough, poor soul ! For a woman

she had done what she could ; but at the best
what could a woman do ? Poor thing ! yes she
had been kind. But it is very difficult for the
young to see anyone, even when dear to them,
systematically undervalued without getting to
share the sentiment in one shape or another.
Sometimes it rouses a generous mind to hot
partisanship ; but Harry had never got that
length. He had been indignant sometimes and
conscious, with a little pride, that he was the
one who stood up for his mother  but he had
not gone further. And now he could not help
despising her as everybody else did. Just when it
was essential she should stand by him, she had
failed him. Call this the consequence of force
which she could not resist, of natural bodily
weakness  all that was very well to say ; but a
mother worth anything will never run the risk
of bodily force in such an emergency. She will
find some way of getting out of it. She will
stand by her son when he needs her, whatever
happens. And Harry's mother had not done so
just at the critical moment when he had been
driven wild by opposition, when his future career
had been to all appearance cut short and his
path shut in before him, she had failed him !

She was as weak as water ; there was no faith to be
put in her. A woman like that, Harry reflected,
is almost as bad as if she were not a good woman.
Oh, yes ; she was a good woman ! but what advantage
was it to anyone ? What did it matter being
good if you were of no use to those belonging to
you ? Being good just for yourself, selfishly that
was a poor sort of business. For her children she
was no good. What had she ever done for any
of them? Made a fuss, as Joan said. She was
very good at doing that, was mother ! But what
more? These were the angry thoughts that
were surging through his mind as he turned his
back upon his home. His father's image swept
across him now and then, raising his angry
despair into momentary rage ; but it was not his
father, who had always been hard upon him, but
his mother, who had always been so tender to
him, whom Harry assailed with all these bitter
thoughts. In her silly dislike to the only poor
little amusement he had, she had turned against
him at the decisive moment. It was just like a
woman ! Because he would not tie himself to
her apron-strings ; because he would not spend
his evenings sitting with her and Joan a pretty

sort of position for a young man, Harry said to
himself, with a curl of his lip.

He went on shivering, straight before him ashe
happened to have turned his face when he came
round the corner of the house. He was not aware
that there was more choice in it than this, though
all the while there was a dormant intention in
his mind of going to Wyburgh after all, and trying,
one last effort, what TTncle Henry would do
for him. Uncle Henry had been kind to him, as
kind as he knew how. He was only a old
bachelor, not much good, a selfish old fellow,
thinking most of his own comfort; but still he
had been kind ; and perhaps if he knew fully the
state of the case, and how the people at White
House had treated his pupil and godson  This
was lying underneath as it were the current of
Harry's thoughts, and turned over and came uppermost
for a moment now and then ; but it did
not become at all a principal idea until he had
walked a long way, and had got warm with walking,
and the sense of absolute misery, physical
and mental, had been slightly modified. At first
he kept to the side of the Fells, which was rough
walking, and where now and then there was a
dyke to jump over or a beck to cross ; but by and

by got down to the high road, almost groping the
wa' with his feet, if not with his hands, so black
la' the night over the irregular broken ground.
He knew the road, every inch, he would have
said ; but when that darkness comes down like a
pall, confounding everything in one gloom, there
is little advantage in knowledge. Sometimes he
found himself right up against the grey cemented
stones of a dyke before he was aware of any obstacle,
and sometimes had almost plunged into an
invisible hill-side stream, before the little warning
trickle it made among the stones caught his ear.
By the side of one of these little streams he made
his way to the road, and there for the first time
asked him self where he was going. What a strange
walk it was, all blank about him, sometimes a
lonely tree rustling, betraying itself in the dark by
the wind in its spare branches, sometimes a cottage
suggested on the roadside, or away among the
fields, by the cry of a child or the bark of a dog.
He knew he had passed through the first hamlet
on his way, because the dogs all woke at the unusual
sound of a footstep, and barked at him
lustily. He was not a youth of much imagination,
and yet this incident had the most curious
effect upon him. He was more startled, more

shocked and annoyed by it than by anything else
that had happened to him. The very dogs ! was
he already to them a tramp, a wandering
vagrant '{ At the very end of the " town " someone
opened a window, and Harry heard a querulous
question, not addressed to himself, but to
some one inside, " Wha's that wandering on the
road in the dead o' the night V Harry slunk by,
trying to keep his steps from making so much
noise. A sense of disreputableness suddenly
came over him, a recollection of what people
would think. Nobody would believe he had been
turned out of his home for no fault of his. And
then in the midst of his fury and desire for vengeance,
there suddenly came over Harry that
family pride which so seldom abandons a North-countryman.
Was he going to let everybody know
what disgrace there was in the White House, and
how his father had turned him out of doors ?
Were all the tongues in the country-side to be set
wagging on this subject! The Joscclyns  people
so well known ! Harry felt as if some one had
struck him sharply with his hand in the darkness.
It would be all over the country in twenty-four
hours. Joscelyn of White House had turned his
youngest son out of doors. There was no second

family of the name to confuse gossip. Habit felt as
if the barking of the dogs was but a foretaste
of what was going to happen to him. He felt as
if some one had grasped him, choked him, tried to
strangle him in the dark.

Fortunately Wyburgh by this time showed, a long
way off with its little lights twinkling. They were
but four little rustic lights, not many of them  for
when the moon shone the corporation felt itself at
liberty to dispense with lamps ; and but for the
lights at therein way-station, andtwo or three which
were indispensable, the little town would have been
invisible in the darkness, like those sleeping villages
which Harry had stumbled through almost without
knowing. When he caught sight of the first of
these lights, it gave him a keen pleasure ; it seemed
to deliver him from that world of blackness in
which the only conscious and living thing was himself
and the sea of thoughts which surged up and
down within him, one wave sweeping over another,
in a confusion and tumult indescribable.
Harry's soul caught at the glow of that tall solitary
lamp, the first which marked the line of the
railway, as at a guiding light directing him into
a known country, to solid ground and a familiar
shore. The darkness and the little inward

world of thought were alike strange to him, and
he had no guide to direct him through them ; but
now here was " kent ground," a place which would
be visible, where the dogs would not bark at him
in the dark, where there were all the safeguards
of an inhabited place. He was relieved beyond
measure when he saw the lights, and said to himself
what they were. That was the tall light on
the line, that other lower one the lamp at the
station, that the faint little flare seen over the
housetops of the market square, and yonder the
well-known lamp at the corner, which he had seen
lit so often as he left the Grammar-school. It
made his heart light to count them at a distance.
But when he got to the outskirts of the town he
was less happy. It was still quite dark, between
three and four o'clock, and he could not go to
Uncle Harry's, or to any other house in which he
was known at such an hour. Nobody was stirring
in Wyburgh, nor would be for hours yet. As he
went into the silent streets the sense of his
desolate position came over him more strongly
than ever. All the houses were shut up and
silent, blinds drawn over the windows, feeble
lamps burning here and there like night-lights ina
sick-chamber, the whole place breathing low

and noiselessly in its sleep. He met a policeman,
the only one, making his rounds with steady
tramp, and the policeman looked at Harry with
suspicion, throwing the light of his dark lantern
upon him as he passed. He knew John Armstrong
very well, and had played him many a trick
as a schoolboy ; but he shrank from making himself
known now ; and John looked with suspicion
at the wayfarer, without even an overcoat, buttoned
up to the neck, and with his hat drawn over his
eyes, who thus invaded the town in the middle of
the night. Harry knew that he was but a tramp,
all the more dangerous because better dressed than
usual, in John's eyes. He felt the light of the
lantern come after him, making a long trail of
light upon the pavement. And he did not know
where to go. If he went wandering about, which
was the only thing he could think of, no doubt
he would meet John Armstrong again, and almost
certainly be questioned as to what he was doing,
and who he was. And then the story would runover
Wyburgh, how young Harry Joscelyn, one
of the Joscelyn s of the White House, had come
in to Wyburgh before four o'clock in the morning,
walking like a vagrant, and was recognized by
the policeman, roaming about the street without
VOL. I. I

any place to go to. He might almost be taken
up as a rogue and vagabond, Harry thought,
with that exaggeration which misfortune delights
in. If he were called upon to give an account of
himself he could not do it, nor had he any place
to go to, an} home waiting for him. The
Wyburgh folk might form their own conclusions,
and so they would, could anyone doubt.

He walked straight through the town to the
other end of it, as if he were going on somewhere
else, ashamed of himself, though he had
nothing to be ashamed of, avoiding the spots of
feeble light round the lamps, and walking as
softly as he could not to make so much noise
upon the pavement. He had not felt this so
much in the country, in the darkness, but here,
where everybody knew him, he became suddenly
ashamed and afraid of being seen. When the
clock struck it made him jump as if it had been
some one calling his name. " Harry Joscelyn is
roaming about the country without a home to goto
;" did he think that was what it was going to
say ? Alas ! it was but four o'clock that struck ;
four o'clock ! the night seemed to have been already
twelve hours long ; and here were two hours
more at the least that he must get through somehow

before he could hope that even Mrs. Eddie,
Uncle Henry's old housekeeper, would be astir.
He would not mind presenting himself to her ;
and the thought of the kind unquestioning welcome
she would give, the cheerful fire, the breakfast,
the warm room in which he could sit down,
gave him sudden encouragement. For it was
very cold ; those long, long hours of night, which
pass so quickly in sleep, sliding out of consciousness
altogether, how much goes on in them to
those who are homeless ! Harry had never thought
of anything of the kind before; night without,
rest, even, far less a night out of doors, had beet
unknown to him. The wretches who wander-about
the roads, and sleep under a hedge, and:
have no home, were out of his ken ; they were
poor wretches, and in all likelihood it was * their-own
fault." People would think the same of
him. To be ashamed of the position in which-you
find yourself, and yet to be quite innocent,
is a curious misery, but it ts very poignant. He
had done nothing wrong ; but the light of John
Armstrong's lantern made him shrink, and even
those pale little prying lamps, each making a
hole in the darkness. He went straight through
Wyburgh, coming out at the further side. Thor

I 2

walked till he ways quite clear of the houses, and
then he turned and looked back upon the spots
of light which had cheered him so much when
he jSrst caught sight of them. How cold it
was ! nobody would believe that a spring morning
could be so cold. It was like December.
There was the clock again, like some one shouting
in his ear  but only sounding the half after four ;
would the night never come to an end? He
walked up and down on this bit of quiet road,
just outside the town, to keep himself warm,
pausing now and then to lean upon the wall and
look at the lights ; though he dared not go back
to them lest they should betray him to the gossips,
yet it was a kind of consolation to look at them
still. They delivered him a little from that close
presence and wretched company of himself.

An early cart from one of the neighbouring
farms with vegetables for the market, lumbering
along the road just as the day began to break,
was the next thing that disturbed him. He fled
from that too, wondering what the carter would
think to see him standing there like a ghost in
the dim dawn and got over the wall into a
field, to be out of the way, yet could not help
feeling, as he listened, holding his breath, to the

sound of the slow, jogging horses and the man's
heavy tread, that the carter must have spied
him, and must be peeping over the v'all and
wondering who he could be. By this time Harry
had got to feel very like a criminal. He felt sure
that everybody would think he was a criminal and
had done something desperate, to see him therein
this guise. And how he was to get courage
to go back to Wyburgh again in full daylight,
in the sight of everybody, and knock at his
uncle's door, he did not know.

*' Lord bless us ! Master Harry !" the housekeeper
cried. He came upon her suddenly as
she opened the door to go out and feed her
chickens, which was the first thing she did
every morning. She was so scared that she let
fall her spoonful of seed, and held up her hands
half to protect herself, for this worn, pale, wearied
apparition, with coat-collar up to its ears, and
hat drawn down over its brow, was like the ghost
of Harry, not himself. " Lord bless us ! Master
Harry ! it's never you V

It is me, though : and dreadfully tired, and
so cold I don't know what to do with myself,"
said Harry, with chattering teeth. "Let me
come in and look at a fire."

Let you come in, my bonny boy ! yoii shall
come in, and welcome ; and the kettle's on, and
I'll soon make you some tea. Come into the
kitchen, it's the warmest place. Bless the lad !
What hour did ye start at to get here so early ?
or has anything happened ? You've not come
for the doctor? I'm that surprised you might
blow me over with a puff of your breath."

I shall not try," said Harry, recovering himself
a little as he felt the warmth of the fire.
There's nothing wrong, Mrs. Eadie, they're all
well enough ; but I want to see Uncle Henry, and
I'm going back to Liverpool to-day."

*' Bless my heart ! I thought you had come
for a real holiday, and its no' above a week ; but
whisht ! laddie, cinna chatter with your teeth like
that ; come nearer to the fire. Dear, dear me, but
you must be cold ; not a great-coat upon your
back, nor a comforter, nor one thing to keep the
heat in ye. I hope you haven' just gotten your
death," cried the housekeeper, pouring the steaming
water, which it was good even to see, into
her teapot ; and in her anxiety to get him a
comfortable meal she forgot to ask any more
questions.

Mrs. Eadie's help, who was a young girl, did

DOt live in the house, and her late arrival in the
mornings was one of the grievances of the housekeeper's
life. There was nobody, therefore, but
this good woman, in whom Harry had perfect
confidence, to witness his worn-out condition :
and by-and-by he got thawed and comfort-able.
Once within this legitimate shelter too, his spirits
came back to him. He forgot the painful miseries
he had conjured up, or, at least, he did not forget
them, but they went to his father's account
to swell his wrath. There were still several
hours to wait before he could see Uncle Henry,
and Harry lay down upon the bed where he had
slept when he was a schoolboy, and returned to
common life and respectable usages through the
medium of a long sleep. It was a sort of moral
bath to him, restoring him to creditable ways.
To think that he should have feared John Armstrong's
lantern, and hid himself from the carter
with his early vegetables ! But all that, and a
great deal more, went to his father's account.
His rage revived as the misery of the night
ended. For those latter hours he had been too
much occupied by his personal feelings to dwell
upon the cause of them ; now that he was comfortable
once more the insult and the cruelty that

had been inflicted upon him came back with
double force. Turned from his father's door, the
key turned upon him, the house he was born in
shut up against him ; himself disowned, like a
beggar, left to wander where he pleased, to die on
the moors, if he liked, to get his death, as Mrs.
Eadie had suggested ; and all this his father's
doing ! Harry clenched his fist with wild excitement,
with a desire for vengeance which startled
himself. He thought he would almost consent to
have '' got his death" if Joscelyn could be tried
for manslaughter. He would have almost liked
to punish, to convict his father by dying, so
that the whole country might have pointed at
him as the man who had killed his son. But
then he reflected that probably his father would
not care. " But I'll make him care," Harry said
to himself. Few people venture to express such
vindictiveness ; but Harry Joscelyn's heart was
full of it ; it was natural to his race.

CHAPTER VII.

UNCLE HENRY.

MR. HENRY JOSCELYN came down stairs
at nine o'clock to breakfast as he always
did. No clock was ever more regular. He was
not like the present family of Joscelyns. He
had taken after his mother, who was the grandmother
of Ralph Joscelj'n of the White House.
The family had been one of greater pretensions
and more gentility in his day. The heir at that
time was educated in Oxford, and the Joscelyns
still belonged, though gradually falling away from
it, to the higher level, and counted themselves
county people. Henry had been sent off early
to business; but he had never lost the sentiment
which so often remains to an "old family" when
more substantial possessions are gone. In the
case of the present representative of the name

this sentiment was mere pride with a bitter
edge to it, and resentful sense of downfall ; but
with Mr. Henry Joscel3'n it was a real consciousness
of superiority to the common persons round
him. Noblesse oblige : perhaps he did not understand
these words in their highest sense. The
noblesse was small. And the behaviour it
exacted was not of a princely or magnanimous
character ; but still there were many things
which, being a Joscelyn, he felt it incumbent
upon him both to do and not to do.
He would not allow himself to drop. He looked
with indignation and contempt at the rudeness
and roughness of his nephew's house. Even
what was best in it was, he felt, beneath him.
He had never married at all, not feeling able to
aspire to the only kind of wife he ever could
have been content with ; but to marry a parson's
daughter was an expedient Henry Joscelyn would
have scorned. It would have better befitted the
reigning head of so good and old a race to have
followed the example of King Cophetua  a
beautiful beggar-maid is a possibility always,
but an insipid parson's daughter! Mr. Henry
Joscelyn had not cut his nephew  that would
have been impossible too ; but he looked upon

him with a fierce contempt; and though he
allowed Mrs. Joscelyn to be " a worthy person,"
and probably quite good enough, nay, even too
good, for Ealph Joscelyn as he was, still
Mr. Henry could not meet her on grounds
of equality notwithstanding the fact that
there was a baronet in her family, which
at first had staggered him. It did not
seem to him that these high claims of his
were at all injured by the fact that he himself
had been engaged in, and had made all his
money by, trade. " I was a younger son," he
would say, with a gentle shrug of his shoulders,
and his godson Harry was also a younger son.
Mr. Henry believed that there was a certain
amount of self-sacrifice necessary in a family. If
it was a right and good thing to keep it up, then
it was quite right that the younger children should
have their part in sustaining its honour. Its
importance, its prestige, belonged to them as well
as to the heir, and it was their interest as well
as their duty to make an exertion and keep it
up.

His own exertions had not succeeded badly ; he
had been able to come back to his own county,
while he was still not an old man, and to settle

himself according to his pleasure. Now Mr.
Henry's opinion was that you could not live
absolutely in the country unless you had "a
place " in the country, and all the consequence
that brings. His notions, it will be seen, were a
great deal higher than his real position ; he
thought of the Joscelyns as if they had been a
ducal house. And without "a place" he considered
a country life impossible. He did not
choose to live in a small house in the shadow of
a great one. Had the White House really been
a great ducal establishment he might have
done so; but as he could not so much as
look at the White House without a sense of
its discrepancy with the pretensions of the
family, and unlikeness to everything that
the mansion of the Joscelyns ought to be;
and as the society there, when there was any
society, was distinctly below, not above, his own
level, he did not hesitate a moment as to his
place of abode. He bought a house in Wyburgh,
the county town ; a modest house  but he did not
want very much  where he was served most comfortably
and carefully by Mrs. Eadie, the most
excellent of managers, with the assistance of one
small aid, and compensated himself for the

smallness of his establishment within doors by
keeping a groom and a couple of horses, which
were his personal luxuries. No horses in the
country were more carefully groomed, and no
groom presented a more neat and spruce appearance
; and Mr. Henry still rode across country
though not with the daring which once sat so
oddly on his prim little person. For he was
little and light-coloured, exactly the reverse of the
Joscelyns, like his mother, the small pale woman,
whose over-masterfulness and tyrannical control
of her sons, was said to have turned her grandson,
the present man, and his father before him, to
evil cour. She had wanted to make them
good, to perfect their characters, whether they
would or not ; and the strong restraint she had
exercised had made the reaction all the more
vehement. So people said : except in the case of
Henry, who took after his mother in every way,
and had all her intolerance of useless people and
Indolent minds. He lived a life which was very
satisfactory to himself in his little house in
Wyburgh. He had besides a little bit of land in
his native parish with an old house upon it, uninhabitable,
but yet a creditable sort of possession ina
corner of which Isaac Oliver  who was, in a very

lowly manner his bailiff lived with his family.
Mr. Henry was a much respected member of the
county club which had its seat in AVyburgh, and
to which his nephew of the White House might
have sought admittance in vain. The duke himself
treated old Henry, as he was called, with the
utmost condescension. His position was never
contended or doubted. He was as good a gentleman
as the king. He knew more about the
county than anyone else did, and called cousins
remotely with many of the great people, who
were most courteously ready to allow the kindred
so far as Mr. Henry Joscelyn went ; and he was
an active magistrate, and took a certain interest
in the town itself, where most people believed in
him, and wondered how the Joscelyns could have
gone off so completely since Mr. Henry's time
which was like the period before the deluge to the
young people. And Mr. Henry was a man of the
most regular habits. It might have been known
what hour it was, had the town clock stopped in
Wy burgh, by his appearance at the window, after
he had breakfasted, with the newspaper inhis hand,
by the sound of his step as he went to the Club
regular as the sun himself, and by his return to his
dinner. These were the three departures, so to

speak, of his day. In the evening he dined out
sometimes, at the Rectory, at Dr. Peregrine's,
or with Mr. Despond, the solicitor : and now
and then with some of the greater people about,
where he drove in his own little brougham, which
he kept expressly for such occasions. At other
times one or two old inhabitants of the better
class would drop in in the evening to make up
his rubber. He looked very well after his money,
and gave his neighbours excellent advice about
their investments ; and a more admirable member
of society, a more respected townsman, could not
be.

It may be supposed that to such a man, with
such a life, the existence of a schoolboy under his
roof had not been an unmixed pleasure. Still
Mr. Henry Joscelyn was not a man to fail in his
duties when they were pointed out to him.
Though nobody but Mrs. Joscelyn guessed it, it
was to the housekeeper that his family were indebted
for Harry's preferment. Mrs. Eadie was
just then greatly in want of somebody to be kind
to. Her master, though he required the most
scrupulous attention, did not come within this
category, and the good woman had long sighed
for a bairn in the house. When Harry was in the

house he did not see much of his uncle their
hours (thank heaven I Mr. Henry said, devoutly),
being quite incompatible. The boy was off to
school in the morning, long before Mr. Henry was
up. He had his dinner in the middle of the day,
when Mr. Henry was engaged in magisterial or
county business, or in the Club. So they got on
very well, and the old man was actually sorry
when the boy set out in his turn for Liverpool
to get an insight into " the business" in which
his uncle had grown moderately rich; but
this did not affect his methodical life, which
flowed on just as before. Mr. Henry was
growing old ; even he himself acknowledged this,
with cheerful readiness to other people, with a
little impatience to himself. He spoke of his age
with great equanimity in society when the subject
was mooted, but he did not think of it when
he could help it, nor did he like the thought.
High and dry above all mortal loss and gain,
quite safe from the agitations of life, very comfortable
in all its circumstances,' having succeeded
in working out just the perfection of detail, the
harmony of movement that satisfied him, it was
a vexing and unpleasant reflection that this life
was to be disturbed, broken in upon, brought to a

conclusion by illness and death. Sometimes the
thought made him almost angry. Why ? He
was not, to be sure, so strong as he once was,
but he was strong enough for all reasonable purposes,
as strong as he required to be ; and he had
all his wits about him. Never had he been more
clear-headed; and every sort of inclination to do
things that were not good for him, whether in the
way of eating or drinking, or other practices of a
more strictly moral or immoral character had died
out of his mind. He knew how to take care of himself
exactly, and he did take the greatest care of
himself. Why should he die? It was an idea
that annoyed him. It seemed so unnecessary :
he was not weary of life, nor had he the least
desire to give it up. In such circumstances there
had been a lurking feeling in his mind that Providence
should know how to discriminate. But
there was no telling how long Providence might
choose to discriminate : and this recollection was
about the only disturbing influence in a life so
comfortable and well proportioned, and altogether
satisfactory, that there seemed no reason whatever
that it should ever come to an end.

Mr. Harry here ? How did he get here at
such an hour in the morning ? Why, he must

VOL. I. K

have started in the middle of the night."

I make no doubt of that," said the housekeeper.
She had brought up a second kidney,
piping hot, and tender as a baby, upon a piece of
toast, so crisp jet so melting, so brown and
savoury, so penetrated by generous juices that it
was in itself a luxury ; " and for that and other
things I have made him lie down upon his bed.
He's not been in a bed this night, that's clear to
see; he's sleeping like a babe in a cradle; it
does the heart good to see him."

I don't think it would do my heart good,'
said Mr. Henry, " the young fellow must have
been up to some mischief. Did he give you any
idea of what was the matter ? or is it mere nonsense,
perhaps a bet, or a brag, or something of
that sort?"

Mere nonsense nay, nay, Sir, it's not that.
He's got a look on his face  a look I have seen
on your own face. Sir, when you are put
out."

I've told you a hundred times, Mrs. Eadie,
there is not the slightest resemblance between Mr.
Harry and me."

And how are you to tell that. Sir, that canna
see the two together ? You are far more clever

than me in most things ; but my eyesight I must
trust to." Mrs. Eadie made a little curtsey
when she opposed her master. She had a conviction
that it gave him a secret pleasure, though
he would never confess it, to hear that Harry was
like him ; and perhaps she was right.

Have your own way," he said ; " but that
makes no difference to the question. What's
wrong ? has he said nothing to you ? You used
to be great friends.

I'm his true friend ; and sticky well-wisher,
as much good as I could do him ; and Mr. Harry
has always been very kind," said the housekeeper,
putting her master's sentiment in her own softest
words ; " but he has said nothing to me. I did
not look for it. He would not, being one of the
proud Joscelyns, saving your presence, Sir, take a
servant into bis confidence. Though he's aye
been very kind."

We are proud, are we f ' said her master, with
a half smile ; " well, perhaps that is a fault of the
Joscelyns, Mrs. Eadie. You can send him to me
when he wakes. Of course now that he is here I
must listen to what he has to say''

But Mr. Henry sighed. He ate that delicious
kidney with an internal sense of annoyance which

K 2

took half the savour out of it. He said to himself
that it was always the case : when he came down
in the morning with any unusual sentiment of
comfort and well-being, something always happened
to put him out. As sure as that lightheartedness
came, something would follow to pull
him down, something would go wrong in the Club,
or his conduct in some petty session case would
be aspersed in the " Wyburgh Gazette," or some
old friend of his boyhood would send him a begging
letter, or  still more annoying, something about
the White House family would interfere with his
digestion. " I might have known," he said to himself.
He had got up at peace with all men ; with
absolutely no care which he could think of when
he woke and swept the mental horizon for causes
of inconvenience, as it is one of the privileges of
humanity to do  absolutely nothing to bring him
any vexation or annoyance. He had believed that
he was going to have a comfortable day. A little
uneasiness which he had felt in his foot (he did
not say, even to himself, in his toe), had gone off ;
a stiffness which he had been conscious of had
disappeared ; the wind had changed, going round
to the southward, and the morning was quite warm
for the time of the year. He had not been



buffeted about by the nilit wind, as Harry had,
and at six in the morning, when poor Harry was
so cold, he had been as warm as he could desire
in bed. When he came down stairs the fire was
just as he liked it, the newspaper with the chill
taken off it, neatly cut, and folded, and a letter from
the Duke, with a seal as big as a penny, was lying
by his plate. It was an invitation, and Mr. Henry
was much pleased. Never had a day begun more
auspiciously. He had sat down, opened his napkin,
poured out for himself an aromatic cup of coffee,
laid the newspaper before him conveniently, so as
to be able to glance his eye over the news, while he
addressed himself to the more solid part of theme.
And it was while he was thus beginning the day,
in peace with him self and all about him, that " the
woman," as he called his housekeeper when anything
went wrong, appeared with that kidney,
and the cloud which Alas to overshadow the whole
day. Of course it must be something wrong.
Why could not the woman have recommended
that boy to go back again, and make it up with
his father, and not bother another person with
his troubles ? Had not every man troubles enough
of his own ? But he had been too comfortable.
It was just as it always happened whenever he

felt particularly' at his ease, something, some annoyance
or other, was certain to come. He
sighed impatiently as Mrs. Eadie withdrew. But
then he felt it to be his duty to himself to put all
anxiety out of his thoughts, and to address himself
seriously, if not with such a sensation of
comfort, to his breakfast ; it would do no good
to himself or anyone if he put his digestion out
of order for the rest of the day.

He had finished his breakfast and read his
paper, and done some trifling businesses such as
were of importance in his easy life, before Harry
appeared. When a man or woman lives at perfect
ease, with nothing to do, there are always
some solemnities of supposed duty which they
go through for their own comfort, to give a semblance
of serious occupation to their day. With
some people it is their correspondence, with others
the rain-gauge and the thermometer, which they
register with as grave a countenance as if the
comfort of the country depended upon it. Mr.
Henry's duty was the Club. He was looking
over the accounts of the last half year with serious
devotion. He spread this over a long time, doing
a little every day, comparing all the items with
their respective vouchers, and with the expenditure

of the previous half year. All had been
perfectly satisfactory till this morning; but today
he discovered that the sale of the wastepaper
was not entered in the previous month,
which made a difference of some seven shillings
and sixpence, or thereabouts, in the half year's
accounts, a difference such as ought not to have
occurred. He could scarcely help feeling that this
would not have happened had it not been for the
very inopportune arrival of Harry, and introduction
of the troubles of a family, things he had
systematically kept clear of, into his comfortable
and self-sufficing life.

He had just made this discovery  which obliged
him to refer to the expenditure in the corresponding
quarters of last year, and several years
before, and make close investigation into what
had then become of the waste paper, and who
had bought it, and what price it had brought ;
and had made a careful note in his pocket-book
of various questions to be put to the butler at the
Club, who had the practical management of affairs
when the door opened and Harry appeared. Mr.
Joscelyn looked up and made an instant mental
estimate of his nephew, whom he had not seen
for some time, on not very just grounds. Harry

had been immensely refreshed and restored by his
breakfast, and the consciousness of having a roof
over his head, and a legitimate right to be here ;
but his sleep perhaps had not done him so much
good. At five-and-twenty a man can do without
a night's rest with no very great inconvenience ;
but to have a snatch of insufficient sleep is of
little advantage to him. It had made his eyes
red, and given him an inclination to yawn, and
confused his head. He had the look of a man
who has been sleeping illegitimately, sleeping in
daytime when other men are awake ; and he was
unshaven, and he had on a shirt of his uncle's,
which was too tight at the throat, and otherwise
of a fashion not adapted to a young man. His
dusty coat had been brushed, and he was not really
travel-soiled or slovenly, much the reverse indeed,
for his appearance had been the cause of much more
searchings of the heart both to himself and kind
Mrs. Eadie than was at all usual in respect to
Harry's simple toilette ; but that air of suppressed
fatigue and premature awakening, and altogether
wrong-sidedness, was strong upon him. And he
was deeply conscious of it. He knew exactly how
he looked, with his eyes rather red, and that blueness
on his chin, and Uncle Henry's collar cutting



his throat; and a great many doubts as to his
reception by Uncle Henry  doubts which had not
entered his ruin before, arose within him in that
first moment when, opening the door, he met the
startled eyes of Mr. Joscelyn over the top of his
spectacles, lifted to him with an alarmed and inquiring
look. Harry saw that in a moment he
was weighed in the balance and found wanting.
This did not give him more ease in his manner,
or a less painful sense of being on his trial.

Good morning, Harry. I hear that you were
a surprisingly early visitor this morning; but you
keep early hours in the country. I h(pe there is
nothing amiss at the White House."

Mr. Joscelyn held out a hand, of which he was
rather proud to be shaken by his grand-nephew.
It was, he flattered himself, a hand that was in
itself a guarantee of blue blood. Harry embraced
it in the grasp of a powerful member with none
of these qualities, and gave it a squeeze much more
energetic than he had intended.

"There is a good deal amiss with me," he
said. Harry had been debating the point with
himself for the last half-hour, whether he should
fully confide in his uncle or not. He could not
but feel that it would be wiser to deal lightly

with the fact of his exclusion from his father s
house ; but he was so angry that he could not be
prudent, and the moment that he had an opportunity
of speech his temper broke out,

I was not in bed all last night," he said ; " I
was on the road like a tramp, Uncle Henry. My
father turned me out of the house  "

Three lines came across Mr. Henry Joscelyn's
brow three horizontal, well-marked lines. These
were two too many. When he was sympathetic
a slight indentation over his eyebrows was all
that appeared. The second meant doubt, the
third annoyance.

** Dear me !" he said, " how did that happen ?
I fear you must have been doing something to
displease your father."

"Who can help displeasing my father?" cried
Harry. *' I am sure, Uncle Henry, you know him
well enough. I had been doing nothing wrong.
I had been trying to get him to interest himself
in my affairs. He has never done anything forme,
it is you that have done everything for me.
I laid before him a chance I've got. I meant at
any rate to come and talk it all over with you ;
but in the first place I thought it was as well to
ask a question about my mother's money  "

Ah that was not quite an ingratiating way
of opening the matter, I fear," Uncle Henry said.

"Why not?" cried Harry, forgetting all the
prudential rules he had been trying to impose
upon himself. '*My mother was willing, and
when it would have advanced my interests  and
of course I should have paid as good a per-centage
as anybody else. Surely if there is anything a
man can have a claim upon," he added, argumentatively,
"it must be his mother's money.
I mayn't have any right to touch the family
property, as I am only a younger son, and
all that  and especially as there are such a lot of
us; but my mother's money  when it is doing
nothing, only lying at interest. Surely a man
has a claim upon that."

The man that has a claim upon that is your
father, I should say. I never knew a man yet
that liked any questions about his wife's money,"
said Mr. Joscelyn ; *' whether it's in her own
power or in his, its not a nice thing to interfere
with, You have your own ways of looking at
things, you young fellows ; but in your place I
would have said nothing about that. I didn't
know your mother had any money," he added, in
an indifferent tone.

It is only  a thousand pounds, Uncle Henry :
not what you would call a fortune  "

Mr. Henry Joscelyn smiled, and waved his
hand. Impossible to have waved away a trifle,
a nothing, with a more complete representation
of its nothingness. " Ah that ! " he said, "I
thought I never had heard anything about money.
Well, I can't flatter you that your claim on your
father was made in a very judicious way. And
he would not hear of it? That is easy enough
to understand ; but why did he turn you out of
doors r

I can't tell you," cried Harry, " I can tell you
no more than that. I laid it all before him. It
is a good opportunity an opportunity that may
never occur again. \ have been in the office for
three years, long enough to be a mere clerk."

I have known very good men, Harry, who
were clerks all their lives."

"Yes, ses," cried Harry, impatiently "one
knows that. There's an excellent fellow now in
our office : but I don't suppose, Uncle Henry, that
was what you intended for me."

Well, my boy : I intended that you should
earn your living and be off the hands of your
family. I am not aware that I went much further.

Of course, if your own talents and industry'
pushed you on, one would have been very glad
to hear of it ; otherwise, in your circumstances,
the fifth son, I should not be disposed to turn up
my nose at the position of a mere clerk."

Harry gazed at his uncle while he spoke with
an impatient reluctance and protest against every
word. He could scarcely bear to hear him out ;
he had his mouth open to reply before Uncle
Henry was half done: but when the old gentleman
ended his speech, Harry, with a gasp as of
baffled utterance, remained silent. He did not
know what reply to make, he felt the ground
cut from under his feet ; how was he to ask his
uncle to place himself in the breach, to do what
his father would not do, when this was how his
representation was received ?i He gazed at him
with a hard breath and said nothing; for the
moment his very utterance was taken away.

And then there was a pause. Mr. Joscelyn
sat quietly with his gold spectacles between
his fingers and thumb, looking at his nephew.
The lines were gone from his forehead, he was
quite bland and amiable, but demonstratively indifferent,
with an air of having nothing whatever
to do with the question, which, to Harry,

was exasperating beyond description. He kept
his other hand upon the Club papers, which were
his business. The young fellow who had so
suddenly come down upon him in vehement
wrath and offence, yet expectation, was manifestly
nothing but an interruption to Uncle Henry.
He was thinking of his waste-paper, not of the
future prospects of any foolish young man. After
a pause he spoke again.

And when are you going back to business,
Harry? I hope, now that you are here, that
you will stay a day or two and renew your
acquaintance with your old friends. Mrs. Eadie
will make you very comfortable. I am sorry to
say I am dining out both to-day and tomorrow,
but if you like to have young Pilgrim, or Gus
Grey, or any of your former acquaintances, my
housekeeper is really equal to a very nice little
dinner, as you know. I think I heard there was
a dance getting up somewhere. Stay till the end
of the week, if your leave lasts so long."

'' Uncle Henry," said Harry, with an air of
tragedy, which he was quite unconscious of,
you may suppose that a man who has been
turned out of his father's house, and has thrown
off all connection with his native soil "

No, no, m} boy, no, no," said Mr. Joscelyn,
with a half laugh, " not so bad as that."

"I say," continued Harry, with increasing
solemnity, " who has parted from his family forever,
and cut off all connection with his native
soil  you may suppose that he hasn't much heart
to pay visits or take up old acquaintances. What
is there likely to be between me and Jack Pilgrim,
who is stepping into his father's business,
and as settled as the Fells ? or Gus Grey, who
is kept up and set forward at the Bar, though he
is not earning a penny, by relations that think
all the world of him? what can there be in
common, I should like to know, between them
and me ? I'm only the fifth son, as you say, to
start with, therefore I'm of no consequence ; and,
by Jove!" cried Harry, striking the table with
his clenched fist, "if ever I enter that house
while Ralph Joscelyn's the master of it if ever I
go back to knock at the door that was locked
upon me, locked upon me in the middle of the
night "

Uncle Henry's brow contracted when that blow
came down upon his neat writing-table; it shook
the inkstand, which perhaps was overfull, and
spilt a drop or two of ink, which of all things in

the world was the thing which annoyed him
most. He mopped it up hurriedly with his
blotting-paper, but his brow became dark, and
his mouth drew up at the corners in a way that
meant mischief.

"Pardon me," he said, with exquisite civility,
"but to spoil my table will not do your affairs
any good. It is a pity that you take such a very
tragical view of the matter, but in your present
state of mind nothing that I could say, I fear,
would be of much use. Thick I thick I I don't
think this spot is likely to come out."

I am dreadfully sorry, uncle " poor Harry

began.

Sorrow, so far as I am aware, does not take
out ink-spots," said the old gentleman, testily ;
perhaps you will do me the favour to ring for
Eadie. If things are so very serious the less we
say about them the better heated discussions
are never any good. I can only say that if you
like to stay a day or two you are quite welcome,
Harry. Mrs. Eadie, look here ; the ink-bottle
has been filled too full, perhaps jou know something
that will take it out."

Dear, dear me I" Mrs. Eadie cried, with an
anxious look from the old gentleman with his

cried lips to the young fellow standing much
abashed beside him, "it's that little lass again;
but I take the blame to myself; I should never
have trusted it out of my hands. Dear ! dear !
milk will may be do it. I wouldn't like to try
benzine or salts of lemon."

"Try what you like, but get it out," said Mr.
Joscelyn. " I'll see you, Harry, when I come
back from the Club."

*' Oh, my bonnie young gentleman !" cried
Mrs. Eadie, when they were left alone, " you
have said something that's gone against him ! you
have turned him the wrong way I"

I think everything is turning the wrong
way," said Harry, throwing himself into his
uncle's easy-chair. He was still so young and
unaccustomed to trouble that the tears came hot
to his eyes. " I'll tell you what I'll do, Eadie,
I'll be off before he comes back ; I'll go straight
off to my work, there's nobody will turn the cold
shoulder upon me there."

"No, no, Mr. Harry no, no, my canny lad, you
must not be so hasty. Besides, you know as well
as I do there's no train. It's coming out just with
blotting-paper; look ! see ! When he comes back
he'll have forgotten all about it, and I'll make

VOL. I. L

you up a nice little bit of something for your
lunch, and you'll 'gree again, and get his advice.
He's grand with his advice, and he's awful' fond
of giving it. Just you ask him for his advice,
Mr. Harry, and you'll 'gree like two birds in a
nest. It's aye how I come round the maister
when he has cast out with me."

CHAPTER VIII.

MR JOSCELYN returned from the Club to
lunch, which Alas not very usual for him.
After all, at the bottom of his heart, there was
a vein of kindness in him for the boy whom he
had trained. After his little anger wore off,
Harry's face, so tragical in its expression, came
back to his mind with a mixture of amusement
and compassion. It was tragic-comic to Mr.
Henry ; but there was no comic element in it to
the young man. He came home by no means
intending to put himself in the breach, and replace
for Harry's benefit that thousand pounds of
his mother's money, which the young fellow had
calculated upon ; but still with an impulse of
kindness. A thousand pounds ! That was a
pretty sort of fortune for the woman who married

L 2

Joscelyn of White House. It made him laugh with
angry scorn. Little insignificant woman, whose
pretty face even was nothing out of the way, a
kind of prettiness that faded, a sort of parson's
daughter's gentility, not even anything that could
be called beauty, or that would last. Mr. Henry
Joscelyn had been absent from the district, he had
not yet retired from " the world," as he called it,
when his nephew married, and he had never
known before exactly how bad a match it was.
Ralph was a clown to be sure, in himself worthy
no better fate; but the head of the Joscelyns,
Mr. Henry reflected with a bitter smile, might
certainly have been worth something more thana
thousand pounds. It was ridiculous, it-was
exasperating ; he did not wonder that Ralph had
been angry when his son had asked for this paltry
thousand pounds. Considered as a fee for the privilege
of entering the Joscelyn family, it was ridiculously
inadequate  and as a fortune ! He laughed
aloud as he crossed the street to the Club, an angry
laugh. After all it was not much wonder that
Ralph had deteriorated. A wife with a faded
face, no ancestors, and a thousand pounds  poor
Ralph ! if he had not been so insufferable his
uncle would have been sorry for him. And nowhere

was the boy asserting a claim to this enormous
fortune ; probably Mrs. Joscelyn herself
thought it a great sum of money, enough to setup
Harry in business, and do a great deal for
him. Tck-tck ! how mean and petty it all was,
not like the old ways of the house, which were not
small whatever they were. The Joscelyus in their
day had gone into debt in a princely manner ;
and they had married money in their day ; but to
come to such a point that the mother's great fortune
of a thousand pounds was worth fighting
about, between father and son I Tck-tck, tck-tck,
what a wonderful thing it was !

Nevertheless as Harry, poor boy, had been
brought up within that limited horizon, he could
not help being sorry for him. It was sad for a
young man. He was rather fond of the boy ; sofar
as he did give in to the prejudice that because
a boy was your grand-nephew you ought
to be fond of him, Harry, it certainly was, that
was the object of his affections. After all he was
a Joscelyn, and, as Joscelyns went in the present
generation, as good a specimen as any. This was
not saying very much, but still it was something
to say; for though the Joscelyns of a former
generation were in every way superior, yet it was

clear that it was impossible to go back to them.
However much we may prefer the past we must
all have, it is evident, to put up with the present.
Mr. Joscelyn transacted his Club business, and
went very closely into that question about the
waste-paper. The waste-paper at the Club was
of a very superior kind. It was chiefly made
up of letters and circulars printed on fine paper,
and the bouillon of replies, which even the rural
magnates, who frequented the place, liked to
write out once before they actually produced the
autograph which was to go to their correspondents ;
it brought a far better price than the usual refuse
of a house. But this the present major-domo had
failed to grasp ; he had treated these choice scraps
as if they had been old newspapers. Mr. Joscelyn
fully proved his mistake to the reluctant functionary,
who was disposed to sneer at the whole
business.

After all, Sir, it is only five shillings 
I don't mind if I paid that out of my
own pocket, sooner than make a fuss ;" said the
flippant official. Mr. Joscelyn looked at him with
eyes from which the finest London butler, much
less a trifling person in the country, might have
shrunk.

*' Isle man," he said, " the difference is seven
and sixpence, and I don't know what your pocket
has to do with it. The state of your pocket is a
matter of perfect indifference to the Club; but it
is my business to see that our property is not
wasted. I hope I shall not have to make a complaint
on this subject again." Yv hen he had said
this he went home, with some little complacency
to see Harr}', feeling that his title had not been
wasted, and that the property of the Club was not
likely to be neglected in this manner again. As
for Harry he had not left the house, v He had resisted
all Mrs. Eadie's exhortations to send a note
to his mother, telling her where he was, or even
to send for his luggage, declaring that he would
have nothing to do with them, that he would take
nothing out of the house, nor ever return to it.
And since he could not show himself in Uncle
Henry's high collars, Mrs. Eadie had gone out
to the best shop there was in Wyburgh to get
some linen for him, and a few necessary articles ;
while he himself sat in the tranquil house, the
peaceful old man's habitation, where everything
was adapted for comfort, every chair an easy-chair,
every passage and stair carpeted and noiseless,
and the atmosphere kept up to one regular

warmth by the thermometer. Harry sat in his
uncle's snuggery, half stifled by the want of air,
half asleep in the drowse of warmth and comfort.
He had rarely entered these rooms when he was
a school-boy in those days he had been much
more at home with Eadie than with her master 
and to sit there now had a strange sort of Sunday''
feeling, a suggestion of silent ease and contemplative
leisure. He could understand Uncle Henry
liking it. If you were an old man with ever so
much to look back upon, it Avould, no doubt (he
thought) be pleasant to sit in these arm-chairs for
hours together, and review the past, turning everything
over, and living it through once more ; but at
Harry's age, with so little to look back upon, and
so much to look forward to, this slumbrous calm
would have been intolerable but for the strange
feverish weariness of that 7iuit blanche which
he had spent in wandering over the dark country,
and which made the present warmth and quiet at
once oppressive and luxurious. He dropped
asleep half-a-dozen times in the course of the
morning, waking up more uncomfortable and
feverish than ever, and ashamed of himself to
boot. What would have done him more good
would have been to go out and walk off his

drowse ; but then the thought of the high collar,
which cut his cheek, and of all the acquaintances
to whom this masquerade would have to be explained,
made the idea of going out still more
insupportable ; while on the other hand to think
that he was here under a kind of hiding, skulking
indoors, not wishing to be seen, was terrible to
the unsophisticated youth, who had never before
known what it was to shrink from the eye of
day.

All these things worked bitterly in Harry's
mind as he sat and turned them over, falling into
vague feverish moments of forgetfulness, rousing
up again to more angry and uncomfortable consciousness
than before. Of course, he could not
think of any other subject. He took up the
newspaper and tried to read it, but after he had
gone over a sentence or two, some scene from the
last twenty-four hours would glide in over the page
and obliterate everything his father's furious
face lowering upon him, or that pale glare in the
window of the house which was now shut up
and closed to him for ever ; or the confused darkness
of the shed in which Joan (old Joan, a kind
soul after all, as he said, in his boyish jargon)
had tried to comfort him or it might be merely

an incident of his nights walk, the sound of the
water running below him as he stopped on the
bridge, only its sound betraying it in the darkness,
or the sudden graze of his hand against a
wall as he made his way through the gloom, or
the dogs barking, baying against him on all sides.
These scenes came flashing before him one by
one ; and then his young cheeks would grow red
and hot as he remembered how he shrank from
the policeman's lantern, and avoided the eye of
the carter driving his cabbages to the market in
the grey of the morning. He had done nothing
to be ashamed of, and yet he had been made to
feel guilty and ashamed ; what greater wrong could
be done to a youth in the beginning of his career ?
All this went through his mind, not in any
formal succession  now one scene, now another
touching his sore and angry soul to sudden
exasperation. That he should have to remain all
the long day inactive after this convulsion which
had changed his life, was an additional irritation
to him. Since Uncle Henry had failed to show
him any sympathy, what he would have liked
would have been to rush out on the moment and
post away somewhere out of reach, he did not
mind where. In old days, or in primitive places,

when a man could hire a horse or a carriage and
set out at once, there must have been a wonderful
solace in that possibility of instant action ; but
to wait for a train is a terrible aggravation of the
impatience of an angry or anxious mind, even
though the train arrives much sooner at its
destination than the other could do. The long
hours of daylight which must pass ere that train
came up seemed to be years to him. He longed
for the clang and the movement as for the only
comfort that remained to him. After, he did not
know what would happen. He would go back
to Liverpool ; he could realise the arrival there,
but he did not know what would follow. Was
he to accept his defeat quietly, to sit down upon
his stool and continue his work, and see some one
else, unfamiliar to the office, enter and pay his
money, and take the place which Harry was to
have had ? All this made the blood mount to
his cheeks again in successive waves. Could he
bear it? could he put up with it? Sometimes
the blood seemed to boil in his veins and swell
as if they would burst ; and there came upon him,
as upon so many others, that wild sudden burst
of longing  oh ! to have wings like a dove, to
fly away ! It is not always an elevating or noble

longing; it is the natural outcry of that sense
of the intolerable which is in all unaccustomed
to trouble. To escape from it is the first impulse
of the undisciplined mind. Even when experience
has taught us that we cannot escape from it,
nature still suggests that cry, that desire, Oh
to have wings like a dove! oh for a lodge in
some vast wilderness ! oh to turn our backs upon
our pain and all its circumstances, and flee away I
And the less this impulse is spiritual and visionary,
the less it is restrained by that deeper
knowledge so soon acquired that we can rarely
escape from our troubles by any summary road,
seeing that we can never escape from ourselves.
Harry began to get bewildered by the rising fever
in his heart of this longing to escape. Why
should not he escape ? cut all the bonds of which
so many had already been rent asunder for him,
throw family, and home (which had rejected
him), and duty, and custom, and the life he
knew, and the circumstances which had hitherto
shaped it, all away with one effort, and emancipate
himself?

He had roused a little under the influence of
this suggestion when his uncle returned. Mr.
Joscelyn had a compunction in his mind which

made him very conciliatory to Harry. To give
him what he seemed to want, to subtract so
much, even if not very much, from his own possessions
in order to give to Harry, was an idea
which he would not contemplate. If Harry
waited long enough he would get it ; but in the
meantime, a demand upon him was like a warning
that he had lived long enough, and that his
money was wanted for a new generation, which
was as intolerable to Uncle Henry as young
Harry's troubles were to him. He would not
take upon himself the burden of setting his
grand nephew up in life, but at the same time he
felt it was a hardship that the young fellow
should not have some one to set him up in life,
and was conciliatory and soothing by a kind of
generous instinct, an instinct not generous enough
to go further. He came in in a mood which was
much more agreeable to Harry than that in
which he had gone out, and which raised Mrs.
Eadie's hopes high, who knew that her master
did not often come back in this way, or show
himself so amiable. Mr. Joscelyn told Harry all
the story of the waste-paper, and gave him great
insight into the workings of the Club.

"If you are faithful to your native county.

as I have been, I daresay you will end by being
a member of it," he said.

It is not very likely, Sir," said Harry.
I don't care if I were never to see the old place
again."

That is nonsense," said his uncle, promptly.
That's a question of age entirely. At your
time of life you think that all that is to be desired
is to be in the world, and you don't understand
that the world is not in one place as much as
another, not the grand world in London, or the
business world in Liverpool, but is just your world
wherever you may happen to be."

This was above Harry, who gaped slightly,
and opened his eyes with curiosity and wonder.

"You will scarcely say that this is the world
like London," he said, with that smile of youthful
comment upon the mysterious obtuseness of their
elders which is general to every new generation.

But this is just what I do says my boy ; you
have your little world round about you, and
neither is it bigger in the noise of a big place,
nor smaller in the quiet of a little one. We are
capable just of so much, and that we get wherever
we are."

Harry opened his eyes a little more j but he

thought it just as Tell to say Nothing. He
thought no doubt this was a kind of dotage ; but
resorted quickly to his own concerns, which
were so much more important than any philosophy
of his uncle's.

"I don't think," he said, "if I were once out
of it that I should want to come back."

"Ah, well, I should probably have said the
same thing at your age. One's ideas change from
twenty to seventy," said Mr. Henry, feeling that
perhaps after all it was expedient to steer clear of
generalities. " Let us see what Eadie has sent
us for luncheon. I don't often cut lunch myself ;
when one breakfasts rather late, as I do, it is as
well to reserve one's self till dinner ; but you
"were a great deal earlier, Harry, and besides at
your age you are always hungry  blessed provision
of nature."

*'I don't think I'm always hungry ; in the office
one can't indulge in much eating," said Harry, a
little resentful.

When I was like you we used to go out to a
little tavern. I daresay it's gone now. I could
show you the place I could go there blindfold,
I believe  where they made the most excellent
chops. Ah ! there are no such chops now. Mrs*

Eadie sends us very nice cutlets, but it is not the
same thing. We made our dinner of them, and
when we got back to our lodgings, in my time,
we had tea."

"So most of us have now," said Harry, "it
saves a great deal of trouble ; it's a big dining
place now, there's a grill-room as big as the
Market"

Mr. Henry held up his hands in anxious deprecation.


Don't tell me anything about it. I know ; a
place like a railway-station ; the very railway -
station itself has been invented since ray time.
Your world has become a great deal busier and
more hurried ; but it is not so comfortable, Harry.
I am fond of good cookery, but I never got anything
better than those chops. As for the tea it
always appeared to me about the worst thing in the
shape of a meal that a depraved imagination could
invent very bad for the digestion, and neither
nourishing nor nice."

But you can't get your people in your lodgings
to cook dinner for you," said Harry, entering
into this question with feeling, " they don't
know how  and then they won't  they are dreadfully
independent. So we have to do the best

we can. And I am not like you, Uncle Henry ;
in your time I suppose the Joscelyns were swells ?
but they never were, you know, in my day. I
was brought up like that."

"The Joscelyns of my time, Harry, would
never have recognized themselves in your description.
They would not have known what
swells meant," said Mr. Henry, rather severely ;
but he did not enter into details, for indeed,
though they were " swells," the living had always
been very plain at the White House.

Then there was a little pause, and Harry felt
better after two or three of Mrs. Eadie's cutlets.
He said in a moment of repose,

I am going off. Uncle Harry, by the train
to-night."

Are you so ? but what are you to do about
your luggage? you can't go without your luggage."


But I shall I'll ask nothing. I'll take nothing
out of that house."

' This is foolish, Harry. You should rather
take everything you can get ; but, however, I
hope I know better than to argue with an angry
man  or boy. You are quite right to get back to
your work."

VOL. I. M

It is about the only thing I have got left,"
said Harry, somewhat tragically.

And you could not have a better thing. But
you will not always feel like that. If you would
like it, though I don't know that it is a very
hopeful office, I would see your father, Harry."

"Nobody need see my father on my account,"
cried Harry ; his lips quivered a little, but nothing
save wrath was in his face ; "that's all over. For
my part I shouldn't mind if it were all over together.
I hate Liverpool just as I hate Cumberland.
I have a great mind to go clean off  "

Abroad ? and the very best thing you could
do. Show yourself fit to keep up the credit of
your employers abroad, and it's the best steppingstone
to advancement at home. I am very glad to
hear you have such an enlightened notion."

Harry was not pleased to have the ground thus
cut from under his feet. To be told, when you hint
at what seems a desperate resolution, that it is
the best thing you can do, is exasperating. He
withdrew with dignity from the field and proffered
no more confidence. The cutlets gave him a
safer outlet, for though he was in trouble he was
hungry. It was a long time since six o'clock ; he
had resisted Eadie's offers of a " snack " between,

and the cutlets, though very nice, were not more
than a mouthful to Harris Mr. Joscelyn trifled
with one on his plate; but he supplied his
nephew with a liberal hand.

*' I shan't be here, I am afraid, to see you
away. I am dining out, as I told you it is unfortunate.
But you are used to looking after
yourself."

I would need to be," said Harry, bitterly,
and then he added, " I'll say goodbye to you now,
Uncle Henrys Very likely I'll never see you
again. I don't know what I'm going to do, or where
I may be going. You've always been very kind
to me ; a fellow does not think anything of that at
the time  it seems all just a matter of course, you
know. But I see now you've always been very
kind. I shall remember it as long as I live. I
said last night, he had never done anything forme,
it was all Uncle Henry. So it is, though
I'm not sure that I ever thought of it before."
Mr. Joscelyn smiled, but he was touched.
Well, well, Harry," he said ; " that was natural ;
but now you show a very nice feeling. And I
always was glad to do what I could for you. As
schoolboys go you were not at all objectionable,
and though you are a little out of temper now

M 2

things will come round. Put that in your pocket.
It's only a trifle ; but I daresay you may want
some little things, especially if you're going
abroad. That's all. Let me hear how you are
going on from time to time. I shall always be
glad to hear."

And then he began to talk of the news, and
what the Duke was going to do in the prospect ot
a new election for the county. " If Lord Charles
does not get in, it will be ridiculous  worse than
wrong, absurd, considering the stake they have
in the county." But it may be supposed that, in
the present crisis of his affairs, Harry Joscelyn
cared very little for Lord Charles. He replied
civilly to his uncle's talk ; but as a matter of
fact he was very anxious to see what was in the
envelope which Mr. Joscelyn had insisted he
should put in his pocket. It was not likely it
would be anything of an exciting character ; but
yet there was no telling. When, however. Uncle
Henry was gone, and Harry was free to examine
this envelope, it proved to contain two crisp ten
pound notes  no more. He was very much disappointed
at first, thinking (foolishly) that it
might even be the capital he wanted the thousand
pounds to set him up. But after a while,

and somewhat grudgingly, Harry allowed to
himself that it was kind. Sometimes there is
more pleasure to be got out of twenty pounds than
out of a thousand. Uncle Henry meant it very
kindly. The young man's heart was a little
softened and warmed, almost against his will, by
the gift.

And when evening came, and with it the train
which roars along between that deep cutting under
the fells, between two high walls of living stone, to
the South" and the world, Harry, with a little
portmanteau, in which Mrs. Eadie had packed the
things she had bought for him, walked down to
the station, boldly passing both lamps and policemen,
and went away. The little portmanteau
was not half full; but Eadie thought it was
more respectable." He felt so himself. To have
gone without any luggage at all would have
given him a thrill of shame. It was with a
strange forlorn feeling that he lounged about
the station, looking at everything as if he
might never see it again. Strangely enough he
seemed to find out features in the place which he
had never noticed before, in that last look round,
things which his indifferent eye had seen, without
noticing, ever so often ; but which now at last he

perceived, and would recollect as part of Wyburgh,
should he never see it again. He vas glad that
it was dark wien the train swept through the
valley in which the White House was. Though
he could not see anything, yet he went to the
other side of the carriage, and so plunged along,
passing all those familiar places without seeing
them, yet more vividly conscious of them than,
he thought, he had ever been before. What were
they thinking, he wondered ? Would they have
any suspicion that he was passing, going away 
for ever. For ever ! something else seemed to say
this in the air about him, not his own voice.
Was it possible that he might never pass this
way again ?

CHAPTER IX.

Waiting.

JOAN did not sleep much on that eventful
night. She lay down in her bed after the
uncomfortable sleep which she had snatched
among the wash-tubs, but it was more as a matter
of form than for any good there was in it. She
was secretly very anxious about Harry. Though
she had taken upon her so cheerfully to affirm
that he had gone to the " Red Lion," she had not
any confidence in this suggestion. She lays
staring at the window as it slowly grew a
glimmering square, in the cold blue of the dawning,
wondering what had become of him. She
had no great imagination, and therefore there did
not rush upon her mind a crowd of visionary
dangers such as would have besieged her mother

but she lay with her face turned up to the ceiling
and her eyes wide open, asking herself what he was
likely to have done ; what he would be doing now ?
He might fall into bad company, she thought,
with a distinct identification of one house in the
village which did not bear a very good reputation,
and of which, as it happened, Harry was entirely
ignorant ; or he might go straight off to the office,
which, on the whole, was the best thing he could
do. That was all very well for the future ; but
where was he to-night ? where was he now f

This was a question which Joan could not answer
to herself. She thought over a great many things
during the unaccustomed vigil. Never before
had her mother's anxieties and " fuss" appeared
as they now did to Joan with a certain amount
of reason in them. Certainly father was getting
beyond bearing, she said to herself. He was
worse the older he grew. She had told him that
she was the best servant he had in the house,
though she got no wages, and it was true. If
she liked " to take a situation" she could earn
excellent wages, and get praise instead of abuse
for what she did. She was not a person to be
put upon in any way, and yet there were times
when he '' put upon" even her. The contemplation

of all this did not move her to any impulses
of furious indignation, as Harry was moved, but
she thought, lying there in the grey dawn, that
it would have to be put a stop to somehow. As
for taking a situation, that was out of the question.
Joan was a very homely woman, not much
better educated than the dairy-maid, and accustomed
to none of the softness of life, but yet
she was Miss Joscelyn of the White House, and
nothing could have obliterated from her mind
the consciousness of this dignity which gave her
nothing, and yet was everything to her. Possessing
this rank, it was impossible for her to
take a situation." She did not mind what she
did in her father's house, but to earn money
would have been a degradation. She regretted
it even, for she knew very well that she was a
capable person, able to " put her hand" to many
things ; but it was as indisputable as if she had
been Princess Royal of an ancient kingdom.
Could she have done this, and taken her mother
away, and supported her by the work of her own
hands, she would have been now wound up todo
it ; but, as it was impossible, she cast about
in her mind what else she could do to mend
matters. Father was too bad, there was no denying

that ; he had gone a great deal too far, and
it would not be possible to put up with him much
longer. She concocted several speeches to be
made to him, but none of them seemed to her
sufficient. To be sure, on the other hand, mother
would make a fuss. She would not take anything
easily. To see her excitement and anxiety over
the smallest matters was enough to provoke even
a patient temper. She could not take things as
they came ; that was a kind of excuse, perhaps,
for father's violence. Joan turned over all these
things in her mind, as if her parents stood before
the bar and it was her business to judge them.
A woman of thirty cannot go on with those
childish fictions of reverence which make criticism
a sin. Indeed, even a child, the youngest, unconsciously
criticises as soon as it is able to
think, and we are all standing before the most
awful of tribunals unawares when we live our
lives and show forth our motives before our
babies ; and Joan had long ceased to be a baby.
She saw her father and mother all round, and
estimated them calmly. He had not many qualities
which were good, perhaps not any at all;
she had a great many amiable and tender graces
of character of which her daughter was vaguely

aware, but she was of a nature which is vers
provoking to a calm and judicious spirit. Thus
Joan saw them as they were, with the clearest
impartial vision. What a pity that two such
people had married to make each other unhappy !
Joan had a sort of impatient feeling that, if she
had only been in the world then, she certainly
would have done something to prevent the union
which had brought her into the world. This
was the amusing side of her judicial impartiality.
It went the length sometimes of a comical impatience
that she had not been there to keep
matters straight between them.

All this glanced through her mind as she lay
staring at the ceiling, or at the blue square of the
window gradually growing more visible. There
was no sleep for her that night. The first part of
it she had found uncomfortable enough, but sleep
had been strong upon her. Now she was comfortable,
but had thoroughly shaken off sleep. She
thought over all the turmoil of the family, and its
agitations. He had never done anything so bad as
this before. There had been storms in the house
without number, but he had always let the
mother smooth things down. He had never
shut out any of " the boys," which was what she

called even her brothers who were married and
had boss of their own. And Harry was the one
most like his mother ; most likely to make a fuss
and take such an accident in the worst way.
Where had Harry gone ? What was he doing ?
Adhere could he go in the middle of the night ?

When she had come back to this subject, Joan
felt almost too restless to stay in bed. If she
had but thought of it at the time she would have
gone after him ; she would have prevented him
from going away. To think she should have
been so overcome by sleep as not to know
when Harry had disappeared, or to be aware that
he was gone ! She turned and twisted about in
the self-annoyance caused by this, and could
not rest. If she had not been so sleepy, she
might have stopped Harry and averted the catastrophe,
for she felt vaguely that a catastrophe it
was. And what would become of his mother if
anything had happened to him ? '' Tut," said Joan,
to herself, " I am getting as bad as mother herself.
There is a bit of mother in me, though I did not
think it. What should have happened to him ?
He's sound asleep now while I'm loitering myself
about him. To be sure he must have
knocked somebody up and got a bed somewhere ;

but in the morning he'll go over to Will's, or
Tom's, or even Uncle Henry's. Things are bad
enough as they are. Father's getting that bad
that even me, / can't put up with him ; and
mother's life's a trouble to her :  and to other
folks too," she added involuntarily, with a quaint,
comic twist of her upper lip. But notwithstanding
this strong sense in her mind that her
mother's example was not one to follow, and that
there was in its pathos a faint touch of the ridiculous,
she yet could not succeed in divesting her
own mind of uneasiness. As soon as there was
light enough to see by she got up, and roused
the maids, who were tolerably early risers, but yet
were now and then subjected to the ignominy of
being called by Miss Joan. " You would sleep
if it was the day of judgment," she cried, standing
at the door of the room in which two of them
were hastily jumping up, rubbing their eyes.
Why didn't you get up and let me in last
night r

Get op and let ye in T the women cried
aghast.

I pulled the door upon me when I thought I
had left it on the jar," said Joan, with prompt
and unblushing falsehood, " and then I knocked

till I thought I should have brought down the
house ; but not a soul of you stirred till m} poor
mother, that is so delicate, got out of her warm
bed and opened to me. I would have died of
cold but for the copper you lighted last night ; and
here you are at five o'clock in the morning snoring
like all the seven sleepers, and a big washing
in hand. Do you mean me to do it myself ?"

But Lord, Miss Joan, what were ye coin' foot o'
t' house at night?" said the eldest of the
maids.

** That's none of your business," said Joan,
and unless you want to see me at the washing-tub
you had better hurry. What you want withall
that sleep, and all that meat, is more than I
can tell. I'll do a better day's work than the best of
you upon half of it. Get up to your washing, ye
lazy hussies." Joan clapped the door with a little
noise behind her, so as to obliterate this word,
which her grandmother would have used with
the greatest openness, but which the progress of
civilisation has made less possible even in the
free-speaking north ; but it relieved her mind to
say it, though she took pains that it should not be
heard. As for the two women, they laughed
with little sound, but much demonstration, when

tUe door was closed ; one of them throwing herself
upon a chair in convulsions of suppressed
mirth. " Auld Joan, t'auld toad, has gotten a lad
at last," they said. The idea that she had been
shut out in the cold in this very unusual courtship
was such a joke to them as no wit could have
equalled. " T'auld Joan I" who was always so
much wiser than everybody else, and repressed
*' lads " with the strong hand. But notwithstanding
the excellency of the joke, they made
haste to their washing, as Joan was not a person
to be trifled with, and soon the scene of her disturbed
slumber was full of noise, and bustle, and
steam, and all the commotion of a big washing,
which always carries with it some features of a
Saturnalia. As the big pairs of red arms played
in and out of the steam and froth, a continued
tempest of talk accompanied the operations ; but
there were lulls now and then, especially when
any new-comer appeared, when the event of the
night was communicated in loud whispers, with
peals of accompanying laughter. " T'auld Joan's
gotten a lad at last." "What's the joke?" she
said, on one occasion, coming in abruptly ; but
this merely threw the company, which was in full
enjoyment of the witticism, into wilder convulsions

of laughter. Perhaps Joan guessed what
it was. " You can have your fun for me, as long
as you do your work," she said. She was not
troubled by uneasy suggestions of amour-propre.
The maid who did the indoor work did not get off
so easily. She made a kind of confession. " I
heard t' master about. I mustn't get op, and
him there ; and, Miss Joan, I dunno if you ken 
Master Harry's been foot aw night. His bed's
just as twas."

Mr. Harry's gone over to his brother's. He
made up his mind only last night," said Joan,
without a wince. When there are domestic strife
going on, the women of the family, always the
most anxious to keep scandal silent, have to lie
with a composure invincible. Joan was a woman
who was true as steel, and would not have told a
falsehood on any other occasion for a kingdom ;
but this kind of lie did not touch her conscience
at all. She did not think of it as a falsehood.
She was willing even to deliver over her own
reputation to the discussion of her servants sooner
than let in the light upon the family quarrel.
Whether Betty believed her or not was a different
matter ; at all events here was an explanation.
All the little bustle of getting the work of the

household set a-going, through which she swept
like a whirlwind amused her mind for the moment,
but did not lessen the anxiety, which came back
like a flood after this was accomplished, and her
own individual part of the morning's work done.
When she got through her dairy occupations the
uneasiness overflowed. She took old Simon the
cowman into a corner. He was a very old servant
of the house and had seen all the children born,
and was interested in every one of them and their
concerns, and all that had happened to them of
Which events he was a walking chronicle. " The
year Master Will wan t' race up at Forecastle."
The year Master Tom broke's bones in t' shindy
election-time." These were his dates. He was
an old bachelor, and it was believed that he had
not another thought but the house and what
went on within it. Joan took him aside into a
corner of the wealthy but not very tidy yard, which
was his domain. " T want you to do a message
for me, Simon, something I wouldn't ask another
man about the place to do."

Simon gave her an acute, but slightly wondering,
glance out of the old blue eyes, which kept
their youthful hue, though they had lost their clearness,
and which looked out of an old face, brightly

VOL. I. N

tinted with fine hues of crimson and orange. The
old man was, an aesthetic person would have said, a
glorious bit of colour. The orange and the crimson
were almost pure tints in his old weather-beaten
countenance, and his eyes, though they were old,
were of a kind of china-blue. He had a quantity
of somewhat ragged, yet venerable white hair,
and stooped a little, but trudged along with his
stick as quickly as any younger man about, and
was perfectly hale and vigorous. He had all his
wits about him, though he was old. He looked
at Joan keenly, yet with a dubious gleam in his
eyes. He had heard already  who had not ? 
that Joan, Joan herself, the judge of everybody,
had been out at the door courting', and had been
shut out. His glance meant a question ; was it
possible that she meant to employ him as her
messenger to the lover who was so mysterious and
incredible a personage, and about whom already
aw t' house " had been exercised to know who
he could possibly be ?"

I'll do my best," he said, taking off his hat
with a rustic impulse to scratch his head, a process
which seems to have been considered good for the
brains since the world began.

I'm a little anxious about Harry," said Joan,

and so is mother  mother far more than me ;
you know she will never take things easy."

Simon nodded his head a great many times iu
energetic assent ; no doubt he knew who better?
had not he been sent off for the doctor a hundred
times when there was not much need of the
doctor, and seen the Mistress wringing her hands
over what seemed to the household in general
very small occasion a hundred times more ? To
be sure she took nothing easy. That was very
well known.

Harry." said Joan, " walked over last night,
I think, to Will's ; but it's a long walk, and you
know he's used to towns now, not to country
ways."

To this Simon responded with his usual nod,
but shook his head all the same, by way of
protest against bringing up a Joscelyn in a town.

' It's a pity ? Well, it may be," said Joan ; 'but
it's the fact, Simon. Now I think most likely he
stopped at the ' Red Lion,' not to wake us up
again or disturb my mother. She never sleeps
Dut with one eye open, I believe, and hears like
a hare. You heard what happened to me last
night. The door blew to behind me when I was just
out, looking what kind of a night it was. Ne'er a

N 2

one heard in the house but mother. That's just
like her. Now Harry knows that, and he would
think it would disturb her if he came back."

Simon listened to all this with a perfectly
stolid countenance ; but he knew as well that his
young mistress was romancing, and inventing as
she went on  as well as the most fine critic could
have done. He listened with his eye upon her, with
a word now and then to show that his interest was
fully kept up ; but he saw through her, and Joan
was partly aware of his scepticism.

So we think  or I think," said Joan, " that
he may have stopped at the ' Hed Lion ;' and I
want to know ; but, Simon, I don't want you to
go like a lion roaring and ask, has Mr. Harry
Joscelyn slept a' night here? I want you to
go warily and find out  find out, you understand
r

"Without skin'? ay, ay, Miss Joan, I ken
what ye mean," Simon said, with many nods of
his white head.

Then bless us, man, go !" said Joan, whose
anxiety had little ebullitions from time to time,
paroxysms which astounded her afterwards.
She put her hand on Simon's arm and almost
shook him in her passion; then stopped and

laughed at herself "I have a deal of mother
iQ me after all," she said, " There, go as fast as
your old legs will carry you, and bring me back
word."

Simon liked to be taken into the confidence of
his masters. He was of the old fashion, not
much unlike a slave or serf bound to the soil, not
perhaps a desirable kind of human being, but
very useful to the masters of him, and a much
more picturesque figure than a modern servant.
He arraigned the family before his tribunal, and
judged them much as Joan did, knowing the
weaknesses of each. He was of the kind of valet
to whom his master is never a hero; he saw
them as do children, exactly as they were,
and knew all their fretfulness and pettiness as
well as their larger faults. But this did not
interfere with his faithfulness and devotion.
He did not believe in them as perfect, nor
in anything as perfect. He was such a cynic as
imperfect gods must always make. The objects
of his devotion were poor creatures enough, as he
was well aware, but this rather made him certain
that all men were poor creatures than that his
'' owners" were exceptionally petty. He gave them
the first place in his universe all the same, and

served them, and considered their interest before
his own. Perhaps, however, this is rash to say.
He had no special interests of his own ; he was
an old bachelor, without relations to whom he
had attached himself. He had attached himself
to " the family" instead of these ties, and though
he did not contemplate the family in any ideal
light, yet it had all the soul he possessed, and its
interests were his first object. He nodded his
head a great many times after Joan left him, ashe
prepared to go to the village. " I understand,"
he said to himself. But it was very doubtful
whether he did understand ; he did not connect
Joan's supposed escapade with this curious
mission; notwithstanding, as he was wily by
nature, he set off with all the intention of accomplishing
what he had to do with wile. He took
a basket on his arm in which he packed the
butter which was sold in the village. Joan
making the discovery to her dismay, yet not without
a smile, of more and more of her mother in her,
could scarcely endure all his preparations, and
had nearly rushed out of her dairy and pushed
him out with her own hands ; but she recollected intime
that it was useless to interfere with Simon,
who never did anything except in his own way.

All this was long before the hour at which
ordinary mortals have their breakfast, before
even Mrs. Joscelyn, trembling and pale, had ventured
to get up. The morning had been a long
one for the poor lady ; she had not slept an}
more than her daughter ; she had lain still, not
daring to move after all the house was astir,
feeling as if she were fixed to her uneasy bed by
a stake. She writhed upon it faintly, but could
not pull it up, and lay still with her ears open to
every sound till her husband, usually early
enough, but whose disturbed night had made him
late this morning of all mornings, got up and
took himself away. Then it was for the first
time that poor Mrs. Joscelyn really felt a little
of the warmth of that sympathy for which she
had longed all her life. Joscelyn had scarcely
stamped off with his big tread downstairs, when
an equally firm, if not so loud, step came up, and
after a moment Joan appeared at her mother's
bedside with a cup of tea in her hand.

"Here is something to comfort you a bit,
mother," she said. Mrs. Joscelyn like most
nervous women believed that there was a kind
of salvation in tea.

Oh ! have you any news of my Harry, Joan ?

that will comfort me more than anything else,"
she cried.

"Now, mother," said Joan, 'why will you
make a fuss? Could I send over to the 'Red
Lion' first thing in the morning to ask, is Harry
lodging in your house ? as if we were frightened
of him. We've no reason to be frightened of
him that I know. Am I to go and give him a
bad character because father's behaved bad, and
Harry's taken offence. We mustn't be unreasonable.
You wouldn't like to raise an ill name on
the poor boy,"

Oh, no, no  anything but that," Mrs. Joscelyn
said. She was silenced by this plea ; but her
heart was still torn with anxiety. She looked
wistfully in her daughter's face with her lips
trembling. "Do you think there is nothing that
can be done without exposing him, Joan f

"Well, mother, I'll see. We don't want to
expose anybody. I've told a heap of fibs myself,"
said Joan, with a broad smile, " and all the
women think they've caught me. I know what
they're thinking, they're wondering who I had
to chatter with at the door. They'll maybe on
the whole," she added, laughing, " think all the
better of me if they think I am courting'  so I

will let them think what they like, and we must
expose nobody. Father's a trial, but as long as
we can we must just keep him to ourselves."

Ah, Joan," said Mrs. Joscelyn, wringing her
thin hands, "you can laugh, but I feel a great
deal more like crying. I can think upon nothing
but my poor boy."

Well, mother," said Joan, " crying is not my
line. I'll not pretend to more; but it's just as
well there is one of us that can laugh, or what
would become of us both I don't know. Take
your tea ; it will be quite cold ; and lie still and
get a rest. The very first news I have I will
bring you, and you're far better out of the way
if you'll take my advice."

I wish I was out of the way altogether. I
wish I were in my grave. When I was young
I could bear it, but now my heart's failed me.
Oh, I just wish that once for all I was out of the
way!"

You make too much fuss, mother," said Joan.
I am always telling you. If you could take
things easy it would be far better. Out of the
way ! and what would Liddy do, poor little pet,
when she comes home ?"

' Ah, Liddy !" The mother breathed out this

name with a softened expression ; here was still
a last hope that had not been torn from her.
Joan for her part went out of the room briskly,
but stood and gazed out of the window on the
landing, which looked towards the village, holding
her hands very tightly clasped, and looking for
the return of the messenger whom she would not
acknowledge to have sent. *'Ah, Liddy," she
said to herself, " she'll be just such another
as mother herself, and what will I do between
them? but I wish old Simon would comeback
with some news of that boy."

CHAPTER X.

INQUIRIES.

SIMON went clown to the village, stooping over
his stick and laden with his big basket with
a crab-like progression, which, nevertheless, was
by no means slow. There were few people to be
met on the road, children going to school for the
most part, with whom he was no favourite, and
who called out little taunts after him when they
were far enough off to be safe from pursuit.
He was not an amiable old man, but unless an
urchin came in his way he did not attempt to
take any vengeance. " Little scum o' t' earth,"
he would say, shaking his fist, but that amused
and stimulated instead of alarming the youngsters.
The village was mildly astir, wrapped in a haze
of morning sunshine ; the better houses opening
up by degrees ; the cottages all open to the sweet

yet chill air of the spring morning. At the "Red
Lion" all was already in activity, doors and
windows open to carry off the heavy fumes of
beer and tobacco left by last night's customers.
Simon went in and rested his big basket on the
bar table. The ostler in the yard was making a
great noise with his pails, the women were
brushing and scrubbing upstairs, and talking to
each other in harsh unmodulated rustic voices,
and the mistress was busy in her bar arranging
and dusting the array of bottles which was its
chief decoration. " Is that you, Simon ?" she
said, and *' It's just me," was the old man's
answer; no ceremonial greeting was necessary.
I've brought you th' butter," Simon said. " When
it's a fine colour and extra good, I like to get the
credit of 't myself."

You the credit," said Mrs. Armstrong ; ** you'll
tell me next you've kirned it and washed it and
printed it yourself."

*' I've millet it," said Simon. " There's a great
art in milking. If you do it in wan way the
cream's spoilt ; but if ye do 't in my way you
see what's the consequence. Just look at my
butter  it's like lumps of good."

A wee too yellow for my fancy," said the

buyer. " That's beet, and it gives a taste. I'm
no saying it's your fault. There's nae pasture
on the fells to keep the baits without
feeding."

''My baits," said Simon, " want for nothing;
there's no such sweet pasture on a' the fells as
over by the Reedbush yonder ; it's that juicy and
tasty. I think whiles it would be a good thing
for me if I could eat it myself."

Well, Simon, you're humble-minded," said
the mistress. *' What will you have ? If ye eat
cow's meat ye will want something to warm your
stomach after 't. Is it true they tell me that
Miss Joan's gotten a lad at long and last ?"

Miss Joan," said the old retainer ; " and wha
might it be that event Miss Joan to lads or
any nonsense o' t' sort?"

Eh, what's the matter with her that she's so
different from other folk ? A lad's natural to a
lass ; and though she ca's herself a lady she's
just a lass like the rest. Lady here and lady
there; she's just a stout lass like any farmer's
daughter about. I'm no speaking a word again
the family."

As well no," said Simon, darkly.

"Far better no; there's Master Harry is a

good customer  no that he takes much when he's
here ; but he's for ever about the house."

'ray, so?" said old Simon; "I thought he
wasna the fine lad he used to be. So he's forever
about this house f

Ye're an auld ill-tongued  why shouldn't hebe
about this house ? Is there any harm in this
house? The curate himself, when he has a
friend with him, he'll come to me for his dinner.
The ' Red Lion's ' as good a house as is atween
this and Carlisle. Show you me another that is
mair exact in a' the regulations, and gives less
trouble. There no been so much as a fine paid
in the 'Red Lion,' no since my father's time
that had it afore us. We're kent through aw
the countryside."

I'm saying nae harm o' t' ' Red Lion.' Ye
snap a man op that short ; but a gentleman he's
best at home. I say to your face, mistress, as I
wouldn't say worst behind your back. And if
he's hanging about a tap day and night"

*' Never but the night," said the mistress of
the " Red Lion," promptly. " I've never seen
him in the day but passing the road ; and a civil
lad he is, no a bit proud, no like your popish
ways. And about the tap it's an untruth, Simon,

just an untruth, He'll take his glass; but it's
not for drink he comes, it's for company. Tak'
you your butter to t'other side o' those. I'll
not have you down here."

'Na, Mistress, there's was nae harm meant.
You ken what's thought in a country place when
a lad is seen aboota public. And lads will be lads.
I reckon they keepit it op late last night  keeping
decent folk out of their beds."

"No a moment after the fixed time' said Mrs.
Armstrong, promptly. " Xo a moment ! I'm till a
moment myself, and my master he's as exact as
me. Na, na, or character is mair to us
than a bottle or twa extra. Out o' this house
they all go at eleven clock of night "

'' But, mistress, ye're beds for man and waist,"
said Simon, stolidly. "You will not turn foot
upon the street them that bides here ?"

Hoot," said the woman, with more good humour
*what has that to do with Mr. Harry? He
never bides here ; and we've few enough lodgers.
Who would come to the fells for pleasure at this
time of the year ? Noo and again we've got a
gentleman fishing. I wonder ye don't mak' a bit
o' money foot o' birds autumn, Simon. They
say it's no that plenty at the White House."

"They say a deal o' things that they ken
nothing about  like that for wan, that they
keepit it op here yestreen till a' the hours o' t'
night."

And I tell ye it's an untruth, Simon, whoever
says it  it's just a lee, that's what it is. I
shut the door upon them with my ain hand. No
a living soul but them belonging to those at
half after eleven. Ye may tell that to whoever
tell you ; and if I kent who they were I would
hav' them op afore the court for slander. I
would tak' justice o' them. Lies ! that's what it is.
Mr. Harry stood talking afore the door with young
Selby maybe talking nonsense ; but was that
any fault o' mine ? Every lad o' them a' was
foot o' this house and home to their beds by the
poor named in the regulations. Tak' away your
butter ; I think we're wanting none the day."

Na, na, mistress, there's nought to be vexed
about," said old Simon. " You've got your clash
about the White House, and I've got my clash o'
the 'Red Lion.' There's non' o' them true ; but
we can give and take like friends  the best o'
friends must give and take."

Ask you that crooked body', Isaac Oliver; he was
wan, and a bonnie time he would have with the

misses, or I'm mistaken. He was wan ; for I saw
him waiting to speak to Mr. Harry when I shut
the door. He was talking with young Selby, as I
tell ye, in the street, till I wished them 1' th' moon,
disturbing honest folk's rest. He might have gone
home and kept it op with young Selby. I canna
tell. If there's any wan as blames me it's an
untruth, Simon ; and as for clashing' it's a thing
I never do. Miss Joan may have twenty lads
for what I care, and high time if she's no to bean
old maid aw her days, which is what the hall
town thought."

I wish her nae worse," said Simon. " I'm wan
myself'  better that than fighting' and scratching',
or to be frighten for what the misses will say
the missiles in your way o' business must be
terribly bad for trade."

Well, I don't blame them," said the mistress
of the " Red Lion," with a momentary preference
of her own side in morals to her own side in
trade. But this, it may be readily guessed, was a
toleration which could not last. She was beginning
to discuss the missis of Isaac Oliver, when Simon
took up his basket and adopted her former counsel
of taking it to the other side of the house. He had
heard all he wanted ; but he made his circuit

VOL. I.

through the village, and left his butter here and
there, with a snatch of gossip wherever he went,
and no particular regard to the anxiety of his
mistress. Anxiety is not much understood in
the fells. Why there should be a hurry for news :
why you should make an expedition expressly to
learn one thing or another when there is something
else to do, which you could do at the same time,
was not comprehensible to old Simon. They
would know " soon enough," he thought. What
was wrong with the womenfolk that they should
for ever be wanting news ? they would hear soon
enough. It was true that he began to have a
notion that Mr. Harry's escapade, whatever it was,
meant more than a visit to his brother ; but what
could it matter whether they knew about the " Red
Lion " at ten o'clock or twelve 1 He went tranquilly
about his business and delivered his butter,
and heard everywhere about Miss Joan's " lad."
Most of the customers thought with the mistress
of the *red Lion," that it was " high time;" but
some of them were of opinion that she would be a
terrible loss. " What will ye do without her ?
The missis isn't of the stirring sort, she'll never
keep the house agate," they said. Simon did not
much believe in his mistress himself, as has been

already said ; but being a Joscelyn, although only
by marriage, she felt she was at least better than
anyone else. "You have to know the missis,"
he said, "before you can speak. She mayn't
be a stirring one ; but t' house is one oft'
houses as goes by itself." When he had
heard their comments, and added his share
to them, Simon went leisurely home. He made
no particular haste, even though his basket
was lightened of its load. He had accomplished
his mission very carefully ; but that
anyone should be especially eager about the
result of it was a thing that his brain could not
conceive.

In the meanwhile the time was passing very
heavily at the White House. Mrs. Joscelyn had
got up, after enduring the torture of lying still
as long as she was capable of it, and was
seated in the uneasy seat in the parlour window,
gazing out, though with her work by her, with
which to veil her watch should anyone come in.
Joscelyn had said nothing about it last night. He
had been almost conciliatory at breakfast to Joan,
who thought, on the whole, that it was better tolet
well alone, and make no allusion to what had
passed. " I will speak my mind to him sooner

-2

or later' she said to herself; "but it comes easier
when you are angry and don't mind what you say."
Thus she did from calculation what so many people
do against all calculation, resolving to take advantage
of the next storm to deliver her soul. She and
her father got on tolerably well when the mother was
out of the way. Joscelyn spoke to his daughter about
his farm affairs, about the prospects of his stables,
and the horses upon which he set his hopes. He was
a considerable horse-dealer, and she knew as much
about them as any woman was capable of knowing.
She was quite willing to discuss the points
of the last new filly, and quite able to do so, and
an intelligent critic, which her mother had never
been. " If she knows a horse from a co\v it's all
she does," he said of his wife ; and perhaps she had
been sometimes a little impatient of these constant
discussions ; but Joan had an opinion and gave it
freely. Joan ate a good breakfast, notwithstanding
that half her mind was with Harry, and that she
kept her eye upon the window, that she might not
miss old Simon coming back and she talked with
perfect good-humour notwithstanding all that had
happened. She did not care, now that it was over,
about her locking-out ; indeed she was of opinion
that it was better not to give her father the gratification

of supposing that he had produced any
effect upon her. But when Mrs. Joscelyn came
downstairs, appealing to her with her pale face
Joan's difficulties were much increased. She
could not be hard upon her mother at such a
moment ; indeed she was never hard upon her
mother. She entreated her not to make a fuss ;
not to take on ; brought her a footstool ; put out
her work for her, and so went off to her own occupations
again. " But bless my heart, I would
be crazy before dinner-time if I were to sit with
mother, and go over it and over it, and see her
wringing her poor hands  poor dear !"

The last words were added after a pause, with
involuntary tenderness. Joan was anxious, too,
about her brother, so that a slight gleam of understanding
had aroused her mind. Poor dear ! to take
on like that for every trifle, to take nothing easy,
was a state of mind which Irritated Joan; but this
time it was not so wonderful. This time she was
anxious herself, and there was a cause for it. Long
before Simon came back she had rejected her own
suggestion, that Harry must have gone to the
Red Lion." And if not there, where had he gone ?
where had he spent the night ? She kept her
eyes upon the window or the door all the morning.

darting forth whenever she saw any stranger approach,
prepared to find a message from some
cottage or outlying hamlet to bring her news
of Harry. He would have the sense to send,
she thought ; surely he would have the sense to
send word. He would know the state in which
his mother would be. But the long hours of the
morning went on till noon, and nobody came.
They had never seemed to Joan so long before.
She had never known what it was before to do
her work with a divided interest, and on a strain
of expectation. When she saw old Simon coming
along the road with his empty basket on his arm
and his hat in one hand, while with the other,
and a spotted blue handkerchief, he wiped his
furrowed forehead, a wild sense of impatience came
over her. She marched out upon him, the big
wooden spoon, with which she had been taking
the cream off the milk, still in her hand. He
thought she was going to attack him with this inappropriate
but yet dangerous weapon. " Well f
she said, with a sort of gasp ; " well T Her fervour
bewildered him, for she had been quite calm when
she gave him the commission, and he stared at
her with a mixture of surprise and alarm.

Oh ay, Miss Joan, a' well," said old Simon

He had almost forgotten the occasion of his early
visit to the " Red Lion ;" or was it that desire to
exasperate that sometimes seizes upon an old
servant ? It was all she could do not to seize him
by the shoulders and shake his news out of him
She cried out in spite of herself, stamping her
foot upon the hard road.

'' What answer have ye brought ? You have
been out four hours, if you've been a minute. I
am waiting my answer," she cried, in a strange,
half-stifled voice.

"What answer?" said Simon, innocently; and
then a gleam of intelligence came over his face.
"I was a fool to forget. There's been nobody
lodging at the ' Red Lion,' Miss Joan, if thais
what you mean. The woman said nobody. He
left last night at eleven o'clock ; that's all she
could tell me. He'll have gotten to Mr. Will's
many a long hour ago. It was a fine night, and
he's a fine walker. There was nothing to be
uneasy about. Miss Joan."

Joan gave his arm a shake unconsciously, in
spite of herself, then dropped it. " Who said I
was uneasy ? but you might have come back
hours ago, Simon, when I told you I wanted to
hear."

** Did you tell me you wanted to hear? I had
the butter on my mind," said Simon, calmly.
And then, of all people in the world, Joscelyn
himself came suddenly in sight, round the corner
of the house.

What's wrong f he said. " Has Simon been
doing errands down in the village, Joan, or what
are you wanting with him out here?"

Joan's heart swelled with a momentary impulse
of wrath. It was doubtful for the moment
whether she would seize the occasion and let him
have her mind, as she had to do sooner or
later; but Simon went on with his slow singsong
almost without a pause. " It's the butter,
master. I've been down the town with the batter.
Maybe you'll speak to Miss Joan no to be so particular;
as if I was wan that would cheat the
family. I've aye been exact in my accounts."

This was a shot that went both ways, for Simon
did not like Joan's talent for accounts. He preferred
to go by rule of thumb, and count out to
her, so much from the " Red Lion," so much from
Dr. Selby's, a shilling here and a shilling there,
paying down each coin as he gave the list ;
whereas Joan liked it all in black and white.
When he had said this he hobbled on quietly to

the back door, leaving the father and daughter
together. Joscel}'!! looked at her with a momentary
keen scrutiny. '* You're sending that old
fellow upon your errands : and I would like to
know what they are," he said.

If I'm not to send what errands I please, it'll
be better for me to go away as well," she
replied.

' What do you mean by as ivell f Til have no
go-betweens, and no mysteries here," he said.

But Joan was not in a mood to seize the opportunity
and speak out, as she had intended, on the
first chance. She was exasperated, not simply
angry. She gave him an indignant look, and
turned round without a word. Now Joscelyn
was himself uneasy at what he had done. He
was not quite without human feeling, and he had
reflected much since upon what might have happened.
He did not know what had happened ; he
had not mentioned the circumstance of the previous
night ; but his mind had not been free. He
wanted information, though he would not ask for
it. When his wife had let Joan in, in the middle
of the night, he had supposed that Harry, too,
must have crept to bed like her, allowing himself to
be vanquished. That he had not appeared at

breakfast was nothing extraordinary; but even
Joscelyn himself was eager to know what had
happened now.

Hey, Joan," he cried ; " hey, come back, I
want to speak to you. What have you done with
that young fool ?"

I'm not acquainted with any young fools," she
said, almost sharply, and, in her irritation, did not
tarn round, or even pause, but went straight forward
into the house. Her father stood for a few
moments switching his boots with the whip in his
hand. He was uneasy in spite of himself. He
did not intend any special brutality. He meant
no harm to his son, only a severe lesson that
should bring Harry " to heel," like one of his
pointers. Above all he did not mean any scandal,
any storm of rural gossip. He was alarmed by
the idea of all that might be said if it were known
that Harry had been shut out of his father's house,
for no particular harm, only because he was late
of returning home. Accordingly, after a few
moments' indecision, he followed Joan into the
house and into the parlour, where he found her,
as he felt certain he should, with her mother. The
women were clinging together, comforting each
other, when he pushed the door open ; and they

were greatly startled by his appearance. Joan
came away from her mother's side hastily. She
did not wish it to be seen that there was moisture
in her eyes, or that she had actually she,
the matter-of-fact Joan  been consoling the poor
feeble woman whose tendency to make a fuss had
always stood between them. "Well," she said
hastily, *' what is it, father ?" coming in front of
Mrs. Joscelyn, and standing with her back to her
mother, shielding her from all critical eyes.

Joscelyn threw himself into his chair by the
fire, and turned it round towards them. He had
caught them, he thought. " What are you two
collecting about? There's some mischief up, or
two women would never be laying their heads
together. Commonly you're never such friends."

*' If we're not friends it's the more shame tous,"
said Joan.

That's your look out ; it isn't mine. / don't
want you to be friends. You're a deal better the
other way. I'll not have two of you in corners
all about the place taking my character away. /
know what that means. As soon as you've got
some one to talk about, and compare notes, and
conspire against "

Father, you had better keep a civil tongue in

your head," said Joan. " You say what you like
to mother, and she cries ; but I'm not one to cry.
I am as good as you are, and very nearly as old.
I'll take insolence from no man. It's just as well
you should hear it now ; I've promised myself
you should hear it the first time I was in a passion.
Hold your tongue, mother. Obedience is
all very well ; but a woman of thirty is not like
a lass of thirteen, and there are some things that
I will not put up with. How dare you, if you are
my father, speak like that to me ? I am no slave
to whisper and to conspire, whoever may be.
What do you do for me that you should take all
that upon you ? I'm a servant without wages. I
work as hard as any man about the place, and
I neither get credit nor pay ; and you think I'll
take all your insults to the boot as if I were a
frightened little lass : but you're mistaken. It
isn't for nothing you lock the door upon your
family; and if you don't keep a civil tongue in
your head "

Joan, Joan !" came with a feeble cry from
behind. Mrs. Joscelyn had risen up with her
usual gesture, wringing her hands.

Hold your tongue, mother. I'm something
more than your daughter or father's daughter.

I'm myself, Joan Joscelyn, a woman worth a
good day's wage and a good character wherever
I go. And to stay in this hole, and be spoken to
like a dog, that's what I'll not put up with. If
he likes to behave himself I will behave myself;
but put up with his insolence I will not. Sit
down and do your mending, poor dear; it's him
I'm talking to. Now look you here, father ; if
ever it is to happen to me again that I'm to be
watched what I do, or have a door locked upon
me, or be spoken to in that tone "

Joscelyn was greatly astonished and taken
aback. He was not prepared for downright
rebellion ; but he was glad of this side-way to
make an escape for himself.

In loJiat tone f he said. " What kind of way
do you want to be spoken to, hey ? Am I to call
you Miss Joscelyn ? you're a pretty Miss !
and beck and bow before you ? This is
a new kind of thing. Miss. You're something
very grand, I don't make any doubt, but we
never knew it till now. Tell us how you like to
be spoken to, my lady, and we'll do it. There
have been titles in the family; perhaps it's
Countess Joan you would like, hey f

Joan tossed her head with indignant contempt.

I knew well enough," she said, " that for
any reason or sense it was not worth the while to
speak ; but there was no help for it. You just
know now what I think, father; and after all
that's come and gone this last night, it will be
more your part to leave mother and me to ourselves
to get over it, than to come and try to
torment us more. This is the women's room in
the house ; you'd far better leave it quiet to her
and to me."

Here Joscelyn burst in with a big oath, dashing
his fist against the table.

The women's room !" he cried, " and what
right have the women, dash them, to any room
but where I choose to let them be ? Lord ! if I
keep my hands off ye you may be glad.
Women 1 the plague of a man's life. When I
think what I might have been at this moment if
I had kept free of that whimpering, grumbling,
sickly creature ! I should have been a young man
now  I might have been a match for any lady in
the county. And now, madam, you're setting up
your children to face me. My mother's money
last night  and who gave you a right to a penny ?
and the women's room, confound you all ! as if
you had a right to one inch in my house. By

the Lord Harry ! I'm more inclined to pack you
out, neck and crop, than I ever was to eat my
dinner. Clear the place of you, that's what I'd
like to do."

"Do, father," said Joan, " it will be the best
day's work you ever did. I have a right to my
parlour to sit at peace when my work's done, or
I have a right to be turned out. Come, do it !
You tried last night, but I'd rather go in the
day. Put me to the door ; it will make me a deal
easier in my mind if you take it upon yourself."

He cursed her with foam on his lips, but not
in a melodramatic way, and Joan cared as little
for the curse as for any exclamation.

You are enough to make a man take his hands
to you," he said.

Joan grew suddenly red to the very roots of
her hair. She drew a step nearer to him with
her eyes flaming.

That would maybe be the best," she said.
She was a strong woman, and fearless, and for
the moment the two stood facing each other, as
if they were measuring their respective strength.
Then Joscelyn burst into a rude laugh.

It is a good thing for some poor fellow that
you're the toad you are," he said,  not a woman.

Now, your mother was well enough ; but you're
just a toad, that's what you are, and make men
fly from ye ; and well for them, as I say."

If mother's lot, poor body ! comes by beauty,
I'm glad I'm ugly," said Joan. " And if that's
all you've got to say we've heard it before, and
you had far better go to your beasts. But just
you mind, father, this is my last word ; after all
that's come and gone, keep a civil tongue in your
head."

What is it that's come and gone ?" he asked.
Where's that boy you're hiding up and making
a mystery of? where's Harry? What is the
meaning of all this coming and going errands, and
old Simon, and all the rest of it? Where is
Harry ? By Jove ! Til have it all cleared up at
once !" he said, once more dashing his fist against
the table.

There was a momentary pause, and the sensation
of having their tyrant at their mercy came
over the two women. It affected them in altogether
different ways. Mrs. Joscelyn, who never
braved anything, saw in it a means of mending
all quarrels in a common anxiety. She made a
timid step towards her husband, and put out her
hand.

"Oh, Ralph I" she cried, "our boy's gone
away I" She was ready, in her sympathy for
him, in her sense of the shock the information
must give him, to throw herself upon his neck
that they might mingle their tears as if they had
been the most devoted pair.

But Joan held her back. Joan looked at her
father with keen eyes, in which there was some
gleam of triumph.

Lads have not the patience that women
have," she said. " When they're insulted, if they
cannot fight they turn their backs ; that's what
Harry has done. He'll never darken your doors
again, be sure of that ; nor would I if I had been
like him, except for mother, poor dear !"

Oh, Joan, don't say that ! he's gone I know 
but that he'll never darken our doors again  if I
thought that it would break my heart."

Mother, hold your tongue ; my saying it will
make little difference. He will never darken
these doors again. You and me may see him
many a day, in his own house, or with the other
boys : but these doors," said Joan, ' he'll never
darken again. It's borne in upon my mind that
it will be long, long, before Harry Joscelyn is so
much as heard of here."

VOL. I. p

"Don't say that! don't say that !" cried Mrs.
Joscelyn, falling back, trembling and weeping,
upon her chair. She was so pale and faint that
Joan's heart was moved ; she went to her mother's
side to comfort her, as she never would have
dreamt of doing in any other trouble that had ever
befallen the too sensitive woman.

Joscelyn stood and stared at them for a moment
in unusual silence. The sight of Joan, always so
calmly observant, more cynical than sympathetic,
giving herself up to the task of consoling this
weak mother, so unlike herself, struck him dumb.
Joan ! he could not understand it. And that
Harry should have gone away had more effect
upon him than he would have considered possible.
He stood for a moment staring, and then he went
out of the room without saying a word.

CHAPTER XL

THE WOIEN's part.

THERE is no doubt that the interval which
ensued after this was a time of extraordinary
peace and quietness at the White House.
Whether it was the heart which had faintly
stirred in Ralph Joscelyn's bosom, or whether he
was alarmed by what he had done, it is certain
that he was wonderfully subdued and silenced.
When, after a long career of violence and family
domineering, and threats of all kinds, one of those
who have hitherto only scolded back and kept
np a war of words, is suddenly stung into action,
and does something desperate instead of uttering
the mere froth of passion, it is not unusual to seethe
domestic tyrant come to a sudden stand-still,
more bewildered than anyone by the result.

P 2

Times without number he had threatened to turn

every son he had out of the house : but the young

man who turned himself out of the house gave

him such a shock as he had never got before in

his life. He was very susceptible to outside

criticism, for one thing, and all the county would

soon find out what had happened. He would be

asked on the other side of the Fells if he had any

news of his son. The news would soon travel overall

his haunts as far as Carlisle. People would tell

each other how Harry Joscelyn had disappeared ;

that he had not been able to stand things any longer;

that there had been a dreadful quarrel, and his

father had turned him to the door, and he had gone

away. It was a long time, however, before the

real state of affairs was known, even in the White

House. A few terrible days passed, terrible for

his mother and sister, and in a way for Joscelyn

also, who was moody and silent, going about the

house more quietly than his wont, and not able

to get over the shock of his surprise. Joan

secretly despatched messengers to the houses of

her brothers, neither of whom had seen Harry,

and it was not till the third day that Isaac

Oliver came shuffling to the door, desiring to

speak with the mistress or Miss Joan. Joan

foTind a little whispering knot at the door as she
passed through the passages from the dairy.

Who is that f ' she said.

'' It's me, Miss Joan, Isaac Oliver, your uncle's
man," said a well-known voice ; and instantly
there flashed upon Joan all he had come to say.
Uncle Henry's, to be sure ! Had she ever thought
otherwise? Of course it was the most natural
place for Harry to go.

Come in this way," she said, hastily. 
was out, and there was little chance of
visitors at the White House to interrupt such
a conference. She led him in with a beating
heart, dismissing with a word the gossiping
women about the door. " I hope you're bringing
us no bad news, Isaac ; my uncle's an old man,"
said Joan, breathless. She so little knew what
she was saying, in the light that seemed to flood
upon her, that she did not even feel it to be insincere.


It's not about t' auld maister, he's fine and
weel," said Isaac, following her along the passage
with his shuffle, talking as he went ; " you
would not give him more than sixty to look at
him, out here and there to his dinner, and
driving about the country like ony young man."

He's very lively for his age," Joan said.

'' Ay, or for any age," said Isaac, and by tlii
time they had reached the parlour-door.

The moment they had entered that sanctuary
Joan turned upon this messenger of fate and
pushed him into a clair. She took no notice of
Mrs. Joscelyn, who sat as usual in the distance,
pretending to work, but on the watch for every
wayfarer, sweeping the line of road and the grey
fields and dim horizon with her anxious eyes.

Now tell us what you have to tell us," she
cried.

It's just I've been at Wyburgh, Miss Joan,
to see t' auld maister. He's fine and weel, as I
said ; and Mrs. Eadie, she's fine and weel, and as
pleased as they could be, faith the wan and the
other "

Isaac, if you have nothing to tell us but
about Uncle Henry and Mrs. Eadie say so at
once."

Mrs. Joscelyn rose from her chair. She left
her eternal mending on her seat, and came forward
holding her hands together as was her wont.

What is it, Joan ?" she said, with an appeal
to her daughter's understanding; she had begun
not to trust to her own.

That's just what I'm waiting to hear. It's
 about HaiT} ; he's been at Wyburgh, of course,

on his way to . To be sure, mother, you

know that."

"They were terrible glad to see him," said
Isaac. " I said you would be sure to ken, but
Mrs. Eadie she thought no, so she would engage
me to come. Go over as soon as you get back,
Isaac, she said to me, the mistress and Miss Joan
will be real glad to hear."

So wee are, Isaac. Say away like a man,
anything you can tell us we'll be glad to hear ;
he's not a good letter-writer, my brother Harry ;
we like to hear all we can. He got there safe
and well ?"

I gave him a del of advice the night before,"
said Isaac, " young lads is aye wanting something
 again' asking a penny from t' auld maister.
Mr. Harry makes a fool o' me, eddies ; he's just
one o' the lads I cannot' resist. There's nothing
I would not do for him. I flew in the face o' my
missis, and even o' my ain convictions, which are
mair than ony woman's, to follow him to the
Red Lion' the night afore. No, it's not a place
that I frequent, far from that, no man can be
more strong again' it, let alone the missis ; but I

risked a del of disgrace to gang after him thereto
say to him  Ye'll no' think the worse of me,
nor the mistress will no' think the worse of me,
that I spoke my mind."

And is he with Uncle Henry now, or has he
gone on f

To say to him, ' Hev patience,' that was all
I said, ' Hev patience, and ye'll get every penny.'
I lev a conviction he'll get every penny. It's a
nice little bit of money, and the land's no' such
ill land about Burnswark if he were to build a
new house. The auld wan we're in is gude for
nothing, but Burnswark would be no' bad for a
sma' property if he were to build a new house;
and he's nothing to do but to lev patience  and
never to bother t' auld maister in his lifetime,
that was what I said."

You were always a sensible person, Isaac ;
my uncle's much obliged to you for taking such
care of him. But I hope my brother Harry did
not want it. Is he still at Wyburgh, or has he
gone on ? Tell us, for you see my mother's
anxious. We have got no letter."

To ray great satisfaction," said Isaac, " he
must have taken my advice, for he went on to
Liverpool the same night."

Joan nodded her head a great many times ;
her face was wreathed in smiles. She took her
mother's feeble hands  straining themselves together
as usual  into hers, and beamed upon the
messenger.

That is just what I thought ! just what I
thought !" she said ; " far the best thing he could
do, and shows his sense, mother. I could have
told sou from the first ! Just see, now, how you
torment yourself for nothing at all. I'll get his
things packed and send them off this. very
night." /

Isaac went on droning steadily.

I'm saying nothing again' Mr. Harry, nor yet
reflecting upon ony person at home. Lads are
aye wanting, and they'll ask an auld uncle or
aunt, or that, sooner than they'll ask father or
mither. I've seen the like o' that often, but what
I said to Mr. Harry was, ' Hev patience, that's
aw about it ; just lev patience and ye'll get
everything you want.' "

''I am sure we are very much obliged to you,"
said Joan; "you must have a glass of wine.
Would you like port wine or sherry, Isaac ? you
shall have a glass of the best, and you can come
up to the dairy next time you're going to

Wyburgh and take Mrs. Eagle a bit of our sweet
butter. Yes, yes, I know you make it yourself,
but you must not say it's as good as mine.
Eadie shall have a pat all for herself  I am sure
she was kind to Harry  and perhaps some new-laid
eggs, they're a treat in a town."

I take them in aw we lev at Burnswark. Ye
need not trouble, Miss Joan," said Isaac, " dance
a week I take in the best of everything, eggs and
cream."

Or a little honey," said Joan ; " our honey off
the Fells is beautiful. It's that Uncle Henry is
so fond of. You shall take them a honey-comb,
Isaac ; and tell your wife to come np to the house
and see me. There's some things would makeup
for the children. She's a good housewife,
that wife of yours, and keeps the children always
nice. You should be proud of her. She would
be a credit to any man."

Oh, ay," said Isaac, sheepishly scratching his
head, " there's a many worse, there's a many
worse. I'm making no complaint ; but the worst
of a wife is that she will never let her man judge
for himsel."

*' And a great deal better for you, if your judgment
was to take you to the '' Red Lion,' " said

Joan. She was gradually edging him out, suppressing
Isaac's inclination to say a great deal
more. " Good day," she cried, " good day,"
conducting him to the door. " I am very much
obliged to you ; and next time you go to Wyburgh
you'll be sure to take the White House on your
way."

When she had closed the door Joan turned
round quickly upon her mother. Mrs. Joscelyn
was lying back in her chair, with those expressive
hands of hers lying loosely in her lap. The
.relief in her mind had relaxed all the nervous
tightening of her muscles. She had sunk back
with that softening sense of relief which makes
freedom from pain no negative but an active
blessedness. The pressure upon her brain, and
her heart, and her very breath, seemed withdrawn.
Sitting so quietly by the window, an image of
domestic tranquillity, she had been a mere collection
of beating pulses, of hot throbs and concussions
; but now all these agitations were stilled ;
her heart dropped into quietness, like a bird into
its nest, her blood ran softly in her veins. She
smiled faintly at Joan when she went up to her,
and said in a scarcely audible voice, " Thank
God !"

** That's true," said Joan, " but how often have
I told sou, mother, that things would come all
right if you would not make a fuss ? The fellow
was in no danger after all, not in any danger at
any time, just as well off as a lad could be, petted
by old Eadie, and with Uncle Henry to look after
him. Of course I knew he must have been
there."

'' You never said it, Joan."
No," said Joan, with a laugh rendered unsteady
by the same sense of relief, " I knew it
the moment I heard it, mother. I am not setting
up for more sense than other folk ; the moment
I heard Isaac's voice asking for me I knew it ina
moment, but not till then. Just see what fools
wee are, the wisest of us," said Joan, reflectively.
' I think I've got a little sense ; but I have no
more than other folk, till it's put into my head.
Well ! it's a comfort to know his address to write
to, and that he's gone to his work, and no harm
done; for he has a queer temper, has Harry.
He's not just like the rest of us ; he might have
done a desperate thing, being the kind of lad he
is. That's always been on my mind. I would
not have said it till now, but that was always in
my mind. A lad like that, there was no telling

what he oughtn't have done; but don't I aye
tell you, mother, if you don't make a fuss things
will always come right at the end f

Then Joan did what was a very strange thing
for her, she sat down and had a little cry all to
herself. She had never betrayed the depth of
her anxiety before, but the running over of her
satisfaction and relief betrayed her.

The things have come from the wash," she
said ; " FU put them in and lock up his boxes,
and send them to-night. He must have been ill
off for his clothes, poor lad ! and I might have
sent them after him without losing any time, if
I had only had the sense ! Never mind, Eadie
would do the best she could for him, and it's nota
week yet. Bless me ! what a week it has
been ! It's been like a year ! I've been saying
to myself all these days, 'I never knew I had so
much of mother in me.' It's a funny thing, a
very funny thing, how folks are made up, a
bit of one and a bit of another; but I never
thought I had so much of you in me, mother; I
have just been as near as possible to making a
fuss myself."

And it is impossible to say how much this
breaking down on Joan's part, temporary as it

was, comforted her mother. She had never yet,
she thought, been so near to any of her children.
She began, poor lady ! to pour forth her own
dreary private self-tormenting.

I've pictured him astray on the moors ; I've
pictured him on the Fell side, Joan, with one of
those dreadful mists coming on ; every night in
the dark I have thought of him wandering and
wandering. I've heard his step going away, as
I heard it that dreadful night ; or in the water  if
some one had come and said there was one found
in the water "

'* Now, mother, these are nothing but fancies,"
cried Joan ; "that's what I call just giving yourself
up to nonsense. Was Harry such a fool as
to lose himself on the Fells? now, I ask you,
just take a little common sense! or the river?
he that can swim like a duck. Nay, that goes
beyond me. Reason is reason, however nervous
you may be. Nay, nay, I would never take leave
of my wits like that. If you will but mind what
I say ; don't make any more fuss than you can
help, and in the end you'll find all will come
right. Now Til go and put up the poor lad's
things ; I can't think what he can have done for
shirts."

Joan turned back, however, when she got to
the door.

"Now, mother, listen to me for a moment.
Don't take it into your head that you are just
to have a letter directly and all to go well. He
may take some time to come round. I would not
wonder if he was offended both with you and me.
AVhat for? oh, who can tell what for? Just for
nonsense, and queer temper. Don't you be disappointed
if there's no word."

*'l will be terribly disappointed, Joan," said
the poor mother. " I am going to write to him
now. Why should he be offended with me ? If
he does not answer it will break my heart."

"Your heart's been broken a many times,
mother," Joan said, shaking her head. "Well,
maybe there will be an answer, but it's always
best to be prepared for the worst."

She shook her head again as she went away.

I wonder," she said to herself, with a half
smile on her face, " how many pieces mother's
heart's in ? it's taken a deal of breaking. We've
all had a good pull at it in our day ;" and then
her face, with its half comic look of criticism,
softened, and she added gently, " Poor dear I"

Then Joan went up to Harry's room in all

her self-possessed activity, and laid the clean
white shirts carefully into the half-packed portmanteau,
which stood like a kind of coffin half
open in the deserted room. She looked through
all the drawers, and put in everything he was
likely to want. She had a very soft heart to her
younger brother. There were only some five or
six years between them, but a boy of four-and-twenty
looks very young to a woman over thirty ;
she felt as if he might have been her son. Will
and Tom were different. She had shared their
games and such training as they had, and lived
her hoyden days in their close company, with a
careless comradeship, but no particular sentiment.
Harry, however, had been the one who
was away. When he came home at holiday
times he was the stranger, the little brother,
less robust than the others, a boy who had to be
considered and cared for; even his mending and
darning, in which she early had a share, had to
be more carefully done than the others, for Mrs.
Joscelyn had been jealous of any imperfection in
her boy's outfit falling under Uncle Henry's, or
still more Uncle Henry's housekeeper's eye.
And so it had happened that a very special softness
of regard for Harry had come into his elder

sister's mind. Nobody knew of it, but there it
was. Perhaps the fact that he had *' a deal of
mother in him" had added to this partiality,
notwithstanding that the mother's peculiarities
had often exasperated Joan in their original manifestation.
Reflected in Harry they gave him a
certain charm, the charm which a nature full of
sudden impulses, swift to act and lively to feel
has to a more substantial and matter-of-fact
nature. She packed his clothes even with
a tender touch, smoothing everything with
the greatest neatness, arranging layer above layer
in the most perfect order. " They'll all be tossed
into his drawers pell-mell," she said, shaking her
head over the linen as she laid it in, with a
smile on her face. She disliked untidiness next
to wickedness, but in Harry it was venial. Even
Harry's wrong-doings would have been no more
early judged by Joan than with a shake of the
head and a smile.

When she had finished her packing, she went
downstairs on a still more congenial errand, and
packed a hamper of home produce for her
brother.

Mr. Harry's not coming back ; he's gone
straight on to Liverpool ; we're to send his things

VOL. I. ' Q

after him," she explained to the maids, who were
full of curiosity, and vaguely certain that something
was wrong. They were already beginning
to have their doubts as to that first fine hypothesis
about Joan's lover, and to make out that
Harry had more to do with the locking of the
door than any " lad" who could be " courting"
the daughter of the house ; and they where all
agog for information, as was natural. The packing
up of the cheese and eggs, the bottle of cream
(though that was allowed to be of very doubtful
expediency), the fine piece of honey-comb, the
home-cured ham, all that was best in the house,
threw, however, an air of stability and reality
about Harry, and suppressed the first whispers
against him. There could be nothing wrong
about a young man for whom such a hamper was
being prepared ; neither a deadly quarrel with his
family, nor any trouble at his office, nor roguery
of any kind was compatible with that hamper.
It meant a well-doing respectable youth eating
good breakfasts (always a sure sign of good
morals) and coming in regularly to all his meals.
The hamper eased the mind generally of the
house. Joscelyn himself saw it as he passed,
and, though he took no notice, was comforted too.

His uneasiness had been angry rather than
anxious; but then the anger had been partly
against himself, and a consciousness that humbled
him of having laid himself open to criticism
and made a foolish exhibition of temper, had
given it a double sting. It was one of the finest
hams he ever had seen which he saw packed into
the hamper, and he grudged it to Harry, but all
the same it eased his mind. The fellow he said
to himself, had taken no harm ; he was all right.
He asked no questions, but his mind was relieved.
When they were all put into the cart in
the evening, to be taken down to the nearest
station, even Mrs. Joscelyn herself came out to
the door to watch them go off. It was a soft
evening, the warmest that had been that season ;
the wind had changed into the west, the sun
was setting in a glow of crimson, the whole
valley canopied over with clouds full of rosy reflection.
In the distance one of these rose-clouds
caught the mirror of the river, and glowed in
that, repeating its warm and smiling tone of
colour in the midst of the gray fields of the
surrounding landscape and the gray houses of the
village. At the back door, where the cart was
standing, the servants were all congregated as

Q2

if it wanted half-a-dozen people to put up two
portmanteaus and a hamper. Joan gave a hand
herself with that last precious burden.

That's the most worth of a'," said the cook.
Ye may buy shirts and waistcoats, but you'll
no buy butter like ours, nor a ham to compare
with that  and my griddle-cakes, I never made
better."

It's to be hoped," said the dairy-maid,
they'll not spoil."

Mrs. Joscelyn laid her hand upon it with a
caressing touch ; her poor thin white hands at
which the women looked half-admiring, half-contemptuous,
as good for nothing but to sew a
seam and play the piano. It was a kind of link
between Harry and the house that had been so
unkind to him. " He'll understand what it
means," she said to Joan, aside, as the cart lumbered
off.

Joan did not make any reply, nor did she very
well understand her mother, nor know what it
might be supposed to mean, but it was she who
had packed all that love, forgiveness, and tender
thought ; which were so solidly represented in that
hamper from home. And it lumbered off to the
railway, and was despatched by the night mail,

though that was an extravagant proceeding ; and
the White House was solaced visibly and lightened
of its care. It had not been a practice to
give Harry such a hamper when he went away.
He got one at Christmas, and that had hitherto
been suppl sed to be enough ; but this had more
in it than met the eye.

And then there was a pause in the history of
the house, a pause of suspense yet of hope and
peace. Joan and her mother afterwards often
looked back to these days, which did not last
long, yet were sweet. The two were very good
friends, not a jar between them, and Ralph
Joscelyn was unusually quiet and subdued ; and
it happened that one or two visitors came to the
house, a circumstance which did not often
happen touching one of whom, in this little lull
of preparing events, we may as well take the
opportunity of a word or two : for though nobody
thought very much about him at that moment, he
was a personage of some importance in the family
life.

Chapter XII.

A NEW PERSONAGE.

THE visitor to whom reference iras been made
in the last chapter was a Mr. Selby, a
relative of the doctor in the village, who had
recently come down to these regions in the interests
of a secondary line of railway which was
then being made. He was not a very young
man, nor, presumably, a very successful one, since
at his nature age, he was no more than engineer
to a little local railway ; but he had other qualities
not unattractive. He was what the village
people called " a fine-made man." He had a
handsome head, with grizzled hair and beard,
which, though touched by this mark of age,
were otherwise very symbols of vigour and
strength, so crisp were the twists and rings of

curl in them, so strong and thick their growth,
It was said that there was not a navvy on the
line who coukl lift such weights as he could or
perform such feats of strength : '' he would
put his hand to anything;' Dr. Selby was
proud of his relation. " I'll back him to run, or
jump, or throw with any fellow of twenty-five in
the Fell-country, though he's forty-five if he's a
day," the Doctor said ; and he did everything else
besides that a man ought to do. He was a good
shot, rode well, walked well, played football even
when one was wanted to make up a team, though
the game is not adapted for persons of mature years.
There was never much society about the "White
House, but Philip Selby  as he was called even by
strangers, to distinguish him from the Doctor
and the Doctor's son, who was young Selb}  had
come up repeatedly to see the horses, of which
he was supposed a judge. Indeed, he went sofar
as to buy a horse from Joscelyn, a colt
which was not thought much of in the stables
when it was born. It was this selection which
established a kind of friendship between Joan
and the new-comer. She was statius: bv when
the horses were shown to him, and delivered her
opinion, as she was wont to do, on the subject

You may say what you like against that
brown colt: he's not a beauty just now, but I
like the looks of him," Joan said, and she indicated
various points in which she saw promise,
which the present writer, not sharing Joan's knowledge,
is unwilling to hazard her reputation on.
Philip Selby caught her up with great quickness.
I thought the same from the moment I set
eyes on him," he said, and he took off his hat to
Joan with a bow and smile which were unusual
in these parts. She felt herself "colour upas
she said, though afterwards she laughed.
The men Joan was most acquainted with
thought these little courtesies belonged to
tailors and Frenchmen, but to no other class
of reasonable beings, and there was a slight
snigger even on the part of the attendant grooms
to see this little incident. Mr. Selby was invited
in afterwards to dinner to clench the bargain,
and lingered and talked Shakespeare and the
musical glasses with Mrs. Joscelyn when the meal
was over, going back with her upon the elegant
extracts of her youth in a way which brightened
the poor lady's eyes and recalled to her the
long past superiorities of the Vicarage parlour,
where it was considered right and professional

to belong to the book club, and to keep np some
knowledge of the new books which were supposed
to be discussed in intellectual society.

That is an educated man," she said to her
daughter, with a little air of superior knowledge
which did her a great deal of good, poor lad3\
There was nobody else, she felt, about the
White House, whose verdict would be worth much
on such a subject. But she knew an educated
man when she saw one : and the little talk brought
some colour to her cheeks.

*' Tut, mother," said Joan, good-humouredly ;
but she had listened to the talk with some secret
admiration, and an amused and gratified wonder
that '' mother" should show herself so capable.
'* I am sure you are the only one that can talk
about these sort of things here," she said.
"Father stared, and so did I. He must have
taken us for a set of ignoramuses."

I read a great deal in my youth," Mrs. 
replied, with a gentle pride which was
mingled with melancholy " though I cannot say
that it has been of much use to me in my married
life ; but I hope the gentleman will come back,
for he would be a good friend for Harry."

This was when Harry was expected, before

the visit which ended so disastrously had begun.
And then after a few days Mr. Philip Selby
called. Such a thing was almost unknown at
the White House; the few people about who
were on friendly terms with the Joscelyns, who
were neither too high nor too low  and these were
very few, for the county people had ignored the last
generation of the fallen family, and the farmers and
yeomen about were beneath their pretensions-were
on very familiar terms, and would stalk
straight in without any preliminaries, with perhaps
a knock before they opened it at the parlour-door,
but nothing more. All the other Selby
did this, marching in even in the middle of a
meal without ceremony, never pausing to ask if
anyone was at home. If they found nobody they
walked out again, if they came into the midst of
a family party they drew in a chair and sat
down. But when Mary Anne, the maid who
fulfilled the functions of parlour-maid, came in
much flustered, with a card between her finger
and thumb, both she and her young mistress felt
that a very odd event had occurred, which they did
not know what to think of As for Mrs. Joscelyn
it was her turn to "colour up " with pleasure.
Show the gentleman in, Mary Ann," she

said, drawing herself up and feeling as if the
world, her old world, was rolling back to her.

She gave a glance round to see if the room
was nice. It was a room that was too tidy,
and Mrs. Joscelyn felt it. She would have
been horrified with the littered rooms which are
fashionable now-a-days, but her parlour she
knew was too tidy ; the chairs which were not
being used were put back in a straight line
against the wall, and everything was in its proper
place. She put out her hand and drew one of
these chairs out of the line, with that gentle air of
knowing better which amused Joan so much.

"This is a gentleman that is accustomed to
society. I told you so, Joan."

*' So you did, mother," said Joan, rising up and
putting back her chair carefully. "If he is that
kind of man we may as well put our best foot
foremost :" and with that she smoothed the table
cover carefully and lifted Mrs. Joscelyn's basket of
work, which was the chief thing that made it
home-like, out of the way. Joan even put away
her knitting, and sat with her hands before her,
which was sad punishment to herself, in order to
look as Miss Joscelyn ought before the stranger.
As for Mrs Joscelyn, she saw this done with a

kind of anguish ; but she was not strong enough
to resist. Then Mr. Selby was ushered in by
the alarmed Mary Ann,who, instead of announcing
him as she ought, said in a frightened tone,
*' Here's the man," and vanished precipitately
with such an attack of the nerves that she had to go
and lie down upon her bed. Very soon, however,
he put them both at their ease. He found Joan's
knitting laid away on the top of the work basket, to
which Mrs. Joscelyn directed his attention by frequent
wistful glances at it, and said he was sure
it was this she was looking for, though Joan's
anxious desire had been to look at nothing. And
then he sat and talked. Joan could scarcely contain
her wonder, and amusement, and admiration
at this talk. After a few minutes her fingers
unconsciously sought the familiar needles which
restored the balance of her mind, and made her
free to listen. She was not young, nor had she
any air of being young. Her figure was trim
and round, but well developed, ample and
matronly, though not with any superabundance of
flesh. She had a pair of excellent serviceable
brown eyes, with a great deal of light in them ;
not sparkling unduly, or employing themselves
in any unauthorised way, but seeing everything,

and making a remark now and then of their own,
which an intelligent spectator could not but be
interested by. The way in which she turned
those eyes from her mother to the visitor and
back again, with that surprise which made them
round, and that amused gratification which came
the length of a smile upon her opened lips,
opened with wonder and pleasure, was quite
a pleasant sight. She was more like an innocent
mother listening to the unsuspected cleverness of
her child's opinions, than to a daughter admiring
her mother. Now and then, when Mrs.
Joscelyn said something unusually fine, a little
snap of a cough came from Joan's parted lips.
She was astonished and she was delighted. " Who
would have thought mother had so much in her?"
she was saying all the time. She was not in the
least handsome ; but there was nothing in her that
was unpleasant or objectionable ; not a harsh line,
or a sharp angle, or a twist of feature. Sometimes
there is a curve at the corner of a mouth which
will spoil the harmony of a face altogether;
but Joan had no defect of this kind. She had a
dimple in her smooth, round chin, and another in
her cheek. When she laughed there were two
or three other lurking pin-points which made

themselves visible about her face. Her eyes were
delightful in their surprise. She had a great
deal of smooth, brown hair, brushed to the perfection
of neatness, which was wound in a thick
plait round the back of her head. Altogether,
though there was no beauty about her, she was
such a woman as gives comfort to a house from
the very sight of her; a woman of ready
hand and ready wit, and plenty of sense, but
no more intellect than is necessary for comfort
 which perhaps is not saying very much.
Her presence in an empty house would have
half furnished it at once, and she could say her
say on all subjects she knew. About that brown
colt she had formed an opinion of her own, which,
as his chimed in with it, appeared extraordinarily
sensible to Philip Selby : and she knew as much
about all farming operations, and especially those
which were connected with her own sphere of the
dairy, as any farmer round. She was not, as the
reader has perceived, a woman at all timid about
her own opinions, or unwilling to express them.
But when Mrs. Joscelyn and the new visitor
talked about literature, and the pleasures of
reading, Joan listened with open eyes and lips,
and a broad smile of ignorant and admiring

pleasure. " Think of mother talking away
thirteen to the dozen I and who'd have thought
she had all that in her," Joan said to herself.

As for Mrs. Joscelyu, her cheeks were pink all
the evening after, and her eyes quite bright. " I
have not had so much conversation for years.
Dear, dear I how it does one good, after never
seeing anybody that has ever opened a book, to
get a good talk with a well-informed person I I
hope Harry will take to Mr. Selby," Mrs. Joscelyn
cried ; " what a chance for him, Joan I a man that
really knows ; and will give him such good advice
and so good for Liddy, too, when she comes
home." Joan acquiesced in all this, with a laugh.

It was as good as a play to hear you," she
said, " and me gaping all the time, saying to
myself, * I never knew mother had so much iu
her !' " At this Mrs Joscelyn drew herself up a
little; but she was not displeased with the
praise.

"I read a great deal when I was young," she
said. Papa always insisted upon it. You have
not had my advantages, Joan ; but you have strong
sense, my dear, which, perhaps, I never had."

'' I daresay I will do, mother," said Joan,
with another lau2:h. She admired her mother's

cleverness with a kind of amused delight ; but the
idea of being less valued than her mother did not
enter Joan's head. It made her laugh, with a
comfortable sense of practical superiority. " I'll
do," she repeated, smiling broadly, all the dimples
showing in her cheeks. She had a good deal of
colour. Mrs. Josceljm's fragile looks and elegant
extracts were alike out of Joan's way.

After this Mr. Philip Selby came several times.
Joan always assisted at the interviews in the same
pleased speciatorshlp. It occurred to her after a
while that the information of the talkers was not
very extensive. She seemed to hear the same names
over and over again  almost the same remarks 
which reduced Joan's admiration, and made her feel
that perhaps after all it was only a way they had,
and did not imply the profound erudition she had
admired so much: but still was finer talk than anything
she had heard before. Then Harry, came interrupting
these elegant conversations. Harry did not
think anything of them at all ; he had no literary
tastes any more than the rest of the family. He was
not at all given to reading, and the consequence
of Mrs. Joscelyn's recommendation to him of Mr.
Philip Selby, and his society, resulted in a strong
dislike on Harry's part to Mr. Selby, and desire

never to see him again. Young Selb} was Harry's
friend, a young man who was not good for very
much ; and he also had the strongest objection to
his cousin. There had not been much heard of Mr.
Selby while Harry was at the White House ; but
just after the luggage and the hamper had been
sent off, and when peace had for a little while
returned, he came to pay one of his usual visits.
And perhaps it was that Mrs. Joscelyn was preoccupied
; perhaps that Mr. Selby had something
on his mind. The conversation flagged. Joan,
who now never made any attempt to put by her
knitting, and permitted her mother's basket to
exhibit its store of mending freely, took notice of
a long pause that occurred in the talk, and she
hastened to do what she could, in her straightforward
way, to fill up the gap.

Mother's had a deal to think of lately," she
said. "I think she should take a nap in the
afternoon. Many are a bit drowsy after dinner.
I think it would do her a deal of good if she
were to put up her feet upon the sofa, and take a
bit of a doze."

Joan," cried poor Mrs. Joscelyn, wounded in
her tenderest feelings, *' when did you ever seeme
doze ?"

VOL. I. R

'There," said Joan, promptly, "that's just
what 1 say. It would do you a deal of good.
You were always one for keeping up; but 'a
stitch in time saves nine,' and you've had more
to think of than ordinary. Just you close your
eyes a little bit, and I'll talk to Mr. Selby. He'll
not mind for ten minutes. They tell me you're
getting on wonderfully with the railway ; and
is there enough of travellers from Wyburgh to
Ormsford to make it pay f

I have my doubts," Selby said.

I have more than doubts. I hope you have
not got money in it. There is no traffic, nor
manufactories, nor anything like that. Just two
or three farmers, and ordinary folk, and potatoes,
and such like, and milk-cans ; but nothing to
keep up a railway. I've often wondered, now,
a clever man like you, what made you take it in
hand ? "

*' I am very glad you think me a clever man,
Miss Joscelyn. I'm afraid I haven't much to say
for myself. They offered me the job, and I took
it. If I hadn't taken it, somebody else would ;
and it is not my affair. I am making it as good
a piece of work as I can. Perhaps something
else may come of it," he said.

Well, I hope something else may come of it,"
said Joan, " for your sake. I don't think very
much will come of it, itself. It's fine making roads
when there is somebody to walk upon them : and
the Fell country's a fine country  but perhaps
not fit for railways. You see," said Joan, " there
never can be much of a population; you can't
break down the hills, and sow corn upon them.
One line straight through, that stands to reason 
but I would have nothing to do with more, for
my part."

'what you say is very sensible. Miss Joscelyn.
What do you think of Brokenriggs as a bit of
land? They tell me it has a good aspect, and
is capable of being improved  "

Brokenriggs ? you are not taking the railway
there ? Oh, you were meaning in the way of
farming ? It's a good enough aspect, but it's cold
soil. Speak to old Isaac Oliver about that, and he
will tell you : it's not a generous soil. You put a
great deal into it, and take little out : that's what
I've always heard. Indeed, I've seen it for myself,
as you may too, any day, if you turn down by the
old tower  what they call Joscelyn tower, you
know ; but the house is a very poor place ; I hope
you were not thinking of it for yourself?"

R 2

It was for a friend," said Selby, with a
smile.

Then tell him no ; I would not recommend
it. There's another place. It was once in our
family, so I've always heard ; but we are people,
as I daresay you know, that have come down in
the world."

"Have had losses  like so many people," said
Selby. He was going to say Dogberry, but the
words woke no consciousness in Joan's eyes.

So many losses, that we've got little left. It
is about ten miles from here, Heatonshaw. Ita
nice little property, and a house that could be
repaired : they say it was once the Dormouse in
our family when we were grander folk. A nice
bit of pasture," said Joan, with enthusiasm. " I
have always thought if I could turn out my cows
there, there would not be butter like it in all the
North country. There is not much to better my
butter anyhow, I can tell you  though I say it
that shouldn't," she said, with a little pride,
then laughed at herself.

And this  what do you call it, Heatonshaw ?
is a place you would like for yourself."

'* Dearly," said Joan, "I was telling you 
there's no better pasture ; a bit of meadow, just

as sweet as honey, and all the hill-side above.
And there's a good bit of arable land lying very
well for the sun. I have heard of great crops in
some of the fields ; I cannot tell you how many
bushels to the acre, but you will easily find out.
And if your friend has a taste for a dairy  that's
what I could give my opinion upon."

There is nobody whose opinion he would
sooner take," Selby said, and as he did so he
looked at Joan in a way that somewhat startled
her. It was not such a look as she had been in
the habit of seeing directed to herself. She had

o

seen other people so regarded, and had laughed.
Somehow this gave her an odd sensation, a sensation
chiefly of surprise ; then she felt inclined to
laugh also, though at herself. Bless us all, what
had the man got into his head? surely not any
nonsense of that sort ! It so tickled Joan that
she felt herself shaking with laughter, to which
she dared not give vent  and she turned her eyes
upon her stocking, which was the last thing she
ever looked at, lest an incautious contact with
someone else's should produce an explosion of
mirth.

Are you rested now, mother?" she said, " Til
have to go presently and look after Bess." Bess

was the dairy woman, who had no head for
anything, but was Joan's dutiful slave.

I was not so tired as you thought, Joan," said
Mrs. Joscelyn, half aggrieved, ''I have been
doing my work, as you might see"

Now, mother, that is a real deception ; when I
thought you were taking a doze, and was entertaining
Mr. Selby with country matters, to let
you get your rest ! however when there's a question
of farms or the lie of the land, or anything
like that, I may take it upon me to say I am
better than mother, though she's far cleverer than
me," said Joan, laying aside her knitting. Selby
got up to open the door for her, which was an
attention quite unusual, and increased the overpowering
desire to laugh with which she had been
seized.

I wonder if I might ask to see your dairy f
he said in a low tone, detaining her at the door.

Not to-day," said Joan, briskly, " I never let
anybody see my dairy but when it is in prime
order ; and we are busy to-day."

I am sure no dairy of yours is ever in anything
but prime order," he said, with another look
that completely overpowered Joan's gravity.
She almost pulled the door from his hand,

shutting it quickly between them, and ran off,
not to the dairy, as she had said, but to her own
room, giving forth suppressed chokes of sound at
spasmodic intervals as she flew upstairs. Joan's
was no fairy foot, but a firm substantial tread,
which made the old stairs creak. When she got
into the shelter of her own chamber, she threw
herself into a chair, and laughed till the tears ran
down her cheeks. "The lasses have been true
prophets after all; I believe I have gotten a
lad at last," she said to herself. But even when
her fit of laughter was over, she did not venture
downstairs, or near the dairy, until she was certain
that Philip Selby must have taken himself
away. She bustled about the room, looking over
clothes that wanted mending, and "tidying"'
drawers which wanted no tidying, still pausing
now and then to give vent to another laugh ;
nothing so laughable had occurred before in
Joan's career. She had been asked in marriage
by an enterprising " vet " when she was a girl, a
poor fellow who had not considered the daughter
of a man who was an evident horse-dealer to be
so very far above him, but who was all but
kicked out of the house by Ralph Joscelyn, and
his long-legged sons. Joan had never heard of

it even, till after the episode was over, and
though she was duly indignant at his presumption,
she had felt rather an interest in the man
himself, hoping to hear for some time that his disappointment
had not affected his health, or interfered
with his career. But the " vet " had found a
more suitable match, and all had gone well with
him, which utterly ended any little bit of
romance she might have had a capacity for.
Since that time Joan had not had. any "lad."
Everybody who was good enough for a Joscelyn
to marry, was too good for Ralph Joscelyn's
daughter, and though she was homely she was
proud. She could work like a dairy-maid, but
she would not have married beneath her.
Besides, she was not a marrying woman. There
is such a variety of the species, just as there is a
non-marrying man ; and the more independent
women get to be, no doubt the more this class
will increase, though it is in a very small minority
now. Joan was not at all independent in means,
but she was independent in her character, and
her work. There was no one to interfere with
her in her share of the labours of the establishment.
Her mother did not even understand
what that work was, and her father, though he

was a bold man, did not venture to interfere.
She had everything her own way, and guided the
house in general according to her will, notwithstanding
an occasional outburst, which she soon
quieted, on her father's part. Having thus a great
deal to do, a position of weight, and domestic;
authority, an absolute sovereignty so far as it
went, why should she have wanted to marr' ?
She did not : and it was the sentimental consciousness
of Selby's looks that was too much
for her gravity. " Just like a dog when it's
singing music," said Joan to herself. When she
went down to the dairy Selby was gone, and Mrs.
Joscelyn all uncomprehending seated alone in the
parlour. Her mending (which she was always
doing; never was a man who wore out his underclothing
so !) required her eyes and her full attention,
not like Joan's knitting ; she had never even
seen those looks which Joan called " sheep's ees "'
But Joan herself was much on the alert afterwards,
and fully foresaw what was going to happen if
she did not take care; and, indeed, notwithstanding
all her care, something did happen, as
will be seen, within the short space of two
days.

CHAPTER XIII.

A PROPOSAL.

THE White House had begun to be slightly
agitated b} the expectation of letters from
Harry, when Mr. Selby came again. There was
no immediate acknowledgment of the arrival of
the boxes, or reply to the letter which Mrs. Josce-
lyn had written instantly, as soon as they heard
that he had returned to Liverpool ; but this both
mother and daughter thought was natural enough.
Harry no doubt would be sulky; even his
mother and sister would be included in his anger
against the house, though they had done nothing
which he ought to have taken in ill part. He was
not a great letter writer, however, and they were
both indulgent to Harry, and willing to give him
a little time to get over his " pet," as Joan called

it. Joan took the whole matter cheerily. He
was only " in a pet." He had been " in a pet "
before now, and had kept his mother uneasy, refusing
to write; but it had gone off, and all had
come, rio-ht ao-ain. No doubt it would be the

o o

same now : only this time he had some reason for
his " pet," and might be excused if he was a
little sulky. " You know, mother," said Joan,
Harry's terrible young for his age. He's just a
baby for his age, and he has a deal of you in him.
We must let him get over his pet."

*' Oh, Joan, do you think I would keep anybody
anxious that was fond of me?" said Mrs. Josce-
lyn, "but," she added, with a sigh, "nobody
would care very much if it was only me. It is
this that gives you all the pull over me, that I
care, and you don't''

Joan could not contradict this; and there
gleamed over her a momentary compassion for
her mother, whose lot it seemed to be always to
care," while nobody cared for her. " You must
try and not care so much, mother. We're none
of us worth it," she said, " but, as for Harry, he's
just in a pet. Leave him alone, and he'll soon
come to himself. My fine ham ! I wouldn't have
wasted it on a person that didn't deserve it. If

he don't write within the week, I will say he's
not worth the salt it's cured with ; but we'll give
him a week ; by that time he'll come round, if he's
a bit sulky just at first. I don't blame him, for
my part."

Mrs. Joscelyn's hands had crept together, and
clasped each other, with that earnest appeal she
was always making to earth and heaven : but they
slid asunder hastily when she met Joan's eyes.
She was thankful to allow that it was quite
reasonable that Harry should be sulky. " Though
he might have thought a little upon me. lie
might have thought I would suffer most of alL
He might have remembered how little I can do,
and that I must support everything," she said to
herself, with a few quiet tears. She did not
venture to say it even to Joan, though Joan was
so much more sympathetic than she could have
hoped. Nobody ever thought of anything she
might have to suffer. Perhaps on the whole she
was supposed to enjoy it. " Making a fuss," was
one of her specialities in everybody's opinion.
Her children were all disposed to think it did not
matter very much what the object of "the fuss"
was. And thus she was left in her parlour with
her mending, a woman surrounded with people

belonging to her b} nature and the clearest ties,
yet altogether alone, as lonely as any poor old
maiden in her garret. Nor is this any unusual
thing ; a fact in which the solitary may find a
little uncomfortable alleviation of their special
woes.

Mr. Selby came back while the house was in
this state of expectation, not anxious as jet, but
on the eve of becoming so. He did not send in
his card now, but usually presumed so far as to go
straight to the parlour door by himself, where he
always knocked, however, before entering. This
time, he came in the morning, when he knew
Joan was not likely to be in the parlour. He was
a little nervous, though perhaps it would be too
much to say that his heart beat. After forty, a
man's heart requires a very strong inducement to
make it beat, that is to say, in any violent manner.
But he was a little nervous, and half ashamed at
what he was about to do. He went doubtfully to
the dairy door, which was standing wide open.
Inside Joan could be seen moving briskly about,
and her voice was very audible in not very gentle
tones. Selby paused a little, and listened to it
with a comical concern upon his face. His brow
contracted a little with anxious care, though his

mouth laughed. Joan was scolding, nothing
more or less. "Talk to me about not having
time! " she said, " You have time to dress yourself
up, and go out to court your lad, night
after night. Is that what you call your duty
to your neighbour? My word, if your lads
were your neighbours, you would keep the commandments
easy. Did ever any mortal see such
bowls, tone in a Christian person's dairy? Woman !
where do you expect to go? A dairy's not a
dairy if the Queen of England might not eat her
dinner off every shelf in it, and give a prize for
every brick. That's what makes the butter
sweet, not your lads, or the tricks that you play.
Get out of my sight! I could take my hands to
you, if I did not think too much of myself."

Philip Selby stood in the yard with a comical
look on his face, and listened. Was it fright?
There could not be the least doubt that Joan was
scolding violently, and even using threats of personal
violence, to the lass, who, half in sorrow,
but more than half in anger, was sobbing in
the background. The very sound of her foot
and its rapid tap upon the floor, was angry, and
scolded too. He paused, and a look of alarm
came over his face. The Joscelyns were known

for hot tempers all over the county. Ralph
Joscelyn was a man whom people avoided any
sort of argument with on this account, and all
his sons shared, more or less, his disposition.
What if Joan shared it too ? It was alarming to
a man bent on the special errand which had
brought Selby here. Perhaps the doubt was not
romantic, but, on the whole, neither was the
errand. If she should say to him, " Get out of
my sight !" if she should threaten to " take her
hands" to him in any domestic difficulty, it would
not be agreeable. He stopped short in the yard,
where old Simon was cleaning his milk-pails ;
through the dairy window the milk-bowls were
visible, ranged in perfect order, and a glimpse of
Joan's trim substantial figure, passing and repassing,
with no sort of languor about her, such
as is supposed to encourage love. The would-be
lover had a visible movement of doubt. He
caught old Simon's eye and blushed, though he
had long supposed himself to be past blushing,
and gave an uneasy laugh, which sounded shy,
though it was twenty years, Mr. Selby thought,
since he knew what the word meant. Old Simon
was a man with a very wandering eye, an eye to
be spoken of in strict correctness in the singular

number. One of them he always kept upon his
work, the other moved about, finding out everything
that was unwilling to be seen ; this time he
perceived Mr. Selby's sentiment at the first
glance.

Ye needn't be feared," he said, taking one
hand from his pail to wave it in the direction of
the dairy, " ye needn't be feared. She's not a
lass to be feared for, our Miss Joan. Her bark's
worse than her bite. Bless you, not the hundredth
part of that she don't mean."

Philip Selby felt more alarmed still. That a
woman should scold when she meant it, that was
supportable ; but when she scolded, not meaning
it, that indeed was something to be frightened
for. The smile upon his mouth became a nervous
one. He faltered in spite of himself.

Lord !" said old Simon, turning his head
aside, " six feet high, and na mair heart than
that. Is that what ye ca' a man ?"

Hist !" said Selby, beckoning him close ; he
had half-a-crown between his finger and thumb,
"is that, now, a thing that happens very often?
Tell me the truth, and I'll make it worth your
while."

Terrible often," said Simon, with a grin of

derision, " most days and twa or three times a
day."

"And how do you manage to live with hers
said the panic-stricken suitor.

We cannot bide her out of our sight." said
Simon, his grin growing more and more disdainful,
"nothing goes right when she's  away. You
may make what you like out o' that. It's what
they ca' a paradox at the night school.

And he went off clashing his pails against each
other in a manner which caught Joan's keen ear,
as she paused for a moment before the open
window. " What are you doing with those
pails f she said ; " have all the folk about the
town gone out of their wits to day ? Do you not
know, Simon, that you started all the hoops last
summer, and brought us in a bill as long as my
arm ? Bless me, can nothing be done right in
this house, unless I put to my own hand, and doit
myself f

*' Hear to her !" said Simon, tranquilly, taking
no other notice of this energetic address, " you
can see for yourself. She's often like that, lessor
more."

At this moment there came the sound of a
laugh from within. " It's Mr. Selby, I declare,"

VOL. L S

said Joan, ''to see the dairy ! and all in such disorder,
ye lazy, big, soft 1 told you I would let

nobody in unless we were tidied up, and we're
not tidied up, not a bit ; but you'll have to come
in, I suppose, as you're here. Step in ; we must
not grudge the welcome, since its all you're likely
to get. I'm in a passion ; that's the fact," said
Joan, with a laugh, "I'm raging like a bull of
Bashan. You heard me as you were coming
through the yard, I make no doubt ; and that's
how I have to go on very near every day."

Oh no. Miss Joan !" said the lass who had
been bearing the brunt of the storm ; and Selb}
looking round, saw that this aggrieved personage
was grinning from ear to ear.

"That's just your deception," said Joan,
that's trying to get at my weak side. When
they get a laugh out of me, they think no more
about it ; and it's far too easy," Joan added,
shaking her head with comical distress, " to get a
laugh out of me, far too easy; but don't you
think it's fun, fori am as serious as I can be," she
cried, turning round upon the culprit, who flew
to her work with an alacrity which showed
Joan's admonition to be not without effect,
though she was cramming her apron into her

mouth all the time, that she might cot laugh.
Joan took Selby all over the dairy, and showed
him everything. She was an enthusiast in all
that concerned this portion of rural work. She
took him out to the fields behind the house afterwards
to see her pet cows. It was a breezy
spring day, the sun shining, but the wind
blowing, and cold though sunn'. Joan went outwith
the light shining in her trim and smooth
brown hair, and without a thought even of a shawl.
Cold ? oh no, I'm not cold," she said, " I don't
trouble hats much, if it is not in the height of
summer, when you can really say there's something
like a sun. This doesn't count; there is
no headache in it," said Joan, looking affectionately
at the temperate ruler of the day, who
makes no unnecessary show in the North. "But
you might catch cold," suggested the middle-aged
lover. " Bless us," said Joan, " me catch cold !
why, such a thing was never thought of; I've
seen a fuss made about Harry for taking cold ;
but never me. The air on the Fells never gives
cold. It is your fat damp air in the level, it's notour
hill air that ever does any harm."

I am trying to think that, too. I am tired
wandering about the world with a regiment of

S 2

navvies," said Selby ; " I'm thinking of settling
down."

That's not a bad thing to do ; but you must
have led a cheery life roaming about the world as
you say. I don't know that I would like it myself;
but change is lightsome. You must have
seen a deal in your day," said Joan, looking at
her companion. And as she did so she could not
but allow that he was a very " wise-like man."
It would be difficult to give in other words the full
force of this phrase. It does not mean good-looking,
or respectable, or tall, or wealthy, or well-dressed,
or well-mannered, but it means all of
these together. And Philip Selby was a little
more he was really handsome, though he "was
no longer young.

I have seen a great deal in my day," he said,
and my day has been a good long one, for I've
been afloat upon the world for more than twenty
years ; but I don't know that I ever saw anything
so much to my mind as I see to-day  a fine, breezy
hillside, and fine cattle, and a thriving country,
not to say somebody by my side that "

Oh, you need not reckon me," said Joan ;
there's women in all countries. It's a great
pity there's so many of us ; we would be a great

deal more thought of if there were but a few."
Perhaps you would be angry," said Selby, " if
I said there were not many like Miss Joan ,
wherever a man may go."

"Oh, no, far from angry," said Joan, with a
laugh. " I should think it was a very nice compliment
; compliments are not common things in
our parts. You that have been about the world
you know how to flatter country folk  but among
the Fells they're but little known. Look at that
beast now," she said, stroking tenderly the face
of a great, soft-eyed cow, " did you ever see a
bonnier creature ? There's not a lady in all
England has such a balmy breath. And she's
better than she's bonnie. She's a small fortune
to us. And that little thing, that's one from
France, of the Brittany kind, small feeders and
good milkers ; that belongs to our little Liddy.
You have never seen Liddy, Mr. Selby ? She's
the pet of the family ; and when she's not here
we make a pet of her little cow. Some are fond
of Alderney, some like this French breed. Which
do you like best ? "

I have no opinion. I am no judge. I know
a horse when I see one, but not a cow. I like
the kind, Miss Joan, that you like best."

Well," said Joan, laughing, " our tastes agree
in some things. You remember that brown colt?
The last time I saw him he was just what I
expected  turning out a fine beast, far better
than that Sister to Scythian that father set such
store upon. I think you and me were right
there."

I am sure we were right," said Selby ; " two
heads are better than one. Do you know,
Miss Joan, I think our tastes are very likely to
agree. I have been to see Heatonshaw  which was
the place you said you would dearly like yourself."

Did I say I would dearly like it ? That was
strong. But it's a bonnie place, there is little
doubt of that."

I think it is a sweet place ; and a house that

would just do for I've something more to say

to you. Miss Joan, if 3-ou will have the patience
to listen. A wandering life is very pleasant fora
time, but as a man gets on in years he wants to
settle down. But," said Selby, lifting his hand
to stop her, for she was just about to interrupt him
and putting a great emphasis upon the word,
hut  not by himself. He must have somebody
to settle down with him, or it's no settling at all."

That's true," said Joan, with great external

sobriety, though the demon of laughter with which
she had fought so severe a battle during their last
interview had sprung again into life within her,
That's very true. You'll have to get a wife ;
but you cannot be at much loss about that, Mr.
Selby, for women are plenty  more's the ipitj.
There's no place you can go but you'll find them
in dozens. Men are real well off nowadays, they
have nothing to do but to pick and choose."

That would be very nice if anyone would
do," said Selby, with a countenance the gravity
of which contrasted strangely with the twinkle in
Joan's eye and the quiver about the corner of her
mouth, " but I should not be content to pick and
choose. The thing is, there is only one that I
want. If I cannot get her, another will not serve
my purpose, which is what you seem to think.
Miss Joan, I know yours is a fine old family,
much above mine, though the Selby have always
been respectable. You may think it presumptuous
in me to ask you, but to tell the plain truth
it's you I want."

Me you want ?" she cried, a little confused
for though she had seen what was coming, and
had been quite prepared to make a joke of it, and
even now scarcely dared to meet his eye lest she

should laugh, the seriousness of the actual proposal
bewildered her a little when it was made.
She did not think it would have been half such
a serious business. Joan, though she was not
shy, and had treated the whole matter as a great
joke up to this moment, cast down her eyes in
spite of herself, and was confused, and for a
moment did not know what to say.

"It's just you I want," said Selby ; "you are
the one I've had my eye on since ever I came into
the Fell-country. When first I saw your face, I
said to myself, * That's the woman for me.' You
see, I was on the look out," he added, with a
smile. '* I have put by a little money, and I had
some from those that went before me. There's
enough to be comfortable upon, especially if the
wife had a little of her own. And neither you
nor me would like to be idle. You could set up
your dairy, with all the last improvements, at
Heatonshaw, and there would be plenty for me todo
on the farm. I think we could make a very
good thing out of it, and yet keep up a very pleasant
position. I would never be against seeing
friends, and you would have no need to exert
yourself, but only to be the head of everything,
and keep all going. I could see my way to a

Dear little carriage for yoii, or even a riding horse
if you would like that  and as to allowances and
so forth, 'even if you had nothing of your

own "

"I'm thinking you're going too fast, Mr. Selby,"
said Joan. The laughing spirit was exorcised.
She no longer felt any inclination to burst forth
into that fou rire which comes at the most inappropriate
moments. He had sobered her by his
own perfect sobriety. Joan felt that this was a
grave business affair, and not a frivolous piece of
nonsense inappropriate to her serious years.
Some lingering wish, perhaps, to hear a real love
tale in her own person had been lurking in her
mind along with the certainty that she would
laugh at it if it were told. And many ludicrous
pictures had come before her when she first espied
Mr. Selby's "intentions." She had wondered,
with a comical mixture of inexperienced faith and
cynicism, whether he would go down on his knees
and call her by all sorts of endearing names.
She was bursting with laughter at the sentimental
personage who intended to make a divinity of
Joan Joscelyn. Nevertheless, perhaps, she was
a little conscious, secretly and underneath all,
though she never acknowledged it to herself,

that this was the way in which a woman had a
right to be addressed once in her life  Joan
Joscelyn as well as another. But that was a very
great secret, and deep down ; so deep that she had
never confessed it even to herself. And now she
was out in all her calculations, and there was
nothing sentimental to laugh at. It was a very
sensible sort of bargain that was proposed to her,
and she did not know where to find a word
against it. Her laugh came to an entire end.
I'm thinking," she said, " that you're going too
fast."

"It lies with you to say that," said Selby;
but, Joan, remember" (he had given up the
Miss, and she perceived it), " that wdiat I am
saying I'm ready to do, and it's only for you to
say the word. I've thought of it since ever I
saw you. * That's the woman for me,' I said, and
you know how we agreed about the colt. AVe
agree, too, about the place. I went to look at it
because you said you would like it, and I like it,
too. And we're both partial to the same kind of
life. If we couldn't get on together I don't
know who should. And in everything else I'll
do whatever you please."

You miss out one thing, Mr. Selby," said

Joan, " we ought to he partial to each other as
well as to the kind of life."

AVell, I am," said Selby, fervently : " that's
the truth. I can't speak for you ; but sam. I'm
partial to your looks and your ways, and everything
about you. I like the way you sit still and
knit, and I like you in your dairy and out here.
You're just all I want as fur as I can see. I like
you when you're scolding. I was a little bit
frightened at first ; but afterwards I liked that
as well as the rest."

Well, you're a bold man to be partial to a
woman when she's scolding," said Joan, a little
mollified ; " but I don't know much about you,
Mr. Selby, and I can't say Vm partial to
you."

That's because you don't know me," he said
promptly ; " make as many inquiries as you like,
I am not afraid of them. You'll find I have a
good character wherever I've been. I don't see
why I shouldn't make you happy as well as
another. I've nothing behind me that I'm ashamed
of. You and I at Heatonshaw, with plenty of
beasts in the stables, and the house furnished to
please you, and a bit of a phaeton in the coach-house
: I don't see why we oughtn't be very snug

together," he said, " and as he spoke he took Joan's
hand, which, though a little red in the fingers and
brown on the back, was a shapely hand notwithstanding
all her work. Then she was seized all
at once, and without warning, with that fou
rire.

If you mean courting, Mr. Selby, it's a bit
public here," she said, discharging a load from heiJA
breast in that peal of laughter. He was a littler'
offended for the moment ; but then he comforted
himself that laughing was near to crying, and
that crying would have been a very good sign
indeed. At his age he had a little experience
more than falls to the lot of a youth at the ordinary
love-making age.

"I hope you're not just laughing at me,
Joan."

I'm laughing at myself as well  and at you
too. I'm old to have a lad, and I never looked
for such a thing and you're old," Joan added.
I think you're too old for me."

I am forty-one ; which is not a bad age.
Just suitable, I think," he said.

Then she looked at him again with the laughter
in her eyes. He was a very " dislike " man 
nothing to be ashamed at, whoever saw him  very

good-looking indeed ; more satisfactory in that
way than Joan felt herself to be. And Heating
was a pretty place ; and a house all of her
own was better than a house in which hei* father
might interfere arbitrarily every day, or even her
mother change all the arrangements some fine
morning in a fit of absence or compunction. She
turned round and began to walk towards the
house, suddenly becoming serious. Selby turned
too and walked with her. He did not say a word as
they went over the fields and through the garden
of the White House, but waited her pleasure in a
deferential way which went to Joan's heart. But
she was not " partial" to him. " We can talk of
this some other time " was all that she said.

CHAPTER Xii.

JOAN AND HER LOVER.

JOAN said nothing to anyone about Philip
Selby's proposal. She had, indeed, no one
to consult on such a subject. She had grown up
in the habit of indifference to her another's
opinions, which originated partly in the difference
of their dispositions and the superiority a calm
temperament has over a nervous and anxious
one, and partly in her father's contempt of his
wife, which her children resented, yet were influenced
by. Seeing the number of times when
Mrs. Joscelyn was unhappy and excited as Joan
thought about nothing, it was almost impossible
for the strong-natured and composed young woman
not to feel a certain affectionate and sometimes indignant
contempt for the excess of feeling which
gave so much trouble, yet never had any result .

while, on the other hand, it is almost impossible
for a man to treat his wife with systematic scorn
without weakening the respect of her children for
her, even when, as we have said, they resent his
conduct and are more or less her partizans. At
the best she was " poor mother," a person to be
defended and accounted for, not looked up to and
trusted in. From her earl' youth Joan had been
her own guide and governor. She had none of
her mother's sentiment; her mother's standard
was too high for her; her mother's feelings
overstrained and exaggerated. Among the multitude
of  fusses" she was partly disgusted, partly
amused, ready to take mother's part, as has been
seen, but always with a protest against the weaknesses
which she could apologise for, but not
understand. In the matter of Harry, as she
shared in some measure the anxiety, she had in
some measure understood the sentiment ; but her
attitude towards her mother was more that of a
senior towards a junior, the stronger to the
weaker, than the natural subordination which
would have become their relationship. Joan
knew that, had she consulted her mother about
Mr. Selby, Mrs Josceylyn would have been greatly
excited. She would have questioned her daughter

as to her love for her suitor, and his love for her,
and all the sentimental questions, which Joan felt
were well enough in books, but as far as regarded
Philip Selby and herself were altogether out of the
question. And as for mentioning such a subject to
her father, nothing could have been more impossible.
She was thus alone in her moderate and sober
soul, as Mrs. Joscelyn was in her tender and somewhat
excitable being. She could not tell her
story' to anyone with the hope of aid and guidance
who can ? We are all alone when the great
problems of life come upon us. Joan, however,
thought of this question very soberly, without
once regarding it in the light of a great
problem. It excited her a good deal privately
within her own composed bosom ; but, to tell the
truth, its first effect was more mirthful than
serious. In the seclusion of her own being
she laughed, saying to herself that after all the
maids had been right, that she had " got a
lad" when she was least thinking of it. The
laugh was not without a touch of gratification
in it, for it is true that a young woman, even
when she reaches the mature age of thirty
and gives herself out as beyond such vanities,
still likes to have *' a lad," and to feel that she is

like the others  " respect like the lave," not left
out in this important particular of life. Joan
was pleased with Mr. Selby that he had appreciated
her. She thought the more of him for it,
as has perhaps been already perceived. She had
an honest consciousness of her own value. She
knew what she could do, and what her services
were worth in the not very satisfactory position
she held in her father's house, where she had the
responsibility of everything without either the approbation
or the reward to which such work as hers
was entitled. And she knew, without any misplaced
modesty on the subject, that she would make an
excellent wife. But being thirty, and in her own
opinion very homely in appearance, and evidently
not appreciated in this way, Joan had, with a
half-conscious contempt for the fool of a
man, whoever he was, who had not " come
forward," and a secret laugh when she thought
of it, even at this contempt  put that contingency
out of her mind and taken it for granted that she
was to be Joan Joscelyn till the end of her days,
the manager and soul of the establishment at the
White House. If it occurred to her sometimes
as of course it must have done  that the
White House could not continue for ever under
VOL. I. T

its present regime, and that the da' would come
when Will's wife (and a bonnie hand she would
make of it !) must reign in her stead, the idea in noway
troubled her; for she knew that no circumstances
could arise in which she, Joan Joscelyn,
would not be well worth her salt. But now,
when she had no thought of any such Tant, when
she had put it entirely out of her mind, here had
happened the thing that she thought would never
happen ! She had got " a lad*' Suddenly the
monotonous future in which she had foreseen no
change opened before her, showing the pretty
little property she had always admired, the place
which had once belonged to the Joscelyns ; the
pasture which was the sweetest in the countryside;
the nice house with its sunny aspect, so
different from the White House ; the best of
beasts in the stables, and even the phaeton in the
coach-house. It is the greatest wonder in the
world that women are not demoralised altogether
by the constant possibility of such sudden
changes in their existence. From day to day
it is always happening. A poor girl, who has
been trained to all the pinching and scrapings of
genteel poverty, will suddenly see wealth before
her, and consideration, and importance, all in a

moment, offered to her acceptance without any
virtue of hers. We ask a great deal in asking
young women to be wholly insensible to this
chance which may happen at any moment to anyone
of them, and of which everyone knows
instances. It was not anything so magnificent
which had suddenly fallen in Joan's way; but it
was a great change, an offer as important as
as if it had come from King Cophetua ;
far more important indeed, for sensible Joan
would have made short work with his majesty.
This, however, was the most sensible, the most
suitable of arrangements. It was exactly what
she would have liked had she exercised the widest
choice. The perfect appropriateness of it even
subdued the inward mirth with which the idea,
when it first presented itself to her mind,
had been received. Though she still had a
laugh now and then, it was gradually hushed by
this conviction. " I thought I might had a war
offer," she would say to herself now and then.
She was like the heroine of that song. Her
braw wooer " was not without a touch of the
ridiculous about him. She was disposed to jibe at
his good looks, and his politeness, and his fine
talk ; but notwithstanding : 

T 2

I never let on that I kent or I cared,
But I thought I might had a war offer, war offer,
I thought I might had a war offer."

Joan was no singer; but it was astonishing
how often that refrain came from her lips about
this time. She was no singer; but she was a
woman who sang at her work, as women used
to do more than they do now. Perhaps drawing-room
performers sing all the better because our
ears have grown more particular; but of all
cheerful things in this uncheerful world there
are few so pleasant as the half-conscious song
with which a cheery worker accompanies his or
her occupations. Joan was always giving vent
to some snatch of homely music in this way. But
at the present moment she confined herself to that
refrain : " I thought I might had a war offer,
war offer. I thought I might had a war offer.

"You are always singing that, Joan," Mrs.
Joscelyn said. " I never hear you sing anything
else."

Am I ?" said Joan, with a laugh ; and then
she grew red, and grave and silent all at once.
It was so suitable! Nothing could have been
more appropriate. But then, " I'm not partial
to him," she said to herself.

This would have been more on her mind,
however, and probably would have come to a
more rapid conclusion, if it had not been for the
increasing uneasiness about Harry. He did not
reply to his mother's letter ; the " course of
post" in which she had begged to be answered
was far exceeded That they had not thought
much of; but when day succeeded day and no
letter came, Mrs. Joscelyn became daily more
unhappy, and Joan was more disturbed than she
would allow. Even Ralph Joscelyn himself,
finding out, no one knew how, for he was not iu
the habit of interesting himself in the family
correspondence, that there was no news of Harry,
began to be seen looking out for the postman,
and keeping a watch upon the countenances of
the women and their communications together.
He was uneasy as he had never been known to
be before. When he was found to share thatanxiety
about the post which was so habitual to the others
he looked confused, and murmured something
about the Sister to Scythian and a bargain
which had fallen through. Then his disquietude
got so great that he spoke not to his wife,
whose constant wringing of her hands, and
drawn countenance and anxious eyes called from

him continual bursts of abuse  but to Joan, who,
daily becoming more and more anxious herself,
was exasperated by them also.

You have word of that lad, I suppose ?"
Joscel}! said.

No, we have no word."

He's a young devil," said his father, " he's
putting out his temper on you."

You've always set him a good example in
that way," said Joan, promptly ; " maybe he is,
and maybe not."

Hold your dashed tongue," said Joscelyn ;
what else could it be ?"

How am I to answer you if I hold my
tongue 1 There's a many reasons possible. He
may have made up his mind to write no more to
a house he was turned out of."

'' Stuff and nonsense ! he was coming in at a
disgraceful hour, and the door was locked, at a
time when every honest door is locked."

I'm glad you can ease your conscience in
that way," said Joan ; " it was at no disgraceful
hour ; all the boys have been out later, you've
been out later, many's the time, yourself. He
may have made up his mind as I say," she
added, distinctly, *' to disown the house as his

home, at which I for one would not wonder : or
he may," and here her voice faltered, " he may
and that's what I fear  have gone off as lads
do "

Rubbish ! blanked nonsense T' cried the father,
but his ruddy countenance paled a little. " What
do you mean by going off as lads do ?*'

I cannot tell you," said Joan, with sober
disdain, "if you don't know."

"It's just a dashed story you've got up," her
father said.

It's no story at all, for T hope it isn't so,
and I don't know what it is  but to my mind
that's the most like. I wouldn't put it into
mother's head for all the world, poor dear !"

"Dash }OuI" cried Joscelyn, " j'ou are finely
taken up with your mother. I never saw the
like before ; you have been easy enough about
your mother and all her whining and complaining.
What makes you set up this dashed nonsense,
enough to make a man sick, now ?"

"I never minded before," said Joan, "maybe
more shame to me. I'm very anxious about
Harry myself, and that makes me understand the
trouble mother's in, poor dear I"

Dash you and her too ! It's all the blanked

nonsense he's got from lier, the young idiot !"

*' That's true : he has a deal of mother in him,
poor lad !" Joan said, drying her eyes.

Joscelyn lifted his hand, and clenched his fist
as if he would have given her a blow.

You're all a set of s !" he cried,

launching furiously forth into the kind of eloquence
which was habitual to him ; but furious
as he was, and brutal, there was a keen arrow
of pain in his heart too ; he was angry with himself.
He could have beaten himself with that
big fist. What a fool he had been to expose
himself, to put it in the power of any lad to
expose him ! There was nothing he could not
have done to himself in the rage of self-reproach
and shame which had come upon him. It was a
little for Harry  he was not unnatural, and he
had a feeling for his offspring  but it was much
more that he had laid himself open to the
remarks of the county, and every friend and
every enemy who might like to gossip about
him and say the worst that there was to say.

Perhaps there was a little satisfaction in Joan's
bosom at the sight of the disturbance in her
father's. He deserved to be disturbed. She
was glad that he should suffer, that he should get

in some degree the recompense of his ill-doings.
But this was only a transitory diversion to the
painful strain of her thoughts. The waiting was
hard to bear. How their hearts beat when they
saw the postman approaching along the dusty
road, and there was a terrible moment of doubt
as to whether or not he would turn up the path
to the White House ! And when he came there
was a still hotter excitement as Joan, with
fingers which never had trembled before, turned
over the letters. She could not trust herself
to speak, but only shook her head, looking
at her mother at the window. How many days ?
It seemed to have been going on for years, not
days, this intolerable suspense, which, though it
was unbearable, had to be borne. Only about a
fortnight had elapsed, however, when there came
a packet with the Liverpool postmark. It was a
large one, and seemed to contain so much that
for the first moment Joan scarcely noticed that the
address was not written in her brother's hand.
She took it into the parlour, her heart beating
loudly, and broke open the envelope, while her
mother, trembling, hurried to her side full of
eager joy. There tumbled out upon the table,
however, four or five closed letters, all addressed

to Harry  and nothing more. Then it was that
Joan turned the envelope and looked at what was
written upon it : and only then discovered that
the packet was addressed to Harry, and bore the
stamp of his office. Mrs. Joscelyn's letter was
among the other contents. Harry had never received
it. The two looked at each other blankly,
turning over the letters which had fallen on the
table with trembling hands. It was like touching
something dead.

What does it mean ? Oh Joan, what is the
meaning of it ?" Mrs. Joscelyn said.

Joan turned them all over again, aghast,
almost stupid in lier dismay. " It means he has
never got your letter, mother ; then how could he
answer it, poor lad f she said, with a keen
impulse of angry despair.

This seemed reasonable enough in the first
stupefaction ; but afterwards the mother gave a
lamentable cry. *' Why did he not get it 1  why
did he not get my letter, Joan f

He has not been there, mother." Joan spoke
in a low tone of terror, as if she where afraid to
trust the air with that too evident conclusion 
for where, if he were not there, could Harry be ?
Then she examined the outside envelope over

again with anxious futility as if that could give
her any information. Written inside the flap was
the request, " Please acknowledge receipt." The
envelope bore the office stamp. All was done in
the most business-like way. She had seen
Harry's letters come to him in exactly the same
envelope when he was at home for one of his
holidays. The inference that he was still at home,
that all was peaceful and well, and his letters
forwarded to him in the usual course, overpowered
Joan, calm as she was. A few great tears,
looking like large raindrops as they pelted down
upon the letters, fell from her eyes in spite of
herself. " There never was such a fool as I am,"
she cried with a hysterical laugh, " I'm worse than
mother or anybody. AVhat's so wonderful about it ?
He's gone to London or somewhere, having still
his time to himself  why should he have gone
back to the office and spoiled his holiday. That
would just have been  preposterous." This big
word gave her a certain relief. It seemed to take
some of the weight off her heart as she brought
it out. " Preposterous," she repeated, looking
almost angrily at her mother. " You might see
that, without asking me''

Mrs. Joscelyn gazed at her, half carried away

by this outburst of what looked like argument ;
but then she sank into a chair and wrung her
hands, and began to weep. "Oh Joan, where is
he, where is he, if he is not there? What has
happened to my boy ? "

That was a terrible day to everybody concerned.
Joscelyn himself came in under pretence
of wanting something, and seeing the
letters lying on the table stooped to look at them
with a face which grew very dark in spite of himself.
He looked at the women, one seated crying
in her chair, the other standing stupefied, staring
about her, not knowing what she did.

Has he come back ?" he said, the words
escaping him in spite of himself.

And these two who had been under his rule so
long, the timid, feeble wife, the sober-minded
daughter, rose, as it were, and flung themselves
upon him. They who had been so voiceless
hitherto, fell upon him like a hail-storm, taking
him by surprise, beating him down with a sudden
storm of wrath and reproach. His wife, who had
never ventured to say her soul was her own ; who
had lain still, weeping and terrified, allowing him
to be the master on that night when all the
harm had been done ; and Joan, who had

borne his fury so often with stolid composure,
making no reply. All the pent up grievances of
years he heard of now, with an astonishment, to
hear their opinion of him, which was equal to
his stupefaction at their rebellion. Even the
harshest domestic tyrant finds it difficult to face
the fact that he is a terror to his surroundings,
still more that they see through his external
bigness, and know him to be at bottom a coward
and a bully. Joscelyn was absolutely cowed by
this revelation. He tried a few volleys of oaths,
like those which usually forced them into silence ;
but without effect. He raised his voice and
thundered ; but they did not care. It was Mrs.
Joscelyn who led this attack.

Come back f she cried ; " he will never come
back  how dare you stand there and look at his
letters that are like his graveclothes, and ask ' Has
he come backs You that have driven him from
his home  that have turned his sweetness into
bitterness; that have driven my boy from me,
and broken my heart. Oh, you may shake your
fist at me ! What do I care ? what do you
suppose I care ? Do you think I mind if you
killed me ? You have done far worse ; you
have driven away my boy, and in all the world

I do not know where he is. Oh man, get out
of my sight. I cannot endure the sight of you.
I cannot endure the sight of you !" she
cried.

And Joscelyn stood aghast. He was pale at
first, then a purple flood of rage came over him.
*' You dashed old witch  you miserable blanked

old cat  you " He caught his

breath in his consternation and fury. He did not
know what to say.

Oh, what do I care for your swearing," she
cried, with an almost majestic wave of her thin
white hand. " Go away, for Grot's sake, go
away  what are your oaths and your, bad words
to me ? I'm used to them now. Many a time I
have been terrified by them ; but you can't
frighten me now. What do they mean 1 
nothing ! I am used to them ; you might as well
save yourself the trouble. I am not afraid of
anything you can do. You've done your worst,
Ralph Joscelyn ; you have driven away my boy,
my boy. Oh Joan, where is my boy ?" the poor
woman cried, turning from her husband with
another indignant wave of her hand, to her
daughter, with whom she never had been linked
in such tender and close union before.

By !" cried Joscelyn, " I'll teach you,

madam, to defy me. Your boy, as vum call him,
had better never show his face again here. Your
boy! if you come to that, what have you got todo
with one of them ? They're my children, and
you're my wife, and it's me you've got to look to
and take your orders from, you dashed old wildcat,
3'ou blanked old I"

"Oh, hold your tongue, father!" Joan cried,
turning her head in angry impatience. " Mother's
quite right, we're used to all that."

What could a man so assailed do ? He could
not get over his astonishment. He remained
finally master of the field, in so far that they left
him there volleying forth those thunders which
they disdained, and saw to be nothing but words.
Joscelyn recognized with the strangest humiliation
that they were but words, when his women,
his slaves, first ventured to let him know that
they saw through him, and found them all to be
froth and emptiness. If somebody had discovered
Jove's thunderbolts to be but fireworks, the
Father of the Gods must have fallen to the ground
like an exhausted rocket. Joscelyn felt something
like this. He came down whirling from
his imaginary eminence, down into an abyss of

emptiness and darkness, and struck blankly
against a real something which resisted him,
which he could move no longer. He was not
without feeling, and he became suddenly dumb
as they closed the door, leaving him a much discomfited
hero in possession of the field. Rebellion
in his house, his slaves emancipated, the boy
lost, and the whole story likely to be published
over the length and breadth of the county, and
himself exposed to every petty gossip and critical
assembly in it. This was a terrible downfall for
such a man to bear.

That day messengers where sent off to Tom and
Will, who came, in haste, thinking it was a
funeral to which they were summoned, to hear
all the tale, and to give their solemn verdict
against their father. They were not afraid of
him now ; they could swear themselves almost aa
fiercely as he could, and he did not overawe
them as he used to do.

The governor oughtn't to have done it,"
Will said to Tom.

He ought to have had more consideration,"
Tom replied. " It doesn't do to treat young
fellows so ; 1 wouldn't have put up with it myself,
and no more will Harry."

"If we've seen the last of him," said the
other, " we know where to lay the fault."

There could not have been a more complete
family unanimity on this point at least.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER XY.

NO NEWS.

BUT neither Will nor Tom had any suggestion
to make, or knew what to do in such an
emergency. They thought it might be well to
write to the office and ask what was known of
him, or to his Liverpool lodgings ; and for themselves,
they were anxious to get back to their
own homes, their wives, and their work. Even
before the afternoon was out they had so far exhausted
the subject of Harry that they were not
unwilling to join their father in an examination
of the Sister to Scythian, and " pass their
opinion" on her, and the high hopes Joscelyn
entertained of her. Joan looked on at this change
of sentiment and subject with a half understanding
and half bewilderment. In other family
troubles before this she too had been glad to

escape from the monotony of a painful subject
with a half scorn and whole impatience of her
mother's persistence in it, exactly like the sentiment
her brothers showed now. Only this time
her own heart was profoundly engaged ; she felt
like her mother, and along with her comprehension
of the feeling of " the boys," had a perfectly new
and bitter sense of their heartlessness, their
stupid indifference, their desire to escape from
this one thing which was more important than
anything else in earth or heaven. What was the
Sister to Scythian in comparison with Harry?
And they had all allowed that Harry's disappearance
was a serious matter: they had not deceived
themselves, or made it out to be some " nonsense
of mother's." This time they had been obliged to
confess there was grave cause for anxiety ; and
then they had gone to the stables with the father
whom they had been unanimous in blaming, and
had given all their minds to the points of the
horse. Joan had never been given to investigating
the feebleness of human character. She
would scarcely have understood the words had
they been suggested to her, or, at least, would
have treated them as too high-flown for ordinary
meaning ; but for once in a way the wonder was

u 2

brought home to her, and she saw and understood
it. " The boys" were sorry about their
brother, sorry that such a thing should have
occurred; annoyed that their domestic affairs
should thus be thrown open to the public, and
more or less sympathetic with their mother, though
not quite sure that it did not serve her right for
making a favourite of her youngest son ; but
when they had expressed these feelings, what
more were they to say ? They could not go on
talking about it for ever ; they could not bring
Harry back if they talked till doomsday; and
besides, when once their opinion was expressed
and their regrets said, Harry was not a subject
of very great importance to them  whereas the
Sister to Scythian might advance the interests of
the family and make the Joscelyn stable celebrated.
And Joan understood it all, she knew
it by herself : yet was angry with a harsh and
disappointed pain which all her reason could
not subdue. Mrs. Joscelyn in the parlour, absorbed
in that one passion of anxiety, did not
even appreciate this failure of the interest of the
others in what was so great a matter to herself
so much as her daughter did.

** What do the boys say ? What do they

think we should do ?" she asked Joan a hundred
times. " What shall we do ? Oh ! Joan, what do
they think we should do ?"

"They are not thinking anything about it,
mother' Joan said. " They are off to the
stables, looking at that beast. They are more
taken up with her than with Harry. An ill-conditioned
brute ! I wish, for my part, she was
at the bottom of the sea ; but set a horse before
the men, and they think of nothing else  if all
the brothers in the world were perishing before
their eyes."

Miss Joan," said a voice behind her, " I am
astonished to hear you say that ; you whom I
have always taken to be such an excellent judge
of a horse yourself."

The two women turned upon the newcomer
with mingled feelings, half angry that he had
intruded upon them, half excited by a sudden
wild hope that a stranger might have some new
light to throw upon a subject which they had
exhausted, for they could not hide their trouble
from him. Mrs. Joscelyn could not speak without
an overflow of tears, and even Joan's eyes
where red, and there was that look of irritation
and vexation and impatience in her face which

comes so naturally to a capable person suddenly-set
down before a painful difficulty which she
can see no way in her experience of coping with.
Selby looked at her with anxious eyes. Was
she angry with him 1 but, if so, there was a
sudden gleam of expectation in her face too,
suddenly looking up at him, as if she had said
within herself, " If help is possible it is here  "
which gave him courage ; and he hastened to
explain with that look and tone of sympathy in
which strangers so often excel those who ought
to be the natural consolers.

I see I have come in at a wrong time," he
said. "I knocked, but I suppose you did not
hear. I ought to go away, but I want to stay :
for you are in trouble, and if I could be of any
use to you "

Mr. Selby is  a true well-wisher," said Joan,
looking with almost timidity at her mother.
She was not given to blushing, but she blushed
now all over her face and her throat, and made
such an appeal with her eyes as those eyes had
never made before. "It will be best to tell
him," she said ; " he, maybe, could think of something;
and what is the use of trying to hide it? it
will soon be all over the country-side."

Indeed I am a well-wisher," he cried; "if I
can do anything, I will do it with all my heart.
If it's about your brother Harry, I've heard something
 " and he looked from Joan to Mrs. Joscelyn
with eyes so full of sympathy that they felt the
look as a sick man feels a cool hand laid upon
his hot forehead.

They told him their story with anxious questions
as to what he had heard. He had heard,
of course, a great deal more than there was to
hear, that Harry had come to blows with his
father, that there had been a struggle and a
fight, and that the young man had been kicked
out of the house. Some added that he lay on
the Fells all night, so much injured was he ; and
there were whispers of vice on Harry's part as
the cause of such a violent proceeding, which
Selby was too wise to betray to the poor women.
When they had told him all they knew, he sprang
up to his feet and looked at his watch with an
air of readiness and capability which at once gave
them hope.

It is quite clear what must be done," he said ;
you must send somebody to Liverpool at once,
this very night. It's too late for the mid-day
train, but the night one will do."

Send somebody to Liverpool I" Joan's countenance
flushed again while her mother's grew pale.

Oh !" cried Mrs. Joscelyn, " but who can we
get to gof while Joan, who had never been
beyond Carlisle in her life, stood up unconsciously
with such a gasp as catches the breath after a
sudden plunge into the sea. She knew nothing
about the world, and she belonged to a generation
which believed that a woman could do nothing
out of her own home ; but a rush of blood came
to her face, and of tremendous energy to her
heart. In the suggestion there seemed so much
hope, although almost as much fear.

Who will you get to go ? Me if you like,"
said Selby, with the benevolent glow of a man who
feels himself a sort of good angel to women in
trouble. " I have nothing very particular to do,
and I have a pass on the railways, and I'm used to
travelling. I will go to-night, and come back tomorrow
night. You will hear sooner that way
than any other way, and it is far easier to make
inquiries personally than by letter and far more
satisfactory."

The colour left Joan's cheek ; there was a little
falling back of relief, yet half disappointment,
from the sudden alarmed temerity of impulse that

had come upon her. She looked at him with, in
the midst of her trouble, a faint  the very
faintest touch of a smile at one corner of her
mouth. " Aha, my lad ! I know what that is for!"
Joan said to herself, swift as lightning ; but even
the interested motive thus revealed was not displeasing
to her, and the whole suggestion went
through her mind like an arrow on the wind,
showing only for a second against the dark atmosphere
of anxiety within.

Oh, Mr. Selby, how could I ask you to do that
for me ? How could I ever repay you for such
kindness?" Mrs. Joscelyn cried, wringing her
tremulous hands. There was no complication of
ideas in her mind. She was bewildered by the
suggestion, by the offer, by this unexampled effort
of friendship. No one had ever offered her such a
service before. To imagine that it was for the love
of Joan that it was offered to her did not enter her
mind. She knew no motive possible, and it filled
her with astonishment  astonishment almost too
great for hope. A journey was a thing which,
in her experience, was only undertaken after
great preparations and much thought. To go
to-day and return tomorrow was a proceeding unknown
to her. And then why should he, a

stranger, not belonging to her, undertake such a
journey for her ? and how could she repay him ?
She had not even money to pay his expenses if
she could have offered payment, and how was
she to make it up to him ? In this strait she
turned her eyes anxiously upon Joan, who was
standing by, silenced by an agitation such as had
never been seen in her before.

*' It is far, far too much trouble," Joan faltered.
If I could go myself "

You !" cried the mother, upon whom the weakness
of her sex and its incapacity had always been
strongly impressed. "Oh, what could you do,
Joan? what can a woman do? They will not
even let a woman into these offices  or so I've
heard. Oh no, no, not you  and it's far too much,
far too much, as you say, to ask  "

You are not asking," said Selby, beaming.
It is I who am offering to do it. I should like
to do it ; it would give me pleasure. You need
not fear I will say anything to hurt his feelings.
I will act as if he were a young brother of
my own. As for the travelling it is nothing, and
it will cost me even next to nothing, for I have
my pass, being engaged on the railway. Not that
I make much of that  for if it cost me ever so

much I should be all the more glad to do it, Mrs.
Joscelyn. To ease your mind I would do anything,"
he said, and this time he glanced at Joan
with a corner of his eye ; but with meaning
enough to make it very distinct to her prepared
intelligence. And at the corner of Joan's mouth,
that infinitesimal curve, became for a second
almost a dimple. How could she help seeing
through him? but she was not displeased.

"And if I find any difficulty in tracing him,"
said Selby, a little carried away by his enthusiasm,
" I will engage a detective  "

But at this Mrs. Joscelyn threw up her hands
with a sudden paleness, and almost fainted;
while Joan looked at him with a sternness that
made the heart of her suitor tremble, as it had
done for a moment when he heard her scolding
Bess in the dairy.

"Do you think my brother is a lad that
should have the police set after him?" she
said.

** It is not the police," said Selby mildly ; but
they were ignorant of all modern habits in this way,
and the suggestion was so great an offence to
them, that it nearly took away all their gratitude
and hope in the proposal he had made. He was

prudent enough to say no more about it ; but took
Harry's address at his lodgings and at his
office, making careful note of everything in away
that went to Mrs. Joscelyn's heart. Her courage
rose as she saw him make these notes. They
looked like something doing, an effort which
must come to some result. To-morrow early
this good friend would be on the spot ; would
see with his eyes and hear with his ears everything
that could be heard or seen ; and she could
not doubt that he would bring light out of the
darkness. Her tears dried as she looked at him ;
the feeble wringing of her hands was stayed  they
clasped each other instead with a tremulous
patience and almost steadiness. Never before
had there been a reasonable being like this, kind
and sympathetic and understanding, to stand by
her in any of her troubles ; it seemed an almost
miraculous goodness to the heart-broken woman.
And Harry must hear reason at the hands of such
a man. If he did so much for her, surely he
would do more for Harry. She was comforted
beyond measure by the very sight of him as he
stood and took down the address. And that he
should be willing to do so much for her, seemed
miraculous to her. She could not think of any
other reason for his kindness.

As for Joan, she was consoled too, partly by
gratitude like her mother's, but partly also by
her insight into Selby's real motive, which her
mother did not guess. Her brow and her eyes
were very grave and heavy still with anxiety ;
but the dimple remained at the corner of her
mouth. She saw through him very well ; he was
not generous or disinterested, as her mother
thought. She knew his motive. And Joan was
not sure yet that it would do him any good notwithstanding
her gratitude. She was by no
means free from a little sidelong sense of that
knavery which is common enough in such
matters. She meant to accept, as far as this
went, his self-devotion, but she was not sure that
the hopes he was building upon it might not be
fallacious hopes, and secretly entertained in her
inmost heart a half-determination to cheat him
yet, and prove him wrong in his reliance upon
the services he was going to render her. But
mingled as this process of thought was, it was on
the whole exhilarating. Her heart rose a little.
She thought more of herself as she caught a
glimpse of herself in Philip Selby's eyes, and asher
self-esteem received a sensible stimulus, her
hopes increased with it. The more we think of

ourselves the more sure we are that good and not
evil will happen to us. There is nothing more
terrible in misfortune than the depression and
sense of demerit which it brings with it. Joan
thought better of herself through the spectacles
which Selby provided, and she could not help
feeling an incipient certainty, not altogether new
to her, that with a person possessing such
qualities as hers all must go well.

Fortified by these hopes, the mother and daughter
saw Tom and Will depart with equanimity.

*' Well, mother," Will said, as he shook her by
the hand (North-country people are not given to
demonstrations of affection), " I hope you'll soon
have word of that boy. You needn't fret : we've
been in a good many scrapes, but we've always
got safe out of them."

Will was the best fellow of the two. Tom
took it altogether more easily.

Yes, yes, you'll hear," he said ; " I'm not the
least afraid. Harry's like the ill-penny that
always turns up. There's nothing that I can see
to fret about."

Joan nodded to them when they got on their
horses with a friendly satisfaction to be quit of
them. She had no ideal to be offended in her

brothers. Mrs. Joscelyn, when her momentary
buoyancy of new hope was over, felt bitterly to
the depths of her foolish heart that her sons
were of a very common, selfish grain, such as some
years ago it would have broken her heart to
think of. She had been drilled into it, and had
yielded to necessity ; but still when something
made her observation clearer she remembered and
felt the downfall. The slow coming down of heart
and hope by which a woman arrives at the fact
that her child is not ideal, nor even excellent, nor
superior in any way to the coarsest common 2)dte of
man, is very gradual. Perhaps the greater number
do not reach it at all, but are content to deceive
themselves and think all their offspring right and
perfect. But Mrs. Joscelyn was not of this
kind. She could not get over her sons' indifference.
" Another man going out to bring
me news  taking all that trouble  a stranger
that is nothing to us  and my own boys, my own
boys caring nothing." Over this again the poor
soul, faithful in all the devices of self-torment,
shed a few bitter tears.

*' Now mother, you are beginning to fuss
again," said Joan, in a vexed tone. " Dear, dear,
haven't we trouble enough f Even she who

shared the real family grief so warmly thought this
one of " mother's fusses," and was impatient at her
folly. *' As if everybody didn't know that Will

and Tom were just Will and Tom," Joan

said to herself. That they had turned out to be so
Instead of being heroes, did not strike her as a
subject of complaint.

Mr. Selby was gone three days. The mission
he had undertaken soon showed itself to be more
difficult than he thought. Harry had gone away
without leaving a trace behind him. He had appeared
at the oflSce for an hour or two quite unexpectedly
before his leave had expired, and paid a
few small debts, and taken away some small articles
which were in his desk, disappearing again
without a word as to his destination. At his lodgings
Harry had not been seen at all. His portmanteau
was there, forlorn in the dusky lobby of the
lodging-house, and the unfortunate hamper, out of
which odours not altogether delightful were proceeding,
and which the mistress of the house implored
Mr. Selby to take away with him. He did
not know what to do: finally, but with great
secrecy, that his principals might not be offended,
he put a detective on Harry's track, such as it was.
But there seemed no track, not so much as a

circle in the water or a footprint upon the soil, to
show where he had gone. Selby had gone to Liverpool
with great confidence in himself; pleased, for
he had a good heart, to please and console these
two women ; but also pleased, for his own part, to
show at once how kind and how clever he was.
He had not a doubt that he would succeed and go
back triumphant, and prove himself so superior
to all the clowns about, that Joan could have no
further hesitation ; and it was in this confidence,
being so sure that the work he had taken up
would be prosperous, that he had set out upon his
mission. But when he returned his mind was
very different ; he was greatly depressed, not
only with the sense that what he had to tell
was unsatisfactory, but that his own prestige
would be seriously impaired. He had left home
with the conviction that he would find everything
out and set everything right ; that neither would
adverse fate be able to baffle him in the wisdom
of his investigations, nor Harry be able to resist
his brotherly-fatherly representations. And when
Philip Selby found nothing but a blank void, in
which there was nobody to persuade and remonstrate
with, he felt himself tumble down from the
vantage ground which he had thought so certain.

VOL. I. X

How was he to go back and say he had failed '?
His detectives had indeed done their best to buoy
him np with hope; but he was obliged to come
back with no news, presenting a very blank
countenance to the anxious looks of the mother and
sister. The first sight of him sent their hearts
down, down to the very depths.

He is not there, Mrs. Joscelyn ; but I hope
soon to hear news of him," he said deprecating,
as if it had been his fault  which was not the
satisfactory position he had hoped to hold incoming
back.

And then the fact had to be faced in all its
simplicity. Harry had disappeared. The firm
could throw no light on the question. They did
not know where he had gone, nor why he had
gone. He had gone honourably, that was alp,
had got payment of the salary which was due to
him, and had settled various little debts which
he was owing. Nobody knew anything of larger
liabilities, if he had them. He was gone absolutely,
without leaving a trace behind. His employers
were surprised by the inquiries, not giving much
importance as yet to the fact that he had exceeded
his time of leave ; but they could give no information,.
and satisfy oo anxiety He was gone.

that was all about it. The whole tale was
written in Selby's face to the two anxious
women who had awaited him with so much
hope.

X 2

CHAPTER Xii.

WHAT can't be cured MUST BE ENDURED.

ALL great evils are more intolerable, more
terrible, before than after they come. It
seems to us in advance as if the mind could
never accustom itself to such a change, or life
close over the wound. And yet, when but a
very short time has elapsed, we find that obedient
Nature has accepted and acknowledged the inevitable
fact, and that use and wont, so rent
asunder by the change, have begun to throw new
fibres of their cobweb tissue over the chasm.
There was a moment when poor Mrs. Joscelyn
thought that she could not bear this rending
asunder. She turned her face to the wall and
closed her eyes, and declared that she could not
endure the light. She lay thus for weeks, but

not in any stupor ; on the contrary, with every

sense alert, and all standing sentinel, hearing

Harry's step in every sound outside, and divining

him in every whisper of the wind. She had no

objection to the detective now, but was kept

alive from morning to morning by the news

which Selby brought her, scraps of news entirely

delusive, but which kept a fire of agitation and

expectation alive in her heart. Selby spent a

great deal of money upon the detective with

little use, an expense which neither Joan nor

her mother divined or thought of. To them he

had said at first that he had left a " friend" on

the spot to pursue the inquiry, and they had not

doubted his statement. But by-and-by there

came a time when the expenditure seemed to

him no longer necessary. He was not rich,

although he was sufficiently well-ofi*, and it was

doing no good, neither in respect to Harry nor

to Joan, who was short and sharp with him in

her angry grief, and seemed almost to blame him

for the catastrophe altogether ; and, indeed, Joan

was unreasonably sharp. She could not help

asking within herself what was the good of a

man if he could not do as much as this ? She

felt sure that if she had gone herself she must

have discovered something ; and she began to get
sick of the sight of Selby coming up to the White
House morning after morning with his no news.
It provoked her entirely without reason ; his long
face provoked her. If he would but stay away
and hold his tongue when he could do no good !
She was all the more unjust to him, perhaps,
that she had secretly built upon his success
almost as much as he himself had done, and had
felt that it would justify anything that might
follow out of gratitude for such a service. But
the service had not been accomplished, though it
had cost more trouble and expenditure of one
sort and another than if it had been successfully
done, and not only was Joan very
miserable about her brother, but she was
thrown out altogether in respect to the suitor,
who had, she grudgingly allowed to herself,
established a certain claim upon her by his
efforts, even though he had not been successful.
She was very difficult to get on with, all the
household acknowledged, at this period. A
lover might well have been alarmed had he heard
her voice lifted high in the dairy, and in the
house, setting everything in order. Woe to the
maid who neglected her work in these days, or

the man either. Joan came upon them like a
thunderstorm; there were times when Selby',
stalking up to the house with his bulletin, heard
her and trembled. If this was how she was
going to be, would it not be wiser in a lover to
give up such a dangerous pursuit? But though
it gave him a cold shiver he persevered, and took
her sharpness gently, and bore with her unreason,
having a soul above his judgment. There were
times when this little conflict going on within
him, and the trial of his faithful purpose over all
doubts, was visible in his countenance, betraying
Joan to a momentary amusement in the midst of
her irritation and trouble ; and she would be still
sharper to him afterwards  then break into a
short laugh within herself. It was her only
diversion in her trouble to see how Selby got
frightened and swerved, and then took heart
again.

I'm enough to give any decent man a fright,"
Joan said to herself, with her half laugh ; and it
was true that she. led the household, as all the
maids said, " a terrible life."

But Mrs. Joscelyn lay with her face to the
wall, and moaned by times : hut generally listened,
listened, night and day, her whole being concentrated

into her ears. She got a kind of monomania
on the subject. He seemed to her to be
always coming home, on the road, drawing nearer
and nearer. Joan, dozing in a chair by her bedside,
when she was at her worst, she would wake
up suddenly and implore to go down to the door
and look out.

Somebody went by and stopped, I am sure
he stopped and looked to see if there was anyone
up. Run down, run down, and open to him,
Joan !"

Joan did it a dozen times at least, and standing
at the open door in the middle of the night,
looking over the black invisible country, or into
the pale moonlight which revealed it in a vague
whiteness, would shed a few tears, and feel the
night wind go chill to her heart before she shut
and locked again the door that had been once
closed upon her brother.

Oh, there's a deal of mother in him, the Lord
have a care of him !" Joan would say : and going
back again, add : " There was no one, I knew
very well there was no one ; I went to humour
you. Now just you humour me and go to sleep,
go to sleep, poor dear !" and she would smooth the
pillow and the bed very softly for all her scolding.

It was a dreadful day, the day on which the
portmanteau came back, and the hamper, which
smelt so badly, and which was now a half rotten
mass, not fit even for the pigs. To see them
coming in the cart from the station was like a
funeral; the very horse went slowly though he was
wont to break into a clumsy canter as soon as he
came within sight of his stable. Even the dumb
beast felt it, old Simon said ; and the man got
the things out very quietly, and carried them upto
Harry's room with solemnity, as they might
have carried his coffin. Joan unpacked all his
clothes again as she had folded them, with her
tears falling like rain. She put them back in
his drawers with many a dismal thought. Would
he ever come back to find them all there waiting
for him ? or was it over for ever, and would Harry
never enter the house again ? The arrival of these
relics increased Mrs. Joscelyn's sufferings so
much that the doctor had to be sent for, who
made but one prescription, succinct, in one word :
Liddy :" for he knew the family well, and all
its members. Joan clasped her hands together
as the thought struck her. "And me never to
have thought of that! It shows the head I
must have," she said.

And this was how it came about that suddenly,
without anyone knowing of it, one afternoon
when Joan had been absent for an hour or two,
there arose a sudden commotion in the house, a
clanging of doors, a sound of voices, a rush up
the stairs of something that was between the
flight of a bird and the blowing of a brisk wind
and th patter of airy steps  a movement, and a
sentiment of fresh life, and arrival, and new hope.
It was not a noise the creature was too light, too
melodious for that : her step scarcely touched the
stair, the door which she pushed open did not
bang as when other hands touched it, but flew
round upon its hinges as airy as herself: and
when she flung herself upon the bed with a soft
cry of " Mother !" the whole place seemed full
of her, brightening and growing warm with pleasure.
Mrs. Joscelyn turned round with an answering
cry, and took happiness into her feeble
arms with a shock of sudden consolation that
sent the blood into motion again in her
veins. She was not happy herself, poor soul I
but happiness stood by her bed, and clasped her
neck, and breathed into her its soft natural
sweetness.

Oh, my Liddy, my Liddy !the poor woman said.

Liddy was all in a commotion of gladness to
get hack ; to stop her lessons in mid-career of the
"half;" to be of such importance that she was
sent for to help and cure her mother. Harry's
loss was a very secondary matter to the girl, who
had not seen very much of Harry, nor had ever
been used to look upon him as a necessary part
of home ; but she listened to all the story, which
her mother found a great relief in telling her
from beginning to end, with a childish pleasure
in  the tale as well as sympathy with the
teller.

Oh, but he'll come back," Liddy said, with a
happy confidence, which made far more impression
on her mother than all that had been said
by people who knew a great deal better than
Liddy.

Do you think so, ray darling ?" she asked
with piteous eyes  as if the child could tell. Joan
looking on, and much advantaged herself by
the little stir of mind which her resolution to
send for Liddy, and the prompt carrying out of
the same, had roused within her, could not but
laugh once more that sharp laugh of mingled
amusement and wonder, to see how efficacious her
remedy was.

Mother's very queer when all's done,"
she said to herself. She had done everything
for everybody throughout all this troubled
moment ; but Liddy, who could do nothing save
kiss Mrs. Joscelyn's white face and warm her
chilly hands, and promise with confident ignorance,
" Oh, but he'll come back," was of far
greater account than she. But it was a great
relief to her mind all the same. And by and
by this great event which had disturbed even the
the rude soul of Ralph Joscelyn, and filled him
with shame and angry confusion, began to be a
thing they were all used to, and which had
entered into the fabric of their lives.

END OP THE FIRST VOLUME.

London : Printed by A. Schulze, 13, Poland Street.

f(

rC

UM

[>. T

L

M

c

3

fm

#

,sar

PC

NOTICE: Return or renew all Library Materials! The Minimum Fee for
each Lost Book is $50.00.

The person charging this material is responsible for
its return to the library from which it was withdrawn
on or before the Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons for disciplinary
action and may result in dismissal from the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

'ray 1 3 soda

L161 O-1096

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/harryjoscelyn02olip

YOL. II.

BY

MRS. OLIPHANT

AUTHOR OF

Cfje dTSronfcUs of CarlingfottJ,

&c., &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT Marlborough STREET.

1881.

All rights resented.

HAKKY JOSCELYN.

CHAPTER I.

HARRY'S RESOLUTION.

THERE is nothing that grows and strengthens
with thinking of it like the sense of personal
injures Harry Joscelyn had been very
angry when he left home ; but he was not half so
angry at that moment as when he looked out of
the window of the railway carriage, as the
train swept through the valley, and saw in the
distance the village roofs, over which, had there
been light enough, and had his eyes served him
so far, he might have seen the White House
seated, firm and defiant, upon the Hillside. And
every mile that he travelled his wrath and indignation
grew. When he reached Liverpool
he had formed his purpose beyond the reach of

VOL. II. B

argument, or anything that reason could say;
and reason said very little in the general excitement
of his being. He had been turned out of
his home, he had been refused the money by
which he thought he could have made his fortune.
He felt himself cast off by everybody
belonging to him. His mother had permitted
that final outrage, he thought; for surely she
could have found means of help if she had chosen
to exert herself. His Uncle Henry had bought
himself off, and got rid of a troublesome applicant
by the gift of that twenty pounds. They
were all against him. He thought of it and
thought of it till they seemed to be all his
enemies, and at last he came to believe that they
were glad to get quit of him, to be done with
him. This was the aspect under which he contemplated
his relations with his family when he
got to Liverpool ; and the effect upon him was
that of a settled disgust with all the ordinary
habits of his life, and its fashion altogether.
When he thought of returning to the office, to
his former routine as clerk, the idea made him
sick. It seemed to him that he could do anything,
or go anywhere, rather than this. But
though the impulse of abandoning all he had

been or done hitherto was instantaneous, he could
not quite settle in a moment, with the same
rapidity, what he was to do, or be, in the future. He
crossed to the other side of the ojreat river with his
little bag of " vestments," the linen Mrs. Eadie
had bought for him and a few other indispensable
things which he had himself procured, and lived in
one of the villages there, which have now grown
into towns, watching the ships go b} and leaving
his mind open to any wandering impulse that
might lay hold upon it. In these days the River
Mersey was a great sight, as probably it is still.
To the idle young man, accustomed to some share
in the perpetual commotion of that coming and
going, there was meaning in every one of the
multitudinous ships that lay at anchor in the
great stream, or glided out, full-sail, to the sea,
or were poked and dragged away bj a restless,
toiling little slave of a steam-tug, carrying off its
prey like one of the devils of the Inferno. He
knew where they were going, and what these had
to bring from afar, and all about their bills of
lading and the passengers they carried. The river
had not to him that grandeur of prose which
becomes poetry, and fact which turns to romance,
in less accustomed minds ; but was only a huge

B 2

highway, a big street full of crowds coming and
going, over which he brooded, wondering where
he should plunge into the tide of movement, and
how take his first step out of the horizons which
hitherto had bounded him. He did not say, as
his mother might have done, " Oh, for the wings
of a dove !" but he put that profound breath of
human impatience into nineteenth century prose,
and said to himself, " If I had but a steamboat,
a yacht, anything to take me out of reach of all
of them, where they will never hear of me
again !" He was not rich enough, however, to
hope for a yacht, so that all he could really do
was to decide what " boat" he would go with,
and whether he should turn his steps across the
Atlantic, or choose another quarter of the world
in which to become another man.

He went to the office one day, as Philip Selby
discovered, and asked for the amount of
salary due to him, and purchased a few more
necessary articles of clothing ; and he wrote to
the persons to whom he owed moneys, telling
them that he was about to leave Liverpool, but
would send them their money without fail within
a certain period. He did not know how this
was to be done but he was resolute to do it, and

he had no more doubt on the matter than he had
that he should perfectly succeed in his plunge into
the unknown. But after he had done this he
remained for some da3s longer by the river-side
with a self-contradictory impulse, watching the
ships go by, and putting off the execution of his
project. Where was he to go ? To resolve to
give up his own identity, to separate himself forever
from his family, and all his belongings, and
all his antecedents, was easy; but to make up
his mind which boat he was to go by, and whither
he was to betake himself, was much more difficult.
America was so hackneyed, he said to
himself, with that fastidious impatience and disgust
which is one of the characteristics of a sick
soul : everybody goes to America ; it would bethe
first idea that would occur to everyone ; and
this made him throw away that first suggestion
angrily, as if it had been an offence ; but if not
to America, then where ? He tossed about
various names in his mind, satisfied with none,
and when at last he made his decision, it was
made in a moment, with the same kind of sick
disgust and impatience as had made him reject
the other ideas as they presented themselves.
He was crossing the river to Liverpool, leaning

over the side of the ferry steamboat lest anybody
should see and recognize him, and in
his own mind passing in review the advantages
and disadvantages of all the ships he passed.
The Mersey was very full and very bright, the
sun shining, a brisk breeze blowing, the sky blue,
the great estuary throwing up white edges of
spray and leaping here and there against the
bows of an out-going boat, in a manner which
boded little comfort to unaccustomed sailors outside
the shelter of its banks. The opposite shore
was still clothed with trees beginning to grow
green in the earliest tints of spring, and not unpleasantly
mingled with the beginnings of docks
and traces of mercantile invasion. Nature, as
yet, had not given up her harmonizing power;
the touches of colour on the masts, a national flag
flying here and there, even the sailors' washing
fluttering among the yards, was an addition to
the brilliancy of the spring lights. The ferryboat
was full of people, though it was not the
hour for business men to be moving about. The
freight was a more varied one than that mass of
black-coated figures which weighed it down to
the water's edge in the morning. But Harry
turned his back upon them all, and looked over

I wouldn't go in that boat for the world'' someone
said. The remark caught Harry's ear, and
roused him into mere wantonness of opposition.
Vhy ?" he said to himself aloud. It did not
matter whether it was said loud or low, nobody
but himself could hear it as he leaned over the
rushing water. " I'll go." He was in such a
condition of perversity that this was all he wanted
to fix his purpose.

He landed on the Liverpool side, no longer
languidly, but with the air of a man who has
something to do, and went straight to examine
the ship and ascertain where to apply for his

passage. She was bound for Leghorn. He went
stepping briskly forth to the office of the agent,
and then with a mixture of economy and gentility,
still conscious of the importance of the family
from which he was about to cut himself off,
took a passage in what was called the second
cabin.

What name ?" said the clerk. What name ?
he had not considered this question. Should he
give his own name, thus leaving a clue to anyone
who chose to inquire? The doubt, the
question was momentary : " Isaac Oliver," he said,
and looked the man in the face as if defying contradiction.
But the clerk had no idea of contradicting
him ; as well Isaac Oliver as Harry
Joscelyn to the stranger, who knew nothing about
either. Five minutes after he could not tell
what had put this name into his head ; but his
fate was decided, and beyond correction. He
went home with a curious feeling in his
mind, not sure whether it was amusement, or
shame, or anger with himself and fate. It was
all three together. He was himself no longer, he
had thrown away his birthright. What had
tempted him to take the name of Isaac Oliver he
could not explain. He laughed, but his laugh was

not pleasant. He was annoyed and appalled and
disgusted with himself, but he could not alter that
now. All the evening he roamed about the riverbank,
looking at the ships going out and in, and
the little steamers rustling and fuming across the
gleaming water, and all the many coloured symbols
and ceaseless industry of the scene, with a
strange sense of having lost himself, of having
so to speak died in the middle of his life. He
could not get over it. He was living in a little
inn which had been turned into a sort of suburban
tea-garden, instead of the little neat ale-house it
once was. The weather was ver' fine and warm,
though it was so early in the season, and every
steamboat disgorged a crowd of visitors to sit
under the half open foliage of the trees, and in the
damp little arbours. Harry avoided all these
visitors in the fear of meeting some one who might
know him. Harry ! he was not Harry any longer.
The mere giving of the false name had changed
him. He did not know who he was. He was confused
and confounded with the sudden difference.
Had some one called out Harry Joscelyn quickly,
he thought that it would no longer have occurred
to him to answer. He was not Harry Joscelyn ;
and who was he 1 The name he had chosen, or

which some malicious spirit had put into his
head, seemed to float before him wherever he
went. He shuffled in his walk unconsciously ashe
fled from himself along the margin of the
great flood. What had he done ? He had abandoned
not only his own name and family', but his
own condition, his place in life. Wherever he
went, he would be known as a peasant, a common
countryman, he thought, never thinking in
his pre occupation that the strangers among
whom he was going knew just as much about
Isaac Oliver as about Harry Joscelyn. The night
grew dark, and the great river gleamed with a
thousand sparkles of light like glowworms. Little
vessels, each with a coloured lantern, went darting
across and across, lights swung steadily with a
sort of dreamy regular cadence from the stationary
ships. The stars above were not more manifold
than those little lamps below. The quiet of the
night had hushed the sounds of the great city on
the other side, and all the heavy hammers and
the din of machinery : but still life was huss,
coming and going, darting on a hundred messages ;
pilot boats steaming out to sea, little dark tug-boats
bringing back cargoes of souls out of the
unknown. But Harry thought of nothing save of

the strange, unpremeditated step he had taken ;
that one incident filled all the earth to him ; a
momentary impulse, a deed that was scarcely his,
and yet he felt that it would colour all his life.
He stayed out till the passenger boats had stopped
and all the visitors were gone. The little inn
was shut up and dark, all but one little querulous
candle sitting up for him, when he went home :
home! he called this temporary refuge by
that sacred name involuntarily  just such a
home he now said bitterly, as he would have
for the rest of his life. Fortunately next day
the Leghorn boat was to sail, and his new start
would be made without time to think about it anymore.


Isaac Oliver took possession of his berth next
morning. He went on board early, and lounged
about the deck aU day. For the first time this
morning it occurred to him that they might send
after him, that his departure could not have passed
altogether without notice among his friends. He
had not thought of this before, but now it came
upon him with some force. They would try to
stop him at the last moment. The very name he
had chosen would betray him, for who but Harry
Joscelyn would call himself Isaac Oliver? He

kept on the further side of the ship, leaning over
the bulwarks, and watched everybody who went
or came with jealous eyes. Tardy passengers
came on board one after another, bringing
luggage and new items of cargo and provisions ;
there was scarcely a moment without some
arrival, and every one of them, Harry felt, must
be for him. When at last the gangway was
detached, the anchor weighed, the latest idler or
porter put on shore, and the very screw in motion,
he felt sure there must be some last attempt,
some appeal from the quay. " Have you one of
the name of Harry Joscelyn there ?" he thought
he could actually hear them calling ; and saw the
rapid examination of the list of passengers, and
the shaking of heads of the captain and his immediate
assistants, who were standing together
high above all the others. When there could
be no longer any doubt that the steamboat was
off, and that no appeal of the kind had been
made, a quick and hot sense of offence came over
Harry. He had been alarmed by the idea of
being identified and stopped at the outset of his
voyage : but as soon as he was certain that he
was to be allowed to proceed peaceably on that
voyage, his heart burned within him with a sense

of injury. Now it was indeed all ended and allover,
his life, his name, everything to vrhich he
had been accustomed in the past. He went below
to his berth, with a sense of complete abandonment
and desolation which it would be impossible
to describe. It appeared to him that until now
he had only been playing with the idea, amusing
himself with all the preparations for a change
which would never really take place, which somehow
would be stopped and prevented at the end.
But nobody had put forth a finger to stop him,
and now the end was accomplished and beyond
all remedy. Up to the time he came on shipboard
he had not thought of being stopped, but
now he felt as if he had expected it all the time,
and was grievously injured and heartlessly abandoned
by all the world and by all his relations,
not one of whom would lift a finger on his behalf.
He went down to his shabby berth in the second
cabin, and felt much disposed, like his mother,
to turn his face to the wall. But, perhaps fortunately
for Harry, the sea was rough, and when
the vessel steamed out of the Mersey and felt the
full commotion of the waves outside, he was
sick, and not in a condition to care for anything.


Ill this way he lost the thread of his trouble
for the first two days : and then novelty and
excitement began to tell upon him, and he came
altogether to himself. No, not to himself: he did
not feel clear about who he was or what. He
came to  Isaac Oliver, looking that new personage
in the face with a bewildered awe of him and
wonder at him. Isaac Oliver ! who, he wondered
vaguely, could he be ? not a son of old Isaac,
who had only little children  a nephew or a
cousin, some off-shoot of the family, if the Olivers
could be called a family, a suggestion at which
he smiled in spite of himself. That must be who
he was, the offspring of a race of peasants, no
better blood, no other pretensions. The 
were a very different class of people, but
he had given them up, he had shaken off all
bonds between them and himself. " In for a
penny, in for a pound," he said to himself, setting
his face to it with a smile, as the steamboat bore
up along the Italian coast, and " the old miraculous
mountains hove in sight." Harry did not
feel any special interest in Italy : he was of the
class who never travel, and understand but little
why one place should be more interesting than
another. And, indeed, Leghorn does not sound

like Italy to any traveller. What he knew of it
was that it was a busy sea-port, where there
were merchants' offices and a thriving trade. He
did not interest himself much about anything
else. He had his living to make, alone and unbefriended
in a strange country : need was that
he should collect himself and pluck up a heart
and think what he was to do, now that he was so
near the place of his destination  or, at least, not
what he, but young Isaac Oliver, was to do.
Would any merchant take him in without character,
without introduction or testimonial ? This
thought was like a cold breath going through
and through him, when he began to think. But
he had still a little money in his pocket, and
could afford to wait and look about him for a
week or two. There is always something turning
up in a busy place. And Harry, accustomed
to occupation all his life, could not believe that
he would ever starve where there was anything
to do.

They had touched at various other ports on
the way, whose chief claims to be visited were
such as Harry had little understanding of, and
the eagerness of his fellow-passengers to get on
shore and see these places had surprised him.

For his own part, he did not see the fun of going
to see a succession of churches and pictures. He
had seen but few pictures in his life, and he had
never been taught that they were of much importance.
He had, indeed, privately, an honest
contempt for such things, though he said little
about it. He was disposed to ask, " What are
you all staring at?" when he was brought face
to face with an early Master, a thing which he
would have banished into the darkest corner had
it been his. But when he got into the harbour
at Leghorn he began to feel himself once more
dans son assiette. He knew what the docks
meant, and appreciated the masts of the shipping
better than if they had been the most delicate
works of art. It was nothing to Liverpool, but
it was something he could understand and felt
at home with. He landed in better spirits than
he had experienced for a very long time. He
felt a moral certainty that he should " get on "
here.

But what a shock it was when the unaccustomed
Englishman stepped first on shore, and
found himself in the midst of a strange life, of
which he did not understand even the first word !
He knew very well, of course, that it was a

foreign place, and that English was not spoken
there ; but he never had realized that it would be
impossible by speaking loudly, or using a sort of
broken English, or some other simple contrivance,
to make the barbarous natives understand. Even
an individual much better educated than poor
Harry may be excused if the shock of that extraordinary
solitude and isolation which surrounds
him when he finds himself incapable of understanding
a word of what is going on, is a surprise
and irritation as well as a discomfort. He
stood on the quay with his little portmanteau
by him  after having been rowed over endless
links of basins, all full of clear green sea-water,
cut like a great jelly by the progress of the boat,
to the landing-place  and stood there aghast, and,
indeed, agape, hustled by the crowd, and with a
grinning porter on each side of him making
offers of incomprehensible service. He would not
deliver himself over into the hands of an such
harpies he was resolved, not even when they
addressed him in a word or two of English,
though the sound was as balm to his ears. He
stood over his portmanteau and angrily pushed
the facchini away, but at last got hold of a lad
whose appearance pleased him, who was tidier
VOL. n. c

than the rest. To lira Harry said "Hotel?" ina
sort of half-questioning, half-suggestive way;
but this was not enough to get him clear of the
officious crowd, who flew at him with names
which conveyed no meaning to his ears. Harry
felt like a man caught in a hailstorm as he
was pelted with those big sonorous syllables. He
grew furious with confusion and bewilderment.
He had not been thought specially strong on
the Fells, but here his North-country muscles
told. He pushed away the crowd, who he
thought were making a joke of him, and took up
his own portmanteau. " The gentleman is all
right," said some one beside him ; " you have no
education, you are without manners, you others,"
and somebody took off a hat and made a salutation,
somebody who reached to about Harry's
elbow. It was civil, and the first part of the
sentence had been said in English, so Harry,
learning by experience, conquered his wrath, and
was civil too. " Can I perhaps indicate a hotel ? "
this new personage said ; " Mister is an English ?"
Harry stood still and looked down upon his new
acquaintance, not quite clear as to the meaning of
what he said. He was a little man, small and
dainty, dressed with quaint care, with high shirt-collars,

and a large black cravat tied in a bow,
and the most shining of black hats, which he
took off when he spoke. He was olive-complexion,
with big, dark, soft Italian e3'es.
"Mister is an English"' he said; "by paternity
I am an English, too. I will indicate a hotel if
the gentleman chooses. It will deliver him from
la ganglia, what you call this rabbet," he added,
with an ingratiating smile, and a great rattle of
his rs. It was mere good-nature, but Harry was
by no means sure of this, and he knew that
foreigners were deceivers. " Thanks, I won't
trouble you," he said, abruptly, and lifting his
portmanteau  it was not a big one  strode away.
He felt angry and depressed, yet excited. The
astonished look of the little man, who made him
another bow, and replaced his hat with a shrug of
his shoulders at the Englishman's want of manners,
added to his discomfiture. Perhaps he had
made a fool of himself by re fusing those good offices
which were offered to him, Harry thought. Perhaps
he would have been a bigger fool had he
accepted. Perhaps they were all in a conspiracy
to rob him. He strode on and on, somewhat
ashamed of his own appearance with the
portmanteau, as if he were too poor toc

2

pay anyone to carry it, and thoroughly
bewildered altogether amid the sounds and sights
which he did not understand. But at the end he
got into an inn where there was some one who
spoke English, not such a usual accomplishment
in these days as it is now ; and where he got a room
which was very strange of aspect to the untravelled
young man. The half hour which he
passed there, seated upon the odd little bed, with
his portmanteau at his feet upon the tiled floor,
all so strange, so desolate to Harry, was as terrible
a moment as he had ever passed in his life.
His very soul was discouraged, sunk low in his
breast with a kind of physical drop and downfall.
It was all he could do not to burst out crying in
his forlornness and helplessness and solitude.
What could he do in a place where he did not
understand a word ? In many cases novelty is
delightful, but there are some in which it is the
most dreadful of all depressing circumstances.
Everything, from the dingy tiles under his feet,
and the dark eating-room downstairs, with its
unaccustomed smells, up to the blaze of the
Italian noon, and the incomprehensible tongue
that everybody spoke, weighed upon Harry. He
covered his face with his hands, sitting there upon

his bed. What evil fate had led him to this
unknown place ? What should he do without
even a name that belonged to him, without a
friend ? A gasp came into his throat, and the
hand that covered his eyes was wet. He felt
himself bowed down to the very ground.

After thus " giving way," however, Harry
braced himself up, and recovered at least the
appearance of courage. He made the best toilette
he could by the help of the small washing
utensils, which were not so entirely abhorrent to
English customs then as they are now  for baths
were not very general, and washing-basins were
but small, in the first quarter, if not the first
half, of this century. And then he sallied forth
refreshed into a new world.

CHAPTER II.

A NEW WORLD.

HARRY strayed about the town during the afternoon,
losing his way, and finding it again ;
but got back to the hotel before the important hour
of dinner, of which the English-speaking waiter
had informed him. He was less amused than
depressed with all he saw. The perpetual talk
that seemed to be going on around him sharp,
varied, high-pitched, incomprehensible  gave him
at first a sense of offence, as if all these people
were doing it on purpose in order to bewilder
him, and afterwards a profound feeling of discouragement.
He was not clever he was aware.
He had never been very great at his school work,
and how was he to accomplish the first preliminary,
the very initial step of existence here,

the learning of the language, to which he had no
clue, and of which he could not make out one
word ? It seemed to him as if sears must elapse
before he could master the very rudiments of the
new tongue ; and how was he to seek for work,
or to get work to do, not knowing the very ABC
of the life about him ? Harry went doubling
about the unfamiliar streets, looking with wistful
eyes at every passer-by who had the look of an
Englishman, and asking himself what he was todo.
He did not seem to have any spirit left for
the uphill work of learning a language. There
rose up before him a vision of the exercises which
he had once laboured at, daubing himself with
ink, and of the verbs which he had got by heart
overnight only to forget them in the morning.
To think that he could not even ask his way !
Wherever he strayed he looked at the people helplessly,
as if he had been dumb, and anxiously
examined all the street corners, without venturing
to approach any shop, or lay himself open to any
encounter. He was more fortunate than might
have been expected in this point, for he found the
right street corner at last, and the house, with its
strange old courtyard, and the long dark sala
which looked into it, and in which the guests

were already gathering. The house had a good
reputation, and the large room was nearly full.
Harry, who had never seen anything of the kind
before, saw the people take their places, each
appropriating his own turned down chair, and
half finished bottle of wine, and looked for his own
place with a curious sense of the everyday character
to the others of all these proceedings,
which to him were so unusual. Yesterday, at the
same hour, no doubt they had all been here, and
last year, and as long as anybody could recollect,
munching a slice from the long Italian
loaf, the yard of bread which of itself astonished
his simple-minded ignorance. To think that with
such an air of routine and long establishment this
dinner should have been happening methodically
every day while he was pursuing his work at
Liverpool, or taking his holiday at home. At
home I The words sounded like a bitter sarcasm
to the young man, who had no home who had
now no identity, no self to fall back upon, but
had begun to exist, so to speak, only a few days
ago. And to think this table, with all its soils
and steams, should have been waiting for him all
this time!

'' 'Ere, Sarr, 'ere," said the English-speaking

waiter, his black eyes rolling in his head with
pride and pleasure in this exhibition of his gift
of languages. He was holding the back of a
chair which had been carefully turned down, and
was placed between a fat old Italian, with an
enormous depth of double chin, and a small
figure, which Harry recognised at once as that of
the man who had spoken to him on the quay.
'* De gentleman speak English," said the waiter,
bowing with amiability and pleasure. Harry, it
is to be feared, did not appreciate the exertions
made in his behalf. The little stranger, on his side,
was as smiling and bland as the attendant, delighted
to make himself agreeable. They both
thought it the most pleasant thing in the world
to surprise the sulky and speechless Englishman
with a companion to whom he could talk.
Mister have found his way after all to the
Leone," said his friend, " I wish myself joy of it.
It is what I most did desire. He is the best hotel,
the very best hotel in all Livorno. Most of the
strangers, what we call forester, find their ways
here. Mister will find himself very comfortable ;
the kitchen is excellent, and the chambers  the
chambers ! " here the little man spread out his
hands with ecstatic admiration, '' so clean, so

comfortable; everything an Englishman desire."
Harry was cross, and he was suspicious. He
thought the reappearance of his first acquaintance
looked like a conspiracy, and that probably between
the man and the waiter it was an understood
thing that the Englishman, who was so
ignorant, should be made to pay for his initiation
into foreign ways. But he had no intention of
being made to pay if he could possibly help
it. He had not the slightest understanding of
the waiter's benevolent wish to make him comfortable,
or the innocent satisfaction of the other, at
once in showing off himself and his acquirements
and showing kindness to a stranger. Harry did
not realize the national character in both, which
made them pleased to serve him, and anxiously on
the watch for the look of pleasure which they anticipated
as their reward. An English servant
would have looked on with anticipations of another
kind. He would have watched to see the
stranger's hand stealing into his pocket : and on
this point no doubt Antonio had as sharp an eye
as anyone ; but his Italian soul, asked for
something more ; he wanted to see a glow of
pleasure in the face of the person to whom he
had just, as he thought, done a service. Harry

refused to pay in this wise. His countenance,
somewhat dark before, settled down into a heavier
gloom. He drew in his chair to the table roughly,
losing part of his companion's address : and he
did not look at the young man who was talking
to him, or give him any recompense for the effort
he was making. After a while he made a remark,
but it was not a very civil one " Why do you
call me Mister ?" was what he said.

The stranger looked at him, complacent still,
but yet a trifle abashed  "Because," he said,
stroking a small moustache, and fixing his eyes
upon Harry with a smiling yet deprecating glance,
I do not know the gentleman's name."

"Even if you don't know a fellow's name,"
said Harry, ruthless, " it isn't English to say
Mister. Mister is a title of contempt." Here the
horrified look of his new acquaintance made him
pause. "I mean when it's used alone without
the name. Low people sometimes use it so  but
nobody who speaks decent English," Harry said.
As he spoke the stranger's olive countenance
caught flame and grew crimson. He laughed an
embarrassed, uncomfortable little laugh.

*' It is that I am mistaken," he said; "I have not
spoke English much. The gentleman will pardon

my error. My name is Paolo Thompson' he said,
with a little wave of the hand, introducing himself.

"You would like to know my name," said
Harry.

The Italian-englishman replied, not with any
expression of offence, but with a smiling bow.

'' My name is " he made a pause. He
looked at the interested countenance beside him,
a sense of the ludicrous mingling with his
suspicious distrust of all strangers and foreigners.
What did it matter what he said to a little impostor
like this ? " Oliver," he added, with a
laugh. He almost thought the little fellow,
though not an Englishman, must see the incongruity,
the absurdity, of associating the name of
Oliver with such a person as Harry Joscelyn. It
suddenly became a practical joke to him, a masquerade
which everyone must see through.

live," said little Thompson, with a long

emphasis upon the first letter, and a hurried
slur over the rest ; " that right ? aright I Mister
0 Ivr/'

Not Mister," said Harry, growing benevolent
as he felt a little amusement steal over him, and
he tried to give his new acquaintance the 'nuance
of sound which divides the Mr. of English use

and wont from the two distinct syllables of which
Paolo was so fond. They grew friends over this
attempt at unity of pronunciation, or rather Harry
permitted himself to grow friendly, and to ask
himself what harm this little foreigner could do
him-a little hop o' my thumb, whom he could
lift in one hand. As he laughed over his new
friend's attempt to catch the difference of sound,
his friendly feeling increased. He felt his
superiority more and more, and in that superiority
his suspicions melted away. As for little Paolo he
took everything amiably. He had no objection
to be laughed at.

You mean not bad," he said, " I know ; you
mean not to make angry. Laugh, it is a way of
us English. My father was an Englishman. I
never know him ; he was died before I am born ;
but I too am an English by origin. It is for that
I have my place. I am Interpreter. I put what
you say in Italian. I put what one would
say to you in English. Thus I please to both,"
said the little man with lively satisfaction ; and
he laughed when Harry laughed with genuine
good faith. Perhaps it was the reaction from
his past despondency which made Harry laugh so
much, perhaps the little bravado of a stranger

feeling himself gazed at and isolated among a
crowd of people alien to him. He attracted the eyes
of all the guests at the table-d'hote especially of
some Americans who had come in late, and one
other Englishman who regarded him gloomily
from the other end of the table, and concluded
that his countryman was having too much to
drink, but that it was not his business. Harry
was not taking too much to drink; he was
making wry faces at the soar Nostrils, which
was the only wine provided without a special order.
Harry did not understand any wine except Port
and Sherry, and he despised the sour stuff of
which he took one big gulp and no more ; he
did not know what else to order, and he did not
like to mix up Paolo in his affairs so far as to
ask his advice on this point. Paolo for his part
was drinking a little of his wine in a tumblerful
of water, not without some alarm lest the eau
rouge should go to his head. He told Harry
all his story as they sat together. His father
had been an English clerk, sent out from England
to an office in Leghorn, who had married an Italian
girl, and died in the first year of their marriage.
Paolo was very proud of that fine and aristocratic
name of Thompson, of which there was a Lord

and many Sirs, he informed Harry with great but
smiling seriousness; his mother, though she had
been so young, would never re-marry herself,
though pressed on all sides to do so  such washer
devotion to her youthful husband who was
English, and to the romantic and euphonious
name which he had left her. The young man
grew every moment more friendly. Harry's
suspicions all floated away as he listened to the
story, and laughed at the accent and grammar of
his new acquaintance, who laughed too with
perfect good-humour. Thompson  he was a
fit associate for an Oliver, Harry said to himself,
knowing nothing about any Oliver save Isaac
whose name he had appropriated. After dinner
was over Paolo proposed that they should go for a
stroll; and though Harry had done nothing else but
stroll all the afternoon with very small advantage,
yet he was quite willing to begin again with
the aid of his friend's knowledge. It was less
lonely than sitting in the dreadful little room of
which Paolo had ventured to say that it was so
comfortable, and exactly what an Englishman
liked. Harry shuddered at the thought ; he had
never been used to sit in his bedroom, and he
could not but feel it a sort of humiliation that he

had no other room to sit in. His new friend was
a wonderful example of costume to the untrained
taste of Harry. He wore trousers of a large check,
but a black evening coat over them, a large shirt-front,
a black ribbon at his neck tied in a bow,
and varnished shoes. He was very well contented
with his appearance. When he added an opera-hat
to all this finery the sensation in his little
bosom of thorough self-content was very warm.
Harry could not but laugh at the little exquisite,
whose gorgeous apparel was so unlike anything
he had ever seen.

I don't know if I dare to walk out in my coloured
clothes with such a swell as you are, Thompson,"
he said. Paolo looked down upon himself delighted.
He knew he was well-dressed.

You are all right," he said, " an English, that
covers all ; but when one is only by origin, more
must be done. Comm a-long." He stretched up
his hand, which he had just clothed in light kid,
to Harry's arm, who had no gloves, nor any other
advantage. The Angelus was sounding from all
the churches as they set out. Harry could not but
wonder if there was an evening sermon, or if it was
a series of prayer-meetings which were going on.
He was much surprised that foreigners should have

such devout habits. It surprised him, too, to see
how soon it got dark ; but as it happened there
was a brilliant moon which soon made the streets
as light as day. And as soon as the sacred hour
of sunset, the fatal hour which Italians dread,
was over, the streets filled with a crowd which
still more surprised Harry. Before all the cafes
the pavements were crowded  not only men, but
women, seated at the little tables enjoying the
freshness of the lovely evening, and making such
a hum and babble of talk as nothing but an
unknown tongue can produce. A language which
is familiar to us never sounds so like an uproar
and tumult as one that is unintelligible. Harry's
first thought was that the people about him were
all quarrelling ; his second that this chatter was
the riotous and boundless gaiety which he had
always heard attributed to " foreigners ;" but the
scene amused him, though it was so unintelligible,
and by and by a degree of toleration which years
at home could not have conveyed to him, began
to penetrate his mind. Perhaps after all it was
only the different habits of these unknown people,
and neither quarrelling nor riot. Sometimes one
would jump up in the midst of a conversation as
if impelled by a sudden outburst of fury, and
VOL. n. D

address his friends, gesticulating wildly ; but
after Harry had taken the alarm, and sat ready
to strike in if any harm happened, he noticed that
the friends of the violent person took it quite
calmly, turning upon him looks which were full of
smiling placidity, and evidently' fearing nothing.
In the same way when two men were threading
their way along the street together, one would
suddenly drop the other's arm, and standing still,
discourse with every mark of excitement for a
minute, then resume his friend's arm and go on
again as if there had been no interruption. An
Englishman would have knocked down his adversary
with much less demonstration. Harry felt
himself obliged to pause too, and give an eye to
these personages ; and when he also sat down
with his companion at one of the little tables, his
attention to Paolo's doubtful English was constantly
interrupted by the same supposed need
of watchfulness in case the party next to them
should come to blows. But all the other people
took it quite quietly, to Harry's great surprise.

Why do these beggars jump up in that way
and look as if they were going to knock some
other fellow down f Harry said at last.

Beggars ?" said Paolo, looking round hastily ;

and then, for be was a young man anxious to improve
himself and quick of apprehension, he
jumped at the Englishman's meaning. " Ah ! that
is English for quest Signori, these gentlemen ?
beggars ! calico, calico !" said Paolo, clapping
his hands as at an excellent joke; " they do nothing
but make a little conversation, what you call talk,
these beggars ;" and he burst forth once more
into a genial peal.

Harry was half pleased to have achieved such
a facile success, and half alarmed lest perhaps
Paolo might be laughing at him. He said with
a suppressed growl, "Conversation! do you call
that conversation? I thought they where going
to fly at each other's throats."

No, no, no  never fly at each other's throats ;
they have too much education," said Paolo ; " it
is the Italian animation, that is all. An English
is what you call quiet He talks down here, not
out of his shout," and Paolo beat himself upon the
breast, and pointed to about the spot out of which
Harry's deep bass proceeded. Harry was by no
means pleased with this familiarity, but he reflected
that the little man was his only friend
among all these strangers, and subdued his displeasure.
He did not know very well what to do

D 2

with the pink syrup that was furnished him to
drink: that, and the sour wine, and the black
coffee, were all alike out of Harry's way. Oh,
that he could have had but one mighty draught
of English beer to clear all these cobwebs out of
his throat But this was an indulgence, like so
many others, to be hoped for no more.

After Paolo had sipped the rosalie which
Harry contemplated with such a mingling of
alarm and disgust, they got up and continued
their walk. By-and-bye, in the full moonlight,
they strolled towards the port, and walked about
on the quays, among the shipping, which threw
up its black lines of masts, and dark lace of
cordage against the silvery light of which the
sky was full. Harry was interested about all this,
much more than about churches or pictures.
And he threaded his way among the ropes, and
piles of barrels and cases with which the quays
were encumbered, with a stir of curiosity and
hope. Should he find his life and work within
the circle which surrounded these instruments of
wealth ? He paid but little attention to the talk
of his companion as they went along. He seemed
to see once more the new career before him which
he had been doubting an hour or two before. It

was not a very magnificent prospect : yet work
that suited him might surely be found when there
were goods to be exported, and counting houses
to look after these goods. He did not know
what might become of him in this strange
place, but whatever his fortune might be it
was all he could look forward to, and his mind
seemed to take a new start from the appearance
before him of a possibility, a strain of existence
which he understood. He forgot, as he listened
to Paolo's chatter going on by his side which
filled him with a vague, superficial sense of superiority
 all about the new language to be learned,
and the difficulties which had almost overwhelmed
him in the afternoon. Thus he went
on, allowing his companion to talk, and thinking
his own thoughts, till they emerged from the immediate
regions of the basins and docks and
came back to the streets. They were crossing
one which was very dimly lighted, and which
Paolo informed him led into the better quarter
of the town, when they came in sight, or, rather
in hearing, of a party of sailors in a noisy state
of exhilaration. What could they have been
drinking, Harry wondered, thinking of the sour
wine and the rosalie, to make them so convivial ?

They were singing rude choruses, and making
night hideous with jokes and loud laughter,
bearing a wonderful family resemblance to noises
of the same kind which Harry had heard near
the port of Liverpool  when there suddenly crossed
the moonlit-road, between the revellers and the
two orderly passengers, a couple of female figures
moving rapidly, figures very easily identified as
those of an elder and younger woman  a sedate
and ample personage, with a girl clinging to her.
Two of the sailors, with a holloa of satisfaction,
started forward in pursuit. They overtook the
women when they were close to Harry and
his companion, and one of them seized the girl
by the arm. She gave a frightened cry, and the
other woman, throwing her arm round her, pushed
the men away, pouring forth a volley of rapid
Italian, of which Harry of course did not understand
a word. He made a stride forward to
the fray. Paolo, on his side, who was small
and not valorous, did his best to hold him
back.

It is not our business," he said, with a certain
faltering in his voice.

*' Tell them to let go the girl," said Harry, with
brief determination.

It is not our business," said the alarmed interpreter.


*' Tell them they had better let go that girl,"
repeated the 3onng Englishman.

Then little Paolo stood forth, with a courage
which was not his own, and addressed the sailors.
He took off his hat with the utmost politeness
and remonstrated. Harry, beginning, by dint of
hearing them repeated, to distinguish the words, at
last understood that ' Quest Signor " must mean
himself; but the sailors treated the remonstrance
with contempt. The other one took hold of the girl
by the other arm, while she screamed, and her companion
raved and scolded at them, pushing and
struggling with all her might. Harry stepped forward
into the moonlight. He lifted up his clenched
fist and his big bass voice. " Let go that girl," he
shouted in good English, with a voice that roused
all the echoes. The men did not know a word he
said ; but they understood him, which was more
to the purpose. They let go their hold in a minute,
and stood staring at the intruder as sheepishly as
any Englishmen could have done, and perhaps also
with a touch of shame. Little Paolo, trembling
yet triumphant, kept close to the champion,
while he stood and faced them, ready for whatever

might happen. It was not for nothing that
Harry was a Joscelyn. He stood well up to them
with a watchful eye and a ready arm. The
women had escaped under cover of this unexpected
interposition from their first assailants, but
another pursuer by this time had got upon their
track. "Let's have a look at your face, my
pretty lass," this lout said, as he rolled along.
Harry's blood was up in a moment. " Oh, by
Jove I" he cried, as if the sound of his native
tongue had been the last aggravation, " this is too
much. I know what to say to you, at least, my
fine fellow," and he turned upon his countryman
like lightning, and promptly knocked him down.
"I am not going to stand any nonsense from
you" he said.

It was the affair of a moment  no more. The
women flew along the street, disappearing up the
nearest opening. Harry strode on after them
with his blood up, but walking with the most dignified
tranquillity. He would not even turn round
to see what had happened. " If he thought I was
going to stand him" he said, as he went along, " that
fellow, by Jove ! but he was in the wrong box."
As for little Paolo, between fright and admiration,
he was at his wit's end. He danced along.

now hurrying Harry on, now facing the other
way, walking backwards to keep the other party
in sight, and uttering alarmed entreaties. " Run!
run I What if you 'ave kill him?" he cried.
Serene Santissima I they are coming. You
'ave done it now, you 'ave done it, and no one to
help. Per Banco ! and he goes as if it were a
festa. Run, Mister, run !"

I told you not to call me Mister," said Harry,
walking on with perfect coolness and at his
ordinary pace. Paolo was half beside himself.
Perhaps you have kill a man," he cried, " and
you stop to set right my English  at such a
moment "

Pooh !" said Harry ; he would not have quickened
his steps for a fortune. " Don't you know the
beggar is an Englishman ? A broken head won't
hurt him. Let's keep the Avoient in sight, they
might get into more trouble." Paolo followed
him, trembling and hurried as they got further off ;
but the noisy sailors were busy about their fallen
comrade, and made no attempt to follow. They
were too much startled by the summary proceedings
of the stranger, and kept back by a
certain sense of justice which seldom fails in such
an affray. The little Italian kept close to Harry

like a dog, rushing about him, now a little in
advance, now a little behind. " He 'ave pick himself
up," he said, looking back. " Dio ! how the
English understand each other ! He is not kill."

"Killed !" cried Harry, contemptuously. "It
takes more than that to kill an Englishman, even
a beast like that fellow. You may palaver with
your own kind, but I know what to do with mine.
Come along, Thompson. Where have those
women gone 1 "

Here Paolo caught him by the arm, dragging
him into the narrow street by which the flying
figures had disappeared. One side of it was in
almost perfect darkness, while the other was
white and brilliant in the moonlight. " You like
to know who it was," he said. " Per Banco ! I
know."

It does not matter to me who it was," said
Harry, " so long as they are safe, that is all I
care for. Women have no business to be out so
late at night."

At this Paolo nodded his head a great many
times in assent. '* But that is English too,"
he said. " How you are strange ! You let a
young lady go in the street, and you kill a man,
and never think more of it ! and the man when he

is kill, get up and walk away instead of to avenge
himself ! You are strange, very strange. I understand
you very well, for I am an English too."

After this somewhat startling incident, however,
they did not linger long on their way. It had
stirred the blood in Harry's veins and given him
the new start he wanted. There is nothing like
a new incident for familiarising the mind with any
great change in this life. Hitherto he had thought
of nothing but his own transmogrification. Now
he had something else to think of. He got back
to his inn unmolested and uninterrupted, and he
found his dreary little room not so dreary when
it became a shelter for his fatigue, and a refuge in
which to think over the strange excitement of this
first new day.

CHAPTER III.

SETTING OUT IN LIFE.

NEXT morning Harry was woke by the appearance
of his little friend at his bedside.
For a moment it was all fantastic to him like a
dream, the narrow slip of room with its tall walls,
and straight windows, and the strange little figure
by his bedside. ' Hallo," he said, " who are you,
and what do you want ?" opening his sleepy eyes,
and springing up in bed. Paolo retreated with a
little alarm.

I go to the bureau," he said, " but before I go
I am here to say good morning. What will you
do without me ?" the little man added with great
simplicity. "Get lost, get into what you call
scrape. Antonio, he speak a little. I come to
advise that you take him with you. It will be
only five lire, not very moche for an English."

I wish you could remember," said Harry pettishly,
" to say an Englishman. An English is
no sense : you never hear me say that."

"Aright," said Paolo good-humouredly. "I
will remember; but it will be better to take
Antonio; he shows you everything, all the palaces
and streets, and you give him cinque lire  five,"
holding up his fingers spread out to show the sum,
and counting them with his other hand, " and ryan
talk, he tell you things in Italian, you make a
lesson out of him," he added with a grin, showing
all his white teeth.

It was a sensible suggestion, but Harry was
perverse. " That is all very well," he said, " but
I don't care about seeing your palaces ; what I
want is to get something to do. Ain't there a
Times, or something with advertisements ? where
a fellow could see what's wanted ?"

Paolo looked at him with a doubtful air, and
his head on one side like a questioning sparrow.
He was so small and so spare, and Harry so big,
stretched out in the small bed which could not
contain him, that the simile held in all points.
It appeared unnecessary that he should do
more than put out his hand to make an end altogether
of his adviser, and there seemed a consciousness

of this in the little man himself, who,
recollecting last night, hopped a little farther off
every time that Harry advanced leaning on his
elbow, and projecting himself out of bed.

You bring letters, you are recommended f
he said. " No ?" A cloud came over Paolo's face ;
then he brightened again. " You come with me,"
he said. " The Consul, that is the prince of the
English  man. You come wit me, and I will
recommend you. I will introduce you. He have
much confidence, what you call trust, in me."

"But you don't know anything about me," said
Harry.

Paolo looked at him with an effusion of admiration
and faith, " Siamoo amici," he said, laying
his hand upon his heart with a sentiment and air
which to the cynical Englishman were nothing less
than theatrical. But Harry did not understand
what the words meant.

That is all very well' he said again, supposing
that this was a mere compliment without
meaning. " But what could you says about
me? nothing! You don't know" me any more
than the Consul does  or anybody here."

'between friends," said Paolo, " there is not
the need of explanation. I understand you, Mister.

Are you a Christian or a Protestant," he added
quickly, "have you a name of baptism, perhaps?"
Paolo did not want to hurt the feelings of his new
friend in case he was not provided with this article.
But Harry's pride was wounded to the quick.

A Christian," he cried, " or a Protestant ? I
am both a Protestant and a Christian ! I never
heard such horrible intolerance in all my life. It
is you who are not Christians, you papists praying
to idols  worshipping saints, and old bones, and
all sort of nonsense." Harry was so much in
earnest that his face grew crimson, and Paolo
retreated yet another step.

You heat yourself; but it is not needed," he
said, waving his hand with deprecating grace.
Me, I am above prejudices. Here one calls oneself
Giovanni or Giacomo, or Paolo, as with me ;
and when the person is respectable of years, Ser
Giovanni or Ser Giacomo ; but if one has not a
name of baptism, it is the same, that make no
difference "

Do you take me for a heathen that never was

christened?" cried Harry. "My name is "

here he stopped and laughed, but grew redder,
with a dusky colour ; but " in for penny in for a
pound," as he had already remarked to himself 

my name is Isaac Isaac Oliver, as I told you,"
he said.

Bene, bene !" said Paolo. " It is enough, I will
say to the consul : here is Mister Isaac, who is
ray friend. He is English man ; yes, I recollect
man ; and I respond for him. He will be so condescending
as to take a situation ; he will interpret
like me ; he will make the Italian into the
English, and the English into the Italian."

But how can I do that ?" said Harry, " when
I don't understand one word of your lingo ? I
can't do that."

Paolo's countenance lengthened once more ; but
he speedily recovered himself.

That will teach itself," he said. " I will talk ;
I will tell you everything. Aspect ! there is now,
presently, incessantly  an occasion. Koran, comm
along; something strikes me in the head. But
silence, the Vice-consul, he it is that will settle all."

Harry did not think much of Paolo's recommendation
; but yet the idea of appealing to
the Vice-consul was worth consideration.
The thought of an Englishman to whom
he could tell his story  or if not his
story, yet* a story, something which would
seem as an account of himself was like a

rope thrown out to him amid a waste of waters.
Aod, as an Englishman, he would have a right to be
listened to. English officials are not like American,
the natural vassals of their countrymen ; but still,
when a man is at his wit's end, there is something
in the idea that a person of authority, in whom
he has a vested interest, is within reach, v, which is
consolatory. To be introduced to this functionary,
however, by Paolo, whose position did not seem
to be very important, did not please Harry's
pride. He sent the little fellow away with a
vague promise of thinking of it, which disappointed
the friendly little man. Paolo could not
restrain his anxious desire to be of use. He
went off to the Sarmatia to buy soap and tooth-powder
for his amico, and even proposed to fetch
him the little bicchierino of acquavite, with
which some people begin their day, a proposal
which filled Harry with horror. Paolo put
his dressing-table in order with the care of a
woman, and lingered, anxious to do something
more. He would have brushed his friend's clothes,
if Harry would have let him. He was proud of his
new discovery, the big Englishman, whom he had
secured to himself, and whom he admired in proportion
to his own smallness and inconsiderable-vol.
II. E

iiess. Something of the pleasure of a nurse with
an infant, and of a child with a new toy, was in
his bustling anxious delight. When at last,
however, he was half forced, half persuaded to go
away, Paolo made a few steps back from the
door and held up a warning finger.

"Mister Isaackk rain," he said, " one must not
any more knock down. It is not understood in
Livorno. That which can well do itself in
England is different : here  it is not understood."
His face had become very grave, then a deprecatory
smile of apology broke over it. " In Italy
they are in many things behind," he said. " It
is not  understood.'

Don't be afraid, Paul-o," said Harry, laughing,
*' I shan't knock down anyone to-day. Even in
England we don't do it but when it is necessary.
You may trust me, I shall knock nobody down
to-day.

Aright, aright !" said Paolo, with a beaming
countenance. He turned back again to instruct
his friend at what hour it would be best to come
to the bureau. " I will speak, and you shall be expected.
I will respond for you," the little man said.

At last he went away full of amiable intentions
and zeal in his friend's cause, zeal which deserved

a better reward. For Harry did not build much
upon the influence of Paolo. It hurt his pride
to think of presenting himself anywhere under
the wing of this little Italian clerk. He would
stand upon his own qualities, he said to himself,
not upon the ready faith and rash undertaking of
a stranger ; but though he put it in this way, it
was not in reality because he objected to Paolo's
trust in him, or thought it rash as another
man might have done, but because he felt himself
Paolo's social superior. It would be hard to say
on what this consciousness was founded. Harry's
only superiority had been his family, and that he
had put away. As he was dressing, he turned
over a great many things in his mind which he
might say to the Vice-Consul. Few young people
understand how much better policy it is in
all such cases to speak the truth than to
invent the most plausible of stories, and Harry
was not wiser than his kind. He made up various
fictions about himself explaining how it was
that he thus presented himself alone and
unfriended in an altogether strange place 
all of which he would have stated with a
faltering tongue and abashed countenance, so as
to impress the falsehood of them upon the hearer ;

E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF lino

for to invent excuses is one thing, and to produce
them with force and consistency another. Successful
lying, like everything else, wants practice ; few
men can succeed in it who only do it once in a
way. It requires study, and careful consideration
of probabilities, so that the artist shall not be
put entirely out by an unforeseen question : and it
needs an excellent memory, to retain all that
has been said, so as not to contradict previous
statements. Harry possessed none of these
qualities, but then he was not aware of the want
of them ; and the thing which made him depart
from tale after tale was not any suspicion of
their weakness, or his weakness, but an inability
to please himself in the details of his romance.
And then the thought of going as it were hat
in hand, to ask the Consul to provide him with
employment, and the inevitable starting forth of
little Paolo to pledge himself for everything his
friend might say, discouraged him. He grew
coldhearted as he put himself into the best
apparel he had, and brushed his hair, and endeavoured
to look his best. Would it not be
better to start off again, to go, though he had
made up his mind against it, to America after all '
There, there would be no language to learn, no

difficulty in understanding what was said to him.
He went down and swallowed his breakfast, coffee
and bread, which seemed to him the most wretched
fare, turning this over in his mind. But for one
thing he did not like to be beaten ; no Englishman
does, he said to himself; and Harry was of
the primitive, simple kind of Englishman who
clings to all national characteristics. He could
not bear to be beaten, to contradict himself as it
were, and depart from his plan. While he was
thinking of all this, however, a brilliant expedient
occurred to him. Though he was reluctant to tell
his own story, he was not disposed to screen himself
by any fiction of excuses from the consequences
of anything he had done ; and it was undeniable
that he had " got into a row " on the previous
night. No Englishman, he reflected, would think
the worse of a young fellow who had knocked down
a drunken sailor to prevent him from molesting a
woman ; but it would be as well to go and tell the
story of this little incident in case of any ulterior
proceedings. Harry fairly chuckled over his own
wisdom in hitting upon so admirable a ways of
presenting himself to the representative of his
country. He had never before felt himself so
clever. He munched his dry bread and drank

his coffee with a wry face, but something like a
mental relish at least. Little Paolo's friendly
conscience would not need to be strained. He
would be able to bear witness of the facts in all
sincerity, and, if anything were to come of it,
there would be at least a friend in court, a
valuable advocate secured Antonio, the waiter,
drew near while Harry came to this conclusion,
and watched him dispatching his simple refreshment
with friendly looks. The Italians admired
the young Englishman's fine limbs, and height
and strength, and they made a pet of him because
he was a stranger and helpless ; perhaps the
waiter was not without an eye to substantial
rewards, but he had at the same time a most
friendly eye to Harry's helplessness, and an amiable

desire to make him comfortable. He stood and

watched him eating with sympathy.

Ze gentleman would like an egg, perhaps,
Sarr?" he said.

I should like half-a-dozen," said Harry with

a sigh ; " but no, no, never mind  never mind ;

for the present this will do."

Ze gentlemen Italian eat no breakfast," said

Antonio ; " ze eat  after ; but I will command

for ze English gentleman, if it makes pleasure to

him, ze English breakfast. There is already one
here."

One  breakfast !" said Harry surprised.

** One," said Antonio, with a finger in the air,
"English-man, and two tree Americans; ze eat
of ze beef in ze early morning. It is extraordinary :
eat of ze beef when you comes out of your bed.
But it is the same it is the same ; that makes
nothing to our padrone ; and I will command it for
ze gentleman if he will."

I wish you would," said Harry, " another
time ; dry bread is not much to breakfast upon :
and the bread is very queer stuff."

It is good bread," said Antonio, " Sarr, very
good bread ; better far than ze bread of London ;"
he nodded his head as he spoke with self-satisfaction.
" Zee gentleman would like me go wit him 
show him all ze places, and ze grand cathedral,
and all that ze English gentleman go over ze
world to see V

No, Antonio ; I don't care about cathedrals,
but you can come with me to the English Consul's
if you like, and show me the way."

I like very moche, Sarr," said Antonio, with
a grin. "Ze English gentlemans please me.
Sey is astonished at everything. Ze pictures !

bellissirai ! and ze palazzo, and ze churches.
It is noting but 1 and ! as long as sey are
walking about. But, Sarr," said Antonio, coming
closer, ''Livornois not moche. It is a city of
trade. Com to Firenze, Sarr, if you would see
beautiful pictures and beautiful houses. Ah I
that is something to see. Or to Venezia  better
still. I am of Venetia, Sarr. Ze gentleman will
not say to Signer Paolo that I tell him so, but
Livorno pouff I" Antonio blew it away in a puff
of disdain. "Firenze and Venetia, there is
where you will see pictures  every ware of
Raphael and Michael Angelo, and Titian,
and "

I don't care much about pictures," said Harry,
calmly. " I like the shipping better. You can
take me to the docks if you like. I don't Avant
you to tell me about them. I like to see things
I know about myself. But I tell you what,
Antonio, you may teach me the names in Italian,
if you like ; that will always be making a little
progress," Harry said, suddenly bethinking himself
of Paolo's suggestion.

Antonio's face had lengthened by several inches.
An English gentleman who did not want to see
pictures was a personage of whom he had no understanding.

He began to think that Harry was
not a genuine Englishman after all.

** Ze signer is perhaps Tedesco no? Or
American  no ? I have known many English,"
said Antonio, gravely, " but sey all run after ze
pictures. Ze gentleman is what you call an
original. Benissimo ! that makes noting to me.
Ze sleeps in ze harbour are very fine sleeps.
You will not see no better  no, not in England.
Ze signor wishes eh?  perhaps to make observations,
to let ze Government  ze ministers know,
Italy is now a great country, and ze others are
jealous. You fear we will take ze trade all
away f '

'* Not so bad as that, Antonio," said Harry, with
a great laugh. " Where I have come from I wish
I could show you the docks ; they are about ten
times as big as these."

Antonio grinned from ear to ear. He did
not believe a word of what Harry said.
If it pleases to ze gentleman," he said, laughing
too. He was perfectly tolerant of the joke,
and glad to see his pro'e cheerful. Then Harry
jumped up from the table, poorly sustained
for the business he had in hand by his light meal,
but somewhat anxious to get through the ordeal

he had proposed to himself. Antonio, however,
who appeared presently in the well-worn and assiduously
brushed costume of a laquais de place,
could not quite let him off the inevitable sightseeing.
He led him to the Duomo and into the great
Square with a pretence that this was on the way
to the Consul's office, and made him look at again,
whether he would or not, the same public buildings
which he had gazed at dreamily as he wandered about
the streets the day before, and looked at languidly
in the moonlight under Paolo's active guidance.
He had been but twenty-four hours in Leghorn,
and already he had associations with the street-corners,
which probably he would never forget.
Already this new world was acquiring known
features of acquaintances ; his life beginning to
put forth threads like a spider's web, and twist
and twine, the new with the old. It startled
Harry to feel that he was no longer a stranger
here, where he had landed so forlorn. After
the round which Antonio beguiled him into
making, it was about eleven o'clock before they
reached the door over which the well-known
British symbol was put up. The outer office was
full of people and business, sea-captains and
merchants' clerks, and even a few examples of the

kind of traveller who is most common in Italy,
he who travels for pleasure and not for business.
Harry had to wait among the rest who were seeking
an audience of the YicfvConsul. Here Antonio
left him, and he could not see anything like the
olive-countenance and brilliant costume of Paolo ;
but it was an English group among which he stood.
The clerks even spoke English, if one or two of
them displayed the tongue-tied hesitation which
is common to all classes when they speak a language
imperfectly understood. One of the
tourists did his best to draw Harry into conversation,
lamenting the cruel fate which had detained
him in such a place. He was just starting for
Pisa, this pilgrim said, where there was really
something to see. "One might as well be in
Liverpool as here," he said. Harry did not make
any reply. This was just the reason why he
himself approved of Leghorn more than of any
other place he had seen. When it came to his
turn at last, almost all the other appellants and
petitioners had been seen and dismissed.
They all wanted something; and Harry's new
acquaintance had talked and worried him so much
with his dislike to a place where there was so little
to see, that he had almost forgot the manner

in which he had arranged with himself to open his
own story ; when at length everybody else was
despatched, and he had to go forward to his
audience. His heart beat a little faster as he
went in. The Vice-consul was a man of a portly
presence, something like an English merchant of
the higher class, v/ith grizzled hair, and an aspect
of great respectability and authority. He was fully
conscious of his dignity as the representative of the
British Government, and of Her Majesty herself,
amid an alien and inferior race. He did not think
much of Italy or the Italian people, and he felt it
was his mission in life to keep them down. He was
seated in great state upon a large chair, which
swung round with him when he moved. His
table, his papers, the manner in which he appeared
over them, with the air of a judge on the
bench, was very imposing to a stranger, especially
when that stranger was in difficulty and came
to ask help. He made Harry a very formal bow,
and pointed to a seat near, which had something
of the air of a seat for the prisoner at the bar.

What can I do for you ?" he said, with a
dignified inclination of his head; after the first
glance his look softened. He was used to see a
great many people, and it was a compliment to

Hariys appearance that it interested the Yice-
Consul. He almost smiled upon him, with a
benignity in which he did not very often indulge.

Then it was that Harry's real difficulties began ;
but how thankful he was that it was a true story
he was telling, and not a fictitious account of
himself!

I came to tell you. Sir," he said, " of something
that occurred last night  a scrape  that is to say
a row I got into. I suppose I must call it a row."

*' It is a great pity when strangers get into

rows in a foreign town, Mr. Oliver. I

think you said Oliver ?"

What a fool I was thought Harry !  as he did
after every new production of that name ; but his
last chance of reclaiming his own was now over.

What you say is quite true," he said, " and I
should not have been such a fool but for urgent
cause. I knocked down a fellow who was
annoying a lady. He deserved a great deal
more than I gave him ; if he had been an Italian
I might have hesitated, but he was an Englishman.
So I just knocked him down."

Very wrong, very wrong," said the Yice-
Consul, " and a curious way of showing your
preference for your fellow-countrymen. But you

had better tell me all about it. When did this
occur, and where f

Harry described the place as well as he could.
There was a lot of them," he said. " The
Italians  if they were Italians  gave way when
I spoke to them. I'll do them that justice. The
English fellow, I did not say anything to him. I
was not going to argue with a brute like that.
I just quietly knocked him down. It was a young
lady and a woman with her. You see, if I had
stood there talking, the others might have been
up to us, and have given her more annoyance. I
daresay it did not hurt the fellow much ; and if
he's a man he'll take it quietly, for he deserved it ;
but I thought it was perhaps best to let you
know."

The Vice-consul had started slightly when
Harry described, as well as he could, the locality in
which this incident took place. Now he asked
quickly, "And the lady  did you know her?
and did she get clean away ?"

"Know her!" said Harry, " I only arrived here
yesterday ; besides I did not want to know her :
it might not have been pleasant for her. We
watched her safe out of reach ; indeed we went
on till we heard a door shut where she lived,

I suppose. No, it was Dot for that. It was to
say that if the fellow complained, or brought any
action, or anything of that sort  I wanted you,
Sir, being the representative of England, to know
the real facts. That is how it was."

There was a smile aboutthe Vice-consul's mouth.
As it happens I have heard about it already,"
he said. " I'll speak to you farther on the subject
by-and-bye  Don't be alarmed, it will do you
no harm ; sit down and rest yourself, and wait fora
few minutes. I am going in to lunch presently,
and I'll talk to you then," the Vice-consul said.
Harry did not know what to think. The consequences
could not be very bad, since this great functionary
restrained a smile; but there was evidently
a second chapter to the adventure. Harry withdrew
as he was directed to the other end of the
office, and there stood gazing at railway timetables,
and pictures of ships. There was all about
a line of vessels to America from Genoa which
had lately been established, just the very thing
for him if he intended to do what he had been
thinking of. But Harry scarcely knew what he
was looking at. All these questions seemed things
of the past. What was the Vice-consul going to
say to him ? That was to come of it ? Till he
knew this he couldn't think of anything else.

CHAPTER IV.

THE vice-consul's DAUGHTER.

Adore, in the Vice-consul's office opened
into a long passage with a row of windows
on one side, which communicated with his house.
When the hour came at which, after the comfortable
fashion of leisurely Italian towns, the office
was shut up for the midday meal, the Vice
Consul made Harry an amiable sign to follow.
He led him through this passage, which looked
upon a courtyard full of plants, where a fountain
trickled in the sunshine, into a large cool room
with all its jalousies closed, and in which for a
minute or two he saw nothing. He was being
introduced into a sort of enchanted country it
seemed, unlike anything he had ever known or
thought of; the tiled floor was almost covered with

soft rugs, according to a fashion not then known
in England, and the furniture dimly discerned in
the gloom, was like rocks at sea to the stranger
who had no chart of the confused and intricate
passage. Something white in a corner, something
which moved a little when they came in, was all
he saw, and he could not make out even what
that was till his eyes had got accustomed to the
light. Then he perceived with a great tremor
and shock of shyness that it was a lady, a slight
girl in a white dress who looked up to nod to her
father, then seeing a second figure behind him,
rose hastily with a shy grace. Harry was still
more shy than she was. He was not accustomed
to the society of ladies. And he was dreadfully
hungry having had nothing but that dry bread
and coffee, a circumstance which made him still
more depressed and timid. He did not at all know
why he was introduced so suddenly into this otherworld.
He thought he was only going to an inner
oflSce, or perhaps  but that was a blessedness he
dared scarcely hope for  that the Consul in his
kindness had meant to give him some luncheon.
But the drawing-room confused him wholly ; he
had done nothing to merit such an introduction.
He only half took in accordingly the meaning of

VOL. II. F

the words the Consul said, " Look here, Rita, I
have brought your champion of hist night."

Oh!" That purely English exclamation sounded
to Harry the sweetest syllable he had ever heard.
The white figure came a step forward. By this
time he began to see through the gloom, and what
he saw was a very young face, with two great dark
eyes, lifted to him full of wonder and pleasure.
Then a hand was put out, " Was it you f she
said eagerly. " Oh, yes, I remember !" And
before he was aware the hand, smaller and softer
than any such article previously known to him,
touched his for a moment. Harry dropped into
the chair which the Vice-consul pointed to him
in utter confusion of surprise. He was not even
able to notice what an extraordinary advantage
to him such an introduction was. He was simply
astonished more than words could say.

This is Mr. Oliver," said the Vice-consul.
He came and told me all about it without a
notion who you were. And you see how surprised
he is. He thought, I suppose, J was taking him
into a kind of genteel prison. It must be added
that, if you only arrived yesterday, yon lost no
time in getting into a row."

Did you only arrive yesterday ?" said the

delightful little voice, in which there was a flavour
of something not English, though the English
was perfect. " Oh, how glad I am that you did
arrive then I What would have become of us otherwise
? for no one but an Englishman wandering
about the most unlikely places could ever have
found himself just there."

And nobody but an English girl would have
risked herself in such a place," said the father.
I hope you will take that to heart, my dear.
This girl," he added, turning to the young man,
"is by way' of despising all Italian precautions.
She is an English girl, she tells everybody, and
she will not be a slave like the others : and old
Benedetta is an old fool and never goes against
her. One of her pensioners was ill last night,
that was why the monkey was out at such an
hour. When I am at the Club there is nobody
to put her to bed."

As if I was a little child to be put to bed !
It was the dearest old woman, and she would seeme.
The priest had been sent for and the
sacraments ; could I refuse to go now could I ?
And how was I to know men were so dreadful ?
But you see, papa, there are always the good
angels about."

F 2

When I was young the angels were all
feminine," the Vice-Consul said, "and we called
the ladies by these pretty names, not the ladies us."

Perhaps you never did so much for any girl.
Oh, how frightened I was when that man took
hold of my arm ! and then to hear an English
voice as if it were coming from the skies, 'Let go
that girl !' "

How did the fellow understand, I wonder f
the Vice-Consul said.

If I had not been so frightened I should
have laughed. They did not understand a bit!
It might just as well have been Greek ; but if it
had been Greek they would have understood," cried
Rita, putting her hands together with grateful
enthusiasm. All this time Harry had never
spoken a word ; indeed, there had been no opening
for him to speak.

'* You must have thought me a big idiot to
say anything at all," he said.

Oh ! I thought you I won't tell you what,

or papa will say something disagreeable. It was
so grand the English voice; and then their hands
dropped as if I had been fire."

*' I should have broken every bone in their
bodies," cried Harry, with unnecessary fervour, *' if

I had known it was you they touched with their
filthy fingers !" He did not know why he made
this violent speech, which was far from elegant,
and quite unsuitable to the refined and still
atmosphere in which he so unexpectedly found
himself. As for Rita she blushed a little, and
laughed a little, in the soft green twilight, finding
it not unnatural that he should have been
doubly indignant at the idea that it was she who
was in danger. She was accustomed to believe
that anything disagreeable was doubly offensive
when it happened to her, and that she was about
the most important little person in the world.
But she was one of the rare people whom such a
knowledge does not spoil. It seemed to her quite
simple  was not she her father's only child, and
only pleasure in life ? She had been aware of
this fact ever since she was born.

"Hush, hush!" said the Vice-Consul ; "we
must have nothing more about breaking bones :
to knock down one fellow was quite enough.
But I am very much obliged to you, Oliver. I
can't make a stranger of you after this. My
little girl is all I have in the world, and whoever
is good to her is good to me. If you are going
to stay in Leghorn, I hope you'll let me be of

some use to you; but I don't suppose that's very
likely. Meantime, Rita, don't you think we had
better go to lunch f

What welcome words these were to Harry !
He was excited and pleased by the adventure
altogether; his head was a little turned by the
enthusiasm of gratitude with which he was
received, and the atmosphere around this young
creature, who was a kind of mystic half revelation
to him. He had not yet made out her face quite
distinctly, and yet he was admitted to all the
privileges of friendship: the strange sensation
intoxicated him. But yet when her father spoke
of lunch, all that went out of his head. Consider
that he had eaten nothing but about half a yard
of tasteless bread that day ! and it was one o'clock.
But Harry was not without manners ; though the
pangs of appetite made him faint, he got up
politely and made a pretence at taking leave.
Needless to say that the Vice-consul was above
taking advantage of his position, " No, no, no ;
we are going to keep you to luncheon," he said,
with a bonhomie which was irresistible. Harry
thought him the most delightful person in
the world, only a little less delightful than the
other unknown being who made him feel tremulous

and abashed, though so happy. The diningroom
was lighted from the shady side of the
courtyard, and there was accordingly light enough
to see by. The meal was not a foreign breakfast,
but an English luncheon of a substantial kind,
and it is safe to say that Harry had never been
so happy in his life as when he had taken off the
first fierce edge of appetite, and had begun to be
able to enjoy the novelty and yet the familiarity
of this unexpected scene. Mr. Bonamy (which
was the name of the Vice-Consul) without laying
aside the dignity as of a benevolent prince which
was so remarkable in him, showed all the condescension
of a thoroughly amiable potentate ; and

Rita was Rita was something of which

Harry had no previous conception. She was
about sixteen  no more. Her face was the face
of a child, but lighted up by two beautiful large
eyes which she had got from her Italian mother.
She knew, or seemed to know, everything her
father knew, and was used to be talked to about
all that happened. If it were not Joan
putting in her word occasionally in a long discussion
when her interference was seldom received
but with either blame or contempt, Harry had
never been accustomed to women who took any

share in the conversation going on ; and to hear
this child talk bewildered him. She had a slight
girlish figure, a small face almost without colour,
the faint sweet flesh tints of which were thrown
up in the most delicate distinctness by the white
of her dress. She seemed all spirit, all life,
a creature made of air and sunshine rather than
flesh and blood to Harry. And about himself
there was so much flesh and blood ! He listened
to the conversation rather than joined in it, feeling
himself an admiring audience rather than a
partaker in their talk. One thing only he felt
moved to say, and that was about his own
appetite, which he feared they would think preposterous.
" I feel more like a wolf than a man,"
he said. " I hope you won't think I'm always like
this. I never was abroad before, and I don't know
the ways. And I had no breakfast but some of
their queer bread. This bread is delightful,"
Harry said, with enthusiasm. The father and
the daughter were delighted with him, appetite
and all.

*' I am so glad you* never were abroad before,"
said Rita; "now one sees exactly what England
is like. Oh, yes, papa, you need not laugh. I
see the English green, and the trees waving, and

the winds blowing, all in Mr. Oliver's face. And
there is a little sound of the sea, and a shadow
of hills  not big mountains, but nice, kind hills
with sheep-bells tinkling "

We have not many sheep-bells, Miss Bonamy,
in my country," said Harry ; " the hills are more
grey than green, and there is a great deal of fog
in the winter, and east wind, and rain "

"Oh, don't tell me about the bad things, tell
me about what is pleasant," said Rita. "The
east wind is not so bad as the scirocco, and the
rain is delightful. I know all about that. As
for the fog, the painters say it is more picturesque
than anything. They say there is always a soft
delicious sort of haze, and you never see things
sharp cut out against the sky as they look here."

"Have you never been in England?" Harry
said, with a little surprise ; and then he saw that
a shade, a sort of cloud, come over the lively table,
and the two animated faces. Rita shook her
head, and then began to talk quickly to him about
the neighbourhood, and all he would have to see.
Harry had protested to his humble friends that
he wanted to see nothing but the shipping, but
he did not repeat this sentiment here. He learned
in a moment that to be fond of pictures was a

necessity, and that there were certain things which
every Englishman in Italy had come expressly
to worship. Eita's opinion "of course" convinced
him in a moment. He never made the slightest
stand against it. Henceforward he knew what
was expected of him. Ashen she went out of the
room waving her fingers to him in sign of goodbye,
Harry suddenly became quite grave, and felt
all at once as if the light had gone out of the
sky. And there was more than sentiment
in this feeling ; for now he found himself
face to face with the Vice-Con sul, and it was
very evident that, so much having passed between
them, something more would now have to be said.
Mr. Bonamy offered the young man a cigar, and,
lighting his own, leant back in his chair, and
evidently awaited some further disclosures of his
mind and purpose.

You are thinking of staying in Leghorn," he
said.

I am thinking," said Harry, feeling his colour
rise, " of trying to get employment, if I can ; a
situation of some kind."

Employment ! " said the Vice-consul. It was
impossible to deny that he was disappointed.
His voice had an accent which there was no mistaking.

Harr}' had not much refinement or education,
but he had an air which would have been
perfectly consistent with the rank of a young
squire, an English country gentleman of simple
mind, and no great amount of culture, travelling
for his pleasure, and perhaps with some vague
idea of improvement. Mr. Bonamy, who had received
him so cordially, and who had been pleased
to be under an obligation to a young fellow of
attractive appearance and pleasant manners, was
more cast down by this intimation than might
have been thought possible. Not a young squire :
nobody in particular : a penniless youth seeking
employment. Such visitors were not rare, but
they seldom penetrated into the carefully-guarded
interior of the Vice-Consul's house.

Harry felt very much abashed. He was sensible
of the downfall. How he longed to produce
the glories of the Joscelyns, and convince his
hearer that, if he was humble now, his family had
once sat with princes ! Perhaps Mr. Bonamy
might not have been so impressed by these
ancestors as Harry thought ; but as it was they
looked at each other blankly, mutually feeling
that a great fall had taken place. Harry smiled

in that rigid way which is popularly called smiling
at the wrong side of the face.

Yes," he said, " employment. I don't know
that I am very good for anything : but I have
some little acquaintance with  business."

This was worse and worse. Had he been possessed
of a knowledge of law business, or military
drill, or anything likely to be of no real use to
him, the situation might have improved. But
business I book-keeping, and that sort of thing !
no doubt he was a mere clerk after all.

You have recommendations, I suppose, from
your last employers," Mr. Bonamy said, coldly.
I shall be glad if I can be of any use, but -'*

To tell the truth," said Harry  he was seized
with an outburst of frankness, feeling a kind of
desperation seize him at sight of this cold withdrawal
of the sudden friendship which had made
him so happy for the moment  ' to tell the truth
I have no recommendations. If anyone will be
kind to me they must take me at my own word.
All I have got to say for myself is that I have quarrelled
with my family. I cannot enter into the
question now. I have done it, and that is all I
can say ; and here I am, and I must get employment.
I am not going to push myself into your

acquaintance, Sir. It was an accident, nothing
more than an accident ; and probably 3'ou thought
me a person of more importance "

"Importance or not has nothing to do with it,"
said the Vice-Consul ; and again his countenance
softened. A young man who has quarrelled
with his family is no doubt a person to be lectured
and reproved, and brought back to a
sense of duty, but all the same he is quite different
from a commonplace clerk seeking a situation.
Harry did not intend to throw any halo
of distinction over his own humble person, but
he did it unawares. Mr. Bonamy's countenance
gradually cleared. " My dear young fellow," he
said, *' I daresay you are impulsive and hotheaded,
like so many other young men. As
being under obligations to you, I may allow myself
to give you good advice. Xo advantage ever
springs from family quarrels. My advice to you
is, make it up."

Not for anything in the world," said Harry,
hotly. " I have been treated I can't say how I
have been treated. I will neither make it up, nor
will I go near them, or have an' communication
with them, till I am altogether independent of
them, and have worked out a position for myself I"

You must not be so violent," said the Vice-consul.
" Come, come, let me act the part of a
real friend. Let me write."

Never !" said Harry, getting up to his feet.
I am very sorry, Sir, to have troubled you with
my affairs."

"That is nonsense," said Mr. Bonamy. "Sit
down, sit down, and let us talk it over. You have
been hot-headed, I don't doubt. What is it now?
tell me. Some foolish falling in love. You
must want to marry somebody they don't
approve."

Harry smiled in spite of himself. " I am no
more in love than you are. Sir," he said.

That might be a dangerous affirmation," said
the Vice-consul, shaking his head, with a smile
which was somewhat melancholy ; " but I understand
what you mean. Then was it money ? You
have been foolish and got into debt f

It was a little about money ; but not because
I had got into debt  and that was the least of it,"
Harry said. "You must pardon me. Sir; but
indeed I cannot tell you : it is a complicated
business ; and I can't depart from what I have
said. I will never go home, never make it up till I
have made my own fortune. But if you will

believe me," he said earnestly', with a flush of hot
colour, " the fault was not mine. I have nothing
to conceal on m} side''

Then why conceal it ?" said the Vice-Consul.
1 cannot act for j'ou unless I have full information
; but if 3'ou will trust me with your
story ''

'* I would trust you sooner than anyone I know ;
but I have promised that I will never say a word
on the subject," said Harry, with all the obstinacy
of all the Joscelyns in his face," until  I am
independent, as I have said." He rose up a
second time, all flushed and excited. " I am going
to try my luck at Leghorn," he said. *' I am
much obliged to 3'ou, Sir, for your kindness. I
have felt myself again since I have been here ;
but now I will not trouble you any more." He
held out his hand. He was a handsome vouno;
fellow, tall and strong, with the sunburnt countenance
and well-developed limbs, and curling,
fair locks, which are everywhere identified with
a young Englishman. He was not at alt like a
mere clerk in an office : he was like a son of the
fields and woods, one of those whose training-has
been of the kind most prized and appreciated
by all Englishmen  an open-air youth ;

a rider, rower, swimmer, cricketer  brought up in
that ways which involves leisure and space, and all
the appliances of country-life. Mr. Bonamy
saw all this in Harry's vigorous form and movements.
He felt sure that he could not be a
nobody. And after all, except that of being
a nobody, there is in youth no unpardonable
sin.

Don't be in such a hurry. Sit down again,
the office does not open for another half-hour : and
let me hear what there is to be done for you," he
said.

This was a question more embarrassing than
the Vice-Con sul supposed, for after all there did
not seem much that Harry could do. He confessed
that he had almost forgotten what he knew
at school, and he had never learned any modern
languages, and could speak no tongue but his own.
He had a little experience in business, he said ;
but this was the only knowledge he could lay
claim to. The Vice-counsel did uot know what
to make of him ; but as he had started with the
distinct hypothesis that Harry was a squire's son,
it was not very difficult to fit in the facts to his
foregone conclusion. Many a young gentleman
forgot all his school learning by the time he was

twenty. The difficult thing was that knowledge
of business which at first Harry had been strongly
disposed to put forward as the only faculty which
he knew himself to be possessed of. How had he
acquired that ? Mr. Bonamy ended by deciding
that he must have quarrelled with his family sometime
before, and that his acquaintance with
business had been the fruit of some attempt
made in England to maintain himself before he
came here. Thus, without any intention on
Harry's part, he managed to deceive his first
influential friend. He neither meant to do it,
nor was he aware he had done it : but still this
was how things fell out. The conclusion of the
interview was that Mr. Bonamy engaged Harry to
come back to him next day, when he would have
thought the whole matter over, and know what
to say. They parted with great friendship and
cordiality, Mr. Bonamy having entirely come round
again to his owen theory in respect to the young man
who had been so serviceable to his daughter.
Everything seemed to prove this, Harry's very ignorance
among the rest. " In these days every poor
lad is more or less educated ; a gentleman's son,
who has something else to look to than competitive
examination, he is the only one that
VOL. n. G

escapes that sort of thing," the V ice-Consul
wisely said. Harry, on his part, went off to his
hotel with greatly exhilarated feelings. He had
done nothing, he said to himself, but make friends
since ever he came to Leghorn. To be sure in the
light of the Vice-consul's friendship he felt that
Paolo was (as he had always felt) somewhat beneath
his pretensions. But still the poor fellow had been
very kind. As he came out by the private door of
the Consul's house, he saw Paolo at a little distance
waiting till the public door of the Consulate should
be open. He saw Harry and rushed at him, beckoning
violently.

"Comm 'ere, comm 'ere ; this is the place,"
he said. " Comm along, I will introduce you, I
will respond for you ; now is the time to find the
Vice-consul amiable. He is always amiable
when he has well breakfasted." He seized Harry
by the arm, and tried to drag him back to the
Consulate with an anxious desire to serve his
friend which merited a better return. Harry
shook himself free of the little man with good-natured
impatience.

I've just come from the Vice-consul," he said
with dignity, " we're the best of friends. I've
been able to be of use to him, and he is going to

be of use to me. Many thanks to you, Paolo,
all the same ; but I've been lunching there, and
and I've done my business. To-morrow I am
to go again," Harry said, unconsciously holding
his head high. Paolo gazed at him with eyes
and mouth that were like round O's of wonder.
He was much crestfallen in his honest endeavours
to be of service. But he soon recovered his
spirits.

*' Bravo !" he said three times over, each time
more satisfied than the other Then he rose to a
Bravissimo," with a smile that lighted up his
olive face. ** It would have made me pleasure to
be of use to you, Ser Isaackk mio. I would have
responded, I would have taken it all upon me 
what you call caution. But you are a true English,
like the Vice-consul himself, and it is just that
you should understand each other. I am not
disappointed I am happy, very much happy that
you have not any need of me," little Paolo
said, smiling, but with tears in his eyes.

G 2

CHAPTER V.

PAOLO.

PAOLO came back from his labours in the
evening, very curious to know all about
Harry's interview with the Consul, and the origin
and the result of the acquaintance between them.
But Harry was prudent. He was prudent without
any motive, from personal pride, rather than
from any consideration for the credit of Miss
Bonamy, which he did not think to be in the least
involved. The women with whom Harry was
acquainted were not of a kind who would have
been afraid to go anywhere in the evening, and it
did not occur to him that the reputation, even of
a girl, in Italy would be jeopardized by such an
innocent benevolence as that of going to visit a
sick neighbour at night. Therefore it was simply

pride and English reserve, not any notion of prudence
on Rita's account, that kept him silent on
the subject. Paolo had a very different conception
of the affair. He was very anxious to find
out what had been the immediate effect upon
Harry's mind of the visit to the Consul's house.

There is a  young lady there," he said,
watching Harry's face. " You see perhaps, yes ?
a young lady, the daughter of the Signor."

Oh, yes, I saw Miss Bonamy," Harry said.

"And you nevare  see her before?" This
Paolo asked with a gleam of mischief in his dark
eyes, and the air of a man who knew a great deal
more than he said.

Oh yes, I have met her before," said Harry
lightly. "They were quite old friends. I did
not in the least expect to meet people so like old
friends here."

Paolo was bewildered by this speech, and did
not know what to think.

Ah," he said in a tone of disappointment.
You know them in your country ? what you call
at 'one ? But," he added with a little triumph,
there you could not meet Signorina Rita, because
she is never to go to England ; her mother die in
England, her mother was the daughter of an English

and Italian, like me for example ; but she die in
England when she go, all 3'Oung, when the Signorina
was a bee. The Signer Vice-Consul was
mad  Si ! mad, there is no other word. It was
a long time that it was thought he die too  but
no, he live, he go on living ; but the Signorina
Rita never go to England, that is finished, that is
fixed, nothing will change it. It could not be
that you meet her there."

Do you know Miss Bonamy very well," said
Harry with a little offence, *' that you cal her by
her Christian name ?"

I say Signorina Rita, it is our custom. If
she were an old, I should say Sora Rita ; and the
Vice-consul he is Ser Giovanni, that is our custom.
Ser Isaackk you, Ser Paolo me  but not for you,
amico. When you say Paul-o, that pleases me,"
and Paolo laughed, showing his teeth, which were
very white and even. He added, after a moment,
with a sudden moistening of his brilliant eyes,
But what displeases me, after becoming amici,
as we are, is not to be able to serve you. I
picture to myself that I will do something ; not
moche, but yet something. I will stand up and
say, * I take him upon myself. He is without
papers, but I take him upon myself  me.' Now

I am without use. It is no matter to you to
have Paolo Thump-sone for your friend. The Vice-consul
is moche better  he is grand personage :
he has power, not only the heart, like me."

But, Paul-o," said Harry, anxious to comfort
him, and half touched, half amused by his
distress, " but for you I should never have gone
near the Vice-Con sul : you put it into my head.
But for you," he added, with a laugh, putting his
hand lightly on Paolo's shoulder, "I think I
should have turned tail altogether, and wandered'
off I don't know where."

Paolo's face shone with delight. He would
have rushed into Harry's arms had that been
practicable, and thrown himself upon his breast.
But Harry, laughing, kept his friend at arm's
length. To have kissed, or to have suffered himself
to be kissed by, any man, seemed to him the height
of ridicule. Paolo, baffled in this impulse, sat
down and looked at him with radiant eyes.
Now I know that we are amici," he said.
Aspect ! There is still a way I can serve you.
I well teach you to speak the Italian. You shall
know it so well that they shall say, Echo un
Italian. Me, I have been to school in Sienna.
I know the real Volcano  the best Italian. We

shall begin this moment. That pleases to you,
Ser Isaackk ?" asked Paolo, tenderly, looking with
humble and deprecating eagerness into his face.

*' You must learn to speak English better,"
Harry said, with some condescension. "I told
you before you must not not say an English, but
an Englishman, and to say an old is nonsense 
it should be an old woman, or an old man, whichever
it may be."

*' Yes, yes," cried Paolo, " that is aright, that
is understood. You correct me when I say what
is not just, and I teach you."

*' Come out now for a walk," Harry said.

Paolo jumped up alert and delighted. It is
true that it glanced across the mind of the young
Englishman that perhaps it was beneath the dignity
of a man who was a friend of the Vice-Consul's,
and thus, as it were, a member of the best society,
to walk about with Paolo hanging on to his arm.
But, though Harry was full of youthful conceits
and the prejudices of an ignorant Englishman,
he yet had a heart in his capacious bosom, and
Paolo's devotion had been so great as to touch
that heart. He said to himself, with a little effusion,
that he never would turn his back upon a
little fellow who had been so anxious to help him.

It might be that it was presumption on the part
of the little fellow to think himself capable of
serving Harry, but still it was well meant, and
his undisguised admiration showed a most just
and well-judging spirit. Nothing, he said to
himself, would induce him to turn his back upon
Paolo, his first friend. Antonio had given his
whole attention to the two during the course of
dinner. He had loitered behind them when he
was not actively pressing upon them all the
choicest morsels, to the despair of various less
interesting guests who could not catch his eye,
and who shouted and stamped in vain. He kept
shifting from one foot to another in the restlessness
of pure pleasure as he caught now and then a word
of the conversation between them, and rubbed his
hands with delight in the consciousness of being
able to understand it. Now and then he would
punch a fat Italian, with whom he was familiar, in
the shoulder, and call his attention. "Coil
giovanni Angles," he would say, though Harry was
doing nothing more important than eating his dinner.
Antonio had got his five francs for a very short
day, for naturally the time passed in the Consul's
had given him no trouble except that of waiting,
and what was still more to the purpose than the

five francs was the importance of having such a
witness to his power of English-speaking as this
new guest, who could arrange nothing for himself
without his (Antonio's) help. He disregarded
even the call of the chief butler, so absorbed
was he in his favourite stranger.

"Do you wish the young Angles to starve,"
he asked, indignantly, in his native language,
*' when you know the Inglesi are the best customers
the padrone has, and always send millions
more 1 Do you propose to yourself that he should
have nothing to eat, this young one that is no
doubt made of gold ; and how can he have anything
to eat if I am not there to serve him f

Thus he kept behind Harris's chair with a countenance
full of delighted interest. Now and then
he would put in a word. " Ze signori will do
much better to go to ze opera to night," he said.
Sey will hear La Catalina, who is ze first in
Italy. It is ze 'Barrier,' Ser Paolo, which gives
itself to-night."

Paolo looked up appealingly into his friend's
face, but Harry brushed the suggestion away with
a true British argument. "Oh, for heaven's sake,"
he cried, " don't let us go and box ourselves up ina
hot theatre on such a night."

Paolo sighed, but obeyed. He repeated the sentiment
in a superior tone to Antonio, who was
anxiously serving them with Cigar Scelte, arranged
in different kinds upon a wooden tray. " A hot
theatre, Antonio mio ! one does not go there in a
so warm evening. That goes well with the
winter, when it is cold; but in summer, we young
have need of moche air and the great world to
keep us comfort-able. When you know more of
real English you will learn what they love."

Antonio accepted this decision of his superiors
with much respect, and laid it up in his memory,
to be produced on his own account when it might
accord with his pretensions as an Anglomane and
person of high sentiment to produce it. But in the
meantime he could not but launch a little criticism
to the others who overheard this dignified
rebuke. " That little Pauline," he said, as they
went out, " to give himself the air of a rich
Angles I He is neither one thing nor another.
He is no more than an abozzo  a sketch of an
Angles," Antonio cried. He had been in an
artist's studio in his day. "Me, I understand
them, al santo," he added, beating his breast.

Little Paolo had no notion that he was being
called an abozzo. He sallied forth, lighting his

cigar, thrusting his arm through Harry's with
the greatest delight and pride.

Next day, at the hour appointed, Harry presented
himself at the Vice-consul's office, and was
received with the same cordiality. Mr. Bonamy
had " made inquiries," but, as nobody in Leghorn
knew anything about Harry, there was not much
information to be procured. Neither did the
captain of the steamer in which he had arrived
know anything about him except that he was a
passenger in the second cabin ; although he looked
quite superior to the second cabin. "I set him down
as somebody's son in disgrace with his family,"
the captain said. This chimed in sufficiently well
with Mr. Bonamy's observations. He met Harry
after the first consultation with a grave face.
You know I know nothing about you, Mr.
Oliver, he said, " except  and that is not much
what you have chosen to tell me."

That is quite true, Sir," said Harry, growing
serious too, and feeling his heart sink, " and I
have no right to expect you to take my word even
for that."

Therefore," said the Vice-consul, " (for you
should never interrupt a man in the middle of a
sentence), I have the more claim upon you to

treat me in an honourable way. If you had
come with all your papers, as they say in this
country, I should not have had the same right to
put you on parole, as it were. If you know no
reason why I shouldn't take you into my office,
and trust you with the Queen's affairs, I mean todo
so. But if there is anything that would make
you a discredit to Her Majesty's Service "

There is nothing, Sir," said Harry, standing
up. His face flushed, his nostril dilated, an
impulse of almost fierce self-justification came
upon him ; but fortunately for him he was not
used to defending himself, and he could not say
another word.

Then that is enough," said the Vice-consul.
I take you on your own parole."

They were both silent for a minute or two
after. It was not like a common engagement.
Harry's heart was in his throat. What with surprise
at this extraordinary good fortune, and the
emotion called forth by a confidence in him which
he could not help feeling to be as extraordinary,
he was quite beyond his own control. If he had
said anything he would have " made a fool of
himself," so he said nothing, but sat still, almost
disposed like Paolo, to be tearful, which was the

most dreadful catastrophe he could think of. The
good Vice-Con sul was a little affected too.

"But I don't know a word of the language,"
at last Harry said.

We have more to do with Englishmen than
Italians," said Mr. Bonamy. " Perhaps the
fellow whom you knocked down ' quietly,' as you
told me, may come and make his complaint to
you. Your knocking a man down quietly was
the thing that tickled me. I wonder what was
his opinion of it. You must learn the language
of course, and some other things quite as important.
You must find out all about the harbour
by-laws and dues, and all that affects the
shipping. These are things we have a great deal
to do with. You must master them, that is the
most important thing; and when you have been
here for a little while you will find out other
points. Do you know anyone from whom you
can get lessons ? But I suppose, as a matter of
fact, you don't know anyone here."

Here Harry, finding his power of speech,
told him of Paolo, with that half laugh of 
implies a certain slight of the
friend to whom he had so much reason to be
grateful. He felt that it was mean, but he

could not help it. How could he help implying
a laugh at the droll little person who held by
him so faithfully, yet was so entirely out of
Harry's way ? However, the Vice-Consul took
Paolo quite seriously. He nodded his head with
approval. "Nobody better  nobody better," he
said. " I see you laugh at him ; but he is as
sound as a bell, that little fellow, and always rings
true. That he is not quite your equal," Mr.
Bonamy added, " does not matter a bit in the
circumstances. I am glad that you have chanced
so fortunately. To get hold by accident of such
a genuine person as Paolo is quite a piece of luck.
I rather think you must be a lucky person," he
added, with a laugh

Since I came to Leghorn," said Harry, fervently,
" nothing could be more true than that."

Yes, I think you must be lucky," said the
Vice-Consul, " to hit upon a perfectly honest
person as your first acquaintance, then making
haste to get yourself into a row to have so good
an excuse for it as my Rita, and then "

And then," said Harry " to meet with such
astonishing, such unlooked-for kindness, to fall
on my feet in such a wonderful way."

Well, perhaps," said Mr. Bonamy, not displeased,

" we may say that was luck too ; and
one thing, Oliver," he added quickly, "it will
be so much the better for you that employment
in Her Majesty's Service is a disgrace to nobody ;
mind what I say. Of course, in the nature of
events, you and your family will not be at
daggers drawn for ever ; and when you condescend
to go back, or they find you out, and
come to look for you "

"Neither, neither will happen," cried Harry,
shaking his head.

We shall see ; but if that day comes, there is
nothing for them to find fault with. A Consulate
is not like a merchant' s office ; anybody
may serve Her Majesty. None of us, I hope, are
too good for that."

I assure you, Sir " Harry cried, hastily.

No, no, you need not assure me. I don't
want to know anything; unless, indeed, your
heart should be opened to tell me everything
which I should really be glad of. Well," he said,
*' come tomorrow morning and begin. Your
friend, Paolo, will tell you about the hours : and
I hope, Oliver, we shall always remain the best
of friends," the Vice-consul added, rising and
holding out his hand. " I hope nothing will

happen to make me entertain a less opinion of
you than I do now; that's understood. You
shall have a card for Rita's evening at-home, and
I hope you'll come and see us occasionally in a
friendly way. Let us say next Sunday, perhaps ?
Sunday's a dreary day for a young man by himself.
Come after church, and stay for the afternoon
; for the present, goodbye."

Harry took his hat and made his best bow.
He was really quite tremulous with excitement,
surprise, and pleasure. To be so speedily and so
easily established was more good fortune than he
could realize. When he was at the door Mr.
Bonamy called him back.

Oliver !" he cried, *' one moment ; I would
not knock any more men down if I were you ;
however quietly it is done, it is a little risky,
and Her Majesty's Service, you know "

You needn't fear. Sir; that's what Paul-o has
been preaching to me all the time," Harry said.

Upon which the Vice-Consul laughed benignly.


Paul-o, as. you call him, is as good an adviser
as you could have," he said.

What should I call him but Paul-o ?" Harry
said to himself; and he went off with his head

VOL. n. H

in the air. Lucky ! indeed he had been lucky ;
only the third day since his arrival and he', had a
situation and a sort of a home and friends ; to
make up to him for all the evil that had happened
to him before, providence was taking special
care of him now. Somehow this made Harry
think of his mother, of whom, hitherto, his
thoughts had been scarcely more kind than towards
the others concerned ; a little moisture crept unawares
to his eyes. " She'll have been praying,"
he said to himself; and suddenly he seemed to
see her, as he had seen her so often, wringing
her thin worn hands, her lips trembling with
words that were inaudible. He thought  it
would be hard to trace the exact connection of
ideas, but there was one  that he would go in to
the first church in which there seemed to be
service going on, on his way back to the inn.
It would not have occurred to him to go into a
church where there was no service, but when he
heard the tinkle of a bell, and saw one or two
people creeping up and down the broad stone
steps, he went in, though with a little opposition
in his mind, as well as a certain craving for
sympathy and utterance. But when he went in,
Harry saw no signs of public worship. The

tinkle of the bell was coming from an altar in a
side chapel, where a great many candles were
burning. In the body of the church some people
were seated quietly, others kneeling on the low
rush-bottomed chairs. He stood and gazed fora
little with mingled feelings, with a great opposition
in his mind to the Papist ritual and ceremonies
(of which he saw nothing, and which, to
tell the truth, he had never seen, and knew nothing
whatever about) ; and disapproval of the
people who were in the church for, as he thought,
no purpose  mingled with a curious sense of the
grateful calm and quietness and seclusion of the
place, the serene coolness and breadth of its lofty
roofs and silent space. This stole upon him, lie
could not tell how. He would not have knelt
down, as the few people about were doing, to
save his life : it would have seemed to him like
the famous bowing down in the house of Rim-mon,
for the North was very Protestant in those
days, and sympathy with Rome was very rare.
He would not even say a distinct prayer in his
heart, which would have seemed like yielding to
temptation. But, as he stood, there rose in him an
unwilling devotion, and the thanks that had been
in his mind were perhaps not the less given that

H 2

they were arbitrarily refused utterance. For
Harry's prejudices were a part of his training,
not anything that originated in himself. When
he went away the moisture came again into the
corners of his eyes. His mother was as Protestant,
more Protestant, than himself. She
would have thought it wrong to go into " a
Catholic chapel." She would scarcely have been
able to believe in the existence of a country not
given over to all evil, in which a Popish place
of worship was not a Catholic chapel, but an
established church. Oh, the poor people ! what
benighted darkness they must be in ! she would
have said, in her ignorance. But somehow, Harry
could not have told how, he felt as if he had
approached his mother in that foreign place.
The silent church, with the silent people in it
praying, made him think of her as he had seen
her, with ber lips moving and her hands clasped
together. Often again he stole in for a moment
to renew that sentiment, which was so soft and
pathetic. He held out against his mother all
the time obstinately, though he knew he was
condemning her to great suffering  and he
entirely disapproved of the church; but for all
that the two had some subtle resemblance, a

union of two things he was hostile to, which went
to his heart.

Paolo came to dinner in great triumph. He
had placed a flower in his button-hole and put
on a brilliant new tie in honour of the great
event, and fairly threw himself upon his amico
and kissed him with enthusiasm before Harry
could get out of this extremely embarrassing
position. Never young girl blushed more uncomfortably
than the young man did as he drew himself
out of his enthusiastic friend's embrace.

What have I done to you that you make no
response ?" Paolo said, almost weeping over this
repulse.

Hold your tongue, for goodness' sake ! Men
don't kiss each other iu England. Whatever
you do, don't be ridiculous," Harry cried.

Poor little Paolo was wounded to the heart.

"I am an English myself," he said. "Yes,
yes, an Englishman, if you will ; I have not the
courage to remember. I am a true English-man ;
but it is cruel all the same. Should I then take
no notice ? when it is the wish most dear of my
heart that will be fulfilled ? Always I have said
to myself  if the Santissima Virgin would send
a real English-man, not one that is what you call

'half-and-half, like me. And when it is done, and
my amico whom I have chosen turns out to be
he whom I have so much desired, am not I
to show a little that I am glad ? I am 'happy that
I am an Italian' said Paolo, with indignation,
-' if it is so."

And there was a little suspension of intercourse
between them. But this did not last ;
Paolo was too good-humoured and too tenderhearted
to stand out ; he begged his friend's
pardon in less than five minutes. Harry, whose
mind moved more slowly, had not had time to
realize that he had been unkind when this reversal
of the position took place. Paolo did all
but weep in his penitence.

I am good-for-nothing," he said, " I am
without sentiment, I have no delicacy nor education.
Who can say why you were so magnanimous
as to choose me, me ! for your amico ?
and when you show the true dignity of an English,
me I am so without good-breeding, so
common, so devoid of sentiment, that I become
angry ! but if you will only forgive me, forgive me
this once !"

It is I who am a brute," said Harry, penitent
in his turn. But Paolo protested with tears in

his eyes, and would have thrown himself at his
friend's feet, or on his neck again, in the excitement
of the reconciliation. And though he was
usually very thrifty, calculating every centissimo,
he ordered a bottle of champagne frappe to
celebrate the day. Nothing would prevail upon
him to countermand this order.

It is a festa," cried the little man, " and it is
a reparation : and we will drink to our eternal
friendship." Paolo did not know that he was
guilty of plagiarism ; he was heroically in earnest,
and drank his wine, which Antonio brought with
great pride and many grins, triumphantly in its
pail, setting it on the table before them, and
watching its consumption with the most amiable
interest. "And here is for a bicchierino," Paolo
said, bestowing, a small coin upon Antonio with
much grandeur, " drink thou also the health ot
Ser Isaackk, who is my amico," and he held out
his foaming glass to touch that of his friend.

Paolo's head was turned altogether by these
unusual potations ; and Harry's first office was to
see his friend safe home and deliver him from
all the dangers of the streets, on this too triumphant
night.

CHAPTER YL

THE OFFICE.

HARRY entered upon his work next day, and
was in a few hours so entirely bewildered
by the novel character of the questions addressed
to him, and the information he was supposed to
possess, that he went to the Vice-Consul in the
evening in dismay. " I don't know a thing," he
said ; " I never knew before what an ignorant
beast I was. It would only be taking advantage
of you if I were to stay."

This hasty alarm and anxious honesty of purpose
made Mr. Bonamy more and more certain
that he had judged rightly. " Don't give in in
such a hurry," he said, ' you can't be expected to
know things of that sort without learning. They
are not part of a gentleman's education. You

must get your friend Paolo to take you in hand.
He is a perfect mine of information. I have
often to refer to him myself. Though he is not
in a very high position, he knows more about
these special matters than all the rest of us put
together."

And thus balm was diffused over Harry's sore
spirit. But he could not help asking himself
why the inequalities and injustices of this world
should be so marked sin respect to Paolo. Why
should he not be in a very high position so far
as the Vice-consul's office was concerned ? He,
Harry, who was an ignoramus and knew nothing,
was to have higher pay and far more consideration
than the other, who was a mine of knowledge.
It was true that Harry's personal sense of superiority
to Paolo was noways weakened  but yet he
felt the injustice. He had not been used to enter
into such questions, yet he could not but see that
to bolster up the ignorance of a well-looking
Englishman, by the knowledge of a little oddity
of an Italian was somewhat hard so far as the
Italian was concerned. It was, accordingly, with
a deprecating tone that he spoke to Paolo at
dinner. It even moved him to a little insincerity.
What he had said to the Vice-consul in all good

faith, and much dismay, he repeated to Paolo,
not meaning it at all. " I don't know a thing,"
he said, " not one question could I answer. I
never knew I was so ignorant. It is very nice
to be settled and have Mr. Bonamy for my chief,
and you, Paolo, to help me through : but a fellow
must be honest  and when the beggars come and
ask me things, I can't go on pretending to know."

You shall not pretend to know, Isaackk mio,"
cried Paolo, with a beaming countenance. " Now
is just come the moment which I was looking for,
which show that it is good to have a friend. How
much does it matter whether it is you that have it
or I that have it? Listen then to me. You
think Paolo Thump-sone a little nobody, and it
is true ; but listen  listen to me. It is not to
talk big or to brag that is necessary. /
know."

I am sure of that, Paolo," said Harry, languidly,
and with the look of dejection which was
half acting, though he did not intend it. *' The
Vice-Consul said so. He told me you were a
mine of knowledge. But why should I pick
your brains? Why should I mount up upon you
and stand upon your shoulders, and get all the
credit of it? That is not just any more than

the other. I oughtn't to take everything from
you."

Paolo could scarcely keep still upon his chair
in his delight and satisfaction. His face glowed
and shone with happiness. "Are not you my
friend ?" he cried; " all that which is to Paolo is
to you, Ser Isaackk. It is my pride. AVe will
begin to-night. It is better than to go out to the
Cafe to sit and sip Rosalie  to be idle like the
others  moche better. You shall come to my
room, or I will go to yours  and then the books,
and to write the exercises, and to stood. Yes,
yes  I know. I have been here all my life  I
know moche, almost everything. Then we commence
to-night."

But, Paolo, how am I to accept all that
from you ? A week ago you did not know me,
and now you are going to sacrifice all yom* spare
time and your pleasure to me; that is not just,
as you say. You must let me at least' said
Harr}', faltering, and, with a glimmering insight
which was quite new to him, watching his friend's
countenance, "you must let me at least  consider
you as  my master, you know ; and we
must settle now don't be angry  a price."
Paolo did not say a word ; he turned his face

away from his friend and pretended to go on
eating his dinner. There was no need for words
to show how deeply wounded he was. He
turned his shoulder to Harry, and called the
smiling Antonio to the other side.

Take it away I take it away !" he said in
English, '' it choke me !" and he pushed his plate
from him.

*' Oh ! Signor Paolo ! Portant e buonissimo ;
don't cry, Ser Paolo," cried the anxious waiter.
These Inglesi, they are brutes ; they have no
sentiment; they give pain without knowing it.
Portant, you must not weep."

That imports me nothing," said Paolo, feebly.
It is again an illusion, my good Antonio ; but
I cannot weep much, for it is too deep."

What are you two talking about ? when you
know I don't understand your confounded
Italian !" cried Harry, at his wit's end. *' What's
the matter ? what have I done now ? you will
drive a poor beggar out of his senses ! Good
Lord ! you're not a woman, that you should cry
for what a fellow says. I don't know what you
mean by your sentiment and all that ; I want to
be honest, and not to take advantage of a good
hearted duffer because he is my friend."

Paolo turned round with the tears still in his
eyes.

You call me suffered' he said quickly' ; " beggar
I understand, but suffer I never heard."

It means," said Harry, drawing on his
imagination, " the best-hearted, silly kind fellow
in the world, always going out of his way to
help somebody, holding out his hand to a
suspicious beast the moment he lands in a strange
place, never giving him up though he behaves
like a brute, giving everything like an idiot, but
flaring up if you want to give him anything in
return."

"Not that, not that," said Paolo, laying his
hand upon his friend's arm. " I give you my
lose, and I wait for your lose in return. If there
is a thing you want I take it upon myself.
Siamoo amici ! is there any more to say ? I know
nothing ; all is in that. If it is true that I am
your amico, then you are a beggar, you are a
beast, you are aU bad," said Paolo, with flashing
eyes, " to be so base as to osier to pay me 
money. Ah ! che ! che ! there is nothing too
bad, nothing too dreadful to say. Angles

brutale ! false amico ! " Here he stopped

all at once, and gazed piteously into Harry's

face. '' Forgive me, forgive me, my friend !" he
cried.

Ttiis all happened at dinner, at the tahle-cClwte,
which fortunately was not very full that day.
There was nobody sitting opposite, which was a
great relief to Harry's mind ; but he could see
from the end of the table the cynical Englishman,
who had never taken any notice of him,
giving an amused glance now and then at the
group of friends  Paolo shedding tears into his
plate, Antonio, with a face full of sympathy, tenderly
removing it, essaying to console the sufferer.
This was a greater trial to Harry's temper
than even the sentiment of Paolo. He shot an
answering glance of defiance at his countryman,
who had never so much as given the help of a
kind Avoid to the stranger.

Let's say no more about it, Paolo," he said,
*' you and I are quite different, you know. I
daresay I am a brutal Englishman, but I can't
help it. That's our nature. We don't think so
much of a little thing as you do, and we abhor
making a fuss. Perhaps you don't know what
that means?"

*' I will nevare make a fuss more. I will
learn to be a suffer, and do as you do,"

said Paolo, in all the tenderness of reconciliation.


Harry looked at him something as Joan looked
at his mother. He had too good a heart to
despise his little friend, and he did not understand
him ; bnt this sentiment was extremely
Inconvenient and very troublesome  on that point
there could be no doubt.

However, later in the evening, Paolo, who had
inherited all the Italian thrift, gave his friend
some very sensible advice. Instead of going to
the Cafe, they went to Paolo's apartments,
which was on the highest floor of a hi2,-h house
in one of the narrow streets. Though he called
it an apartments it was a single room, with an
odd little closet in the shape of a kitchen, and
offices attached to it. The room itself was somewhat
low in the roof, being so high up, but had
three or four windows, and a little balcony
suspended over the street, into which it made
Harry dizzy to look down as into an Alpine
ravine. The floor was of tiles, the walls white,
with ct pattern in distemper, very graceful and
flowing, round the top and bottom. The bed
was a very tiny and bare article, put away in a
corner. In another corner stood a table. A few

chairs, and an old, very straight-backed settee,
with two arms, in old gilding and brocade, stood
against the wall. There was a tall, brass lucerne
the lamp common throughout Italy, with its little
bundle of snuffers and extinguisher and scissors
to trim the wick, hanging from it by a chain, and
a few books on a shelf. Nothing could be more
bare. There was a small rug by the bedside,
but no other covering for the bare area of tiles
which was the chief feature in the room. Paolo
had a little picture of the Madonna, a bad copy
of that which is called the Madonna del Grandpa,
and a basin for holy water over his bed, which was
covered with a red and blue cotton coverlet. Everything
about showed the same bareness and absence
both of comfort and ornament. But Paolo
regarded his apartments with eyes full of
pleasure. He saw nothing wanting in it. It
housed him sufficiently of nights, and was cool
and pleasant in the summer mornings, when he
rose, as most Italians do, in the early daylight, to
get through all the private work he might happen
to have. He looked round upon it with a gentle
complaisance. Some old prints, and one or two
copies of famous pictures, hung on the walls.
In the best light was an old painting of a gloomy

and uncertain aspect, which Paolo believed
to be a Marguerite. It might have been
anything. He was very proud of it. " Echo !"
he said, when they went in, " my old master.
He is a little dark, but when you study
him you will find much in him. He is of the
recent  very early  very early. The painter
have seen the blessed father, San Francesco; that
indicates how old it must be."

Harry did not make any reply to this. For
his part he liked things better for being new.
The dark old picture had no charm for him at
all, and he thought the apartments rather worse
as being larger than his own little room at the
hotel, which had hitherto seemed to him the last
example of bareness and dreariness. " A horrid
little hole," more adapted for a dog than a man.

"Til tell you one other thing," said Paolo,
taking him affectionately by the shoulders before
they sat down by the table ; " if you will make
economies, and do well, Isaackk mio, you will not
live alway s in the hotel. Me I dine there ; it is the
best thing to do ; but live all the time  oh no !
It is only for Englishmen to be so extravagant
like that."

That is what I have been thinking," said

VOL. n. I

Harry, " if I could get some nice rooms. You
don't understand about Englishmen. Dining
every day at an hotel is a thing nobody would
think of in England. We have our dinner at
home, or, if the landlady is not a good cook, then
perhaps  But for my part I always preferred a
beefsteak at home, even if it were not the most
perfect cookery in the world. Dining at an hotel
is a thing no one thinks of, except on a great
occasion perhaps."

Paolo opened his eyes in surprise. "It is
well," he said, " you are more prudent when you
are in your owen country. This is what you
must do, Isaackk, amico. You will first find an
apartments. It is not always that one is so
fortunate as me. This is perfect  non e vero ?
It is all one could want. A bed  echo ! a table, the
sos-fa that has come from a palazzo, even a little
tabouret for the feet  everything. And then the
balcony ! When it makes warm in the summer,
in July and Agosto, it is, oh ! fresco, freschissimo
so fresh and cool here ! The first thing is an apartments.
But in every way I am too fortunate.
As soon I dress in the morning, there is a cafe in
face  you can see it if you look down  where I can
have my coffee in a moment. No waiting as

when you go to a distance, but at the moment.
They are about to send us now the coffee, amico,
to clear our head. You will see how good it is.
Then when the time come for the other breakfast
what you call lunch  there is a restaurant near
the bureau. You have two very good dish, a dolce,
and dessert ; and very little to pay. I will lead you
tomorrow to that place. And at last the dinner at
the Leone. Figure to yourself so much comfort
all in one day ! And you see the journals for
nothing, and hear what all the people say."

Bless us all," said Harry, " in that way you
are never at home."

At 'one ! I am at 'one every were," the little
Italian said ; " all is friends ; whatever goes on,
everyone makes part of it to me. And when all is
over you mount in your appartammto, you are
tranquil, you light your lamp, you fume
slowly your cigar on the balcony, you go to
bed. And you make economies  great economies.
Me even, that have not moche appointment,
I become a little rich, what you call at my
ease. And you, who will have moche more as
me "

Why should I ? You are a great deal mor e
use than I am," Harry said.

T 2

Paolo shook his head with a cheerful yet
shrewd acceptance of the position. " Si, I am of
more use," he said. *' I am good for something ;
you, caro, not good for moche yet. But look at
you and look at me. That expliques itself. That
is the world's way  what you call the world's
way. Come ; the first thing is an apartments.
You think, perhaps, it is too high up here ? But
smell the good air," cried Paolo ; " that is of itself
refreshing  and the view ! You will pay more
scud at the Leone in a week than for a month
here. Echo ! here is the coffee, and though it is
not yet quite dark, that amiable garonne, see, he
has brought us a lamp."

Then there entered, with a knock at the door,
the man from the cafe opposite, holding upon
the points of three fingers a tray containing two
heavy cups of white porcelain and the small coffee-pot,
flanked by a plate of cakes, which Paolo's
hospitality had added in honour of his friend.
The waiter swung the lighted lamp in the other
hand, holding it by the handle at the top, and in
this way had come up five flights of stairs without
spilling a drop of the coffee or jeopardizing
the cups. He put the lamp on the table with a
Felicissima note, Signori," looking upon the

two 3'ouDg men with looks as amiable as his wish.
And, indeed, the wish has more reason in it at
the beginning of the evening than at the end.
Paolo was great as a host. He poured out his
black coffee as if it had been the richest of
drinks, and pressed upon Harry the odd little
collection of cakes of every possible and impossible
flavour. Some of them were excellent, but
Harry thought he despised these innocent dainties.
And he was not very fond of the black coffee :
how much better he would have liked an English
cup of tea ! As he sat turning over the books
which Paolo placed before him, and listened to his
friend's explanations, gulping, with a great effort
not to make a wry face, occasional mouthfuls of
coffee, there seemed to flit before him a vision of
his mother's parlour  the fragrant tea, the rich
fresh cream, and herself, with that pale face which
had not always seemed to him so attractive as
it did now. Once, to tell the truth, Harry had
thought his mother and sister heavy company,
and in his heart had said that nothing could be
more dull than the long evening in the parlour at
home. Now that he was up here so near the sky
in Paolo's apartments, his ideas were different.
The bare tiles underfoot, the wide, vacant space,

with the little bed in the corner, the dull old
Marguerite staring him in the face, with a pair of
round eyes looking out from its blackness  and
all those knotty questions about the harbour dues
to occupy him, made as great a contrast as could
be conceived to the old curtains and carpets, and
familiar walls, and cheerful fire, and the grey sweep
of landscape showing from the windows, stretching
far into the horizon. But he himself. Harry was
very much the same, and in the one place as in
the other he was unsatisfied. He thought it had
been his surroundings that were to blame in the first
instance, but now, after the excitement of all this
new beginning, and the novelty of his new
friends, and the new place, so unlike anything he
had seen before, Paolo's apartments, and the
thought of settling down in another such, brought
him back, with a sort of mental gasp, to himself.
Was that all that was to come of it ? It was
scarcely worth while renouncing his name and his
family, and all his past, in order to settle down
in a room upon the fifth floor, among the chimney-pots,
at Leghorn. While he was studying the
dock regulations and harbour laws, his mind was
busy about this other perplexing question. An
apartments ! Was he never, he wondered,

with an impatience that was almost comic in the
humiliation and depression it caused him, to have
a sitting-room again? never to get a meal save in
public, in the grim sala of the Leone, or in a
gaudy restaurant with little marble tables ; never
even a cup of tea to himself in his own place, as
an Englishman loves to have it; never to have a
carpet under his feet, but cold tiles ; and nothing
in the world that looked like home? He kept all
this to himself, and tried hard to grasp at the
laws and regulations about the free port of Leghorn,
and its etiquettes and its dues ; but his
inner soul was crossed all the time by impulses
of ill-humour and disappointment which
he could with difficulty restrain. It is always
difficult, after a period of agitation and excitement,
to settle down again and resume a steady
routine ; and Harry could not think of this kind
of settling with anything but annoyance. The
inn was not any better. His little sleeping-room
there was not so good as Paolo's. In the sala
there was always a sense of dinner combined with
cigars ; and in the other parts of the establishment
the smell was of cigars impregnated with soup
and divers odours of the kitchen. And these were
the only places where he, with his English habits,

had a chance of sitting down ! He sighed for his
little parlour, with its Kidderminster carpet, and
red moreen curtains, at Liverpool. It was a palace
to the apartments, or anything that seemed
possible here.

They sat so late over their books that Paolo
did not as usual insist upon accompanying
Harry to the inn door. Paolo, for his part, had
spent a very happy evening. He was learned in
those bye-laws which so mystified Harry, and
loved to enlarge upon them, and to impart information
in any shape was a grateful exercise
(to him. He liked to do it, even when he was
not  which he liked still better  doing a kindness
to a friend; and he was proud of all the
possessions which he had exhibited with such
simple pleasure. It did not occur to him that
his home, which he was so happy in, or the
simple routine of life which he had set up for
imitation, could fill any heart with dismay. He
found himself perfectly comfortable in it, why
should not his amico do the same ? No doubt of
the suitableness of this life to one as to another
crossed his simple mind. He crunched the
biscuits which Harry disdained, and drank the
black coffee at which Harry made wry faces, and

was much pleased with himself, and very happy
to think that he was setting before his friend the
best way to walk in. He was scarcely so pleased
with himself however when he was over-persuaded
to allow Harry to go back to the hotel alone. " No,
I will re-conduct you," he had said at first; but Harry
laughed at the unnecessary ceremony. Paolo stood
at the top of the great black well of a staircase and
held the lucerne to light his friend downstairs,
standing patiently with the heavy lamp dangling
from his hand till he had heard the door close at
the foot; and then he rushed to his balcony
to watch lest Harry should turn the wrong way,
ready to scream out to him if he did so. Even
when he had made sure that his friend had turned
to the right, and not to the left, Paolo still shook
his head. " I should have re-conducted him," he
said to himself. It was the only drawback to
the perfect blessedness of the night.

It was a glorious night out of doors ; the Italian
moon was shining with a warmth and glory unknown
to northern skies. Harry tried to think
the moon was as fine in England, but he could
not succeed in this ; everything else was a great
deal better in England, but there was something
to be said for the climate here, one was forced to

admit  even though one might not admit
anything more. Harry walked home (as he
called it by force of nature) with much subdued
irritation and despondency, consequent chiefly on
the apparent impossibility of ever having a sitting-room,
or any place it would be pleasant to sit in
again. The inn, though he called it home, was
not less obnoxious to him, and he asked
himself, good heavens, was it possible he

should never He had got as far as this

when another picture suddenly rose up before
him, and in a moment changed all his thoughts.
It was of a dim room, cool and dark in the midst
of the sunshine, with a whiteness of floating curtains
about the windows, and tables covered with
books, and a white figure in a corner, close upon
the open dark space of a window closed by green
persians, through which the air was blowing
softly. Ah ! he said, drawing a long breath,
there was a kind of paradise ! That was very
different from the apartments. It was dark
in his memory, as it had been when he had suddenly
stepped into it out of the bright day with
so much surprise that he could but dimly recollect
the appearance of the place. He wondered
how it would look when the persians were open,

when the daylight got in, or at night when the
lamps were lighted, when the place was fully inhabited
?

Instinctively, without knowing what he was
about, he turned into the street which led to
the Consulate. His heart gave a jump against
his breast when he saw that the persians were
all opened now, and that the lights in the room
made it partially visible from the street. Evidently
there was a party going on, and he felt a
little pang of mortification to think that he had
not been asked. There was a sound of music and
a great deal of talk, talk that sounded exhilarating
and delightful to Harry, though he would have
felt himself a fish out of water had he been in the
midst of the polyglot conversation that went on
in the Consul's drawing-room. A white figure
was seated near the window, faintly visible within
the white curtains. He wondered if it was hers ?
He screwed his eyes together as if he had been
short-sighted, to try to see a little better, but
this was what he could not make out. The sudden
glimpse of this little bright world from
which he was shut out arrested Harry all at once
in his discontented thoughts. Here was something
which would make up for all deficiencies.

He stood for a long time under the windows,
trjn'ng to hear the voices within, with no eavesdropping
intentions, but only to console himself
by the recollection that he had far more in common
with the Vice-consul's house and his society
than with Paolo, though he was so good a friend.
And then he stood opposite and watched, seeing
figures vaguely glide across the room, figures
which the white curtains, swaying softly in the
air, kept indistinct. He could not distinguish
her, he allowed to himself; sometimes he thought
he had traced her, but only to find himself
deceived. Some one in the background was playing
the piano softly, though nobody paid much
attention. Harry could not tear himself away
from the window. That was life, he thought to
himself; a man who had that house to go home
to need never be dull ; and then he remembered,
with a glow of warm satisfaction and pleasure,
that on Sunday, no further off, he was to go
there. He turned after this with a resolute step,
and went back to the hotel and his dreary little
room, where he sat on his bed, gazing at the two
little lights of the lucerne which had been given
to him to light himself upstairs, for all the house
was dark and at rest before he got back and

thinking of that warm and cheerful scene.
The lamp burned on steadily, the only light in
all the big hotel, and Harry sat and gazed at it
unwinking. Sunday afternoon ! here was something
to look forward to. And that was a house
which was worth calling a home, which was not
an apartments. He thought life must have an
altogether different complexion there.

M'

Chapter VII.

THE BONAMYS.

R. BONAMY, the Vice-consul, was a man
who ought to have filled a very different
position. He ought to have been Consul-general
and a person of importance. He had been long
in the service, and he had done good work, and
there was nothing against him. But there are
some people who never will " get on," whatever
may be the circumstances in their favour, just as
there are some whom all the adverse circumstances
in the world will not keep down. He
was rash, as may have been seen by his reception
of Harry, and he was one of those men upon
whom experience has no power, who never learn 
who having been deceived twenty times are just
as ready to believe and be imposed upon the

twenty-first. His own goodness and rectitude
were such that he had kept his position fairly,
and his talent and fine faculties had not been
without acknowledgment ; but he had not " goton."
There was another circumstance too which
kept him in his present position. His history
had been briefly told by Paolo, and was one which
everybody knew. Eighteen years before he had
married a beautiful girl, the daughter of an English
merchant in Leghorn and his Italian wife.
They had lived together for a year, and the little
Rita had been born, when young Bonamy took
his wife " home" with great delight and pride to
exhibit her to his friends. She had scarcely
touched English soil when she fell ill ; it was an
ungenial season, and the Italian girl was of a
delicate constitution. The young husband, to
whose mind danger or death never presented
themselves as possible, always rash and venturesome,
and ready to trust any gleam of sunshine,
had been to blame in exposing her to the severities
of the spring changes and the east winds, and the
result was that he who had left Leghorn in the
full zenith of happiness, returned a miserable
man, alone, leaving his treasure in an English
grave. For years after he had been so stunned

with his grief that he was capable of little but
the routine of necessary work, and this period of
deadly depression occurred just when there might
have been hopes of promotion for him. He did
not want any promotion. When he began to
revive with the growth of his little girl, and to
find in her a substitute for the young mother
whom he had scarcely had time to know, it became
a settled principle, almost a superstition in
his mind, that Rita must never leave her native
soil ; she, at least, should never be exposed to
those east winds and chilling mists of England.
It became a part of the training he gave her, a
part of the religion which everybody round was
bound to. Whatever happened, Rita was not
to leave Italy; the risks her mother had succumbed
to were never to touch her. His living,
his expectations, his life itself, were nothing in
comparison with this. He was not a man of a strong
mind, as may be easily perceived. There was but
one thing which was utterly precious to him, and
that was naturally the first thing in his thoughts.
She throve here in the place where she had been
born, just as her mother had done before her ;
and if she were removed she would die. This
made him accept cheerfully the neglect of his

superiors ; and he had made himself many friends
in the place he had inhabited so long. The whole
population knew him and his story, and sympathized,
with the ready warmth of the race. It
was known even to the dock-labourers, to the
sailors in the port, that the Signorina Eita was
never to go out of Italy. The people were all
profoundly interested in her in consequence. It
was a compliment to them, to their genial skies,
and the health of the town, and the excellence of
everything Italian, not to say Livornese, which
went to their hearts ; and the Vice-Consul and
his daughter found themselves very happy in the
place, which he would have left long ago had he
been a more prosperous man.

This consoled him greatly for not getting
on ; indeed, he had lost ambition altogether,
and given up all thought of advancement ; he was
satisfied with his life such as it was. It
was a pleasant life enough, no press or hurry
of business, no excessive responsibility, a friendly
society round him, a number of people looking
up to him, a kind of representative position which
pleased his fancy. The shipping and the sea-captains
who occupied so much of his time were
not perhaps quite so delightful, but then there are
VOL. n. K

some drawbacks in every lot. He had a pleasant
house, which he had gradually filled with furniture
and pictures such as might have made a
connoisseur's mouth water, and he had plenty of
leisure time to enjoy the society of his daughter .
and of his friends. Unconsciously he had trained
Rita to be his constant companion and confidant.
He had not intended so to do ; there had been no
desire in him to withdraw her from younger
companions, to keep her to himself; but when an
intelligent child is made the companion of a mature
mind, which is yet not too mature, but still capable
of something of the indiscretion of youth, there
is a charm in the intercourse which nothing else
can equal. To a girl especially the attraction
is great. Rita, almost before she had given up
dolls and baby-houses, had begun to see the
bigger world in glimpses through her father's
eyes. She began to be aware of a universe full
of people, full of humour and meaning, appearing
behind like an inexhaustible background. And
if she did not absolutely find out books by the
same means, yet she made the discovery of most
things that were beautiful and important in them.
His opinions, his ideas represented a whole new
heaven and new earth to her, before which the

nursery and its childish joys faded away. She
had begun to know what he knew, to give an
adoring echo to all his opinions, to understand
his occupations, when other children are still resisting
their first lessons, and resenting the interference
of grown-up persons with all their
pleasures. The Vice-consul confided all his
difficulties, when they arose, to her ears before she
was twelve. She knew that the "F.O." was
sometimes unreasonable, and that the shippers
were troublesome, before she had quite mastered
English, which was not her native tongue. Then
there came a further development, when Rita no
longer echoed her father's opinions, but had ideas
of her own. This followed so quickly upon the
first, and added such a delightful variety and animation
to their intercourse, that the "Vice-consul fully
believed she had been a critic in her cradle, and
that all her lively views upon things in general
had come to her direct by inspiration from above.
She was seventeen now, though she looked
younger. For five years she had been everything
that a grown-up companion can be,
with something besides that no grown-up companion
ever was. They were everything to each
other. She reverenced him, and she laughed at him,

K 2

and patronized his ideas, and thought him the
first of created beings. Nothing but a child
could so mingle veneration and superiority, the
freedom of an equal, the keenness of a critic, the
enthusiasm of adoring love. There was not a
thing he said which she could not pull to pieces?
nor any of his actions that were not subject to
her comments. " I would not have done that,
papa, if I had been you," she would say; and
yet she was of opinion that of all human creatures
there was not one, on the whole, who came
within a hundred miles of Her Britannic Majesty's
Vice-Consul at Leghorn. This was the
result of Kita's observations during the dozen
years or so which she had unconsciously spent in
accumulating materials upon which to form an
opinion. And this was no small thing to say,
for a clever child is the most close of observers,
and far less likely to be blinded by partiality
than any other human critic. As for the Vice-consul,
he had no such foundation of commonsense
and close observation to support his certainty
that such another as his Marguerite had never
been born to man. He worshipped his child
without any reason at all. If she had been stupid,
perhaps even if she had been unamiable, he



would have loved her all the same ; but he took
it for a special instance of the goodness of God
towards him that she was delightful, aud lovely,
and sweet, and clever  as well as that she was
Rita, which last, however, was the chief and
unspeakable claim to his love.

And the house in which these two lived together
was a very happy bouse. It is the
privilege of girls to exercise this sweet reconciling
power, to make a father, or a mother, at peace
with fate, reconciled to all the troubles of the
past. Perhaps it is inconsistent with the greater
self-assertion of young manhood to give so much
thought, so much care to the elder generation ;
certainly it is only here and there a preternaturally
excellent youth who ever fills such a place
in the home and the life of his parents as Rita
filled to her father; and she was not preternaturally
good, but mischievous, and contradictory
and impetuous, as well as bright, and tender,
and gentle. She never tried to make her father
happy, or thought of doing her duty to him, but
only loved him and lived with him in the most
natural unconscious freedom of word and thought.
People may pass years under the same roof without
ever living with each other ; but Rita poured

her young abundant life into the stream of her
father's without thinking that any other channel
was possible. Everything that the one did was
interesting to the other, everything that happened
contributed to their more perfect union.
It had never occurred as yet to either that this
life of theirs might change or undergo any transformation
until the time should come when it
would be split in twain by death ; and that was
a contingency which, as applying to herself (to
think that her father might die had scarcely
occurred to her), seemed to Eita the least likely
of all possibilities, while he, on his part, if he
ever took it into consideration, did it tranquilly,
thinking of his own death, as men in the midst
of their lives, with good health and no appearance
of failing, do think of that event, as of
something too far off to trouble one's-self about
inevitable, and bringing its own atmosphere of
resignation with it, but too shadowy and distant
to disturb anybody's peace.

It may be imagined that the event of Harry's
appearance was much discussed between these
two, who discussed everything. Eita had been
very grateful to Harry; she had exalted him
into a hero. The description she had given to

her father, when she came rushing to his side on
the night of the occurrence, vrhite and panting
after her run home, had been that of a demigod.
She had described him as tall and
straight as an arrow, towering head and
shoulders over the common creatures about.
She described the little voice in Italian which
she had welcomed joyfully enough, and which
had begun to intercede with her assailants with
a troubled tone of politeness, and how it had
been suddenly broken short by the strenuous
English of the deliverer. Eita, when she got
over her fright, cried and laughed together over
the incident. She made it into a dramatic scene,
setting Paolo's tremulous entreaties to music and
then broke in upon the cadence with short sharp
English monosyllables, " Let go that girl "' She
put the most flowery Italian into Paolo's mouth,
then brought the other voice in, strong and brief
in a masculine monotone. She did nothing but
repeat this little entertainment all the evening
after she had got over her fright, and when her
father appeared with the hero, looking somewhat
sheepish, but very strong, very English, and more
good-looking than might have been hoped, Rita
had been delighted. She did not take, however,

the accident romantically, or with any high-flown
interest in her deliverer. Discussing him afterwards,
she allowed that he did not look particularly
brilliant.

"But what of that?" she cried. "Heroes
never need to be clever. It is a great deal more
than we deserve that he should be so good-looking.
He is very good-looking, handsome
and heaves just like a hero," Rita said, "and
with a story I It is a great deal more than we
had any right to expect." But the story itself
did not make any such impression upon her as it
did upon her father. Rita was cynical for the
first time, and did not think much of the quarrel
with the family. " There are so many stories
like that," she said, bending her brows a little ; " it
saves a great deal of explanation. But he is not
clever enough to have invented it. He would
have blushed and stammered, and even you,
papa, could have found him out."

Even I !" said Mr. Bonamy ; " you speak as
if my stock of intelligence was the smallest you
knew."

Not that," said Rita, laughing, " but you
know you are very easily taken in, papa; oh,
yes, you cannot deny that."

You make a great deal out of a very little,"
said the Vice-consul, almost angry ; for it was
his weak point, and consequently he was very
susceptible to criticism. " Besides," he said, in
his usual tone, " when I am taken in, as you
say I am, it is by regular humbugs, professors
of the art. There was that fellow from Geneva,
was there ever a better get-up ? he would have
taken in old Pam himself." This was his
synonym for astute and wary wisdom, as some
people say Old Nick. " But Oliver has not a bit
of get-up about him. Whatever he is, he is
genuine, the least experienced could see as much."

"I told you," said Rita, "he is not clever
enough to have invented a story ; you always
come round, papa, to what I say."

Yes," said the Vice-consul, ' I am a great fool
about you, Rita, everybody says that ; no, he is
not clever enough for a made-up story ; and he is
so much in earnest about it that it must be true."

Rita did not reply. She had no desire to
prove that her father was wrong : and, besides,
for once in a way her observations confirmed his.
She recalled to herself the big young fellow,
with his ingenuous looks, and that air of confused
and deprecating surprise, as if he could not

understand why they should make so much of
him ; a humbug (she concluded) would have
made the most of himself, and shown no surprise.


Of course he will not be able to keep it up,"
Mr. Bonamy said, " they will find him out. By
the way, remember to keep a look out in the
agony column, they will appeal to him through
that. I. 0. ; they are rather queer initials."

What does I. stand for ?" Rita asked.

Isaac Oliver. It is an odd sort of name too
for a young fellow like that."

Isaac ! I don't believe it can be his right
name. He is no more like an Isaac than I am.
Isaac ought to be a sort of soft old man, very
nice and gentle, but a little silly, like Isaac in
the Bible."

"My Rita, you are rather profane. Now it
sounds to me like an old Jew, which is to say
an old humbug, up to everything, flattering and
fawning, and ready to sell his soul if he ladrone."

'sit is you who are profane, papa; my Isaac,
of course, was an old Jew ; they were all Jews,
all those people in the Bible : but he was more
like you, a great deal, for it was he that was
taken in. That cannot be his right name."

"Whose right name? you jump so from the
Bible to yesterday that you are confusing. I am
obliged to you for the compliment about the
patriarch. And as for our young fellow, I think
it very likely that Oliver is not his name ; but
an alias is seldom carried so far as the Christian
name ; he must be Isaac, I am afraid, though it
is disenchanting."

Poor Mr. Oliver," Rita said. " There is not
very much enchantment about him anyhow.
Yes, yes, he is just the right thing for a hero :
but there ought to be something behind, he
ought to be a little clever, or witty, or poetical,
or something, before there can be any enchantment.
Oh yes, it was quite right to ask him for
Sunday. He will be very tranquillizing, quite
Sunday fare."

That was what I thought," her father said.
*' You will try all your arts upon him, you will
turn him inside out. In half-an-hour you will
find out more than I would in a day."

"I shall not want to find out," said Eita ; "if
he is so secret, why should I try to penetrate
his mystery? Mysteries, papa, I have often told
you, are seldom worth finding out." And they
both laughed at this utterance of wisdom : but yet

there was a kind of understanding, at all events
on Kita's side, that it was she who was the most
prudent of the two.

Harry met them at church on Sunday morning.
There were a great many people at the
English Church, and they had the usual look of
sectarianism and conventicles which a small
foreign community, holding its select little " diet
of worship" (as we say in Scotland) in its separate
church, in the midst of a large Catholic community,
always has. It is hard to understand
why the mere fact of not being able to say our
prayers along with the mass of our fellow-creatures,
should give everywhere that look of
narrow superiority, yet lurking sense of disadvantage.
Amid all the salutations at the church-doors,
which showed how the little community
hung together, Harry was shy of penetrating
the mass, and held himself modestly apart, waiting
in the background till his friends disengaged
themselves from the crowd. A stranger was
more remarked in that close circle than he would
have been in towns more frequented by tourists ;
and his appearance was so distinctively, almost
so ideally English, that he caught a great many
eyes. A tall young fellow, muscular and strong,

with curling fair hair, a light moustache, a ruddy
complexion, and an English made coat, at once attracted
the attention of the merchants and officials
who made up the congregation. Whowashe? When
the Vice-consul was seen to go up to him, and
he walked off by Rita's side, their fellow-worshippers
soon came to a distinct conclusion on
the subject. He was some young English swell
who had brought letters from influential persons
at home, and whom Mr. Bonamy would naturally
make the most of. That was the best of an
official position, was the commentary of more
than one looker-on  that the best people were
always sent to you  that whereas all the straggling
tourists who were nobody, were recommended
by troublesome acquaintances to ordinary
residents in a town, the Consul had all the people
of distinction, and though he himself held no particular
rank, made acquaintance, and occasionally
formed alliances, with very superior people indeed.
Many looks were in consequence cast
after Harry, as very happy, yet very humble, he
walked off by Rita's side. He thought that it
was he who had the advantage, while the spectators
considered him a distinguished visitor, and
envied the Vice-consul, whose position made his

house the natural head-quarters for such fine
people. He walked through the shady streets,
saying very little, feeling himself quite happy
without speech, and it seemed to him like the
repetition of a dream when he came in again to
the cool dining-room, and sat down once more
between the either and daughter. It was only
a few days since he had done that for the first
time, coming in, like a man in a dream, to find
an unknown world opened to him. Now the world
was no longer unknown, he had got his place in
it, he had the prospect before him of knowing it
better and better, it was his home, as it was that
of the others.

With a strange feeling of security and continuance
he took his place at the table. He
was never a great talker, and he allowed his
entertainers to talk over him, not being so quick
to understand their allusions, and all the shades
of meaning in their rapid conversation, as he
would have wished. Sometimes Rita would turn
to him with a pleasant word, bringing him into
the current, sometimes Mr. Bonamy would say
something that made an answer needful ; but for
the most part he was silent, taking his share
only with looks. He did the best he could for

himself by this means, for his face was bright,
brighter perhaps than his intelligence, and he
had the pleasant art of being interested, whether
he quite understood or not. His look, which was
half wistful, half understanding, with a little
eagerness in it, a desire to follow what was being
said, and a naive comprehension that it was
slightly above him, caught Rita's attention in
spite of herself. So far as she was aware, this
young woman was more fond of intellectual
people and their discourse than of anything else
in the world. If there was one thing she was
sure of, it was her preference for this kind of
society, her disdain of trivial minds, and the
common chatter of the everyday world. And
she had already expressed her opinion about
Harry, that he would do very well for a hero of
the muscular kind, but as for any special interest,
a man required something more, a touch of
poetry or intellect, or at least, if nothing else,
cleverness, to recommend him to the attention. It
happened, however, two or three times over, that
when Rita's eyes were travelling the It-nth of
the table to meet her father's, with whom she
was talking, they were caught by Harry's, who
sat at the side. Harry had uttered nothing that

was not commonplace, and, indeed, he had not
said much at all ; but when he thus caught her
eye, and forced her to look at him, his face was
more eloquent than his tongue. It was not at
any time an unmeaning face, and to-day it meant
a great deal ; it meant a conviction that he was
very happily placed between two such bright and
clever people; it meant great attention and
admiration and interest. Rita was caught by it
as if he had put forth his hand to stop her as
she passed him. Stupid! how could she have
thought him stupid ? That look was not stupid,
not even heavy or pre-occupied, like so many
other young Englishmen, who looked distrait
when anything was talked of beyond their own
little capacities. Harry had not at all this aspect.
If his mind was not quite up to the mark of their
conversation his attention was. He wanted to
listen and to understand. She looked at him,
th ns, once, twice, feeling each time more favourably
disposed  and the third time she fairly
stopped and turned round and addressed him.

Mr. Oliver," she said, " we are very uncivil,
papa and I. We are so used to talking to each
other that, when there is anyone here, if he does
not stop us and force us to listen to him, we

just go on. I have felt how silly it was. I wish
you would put a stop to us, and make us listen
to you."

"But I should not like that," said Harry;
you talk a great deal better than I do. Talking
was never any gift of mine ; but I like to listen.
I am picking up a great deal, though you may
not think it. Ever5i:hiug is so new to me
here."

Well, then, I will ask you a very silly question,"
said Rita ; " I will ask you what everybody
will ask you, and of course you cannot tell yet
how to answer ; but you will answer all the same.
How do you like Leghorn, Mr. Oliver? Do
you think you will like us when you know us
better? I hope you think that is a nice commonplace
beginning," said Rita, laughing; and a faint
little colour came over her of half amusement and
half self-reproach.

*' Indeed, I don't think it silly at all; I am
commonplace myself," said Harry, with a little
sigh. "I wish I could be more remarkable,
but I can't. Yes, I like Leghorn very much, and
I think I shall like all the people I know, more and
more as I know them better. But I don't know
many people. Except Mr. Bonamy and yourself,

VOL. II. L

who have been so kind to fine, I have got but one
friend."

One friend, hear him ! as if that was a thing
that could be picked up at every corner," the
Vice-Con sul said.

'' I never saw anything like him," said Harry
'' he is like a child and very simple in his ways
of thinking. He is twenty times better than I
am, and yet I feel sometimes as if I must laugh.
You don't know what strange people we English
are, Miss Bonamy. We can see how good a
thing is, and yet we can't help laughing if it is a
little out of the way."

'' Then," said Rita, " tell me why. I have noway
of knowing but what people tell me. There
are things said about Englishmen just as there
are things said about women, in general. Now
the women I know are quite unlike each other.
I cannot imagine any one thing that they would
all think or do. Are Englishmen all the same ?"

'' Now, Oliver, be on your guard," said her
father, " that's one of her theories. She wants
to push you into a corner and compel you to
commit yourself. Women have this and that
way of thinking, we all say, don't we ? and it's
quite true. 'Really!' says this little person, 'I

suppose, then, women are all exactly' like each
other T Have a care, m}' young friend ; she looks
innocent, but I don't advise you to let yourself
fall into her hands."

When I said Englishmen" said Harry, faltering;
then he gathered a little boldness  "Weare
not all like each other : but this is rather true
of all of us at least, so I think : we jeer at things
we don't understand."

"Bravo," said the Vice-Consul, clapping his
hands, "I see you understand our dear countrymen."


We don't mean much harm," said Harry, led
on beyond himself. " I suppose that in other
countries just the same happens in different ways.
When people act in a way we should not think
of acting, w think it is so strange that we  laugh
at them. It is wrong, I have no doubt, and silly,
but still we do it. The first thing is, we laugh
at them  Italians don't seem to do so. They
are most polite."

And the French don't do it."

"Papa, they do a great deal worse," said
Rita ; " for the language, for instance, they are
far more hard than you. When anyone speaks
English badly, you laugh, but you don't mind.

L 2

The Frenchman doesn't laugh, he is horribly
polite  but he thinks the worse of you for ever
after. I see what you mean. There is a kind of
a way you have of looking at things in the same
light, which does not mean that you are alike,
or all thinking in the same way. Perhaps,"
said Eita, meditatively, "that may be true of
Englishmen  and women too. Yes, I see how
that might be true. I am very much obliged to
you, Mr. Oliver, for putting it in so clear a light."
Harry could only stare at her with a mixture
of amazement and gratification. He to be applauded
for putting something in a clear light !
and by Rita, who knew so much more than he did.
He could not but laugh within himself at the unlikelihood
of it ; yet he was gratified by the thought.

CHAPTER Viii.

HARRY'S PROGRESS.

AFTER this, Harry " settled down." It was
a somewhat disappointing, disenchanting
process, but still it was better than it appeared at
the first glance. Paolo, finding that his friend
could not be happy without a sitting-room, which
seemed to himself the most unnecessary of
luxuries, exerted himself to procure an apartments
for him which should include this, and
managed, after a little delay, to do so, at a price
so modest that Harry was astonished, and the
padrone di casa much disgusted and indignant
when he found that he had actually suffered his
rooms to go, at a rent extravagant only for
Italians, to an Englishman. The landlord was so
disappointed and annoyed by this that the occasion

made him voluble; for "Echo!" he said, "a
countryman, that is  a countryman. He knows
as much as we do. He is aware of everything.
He can do what he pleases. That he should
have the rooms cheap, that understands itself:
that is all just. But a stranger! And, on the other
hand, they want so much more, these strangers.
They will demand breakfast, and even refreshments
in the evening ! They are so lazy they
will not give themselves the pain to descend to
the cafe for their coffee, which is the natural ways,
but will demand to have it here, which is endless
trouble. I never could have believed that Ser
Paolo, who is a person of education, would so have
treated an old neighbour." He said so much on
the subject that Harry, with something of that
impatience and careless magnificence which are
(supposedly) the characteristics of the English,
declared that, rather than be so persecuted, he
would pay twenty lire a month more than had
been asked of him, an offer which made the
padrone think him a great fool, but a true
Englishman, and which drove Paolo nearly out
of himself with indignation. It may be understood
by this fact that Harry soon picked upas
much Italian as made him understand at least

the tone of address, whether it was friendly or
angry : and in smaller matters he was soon able to
make himself understood.

The first night of his residence in his new
quarters, when he heard Paolo close the
door behind him, and felt himself left all
alone at the top of a tall Italian house,
without a soul within call, gazing round him at
the four bare white walls, his lamp looking
at him with three unwinking eyes, and not a trace
of anything that looked like home  vain word I 
the young fellow was altogether overcome, and
staring round with a wild look of despair, was as
near breaking into idle tears as ever man was.
But what was the use? He had made his bed
(or his people had made it for him, as he thought),
and there he must lie. He had half a dozen
books on the table : one upon the laws that
affect shipping and the maritime code, another
on International Law generally, the rest Italian
grammars and dictionaries, a volume of easy
little stories in the same language, and that well-known
volume of Silvio Pellicle, out of which so
many people have learned their first Italian
lessons. They were none of them very interesting
to Harry. *' fce'Mie Prigioni," when you

have made it out with the aid of a dictionary, is
not more tempting than any other book would
be under these circumstances. They were as
blank as the white walls, the silent room, the
dead solitude of the place, to Harry. A yellow
novel, if he could have got that, would have been
precious to him. But he had not even that to
fall back upon. He crept dismally to bed, unable
to contemplate his fate, and turned his face to
the wall, much as his mother was doing at home.
But in the morning things were better; and
though he never could reconcile himself to the
gloom and solitude of his apartments at night,
during the day things went tolerably well with
him when he began to know what was being
said around him, and to wake up to the new
insight which a new language confers. Gradually
he began to take a little interest in the porter's
family, in the shrill patron, shrieking her orders
and her commentaries from the balcony of the
fourth piano across the deep well of the courtyard,
vvho was a terrible nuisance, yet by and by
began to feel homelike, so that he missed her
sharp peacock-cry when the arrival of a baby
compelled a brief withdrawal from her usual active
survey of the affairs of her tenants. And so the

time went on, and months passed, and Harry
became accustomed to his life.

There were times, however, in which those
slow beginnings of content which soothed
Harry's mind, rose into something a great deal
higher and brighter ; and these were the hours
which he spent in the private rooms at the
Consulate, where, by degrees, he became very
familiar, a sort of son of the house. Harry
never knew how this happened, nor did the
Bouamys themselves, who, bit by bit, opened
their doors more completely to him. They had
never done so before to any clerk. The office
generally was held at arm's length by the head
of it. He was thought proud by the employed
generally. What was he, many even asked, that
he should give himself so many airs ? But he never
gave himself any airs to Harry Even when they
began to forget that romance about the young
squire who had quarrelled with his family, which
was entirely their own invention, they did not
turn away from or cast off the stranger who,
falling into their midst with no recommendations
at all, had made himself so strong a footing
amongst them, partly from accident, partly from
imagination. Very soon, indeed, Harry came to

be considered as part of the family ; a ready
hand to be appealed to for everything ; a ready
hearer, though he did not always understand : an
invariably sympathetic and trustworthy friend of
the house. To Mr. Bonamy it was a great
advantage to have some one in the office whom
he could treat upon this footing ; to whom he
could speak confidentially of all that occurred,
and with whom, if need were, even in the bosom
of society, he could confer on any accident of
official business, sending Harry off to do this or
that, even from the card table where he was
playing round games with the younger guests, or
out of the heart of a valse, when need was.
Harry liked the dance, and was merry and useful
at the card-playing, but he never complained or
grumbled if he were sent away. He had to come
back late when the company was gone, to make
his report, and that privilege atoned to him for the
self-sacrifice. On such occasions, when the great
alone was still all alight, and Rita reposing upon
the sofa, or buried in a great chair, after her
exertions, while the Vice-consul had already put
on the light dressing-gown in which he smoked
his evening cigar, the young man, returning,
had the pleasantness welcome. Mr. Bonamy put

towards him his box of cigarettes ; the windows
were all open ; the warm Italian night glowing
out of doors ; the stars shining, and every breath
of the soft air a delight. In that Italian room
the light smoke was not thought out of place.
Rita had been used to it all her life. She might
have taken one of these little cigarettes
herself and nobody thought any harm ; but, fortunately
for Harry's feelings, to whom it would
have been a very terrible profanation of a girl's
lips, she did not. But she lay back in her chair,
her pale face and dark locks relieved upon the
soft, rich old damask, and watched the two men
with a smile. The Consul, who loved everything
that was beautiful, had his smoking-coat also made
of damask  a piece of brocade, in colours which
Harry thought faded  and he, too, threw himself
negligently back in his chair and listened to his
young aide-de-camp's report, with his fine head
on one side, like a benevolent prince listening to
the information collected for him by a young
prime minister, all visionary, and eager in his
plans for the benefit of their people. Perhaps it
was only a refractory ship-captain whom Harry
had talked into submission, or an impatient
Englishman whose suspicions of extortion had

got him into trouble ; and sometimes the three
would laugh over the characteristic follies of
their countrymen, and incapacity to understand
the grandiloquence of the Italian authorities.
"When Harry got to be sufficiently strong in the language,
he would himself make very merry over the
sentiments magnifico of the professional pillagers
whose charges here and there drove a stranger
wild, but who always professed the noblest superiority
to all interested motives. Rita, who was
more than half an Italian, was sometimes piqued
by the laughter in which her father joined, and
would stand up for the kindly race to whom she
owed half her blood and all her training. She
would shine out from the soft background when
she thus roused herself in defence of her people,
her great dark eyes glowing, her white little
figure all alive with energy. " You are all made
up of suspicions, you English," she said. "You
think everyone wants to cheat you, to get your
money from you. Yes, and it is you who want
to get what they have from them. I wonder who
it is who picks up the pictures, and the hric-a-
brace, and shakes his head " (which she did with a
good imitation of her father's benevolent regret),
"and complains that all the little dealers are

beginning to know the value of the things
they have to sell, eh, papa ? Old Leonard!
showed his sentiments magnijico when he let
you have that little Ghirlandajo for next to
nothing."

I don't believe it is a Ghirlandajo  of his
school, that is all," said the Consul, brandy, " and
he lets me have it cheap  not for nothing : he
lets me have it cheap because he thinks the
English travellers will see it here and will go to
him to be fleeced, that is the best reason he has,
I fear."

*' And if it is, you take advantage of it," cried
Rita. " Which is worst ? There was that piece of
lace the other day. I said (it was quite true) what
shall I do with it, Signor Giovanni? it is not enough
for a dress ; and he said, in the prettiest way, the
Signorina shall put it upon her handkerchief to
remind her of old Leonard i. I took it ; what
could I do ? it would have made him angry' if I
had refused it after that. Was not that the sentiments
magnifico, Mr. Oliver  you who don't
believe in my Italians? If I had offered him
money for it he would never have spoken to me

o'

I thought he was an old Jew," said Harry ;

but I see he is a fine old fellow, and I shall go
and buy something from him tomorrow. He will
cheat me ; but I shan't mind after what you have
said."

*' He will cheat you," said the Vice-Consul, with
equanimity ; " though he has a fine sense of the
proper time to be honest, and the proper time to
be liberal all the same ; but let us hear how you
got your Englishman out of his clutches, for that
is the business immediately in hand."

And then Harry returned to his story, and told
how the poor tourist had raved and blasphemed,
how he had bought a picture which was vouched
for as genuine, and it was found to be a flagrant
copy ; and how old Leonard had perjured himself
over and over again, and sworn by all the
saints that there could be no doubt of its authenticity,
holding up his fine old Italian head in the
very presence of the painter, who had made the
copy, and denying all knowledge of it. The
tourist, whose settled conviction it was that
the natives " everywhere were in league against
him, was, however, the chief point in Harry's
report. He had rather thought so himself when
he landed in Leghorn, and the feeling which had
made him refuse Paolo's first offer of service, and

carry his own portmanteau, and hunt out the
hotel for himself, still lingered in his bosom. He
understood the character so well that he set it
forth with great power before his audience ; and
Harry was so much gratified by his success, and
by the gradual blowing away of the cloud which
was on Rita's countenance, and the delightful
laughter with which she chimed in after a while,
that he rose into higher heights. He himself was
just beginning to awake to the humours of the
Englishman abroad, and it was very pleasant to
find himself superior to them, as one who understood
the language and knew the people, and
could explain a good many mistakes and misapprehensions
away.

*'Mr. Oliver, you are very English," Eita said
gravely, after the story and the laughter were over.
She was apt to change in a moment, and with the
smile just disappearing from her lips, to produce
the most serious remark.

"Am I?" said Harrow a little crestfallen ; for he
rather thought he had made it apparent that he
was very superior to the English that is the
common English who travel, and who are often,
as we all hasten to tell our foreign friends, so little
credit to the race. Then he added with more

spirit, " I suppose I am very English. What
else could I be ? I have only been a year away.

Do yon call this 'away " she said, with somewhat
startled tone. " Yes, of course it is ' away.'
Over there is what you have always been used to 
that is home  of course ;" but the idea seemed to
be new to Eita, and not to give her pleasure. The
Vice-consul had gone off to his business-room
to get something that was wanted, and the two
young people were alone.

It may be home," said Harry, with a roused
and almost irritated tone; "but I shall never see
it again. Home has so many meanings. I shall
say presently I am going home, and I shall mean
my apartments  as Paolo calls it  not very
much of a home," he said, with a sharp laugh.

Isn't it ? I say home, too, when I speak of
England ; but I shall never see it. Do you
know I am never to be allowed to go to England,
Mr. Oliver ? That makes me like to hear everything
about it. Then you and I are the same in
that ; but you will change your mind."

' You are much more likely to change your
mind," said Harry. "I  have good reason "

And do you think I have not good reason
too ? When my mother went there, she died."

"She might have died anywhere," Harry
said.

*' It is harsh of you to say so. Yes, to be
sure she might have died anywhere ; but they say
it is so cold in England," said Rita, with a little
shiver ; the night air seemed all at once to have
grown chilly. She looked at the big window
close to her and shivered again. Harry got up
and closed it without a word.

It is cold, when you expect it to be cold""
said Harry; "that is pretty often, to be sure:
but it does not take you in an underhand way
like this. In England it is all above-board ; it
blows right in your face, it does not steal in like
that behind your back and chill you. Things are
honest at home. I think I could take you allover
England, and you would get no harm."

"Could you?" said Rita eagerly; "do you
know a way ? but how then, Mr. Oliver ? tell me,
do you know a way ?"

It would be just to take care of you," said
Harry, with a blush. " I know that way. I should
understand that you wanted taking care of, and I
would take care of you. For my part, I should
not be a bit afraid."

Rita did not notice the blush on his face. The
VOL. n. M

desire of her heart was to go to England, and
this made her think. She had the credulity of her
birthplace about wonderful elixirs and miraculous
ways of doing a dangerous thing. She looked
at him dreamily, yet eagerly, with her great eyes.
But homo should you do it V she repeated, " Mr.
Oliver ; if there is some particular way, will you
tell me 1 For if you only knew  if you could only

know how I wish to go to England !"

*' There is no particular way," said Harry; "if
I were ever to go back home, which I never
shall  and if you were to go with me, which
most likely you never would  then you should go,
and no harm would happen to you ; that is all I
know."

He spoke abruptly, and he was flushed and
hasty. Rita did not think at the moment what
it meant; she sat very quiet in her great chair,
while her father came in and resumed the conversation
 thinking over what he had said. Immediately
there had risen before her a vision of the
white cliffs she had heard of so often, and of green
fields and red roofs, and of all the special features
of English scenery which she had read of. What
could it be that made him so sure? "If I were
ever to go, which I never shall and if you

were to come with me, which most likely you
never would Well, no," Rita said to herself,
with a half smile, " not much likelihood of
that ; how could I go with him ? he means it we

were to take him with us  he means " and

then she came to a pause, and a sudden reflection
of the colour on Harry's face wavered over hers
for a minute; only a minute. She was not altogether
inexperienced in life ; she had already
been the subject of several proposals addressed
to her father, which he had declined after reference
to Rita, so that she was aware that she
was looked upon with favourable eyes by various
persons, aud that the love which is so much
talked of in books might light upon her at any
moment. Rita had, for her part, no particular
objection ; she had even left the door of her
heart open, so that when he was thereabout that
intrusive sentiment might come in if he pleased.
But up to this moment he had not come in ; the
door had stood open, but nothing had entered
except poetry and gentle thoughts. But Rita,
after this conversation, experienced a very curious
sensation. She felt not as if anyone had got in
by the door, but as if some one passing had half
stumbled against it, finding it closed, and, no

M 2

answer being given, had gone bis wiry. In the
first haze of this idea she got up from her chair
and said good night, and went off to her room,
complaining that she was sleepy. But she was not
sleepy ; she sat down and began to think as soon
as she had got within the protection of her chamber.
It was not any personal feeling that moved
her, far less any strong emotion ; but all at once
she was conscious of a keen and lively curiosity
springing up in her mind, eager and lively asher

nature. Did he mean ? What did he

mean ? " If I where to go to England  which I

never shall  and if you were to come with me "

Why should she go with him ? What reason
could there be for such a thing, what excuse ?
He must be mad to make such a suggestion ; but
yet it kept coming back to her. " If I were to
go, and if you were to come with me." Certainly
the door of that hidden chamber in her heart
had swung to and closed, and somebody passing,
a stranger, had run up against it, and shaken it,
as if to try whether it would be easy to open.
It was a very strange suggestion. Eita had been
sought by persons of condition, by people who
had something to offer, and who had made their
proposals, as everybody who respects himself

does in Italy, to the young lady's father. But
here was somebody who was nobody, and who
took hold of the handle of that door of her heart,
which she had believed to be open, but which
had evidently closed of itself, and gave it a sharp
shake, without thinking of her father or any
consequences whatever. She thought of it fora
long time, turning it over and over with the
greatest curiosity. It was a new thing in her
experience. He wanted a great many of the
qualities which she considered indispensable ina
man. First and chiefs of all he was not
clever. He knew nothing about books, he scarcely
knew a picture when he saw one. Instead of
hunting about in the bric--brac shops as her
father did, and as even little Paolo Thompson
(whom Mr. Oliver called Paul-d) was in the
habit of doing, picking up wonderful things now
and then, this stranger gazed with blank eyes
at the treasures, and could not understand them.
He was altogether a different kind of man from
any she had ever seen, a homelier, duller sort of
man ; and yet he was not dull. The whole house
was quiet and asleep when Eita suddenly sprang
up from this long reverie, catching sight of her
own big eyes in her looking-glass, and wondering

at the wonder in them. She had got a new
idea into her active little head. It was something
novel and curious, and very amusing, but
it did not seem to her at all necessary that it
should ever come to anything. She wondered
what he would say next, or how he would look,
or what he would do. She was pleased on the
whole to think that now perhaps she would have
an opportunity of watching what a man looked
like in such circumstances as these, which is a
thing always interesting and, some people think,
vers amusing to see.

As for Harry, he went home that evening with
a sensation not less extraordinary, but much
more definite than that of Rita. He had not
thought of the meaning of what he was saying
till he had said it; he had not been aware of
meaning anything, and yet he knew now that
he did mean it. What had he been doing? Without
a name, without a home, without anything
in the world, he had been so foolish as to fall in
love with a girl who, in the best of circumstances,
would have been above him. The Joscelyns
thought a great deal of themselves; but when
Harry thought of the parlour at the White House,
and then of Rita's drawing-room, he felt that she

was immeasurably above him, and that to say
such a thing to her was not only wrong, but
mean and ungenerous. If you were to come with
me  Good life, why had he suggested that to
her ? She come with him ? It seemed ridiculous,
more out of the question to Harry than it had
done to Rita, He was angry beyond measure
with himself for letting himself be run away with,
so to speak, by the foolish impulse of the moment.
For he had never meant to say it, or indeed to
suggest any idea of the kind. He was full of
sense, though passion had him in its power when
it once got hold of him. In the meantime, however,
there was no question of passion. It was
the pleasure of his life to be with Rita, to see her,
to do little services for her, to hear her talk ; but
when the idea was suddenly set before him that
he might marry Rita and cetrry her away with him,
Harry was more frightened than she was. He to
think of such a thing ! He walked home at such
a pace, with such a swift, impatient step, that the
few passengers in the streets turned about to look
after him, wondering what business he might have
in hand  if he were going for a doctor, or any
such urgent occasion ; but Harry was walking fast
only to keep up with his thoughts, which had

suddenly been let loose like colts in a pasture,
and were all careering about wildly, so that it
was impossible to catch or lay hold upon them.
How could he have been so mad as to have let
them loose ! and he wondered had she understood
him? But how could she understand him, a
child like that ? she was too innocent to understand.
He hurried along to his apartment
in full chase after that wild herd of thoughts and
imaginations. If he had them but once safely
shut up again under lock and key certainly it
would be a strong temptation indeed that would
tempt him to let them loose.

CHAPTER IX.

A REVELATION.

HARRY found himself thus brought up, and
forced to give, to himself, an account of
himself, such as he had never in his consciousness
been compelled to make before. He was in an
altogether new position, and it was indispensable
that he should know where it was leading to, and
what was meant by it. There had been no occasion
to inquire into this before. He had plenty todo
learning Italian, learning about the shipping,
getting into the duties of his new life. The
Consul's house and the Consul's daughter had
been his little bit of happiness, his reward after
his work, his diversion from those dismal sensations
of utter solitude which had almost overwhelmed
him at first ; and he had not thought of

any complication of interests or feelings. Nothing
need have awakened him from this comfortable
state if it had not been that unlucky conversation
about going to England. Why should he
have talked about going to England ? He never
meant to go back, or, if ever, not at least until he
had grown rich and altogether independent of
them and their kindness. But in the meantime
there did not seem any immediate likelihood of
growing rich, and why he should have stepped
outside all the boundaries of his life and suggested
the sudden possibility of going home and
taking Miss Bonamy with him, baffled Harry's
comprehension. Sometimes eve say and even do
things which on looking back upon them we feel
were not our doing at all, but that of some one
else, rather our enemy than otherwise, some one
making a distinct effort to get us into trouble.
This was Harry's sensation now ; he was half
angry and half frightened. It was some malign,
mischievous traitor wanting to betray him,
not himself, who had said that. He went home
breathless, and when he had climbed all those dark
stairs to his rooms, and lighted his lamp, he sat
down, and, as it were, called a council of himself,
to inquire who had done it. But it is a great deal

easier to feel that some one has betrayed us in
this way than it is to determine who has done it ;
for those internal traitors have no names, and
cannot be brought to the bar. His investigation
so far was fruitless; but it was fertile enough in other
ways, in ways in which he did not feel any anxiety
to investigate. Harry had never been brought into
familiar intercourse with any girl before. He had
seen them at a distance, in circumstances which
made no approach possible, even if he had desired
it ; and he did not know that he had ever desired
it. Once or twice he had been struck by a pretty
face, and had felt a passing wish, mingled with
reluctance, to make further acquaintance with it ;
that is he would have wished it if he had been
able to get over his shyness, and the difficulty of
knowing what to say, and the trouble of overcoming
all the preliminary obstacles. But here
none of these difficulties had existed ; he had
come quite naturally into Rita's acquaintance at
once, as if she had been a comrade of his own.
There had been no shyness, no hesitation, but
the easy talk of a table at which strangers were
constantly appearing and disappearing, and a
house in which this young creature, though so
young, was the mistress, and used to all the

exertions necessary to set people at their ease. He
had admired her he said to himself, from the first
-  who could help admiring her? but it had been
so clearly her part to entertain and amuse the
people about her, and she had been so pleasantly
indifferent, so innocently at her ease, so oblivious
of his presence often, so kind when her attention
was called to him, that all those little bulwarks
of freedom, which boys and girls when they are
made conscious of each other, set up instinctively,
had been useless in this case. She was neither
afraid of him nor solicitous about him. Sometimes
she took no more notice than if he had
been a cabbage, and at other times was as
seriously confidential as if he had been eighty.
Harry had liked all the ways of it. He had
been piqued a little sometimes, but afterwards
had found it quite natural, and liked her friendliness
and indifference, and the occasional moment
of household intimacy, when she would look at him
to indicate some little service she wanted, as she
might have looked at her brother, without words,
taking his interest and compliance for gran ted. And
gradually, without any thought, this had come to
be the pleasure and support of Harry's life. When
he did not see her, when he was not at the house

for a whole day, it was a dull day indeed ; but
still faintly illuminated by tomorrow, when he
was sure to see her. When she went away upon
a visit, which happened once, the Consul's despondency
kept him in countenance. Mr. Bonamy
adopted Harry in her place. " Come in and help
me to eat something," he said, "I can't bear
her empty seat. When my Rita is away I feel
inclined to hang myself." Harry had almost
betrayed himself (to himself) by the warmth of
the sympathy which he bestowed upon the disconsolate
father ; but as Mr. Bonamy ended by a
doleful laugh at himself as an old fool, Harry
laughed too, and the catastrophe was averted, and
so things had gone on for a whole long year.

What a year that had been !  far the most wonderful
of Harry's life. So many new things had
happened to him ; he had been torn out of all
his old habits, and made into another man with a
new set of habits  as new as the light coloured
clothes in which alone it was possible to live on
those southern coasts. And he had become so
much the more of a man that he was now, so to
speak, two men, one developed out of the other.
He looked back upon the Henry Joscel}Ti of
Liverpool with a mixture of amusement and

pity. He had been a poor sort of limited creature,
not knowing much ; going half asleep between
his office and his lodgings, now and then
going to a poor theatre, walking about with small
clerks in other offices, who knew nothing more
than their own little gossip and the town news,
and the fluctuations of trade. Perhaps it was a
sign that Harry himself had not yet reached any
great elevation, that he thought his present life
so greatly superior. The reader knows he had
not thought so always. He had compared his
big, bare room, with its four white walls, most
unfavourably with the carpeted and curtained
parlour of his Liverpool experiences. Bnt since
that time his mind had undergone many transformations.
His apartments had become to
him what Paolo's was, a decent and tranquil
shelter for the night. He had no longer thought
of the respectability, of sitting there for a
whole evening, of drinking tea, and having his
friends to see him there. These were old customs
at which he smiled. He had acquired a great
many others which were now to him not only a
second nature, but far more enjoyable, more lifelike,
he thought, than the old. At all events,
they were the habits of the present, not of the

past. And amidst these changes, the advance in
which might be questionable, were various other
changes in Harry's life of which the advantage
was unquestionable. To live half his time in
the Consul's house, between a man of culture
and education, and a young, fresh, intelligent
girl, who had grown up knowing a world of
things until then sealed books to Harry ; and to
have to do, not with mere bookkeeping, and sales,
and goods of various descriptions, but with menin
a hundred little perplexities, out of which his
skill, his patience, his superior knowledge, had to
deliver them  were educating influences of the
most active kind. He was a different man, and
he felt himself to be so. How much he was the
same man of course it was more difficult for
Harry to see.

And here, in his new life, he had come to the
first great difficulty ; things had gone on smoothly,
not a hitch anywhere. He had discharged all
his duties to the satisfaction of his chief. He
had acquired the very phraseology of a much
higher class than that which he naturally
belonged to, and talked of his chief as if he had
been a fine gentleman in a public office. Many
people, indeed, believed that Harry had been sent

out by the "F.O." with special instructions to
keep Mr. Bonny in order ; and many more that
he had come to Mr. Bonamy with the strongest
recommendations from that dignified and mysterious
power. Nobody guessed that he had been
picked up off the streets, so to speak, by the mere
generous caprice and mistaken romantic fancy of
the rich official, who might, for all he knew, have
been jeopardising the credit of the office by admitting
a young adventurer to its sacred shelter.
Mr. Bonny had long ago forgotten that Harry
had come to his present promotion in any illegitimate
or irregular way,or that the appointment had
occurred otherwise than in the ordinary course; and
Oliver was his right hand, his constant refuge,
his aide-de-camp in all things. He had even
forgotten that he did not know all about the
origin of the stranger who was now so freely
admitted to his house. He was rash in that as
in other matters, and though he would have
given his life for his daughter it never occurred
to him to take those precautions about her which
the most selfish parent usually thinks it necessary
to take. Everything had gone smoothly for
Harry. At the Consul's house he had met " the
best people " that were to be found in Leghorn,

the rich English merchants, and also many
Italians, old traditionary friends of Rita's
mother, who was of Italian blood. By this time
Harry had got a footing among them, and was
asked to other houses, and known everywhere.
Everything was going smoothly. He had no
reason to be discontented or anxious about his
future life. Everybody knew him, and nobody
knew other than good of him. Whatever happened
he would never again be the desolate
stranger, with a new name, and no reputation,
who had landed friendless on these shores.

And yet, with all these advantages, and this
progress, suddenly, in a moment, he was brought
to a standstill by this discovery. "What wonder if
Harry was provoked beyond bearing with himself
and that traitor in him, who would not be
brought to book ? There was something almost
ludicrous in his dismay. Why couldn't you hold
your tongue ? he said, indignantly to that something
within him. Who wanted to know what
you were thinking? What is the good of it now
sou have let it out? It was a ridiculous discussion,
there being no one to reply, but yet it gave
expression to the self-provoked and impatient
character of Harry's dilemma. For how was he
VOL. n. N

to banish it back again and go on as if that
idiotic suggestion had never been made ?

Love is not so simple a thing as people think,
at least in these artificial days. In the old simple
story-books, and, indeed, often still in life, when
such a revelation as this comes to a man, he
jumps at once to the natural conclusion, throws
himself at once into the situation, woods, proposes,
and, if he is successful, ends by being at
least  engaged. Sometimes he does this with a
noble indifference to circumstances and possibilities,
or, at least, an indifference which, when
he has spirit enough to take the consequences
upon himself, and boldly hew possibility out of
impossibility is noble. Sometimes he leaps the
intervening steps and thinks of nothing but of
marrying as the natural and inevitable conclusion.
The woman invariably does this ; love to her
means marriage, or it means nothing at all. It is
an offence to her delicacy to play with it, to keep
any decision at arm's length, as men often think
themselves justified in doing; so that it remains
more simple (unless she is a coquette) in her case
than in his. But with a man, now-a-days, at least,
to enjoy all the gratifications and delicate bloom
of nascent love without coming to any crisis, which

must make an entire change of all these relations
and modes of living necessary, is often very desirable.
But this reluctance to come to a decision,
though sometimes selfish, is not so always ; and in
Harry's case it was not selfish. He had not walked
open-eyed into this snare which life is continually
setting for young feet ; he had tumbled into it
unawares; and in his situation, being unlucky
enough to have tumbled into it, his only policy,
his only honourable course, was either to get out
of it with as much expedition as possible, or to
hold his tongue about it, and never to betray his
plight to the other person involved. But Harry
had been betrayed, to himself, at least, if not to
her, and the question now was, what was he todo
? He sat and thought over this question, as
on the other side of it Rita was doing  though
this he did not know, nor guess ; but he could
not for his part make anything of it. He could
not keep away from the Consul's house, or shut
himself out from her society, without further
betrayal. His situation was such that if he
remitted his visits, if he failed to appear with all
the ease and familiarity to which he had been
admitted, and which had been growing for a year
past, he could not fail to be questioned on the

N 2

subject, and his secret di'cawn from him. Even if
he kept a little aloof from Rita, avoided her
as much as civility permitted, and avoided
occasions of being verity her, that also would be
remarked. What was he to do ? For now that
he had once betrayed himself who could
guarantee that, continuing to see her everyday,
as he had been doing, he might, on some
other occasion, betray himself still more distinctly.
His embarrassment and trouble grew the
more he thought of it. It could not be, surely,
that he would be compelled to go out upon the
desert world again and begin anew ? Surely,
surely, that would not be necessary ! And yet,
what was he to do ? The question on Rita's side
by no means interfered with her rest, save for
that hour or so when she chose to think of it,
instead of brushing her hair ; but it took away
Harry's, upon whom all the responsibility
rested. Her feeling on the matter came only the
length of a certain amused interest and curiosity
as to how he would conduct himself in the future,
and what he meant by these odd speeches ; but
his affected all his life Whether he should stay
where he was, or go away; whether he should
have to throw aside again all his hopes of

ad vaD cement, all his comfort and renewed confidence
in his fate, all hung in the balance. He
turned uneasily on his bed all the night through,
dozing and dreaming of it, and waking to ask the
same question again. But the night brings
counsel, and when he woke somewhat late the
next morning from the sleep which overtook him
at last in the midst of his deliberations, he woke
with a new idea in his mind, as we so often do,
after a long consideration. The first words he
said to himself as he woke were, "I will ask
Paolo." For a moment he could not tell what
the momentous subject was that he was to ask
Paolo about.

Paolo had continued to be Harry's faithful
friend ; but their intercourse had been disturbed
by the society at the Consulate, for, except on
some special occasion, he was not important
enough to be introduced to all the fine company
that assembled there ; only now and then when
all the employed were asked, and a little semi-public
fete for them banished the fine people, did
Paolo enter these enchanted walls, and talk with
the young mistress of the house. He had scarcely
ever talked to Harry of the Signorina, but when
he did mention her there had been a slightly

cynical tone in his remarks. To tell the truth,
Paolo had never got over that first appearance
of the Vice-consul's daughter in the street at
night. He had recognized her, clinging to her
old attendant, hurrying away, while Harry, all
unconscious of what was to come of it, had
stopped the Italians who were pursuing her, and
summarily knocked down the Englishman. Paolo
was not ill-natured, nor given to ill-thinking,
but he was an Italian, and he could not imagine
any perfectly virtuous motive which could have
taken a young lady out of her house at that
hour. That love or intrigue had something todo
with it he was convinced, and all the proof in
the world could not have persuaded him otherwise.
But he did not wish to throw any indiscreet
light upon her proceedings, or to betray
her to the world. With some sense of this,
though without ever explaining to himself how
it was that he had such a feeling, Harry had
refrained from telling him the climax of the
story. He had left the. Consul's sudden friendship
unexplained, Paolo requiring no explanation
of it, and feeling it the most simple and natural
thing in the world. But during the whole interval
there had been in Paolo's tone a note of unexpressed

warning against the Yice-Coiisurs
daughter ; he had not said anything, but he had
left something to be inferred. This Harry had
sometimes resented, sometimes laughed at, but he
had never taken the warning or been moved by the
tone. He thought it was a prejudice such as one
person sometimes feels quite unaccountably against
another ; or that perhaps it was some pique ; perhaps
that Paolo himself had admired too much the
young princess who was so entirely out of his reach:
but whatever was the cause, he was conscious
enough that Paolo was not favourable to the lady
of his thoughts. And he resolved accordingly to
ask the advice of his friend on the grand question
only. He would not give him any special information,
or even indicate, however vaguely, who
the lady was. That he should speak to Paolo at
all on the subject showed that a change had come
over Harry's thoughts. It would be too much to
say that he did not entertain still a somewhat
contemptuous estimate of the little " foreigner "
who had sworn eternal friendship at first
sight, and had wept, and even kissed his friend, in
his rapture at his good fortune. When Harry
recalled that embrace he grew red still, with the undying
indignation which moves a man when he has

been made ridiculous. And he still treated Paolo
de haut en has, with a careless superiority. But
by this time he had learned to know that Paolo
was on some things a much better authority than
himself, and that, though he might be trivial and
absurd on questions which Englishmen consider
themselves judges of, yet there were other matters,
chiefly touching his own countrymen, which he
knew better than any Englishman. To have
attained to this conviction was in a way a moral
advance for Harry who formerly had looked down
upon " foreigners," not thinking them worth the
trouble of studying, or esteeming the knowledge
which was only concerned with them and their
ways. He had no opportunity of speaking to
Paolo till dinner. They were both of them
faithful, more or less, to the tahle-dliote at the
Leone, where they had first become friends : but
Harry's attendance there now was irregular, and
when he entered the dining-room Paolo's face
became radiant with pleasure. He seized his
friend's arm and gave it a squeeze of satisfaction.
But without doubt you go somewhere in the
evening?" he said, with a mixture of wistfulness
and triumphant pride. He was proud of Harry's
siLcces in society ; but yet to have so little of him

pained the faithful soul. He had bettered his
English, but perhaps he had not much improved
his happiness by his devotion to this stranger, to
whom he had been so useful. Harry gave him
very little of his company, and no demonstration
of affection in return for his love.

"No ; I want you to come to my rooms, Paolo.
I want to consult you about something  we'll
have some coffee brought up there, and we'll have
a talk."

Benissimo !" said Paolo, glowing with pleasure.
However," he added with simplicity, " there is
little that I can instruct you in now. You know
all  you are better as me. But if there is any
case that is hard to understand "

"You make me ashamed of myself," said
Harry ; " do you really think I never want to see
you but when I have something to ask ? I don't
think I am quite so bad as that. Of course I
have picked your brains constantly ; but still I
am not so bad as that."

At this Paolo was up in arms, as if some terrible
accusation had been brought against him.

Pardon, pardon, Amico," he said. " Do you
think I am finding fault ? do you think I make
myself a censure over you (he meant censor, but
this was unimportant) ? It is all otherwise. To

see you go into society makes me pleasure  the
grandest pleasure. If not me, it is my friend  it
is as good  better, as to go myself. You pick
my brains  bene ! my brains is glad to be pick."

I think you are the best fellow in the world,"
Harry said, " and I am a beast always to take
advantage of you  to come to you whenever I
want you."

What then is a friend ?" said Paolo, with that
glistening of the eyes which Harry was always
afraid of. And then the excellent fellow suppressed
himself, knowing Harry's objections to a
scene. " I am a dufifare," he said, with a laugh, " if
there is something I can do that makes me glad."

*'I want your advice, Paolo," said Harry ; " it
is nothing about business ; it is is not information
I want from you. I am in a difficulty  I am in
trouble  and I want your advice."

In trouble !" Paolo's face grew long, long
as his arm ; his lively imagination harped at
various cases of "trouble" he'had known: defalcations
at the office, difficulties about money, fallings
into temptation. His countenance clouded with
anxiety and alarm. " Amico," he said, " I am
all at your disposition  all at your disposition !
Trouble ! let us not lose the time. That turns me

the stomach, as you say. Thanks, thanks, Antonio :
but take it away  I cannot more eat."

"That's nonsense, old fellow," said Harry,
plying his own knife and fork vigorously, " you
see it don't take away my appetite. Come, eat
your dinner. I've not been going to the bad, if
that's what you think, you goose,"

Go-ose ? I am willing to be goose," said
Paolo, " if it's all right ; not anything in the
bureau ? not with accounts, or money, or nothing
of the sort ? Benissimo ?  then I w ill have some
of that dish, Antonio, and it is all right."

I wonder what you take me for," said Harry,
offended. *' Money ! do you think I am that sort ?
No, no, Paolo. When you've finished your
dinner  you have eaten nothing but that maccaroni
 we'll go to my rooms and talk it over. It
is something about myself."

It was all Harry could do after this to persuade
his friend not to gobble up everything that was
offered to him in his anxiety to get his meal over.
Paolo could not contain his curiosity and eager
interest. He almost dragged his friend along the
street when dinner was concluded, and clambered
the long staircase like a cat, in his eagerness to
know what Harry's difficulty was, and to proceed
immediately to smooth it over and ravel it out.

CHAPTER X.

Paolo's advice.

THE room was large, and low, and white. There
was a little balcony hanging from the windows
; the usual bright-coloured pattern on the
walls ; the usual sofa and chairs, and little rug on
the tiled floor. Harry had not taken any particular
care of his room or its decoration. The
lamp burned with three little clear tongues of
flame in the centre of the scene. Paolo sat ina
large chair, thrown back, his little intelligent,
intent face showing from the dark background ;
his feet flicking in front of him. As for
Harry, he was too shy to sit still and tell his
story under the light of his friend's large, eager
eyes, which leaped at the words before they were
said. He was walking about from one end of the

room to the other. On the table was the little
coffee-pot, the thick, white cups upon a tray.
Harry did not despise black coffee now. Sometimes
he came up to the table, and poured it out
and swallowed it hastily ; while all the time
Paolo, swinging his foot in front of him, and
leaning back in his chair, never took from him
his eager black eyes.

And the short and the long of it," said Harry,
is that I have fallen in love." He turned his
back to his companion as he spoke, and stood
looking out from the open window. " I have
been about the house so much, and seen the young
lady so often, that without thinking, and without
meaning it, I have just fallen in love. Jove ! what
a beautiful night it is !" said Harry ; " I never saw
the stars so bright : that's just the position of
affairs. She is quite out of my rank, I know,
as impossible as the stars themselves : but that's
how it is."

Fallen  in lose ?" Paolo mused for a moment
over the words. " It is droll, the English way of
speaking. Is it then a deep, or a sea, or a precipice,
that you  fall."

Oh, don't bother," cried Harry. " To be sure
it is a deep, and a sea, and a precipice. Why,

every fool knows that. You are never thinking
of anything of the sort, going along quite quietly,
minding your own business  when all in a moment
down you go squash, and there's no help for you
any more."

Paolo smiled a benevolent but somewhat tremulous
smile.

*' The young lady is very beautiful  that goes
without saying," he said. " I had thought you
would have taken your freedom a little longer,
and you wish to marry and range yourself. Bene !
it will be what you call all op with me," said
Paolo, with a slight quiver ; " a wife  that goes
not along with a friend  not a friend of the heart
like me. It makes a beginning to many things,
but also to some an end."

Good gracious !" cried Harry, " do you mean
to say you don't understand me ? Am I in a condition
to marry ? I have not a penny. I have
my little salary, and that is all. If I could jump
up and ask her to marry me, above-board in our
English way, do you think Fd ask any advice
about it? I don't want you to tell me she's nice,
I know that myself a great deal better than you
could tell me. It is just because I can't marry,
and ought to hold my tongue and never say a

a word about it  and yet can't help seeing her
continually, that I don't know what to do."

Paolo looked at him with a still more wistful,
anxious face. He was terribly perplexed. There
was an alternative which was not at all impossible
to his imagination ; but having on many
occasions already come in contact forcibly with
the English mind, as represented in Harry, he was
afraid to state or refer to the other side of the
question, which nevertheless was not at all
terrible to himself. He looked very wistfully
and earnestly in his friend's face, trying hard to
read and make out what was in it. "What was in

it? Did he mean ? Paolo could not tell

whether he might venture to say what he would
have said easily enough to many of his other
friends.

"You would then  that understands itself;
but to put it into words, above all with an
English what you call Puritan  likeyou; you
would then  make a little arrangement  you
would then propose  without going to church."

"Eh?" said Harry. He turned round upon
his friend with blazing eyes. " Eh ?" The monosyllable
was more terrible than a whole chapter
of invectives. Astonishment, non-comprehension,

yet at the same time alarmed and furious understanding
were in it. Paolo, who was a miracle
of quick intelligence, saw all that was in Harry's
look almost before he himself was conscious of it,
and he mended his indiscretion with the rapidity
of lightning.

I have make a mistake." he said. " I have
not understood. It is so sudden, I had no preparation.
If you will perhaps tell me again ?"

Harry stared with wide open eyes like a bull,
not quite knowing whether to charge an adversary,
or to turn away from an insignificant intruder.
The more peaceable impulse prevailed.
He had stood still gazing at Paolo, who, mentally
trembling, though he put the best face he could
outwardly upon the matter, met his friend's gaze
with a deprecating smile. After a minute he
resumed his pacing about the floor.

I see you don't understand," he said, with
something between a groan and a sigh. "Well
then, I'll try again. Here are the circumstances.
I am admitted to the house, a very nice house, in
which I am very happy. The father puts faith
in me ; he trusts me like a friend ; the young
lady is  everything that is nice. Well ! don't
you see ? like a fool, instead of keeping quiet and

enjoying all this, like a fool I have gone and fallen
in love with her. And last night I was as near

betraying myself Now if I go on I'll be more

and more tempted to betray myself. I can't keep
away from the house  it is not possible. I can't
offer to the young lady because I am not good
enough for her, and I have no money. Now what
am I to do?"

You were at the house of the Signor Yice-
Consul last night ?"

Never mind where I was," said Harry sharply,
tell me what I am to do."

It would be well, amico mio, that your confidence
was more great, or none at all," said Paolo.
** If it should happen that I possessed the acquaintance
of the father and the daughter " There

was a little incipient smile upon his lip that drove
Harry wild.

"I believe you think badly of every woman,"
be cried ; " all the worse for you if you do. I am
not going to make any confidences of that sort.
Look here  you know more about society than I
do. You know how people are expected to
behave here. Ought I just to cut the whole
concern, though I don't want to  and take
myself off?"

VOL. n o

Harry came to a sudden stop in front of his
friend when he asked this question, and, for his
part, Paolo almost screamed with alarm.

"Cut  the whole concern? That is to go
away f

'* To go away," said Harry, discharging all the
breath out of his capacious chest in one great
sigh, and throwing himself into the second great
chair opposite Paolo. His friend grew pale ; his
olive cheeks were blanched ; the lids were
puckered round his anxious and almost despairing
eyes.

"That is what you must not do  that is what
you shall not do ! It is not permitted to throw
away, to make such a sacrifice," cried Paolo, with
a rapid succession of phrases, one broken sentence
hurrying upon another. " No, no, no, no.
Imagine to yourself that all goes so well. The
world regards you with so favourable eyes ; you
are everywhere received, everywhere received !  a
favourite, Isaackk into. But no, no ; this must
not be  for a girl  for a promise  for a caprice,
you will not throw away your career."

Harry did not say anything. He lay back
drearily in his chair, his whole person making
one oblique line from his head, which rested on

the back of the chair, to the feet stretched out on
the floor. He was not likely to talk about his
career, but he felt to the bottom of his heart the
dismal alternative : to go away ; to throw up
everything; to resign himself to another new
and much less favourable beginning. His new
start in Leghorn had been made in circumstances
so extraordinarily favourable that they
looked like a romance, and he himself could
scarcely believe them true  all the more reason
why he should not presume now upon the hospitality
of the house which had taken him in ;
but he never could by any possibility hope for
such another piece of good fortune. In all this
he put Rita herself out of the question. Perhaps
he did not feel, as a lover sometimes does,
as if his entire life was involved in her acceptance
of him. He was a sober-minded young man. It
would cost him a great wrench, it would take the
colour and the pleasure out of his life if he were
banished from the happy rooms in which she
reigned. But yet, honour requiring it, he could do
this and live; he was not afraid of himself so far.
But how to continue here in the enjoyment of his
other advantages and withdraw from the house
in which he had been received so kindly, he did



HARRY JOSCELYN.

not know. It would be impossible without explanations,
and what explanation could he give?

"Look you 'ere," said Paolo, rising in his turn,
taking advantage of all the devices of oratory to
move his friend, " lose, that is one thing ; life,
that is another. For a capriccio I say nothing.
We all have such; by times it will seem
as though you live not but in possession of the
object ; but after, that will pass, and you will
laugh, and all will go on as before."

Hold your tongue ; you don't know anything
about it," said Harry, with a contemptuous wave
of the hand.

I have had my experiences like another,"
said Paolo, mildly. " I am not an ignorant. It
is for a moment you suffer, you think all is ovate.
But  oh, bah ! when it is ovate so many things
remain. There is the bureau," said Paolo, counting
on his fingers, "there are the events of the
day; there is the table  for you must always
eat ; there is society  which is made," he added
sententiously, '' of other objects. In brief,
amico mio, there is to live. That must be done
all the same. For the moment it may be hard 
but sooner or later the time of calm will arrive 
What then ? If it be certain that an hour will

come when you will have had enough, when you
will become weary "

Harry sat up in his chair. "What are you
talking about ? " he said.

With his honest English imagination he did
not know what the other meant. He had never
read a French novel in his life (he could not,
indeed, if he had wished), nor any English ones of
that sort. According to him, when a man " fell
in love " it was with the intention of marrying the
girl he loved, and living happy ever after. The
idea that it would last only for so long, and that
there would come a time when you would have
enough, and be weary  a moment which must
arrive sooner or later  was such a thing as had
no meaning to him. Paolo turned, too, when his
friend said this, and gazed at him, startled and
wondering. Suddenly the little Italian became
aware that he was speaking another language, a
tongue unknown to Any. He did not know
Harry's tongue so far as this went, but being very
quick and intelligent he perceived at once that it
was not the same as his, and that in speaking ashe
did he had completely missed Harry's comprehension.
This took away from him the power
of speech. How was he to find out Harry's

language? They remained for a full minute
thus, baffled each by each, gazing at each other :
Paolo, small and keen, trying hard to make his
friend out ; Harry, large, obtuse, confused, wondering
what on heaven and earth this strange
little being could mean.

Look here," he said at last, *' I'm English, you
know. I don't follow you a bit. Perhaps you're too
refined, and all that. You don't fathom my difficulty,
and I don't understand in the least what you
mean. Here's what I want : just listen. I am fond
of a girl, but I aren't tell her I'm fond of her, because
you know I have nothing to marry on, and I
am not such a cur as to ask her to bury herself up
for years waiting for me ; and besides, it wouldn't
be handsome to her father, who has been very
kind to me. What am I to do ? Ought I to go
right away ? I don't want to do that. Or can
you tell me how I'm to put a padlock on my
tongue, and go on seeing her, and never betray
myself? No, by Jove ! I don't think I am strong
enough for that."

There is one thing will make it more easy,"
said Paolo he had dived deep into the records
of his own experience to find precedents, but he
found nothing which could throw any light upon

SO strange a case, and he was now casting about
blindly for something to say  " there is one thing.
This lady, this Signorina  is she then  what
shall you call it? disposed to respond to you?"

Harry's face grew crimson. He gave a rapid
glance back upon all their intercourse. He
seemed to see Rita's unconscious, tranquil face.
Even when he had made that foolish speech
about taking her to England she had been moved
not a hair's breadth. She had taken it with perfect
calm, as one who had never thought upon
the subject might quite well do. " I don't think
so," he said, quickly, not looking his friend in
the face.

Then it is moche more easy," said Paolo
There is nothing to do, amico mio, but to be
silent  what you call hold your tongue : and
all will be ovate. When the lady will
respond it is different  when she will give you
a glance, a smile, a permission to say what perhaps
ought not to be said."

There is nothing of the kind in the whole
business' said Harry, bluntly ; " you are thinking
of your intrigues, and all that Italian nonsense.
English girls don't understand it any more than
I do."

Then the Signorinais English ?" Paolo ventured

here to give vent to a little laugh. " But
you must not be too secure that she understands
no more than you. Perhaps there is in the lady
a little Italian blood !"

Paolo," said Harry, *' you have the most
unreasonable, idiotic, offensive prejudice against

And here he paused for had he not been careful
all this time to keep in the background the name
of the lady ? He stopped, and he looked at Paolo
with curious, anxious, defiant eyes."

Paolo would have laughed had he dared : but
he did not venture to laugh. It was too serious.
*' I have no prejudice," he said. " It may be
that I think a little in Italian, one cannot help
one's thoughts. But then why will you ask me ?
If the lady is indifferent where then is the difficulty
of to hold your tongue ? But if that is
otherwise listen. The papa, it is to him one
speaks when it is of marriage. Love, that is
another thing. You do not understand, amico,"
said Paolo, with a plaintive tone, " the difference.
There is great difference. They are two things
all-together. Marriage," once more he counted
upon his fingers, " that will mean the papa ; love
ah ! that will mean the moment, the opportunity,
the response."

To these last words Harry paid no attention.
He scarcely heard them. But the others seemed
to throw a sudden light upon the whole subject.
He rose up again and resumed his promenade
about the room, biting his nails and knitting his
brows. "By Jove," he said, at last, " Paul-o,
you're not half such a foolish little beggar as
you look. That is the thing to do. 1 wonder I
never thought of it myself. To be sure, that's
the thing to do."

What is the thing to do ?" Paolo asked, bewildered.
But his friend made him no direct
answer. After a good deal more of that pacing
up and down, he came back and patted his counsellor
on the back so vigorously that he almost
took away Paolo's breath.

That is the very thing," Harry said. " You
are a clever little beggar after all. I should never
have hit it out all by myself; but I see now, it's
the right thing to do. Not too easy though ; I
can't say that 1 shall like it a bit ; but one can see
in a moment that it's the right thing to do''

What is the right thing ?" Paolo asked again ;
but he got no reply. Harry fell a-musing as he
sometimes did, letting the little Italian go on
with talk, to which his friend paid no attention ;

and afterwards lie walked with Paolo to his rooms,
paying just as little regard to what he said. It
was another clear, starlight night, soft and cool
as the nights are in an Italian spring. There was
no chill to freeze the blood ; but all was balmy
and soft. He went along the streets with their high
houses reaching almost up to the sky, looking upto
the narrow lane of radiant blue above, all living
and sweet with stars. He thought his problem
over again, going step by step over the same way
which he had traversed before  and it seemed to
him that he had at last found the true and the only
solution. He could not withdraw himself from
the Vice-Consul's house without an explanation ;
that would be impossible; therefore the only
thing to be done was to go to the Vice-consul
himself, and tell him how the case stood. " I
cannot be sure of myself if I go on seeing her
every day; therefore I must give up seeing her
every day, and you must know why." Probably
he would not tell his story so briefly as this;
there would be explanations to give, and many
digressions probably from the main theme; but
that in effect would be all that Harry would have
to say; and certainly it was the right thing to do.
He took it for granted that Paolo had suggested it,

i

though in reality it was an alternative of a much
less satisfactory kind that Paolo had suggested ;
but all the rest that he had said vanished from
Harry's practical mind, leaving this one piece of
advice behind, and no more. Paolo was no fool,
though his way of thinking might not be much
like an Englishman's. Englishmen did not go to
the father first, but to the daughter, to know what
their chances were: but for once in a way the
other mode was the best. He took a long walk
after he left his friend, traversing all the streets
which now he knew so well, and further still to
where the salt air of the sea blew in his face, and
refreshed his soul. He would not trifle with the
occasion, but go at once tomorrow and get it off
his mind. So he said to himself. And he came
home past the house from which he was henceforward
to be banished. It was late, and the
sitting-rooms were all dark ; but Harry knew that
a little light in one window indicated Rita's room 
probably the faint little veilleuse which watched
over her sleep ; and that in another was the lamp
by which the Vice-Consul was smoking his last
cigar. He stood and looked piteously at the
house. It had been a kind of home to him, in one
way more than his own home had ever been.

Standing outside in the night it appeared beautiful
to him, as never house had appeared before.
He had not appreciated the bric-a-brac, or known
what to say about the pictures ; but now each
article of the furniture suddenly appeared to him
in a new light. It was all beautiful ; it was such
a place as a palace might be  a house for a queen ;
and to think that he had almost lived in it for so
long, and that now he was to enter there no more !
Harry was not like the Peri at the gate of Paradise
; he had a still more pathetic, a heart-rending
sense of loss. He had been there yesterday ; but
he was not to be there again perhaps for ever.
Why should he go away ? and yet he must go
away ; he must keep himself at a distance from
those dear doors. Slowly there gathered in his
eyes a painful dew ; it did not fall in tears, which
he would have scorned himself for shedding, but it
blurred and magnified all he saw. Yesterday so
much at home, so familiar in the place, tomorrow
with no entrance possible to him anymore
! and all by no fault of his or anyone's ;
by no levity on her part, or presumption on his ;
all unawares, no one thinking of any danger. It
seemed to Harry, standing outside there, as if
there was something very hard in such a wayward

accident of fate, as if some malign spirit must
have taken pleasure in twisting the threads
wrongly ; in making trouble out of the most innocent
situations in life. He had never meant
to go further than liking  no one could help
going as far as liking ; but the unlucky fellow,
without meaning it, had taken the step farther,
and loved ; and now all his card-castle of
happiness had tumbled down, and everything was
over. There was nothing wrong in it  no fault
in it one waj' or another : and yet a great many
faults would have produced less confusion and
pain.

CHAPTER XL

WITH HER FATHER.

NEXT morning Harry went to the office with
an air of resolution about him which no
one could have mistaken. He thought the others
looked at him curiously with investigating eyes,
which, indeed, was true enough ; for his predecessor
there never could make out how it was
that the stranger had gained so much interest
with the Consul, and Paolo, who was the only
other person present, was full of the most
anxious wonder and suspense. But, as it happened,
Harry was kept so fully occupied all day
that he could not say a word to the Vice-consul,
and his air of resolution and sense of being wound
up for a great crisis, came to nothing. But he
did not go near the Consulate in the evening.
Had things been in their ordinary course he

would, in the most natural way, and, indeed,
with a semblance of necessity, have proceeded
there to consult Mr. Botany about some matter
of business, or to ask directions from him. But
he forbore. He sat in his own rooms all the
evening, feeling it unutterably long, trying to
amuse himself with reading, and finding very
little amusement in that somewhat unwonted
exercise. He had been " reading up," with a
great deal of industry and some interest, books
which he had heard discussed in the Vice-Consul's
house, and in this way had at least procured a
good deal of information, the advantage of which
was evident. But Harry had not read for enjoyment,
and now that things had come to this pass,
and that he was about to be compelled to give
up the society of the Bonamys, and lose the
gratification of pleasing Rita, it seemed to his
practical mind that there was no great reason for
continuing those studies. It was quite likely
that he never would live among such people
again, and why should he take so much trouble 
trouble taken with the idea of pleasing them ?
it was no longer worth his while. He was
driven back to his books indeed by the tedium of
the long, unoccupied evening, for he had no heart

to go out, to be waylaid by Paolo, and have questions
put to him which he would find it very difficult
to answer. But he yawned a great deal,
and went to bed very early, and slept badly inconsequence,
tossing about for two hours and
hearing the melancholy clocks peal. Next day
he was resolved he must speak. Indeed, it would
be indispensable that he should, as it was the
day on which Rita received, and he had never yet
been absent from her drawing-room on that
special evening. He had a good opportunity this
time, for the Vice-Consul called for him as soon as
be appeared after his luncheon, and bade him
bring certain papers to be examined. " I quite
expected you to have brought them last night,"
Mr. Bonamy said. " For two nights we have not
seen you, Oliver. Rita was asking me to-day
whether you were ill. I hope you are not ill.
There's no fever here that I know of ; still it is
always well to take care."

I am not ill, Sir," said Harry, colouring high,
and then growing pale ; " but there was another
reason. I should like to speak to you for a few
minutes, about myself, if you could spare the
time."

'* Certainly I can spare you the time," said the

Vice-consul, readily; " but not now, you know.
Come to me again as soon as the office is closed.
Shall we talk your business over here, or in the
house?"

Here, if you please," said Harry.

Here be it, then. Do you know you excite
my curiosity ? you look so serious. But I hope
it's nothing disagreeable, nothing to interfere
with our alliance f said the Vice-consul, good-humouredly.
He thought he knew exactly what
it was. No doubt the family had found him out,
and Harry was about to be recalled to its bosom.
This would give Mr. Bonamy himself a little
regret, and he could understand that to leave a
place where everybody had been kind to him
would be a sort of trial to the young man ; but at
the same time it was far better for him that he
should be reconciled to his family. So he went
through his business with a little gentle interest,
looking forward to the eclaircissement. It was
like the third volume of a novel to the Yice-
Consul, and even something more than that, more
than the mere end of a story which had interested
him  for it would also settle various questions
in his mind, and prove if he had been right or
not in the instantaneous opinion which he had

VOL. n. p

formed about Harry's concerns. He felt quite sure
that he would prove to have been right. By the
time Harry returned to him, after the work of
the afternoon was done, he had made out within
himself quite what the scene was to be. The
young man would say : '* My father is here ;" or
"My brother is here," as might be; and a hale,
hearty old country gentleman, or a young, ruddy,
fresh-coloured youth, like Harry himself, would
be brought in and presented to him, and he would
give himself the gratification of saying, " This is
precisely how I expected it would be; I have
been looking for you this past year daily, though
I had no notion who you were." When Harry
came back with the same face of serious excitement
the Consul almost laughed. "Bring them
in, bring them in," he said, " I have nothing to
say against you. You need not be afraid that I
will give you a bad character." Harry looked at
him with that look of blank astonishment which
so often turns into lofty superiority and disapproval
of their seniors' folly in youthful eyes.

Bring  whom in V he said.

Your people, to be sure, my dear Oliver.
Come, Oliver, I am not an old wife ; you can't
conceal it from me."

I know nothing about my people," said
Harry, hastily ; " I have nothing more to say
about them than I have already told you. Things
are exactly as they were between them and me.
What I have got to tell you is a very different
sort of thing. But you will see by it, at least,
Sir, that I have no wish to conceal anything from
you.'

Bless my soul !" said the Vice-consul, " what's
the matter? Have 3'ou got into any scrape?
Have yon come in contact with the police ?
What is the matter, my boy?"

It is nothing outside of this house, Sir,"
Harry said, with a grave smile ; " the police have
got nothing to say to it. If it is a scrape it is one
I have got myself into, and I must get myself out
of It. Anyhow, it is not likely to hurt anybody
but myself," and here, in spite of all his precautions,
his lip quivered a little. At this moment,
the very worst for such a strong wave of feeling,
it suddenly came over him what a tremendous
change it would be, and how much it would hurt
himself  if nobody else.

You alarm me," said Mr. Bonamy, growing
grave in his turn. " My dear fellow, I hope you
feel that I take an interest in everything that con

2

ceres you, and that you may safely confide
in me "

Yes, Sir, I am sure of that," said Harry ; and
then he added ; " all the more that it concerns
you too."

Mr. Bonamy pushed away his chair from the
table, opened his eyes wide, and looked at Harry
as if he thought him mad.

I can't come to your house any more, Sir,"
said Harry, " that's what I wanted to tell you.
I've enjoyed it very much, and it has done me
more good than anything else in my life  but I
ought not to do it, and I can't do it any longer.
I hope you won't think I am an ungrateful cur ;
I don't think I am that. But I must give it up.
Sir, and I hope you 11 excuse me for it. I'd rather
not say any more."

Oliver," said the Vice-consul, greatly disturbed,
" what is the meaning of this ? Do you
mean there is something in your past  something
in your character and actions that makes you
unfit to be my visitor ? I have always trusted in
your honour. If it's that, and your conscience
has been quickened to find it out, of course I have
nothing more to say."

It's not that," said Harry, bluntly. " I am

not afraid of my conscience. It says as much tome,
I suppose, as to other people ; but you might
hear all it says and welcome. There is nothing
against my character here or elsewhere. You
know as much harm of me as there is to know."

"I know no harm of you," said the Yice-
Consul. " Come, come, don't alarm me. If you
find we don't suit you  though by your manner
I should never have guessed it  why, then, give us
up, my fine fellow, and there's no more to be said."

Harry laughed a somewhat tremulous laugh.

I should think you did suit me," he said. " I
don't believe I was ever half so happy before."

Then, in the name of wonder, Avhat does this
mean ?" the Vice-Consul cried.

Harry cleared his throat ; his lips were beginning
to get parched and his throat was dry.

Did you never hear, Sir," he said, abruptly,
of a fellow falling in love  with a girl he'd no
business to fall in love with ?"

Mr. Bonamy half rose out of his chair, then
changed his mind and dropped back again. His
own face became suffused with colour. A sudden
exclamation came from his lips it spite of himself.

Is this what has happened to you ?" he said.

This is what has happened to me," said

Harry. " I'm very sorry  nobody caa be more
sorry  it shuts me out from a great deal I bad
got to be proud of, and happy in. I wish I had
made any blunder in the world rather than
this ; but it's done, and I can't help it. So the

only thing I have got to do now is well,

either to stay away from the house, or to go away
altogether, as you think best."

''I suppose then that at my house you
run the risk," said the Vice-Con sul, with suspicious
breaks in his words, either of doubt or
excitement, " of meeting the young lady?"

Harry did not say a word; but he looked at
him fixedly, with a deep colour flaming over his
face. At this the Vice-Consul gazed at him with
an alarmed expression, gradually catching fire too,

"You don't mean to say ?" he cried, and

then he was silent, and there ensued a confused
and uncomfortable pause.

Yes, Sir," said Harry. He had looked his
chief in the face all this time; but now he
avoided the other's eye, " that is just how it
stands. I told you it was not my fault. I never
thought of such a thing. It never," he said,
putting out his hand to a bundle of papers
upon the table by which he was standing,

and turning them vagiiel}* over and over, " it
never  happened to me before."

When the Vice-Consul looked at him standing
there, with that look of half-astonished
simplicity on his face, and those artless words on
his lips, it was all he could do to keep in an
outburst of laughter. He thought he had never
come in contact with so simple-minded, and
candid, and honourable a fellow. He was startled
and alarmed, and made uneasy by his confession ;
but set he had the greatest desire to laugh.
Yet why should he laugh ? it was serious enough ;
his lively mind jumped to the possibility that
his Rita might prefer this young stranger to
himself. It would be an extraordinary choice, he
could not but think ; but yet, alas ! that was how
things often were in this strange world. A girl
would prefer q, man she had seen three or four
times in a ball-room, to the father whose very
existence she was ; and nobody would be surprised
at it ; it was the course of nature ; it
was the way of the world. This idea chilled
and alarmed him to the bottom of his heart ;
but yet he could hardly help laughing at Harry
and his perturbed air. "I never thought or
such a thing  it never happened before." The

Consul was almost too much amused to take
in the seriousness of the event.

I presume you have said nothing to her,"
he said at last, looking portentously serious by
reason of the inclination to untimely mirth,
which he had to subdue.

That is just the thing," cried Harry, rousing
up from his bashful pre-occupation. " No, I have
not spoken  what you would call speaking ; but
on Monday night I just dropped a word "

Good Lord !" cried the Vice-consul. He had
no longer any inclination to laugh ; what he was
disposed to do was to take the young fellow by
the throat.

You can't be more frightened than I was,"
said Harry, ingenuously. " It was by that I
found out. Of course I knew I admired  her
more than anybody I had ever seen ; but I had

no more notion how far it had gone and then

like a fool I began to speak of going home to
England, and how I was sure I could take her all
safe if she would go with me. That was all :
I assure you that was all," cried Harry, discomposed
by Mr. Bonamy's look and manner. He
was alarmed by this look : the Vice-Consul
had risen up, trembling with wrath.

"I would like to know," he cried, " what more
you could have said !  what more could you wish
to say ? And this is what you call love ! To
betray my child ; to propose death to her  death!
Oh, boy, boy, do you know what you are doing in
your folly and simplicity; beguiling her to her

death, and me to Good God ! why should I

always be such a fool ? Why did I have this
fellow here ?"

'' You are judging me too harshly, Sir," cried
Harry ; " you think it was a great deal worse
than really happened. She never took any notice
of it; it hadn't the least meaning to her. She
asked me did I know something  some
physic I suppose," Harry said, in a kind of parenthesis,
with disdain  " that would make it safe.
That was all she thought of it ; but as for me, as
soon as I had said it I came to myself. I've had
a dreadful time of it since," he added once more,
with that air of downright sincerity and solemnity
which made the Vice-Consul wish to smile. *' I've
turned over . every kind of plan in my mind.
Sometimes I've thought of going right away;
but that seemed hard, too, when I had just got
settled here. And at the last the right thing
seemed just to come and tell you. Of course I

put myself in your hands. I'll do whatever
you think it proper I should do: give up the
office ; go away from the town ; anything you
please. I don't want to leave you  or her," cried
Harry, " God knows! you have been so kind tome'

And then the Vice-Consul, hearing the young
fellow's voice falter, and seeing that he kept his
eyes down to conceal the water that" had got into
them, felt a little knot in his throat too, and was
melted in spite of himself.

Oliver," he said, " I don't want to be hard
upon you. You said she took no notice  that is
just like her; she is no coquette, my girl;
she is very innocent. I daresay it never occurred
to her that you meant anything."

I don't think it did, Sir," Harry said eagerly.
Of course he had no clue to Rita's retirement to
her own room, or the amused consideration she
gave to the subject there.

I don't want to be hard upon you," Mr.
Bonamy repeated, " if that is the case. Answer
me one more thing, Oliver, and answer it on your
honour. Have you any reason to think (that I
should have to put such a question '?) that if you

had spoken out more plainly, she Heavens !

I can't put it into words."

How could I," cried Harry, almost provoked,
have reason to think anything about it, when I
never even suspected myself? It was that word
that opened my eyes."

And then there was another pause. Harry
stood turning over and over that bundle of papers.
He looked at them as if he thought they contained
some secret of state. He took them in his
hand as if anxious to know how many ounces
they weighed. His face wore a look of the gravest
stolid seriousness. He had now withdrawn from
the consideration of his duty, or what he ought
to do, and put it into another person's hands. He
was freed of the responsibility, and he had only
to wait now to see what he should be told todo.


Then once more a sense of the humour of the
situation intruded upon its seriousness in the
Vice-consul's eyes. His anger and alarm were
quenched in a sense of the absolute simplicity
and honesty of the culprit, and a hope that
no harm had been done. Mr. Bonamy began
to breathe freely again, even to smile.

Sit down," he said, " and let us talk this over.
I don't blame you, Oliver. I can understand
that you were not seriously to blame ; and, if no

harm is done I suppose you will promise me that
it shall not occur again."

"Well, Sir," said Harry, "that is just what I
should like to be able to do ; but seeing I was
such a fool as to do it once, how can I tell that I
may not be a greater fool again? especially as
then I did not know anything about it, whereas I
know all about it now."

That is just the reason," said Mr. Bonamy.
Now you are on your guard, and you will know
when to be watchful. I can't give you permission
to make love to my daughter, Oliver. I
suppose you did not expect I could f

Oh, no," cried Harry, eagerly ; " not in the
least. I could not, of course, even if you did,
for I have no money. I could no more marry
than I could fly."

Marry !" cried the Vice-Consul. The young
man said the word in the most matter-of-fact
way, but it took away the other's breath. " Do
you know what you are doing ?" he cried ; " you
are putting a knife to my throat. Marry ! That
means that if you could you would break up this
home of mine in which you confess you have
been received so kindly. You would rob me of
all I have. You would take from me everything

that makes life precious. For what, young man,
for what? Because you admire a pretty face!
You don't know any more of her I am not sure
that you are able to appreciate any more of her.
But she is everything in the world  she is all
that makes life worth living  to me."

Harry threw down the bundle of papers and
looked across the table with the interest astonishment.
" Do you mean," he said, " that you don't
intend her ever to be married at all? Is nobody
to have the chance ? Is she always to be kept up
in one place, and never to settle, nor have her
own choice and her own life ?"

Mr. Bonamy felt as if he were being stoned 
one solid, heavy fact tossed at him after another ;
and looked at his questioner with a sort of gasp
between the blows. He faltered after a while,
She is very young. She has everything that
her heart can desire. Why should she not be
content, at least for years to come, in her father's
house ?"

"I always understood, Sir," said Harry, with
his usual straightforwardness, " that the right
thing for girls was to marry when they were
young, and that parents were supposed to
wish it."

To scheme for it, perhaps ?" said Mr. Bonamy,
furiously , " and put out all sorts of snares to
catch young fellows like you  eh ? To lay traps
for you, and lead you on, and give you encouragement
and opportunity, and so forth? Perhaps
you think that's what I've been doing  eh ? God
forgive me," he said, " in my day I've said that
sort of thing, and believed it myself; I've sneered
and scoffed like the rest  and now I've got my
punishment. You think there is nothing so fine
for a girl as to get married  eh ?"

Harry was struck with consternation by this
attack ; but yet, feeling that he had right on his
side, he stood his ground. " I am not saying
anything about yoii Sir," he said, " but surely it
is thought the best thing that could happen.
I've always heard it. Fathers and mothers, you
know, Sir, don't generally live as long as their
children  at least, that is what is supposed  and
they like to see their daughters settled, don't they,
before they die ?"

This w-as what the French would call a brutal
speech  for, in the first place, it was true ; and
then Mr. Bonamy was at an age which seemed
old to Harry, but rather young than otherwise
to himself, and he was not at all pleased to have

it taken for granted that he must shortly be
going to die. Yes, of course Rita would outlive
him, would live long, he hoped, after him ; but
still the idea that there was any need to marry
her off in haste, lest he might die and leave her
before she was  settled, was most repugnant to
him; it went to his heart, wounding him with a
possibility which he had no desire to think of ;
and it made him hot and angry, as if it had been
a personal insult. No one likes to be told that
he has come to a period of life at which it is
more likely than otherwise that he will shortly
die, and that it is very necessary to take precautions
against that event. It was all he could
do to keep from bursting out upon Harry, crushing
him with a bitter rejoinder. He to address
his benefactor thus ! He to speak in this tone
to the man who had received him when nobody
else would, who had lifted him out of all the
difficulties of a stranger, and opened not only
his office, which gave him bread, but his house,
which gave him friends, and position, and everything
a young man could wish for ! These words
were rushing to Mr. Bonamy's lips, when fortunately
a sense of his personal dignity, and of the
impropriety of any such demonstration, came in

and stopped him. Harry's speech, after all, was
good common sense, just the sort of thing that
everybody says ; the world was on that side of
the question. Perhaps prudence and the foresight
which love itself ought to possess was on
that side too. So he was silent, repressing the
first instinct of reply. When he was able to doit,
he answered with as much self-possession ashe
could muster.

I admire your prudence, Mr. Oliver. I hope
you will always see your own duties with the
same clearness which you display about those of
others ; and I have no doubt you are quite right ;
but it is a question which I don't care to discuss.
Let me say, before we finish this talk, that I think
you have behaved very honourably, and as a
gentleman should ; and I quite accept your reason
for coming to my house much less frequently.
I will make your excuses to my daughter; and
nothing that has passed need make any difference
in our official relations," he added, looking
up with a smile that was sharp and cold, not
like his usual sunshine, "in that respect there is
no possible reason why everything should not goon
as before."

Very well, Sir," said Harry, getting up with

some confusion. The conversation had been
going on so long, and so much less indignation
than he expected had been in the Vice-consul's
air at the beginning, that this sudden sentence
confounded him. He was quite ready, when
he began, to be taken at his word ; but somehow
he was not now so ready ; the bitterness had
seemed to be past, and he had hoped that the indulgent
and fatherly friend before him would
have found some way by which he should still be
permitted to come and go. But now all at once
Harry found himself, in his own words, "shut
up," and had nothing to do but to stumble to his
feet as quickly as he could, and take himself off,
much subdued and astonished, to his desk in the
outer office  where he gave his mind to his business,
not too clearly, but with as much devotion
as was practicable, for the rest of the day.

VOL. n.

CHAPTER XII.

Rite's OPINION.

fPHESE two men, however, thoiigli they were
X disposed to think themselves the chief, or,
indeed, only persons concerned, were by no
means the masters of the situation, as they supposed.
Eita took Harry's absence from her
drawing-room quite lightly at first, so lightly
that her father's mind was entirely relieved. He
had been afraid that her astonishment, if nothing
else, would have been great, and that she would
have asked him a hundred questions questions
which it might have given him some trouble to
answer. But she took it quite quietly, and said
nothing about it for a week or two, till the Vice-consul
was of opinion that all danger was passed.
About this time, however, Rita, by one of those

accidents wych occur perversely to heighten the
embarrassment of every domestic crisis, met
Harry suddenly on one of her walks, coming upon
him round a corner without any warning to either
party. Her usual attendant, Benedetta, was with
the young lady, who looked up brightly with
surprise and pleasure, and held out her hand.

What has become of you all this time V she
said, in her kind, soft voice.

On Harry, for his part, the effect of so suddenly
coming in sight of her, and of her frank
accost, was too remarkable to escape Kita's quick
eye. He fell backward a step, swerved from his
course, gave a glance round him, as if in search
of some way of escape, then, seeing none, took
her offered hand gingerly, just touched and
dropped it, his face flushing crimson, his voice
faltering.

Oh, I am very well, thank you," was the
answer he made ; and then stood and stared at
her for a moment, and, without replying to any
of her questions, went on again confusedly, leaving
her standing still gazing after him in a state of
mingled dismay and consternation.

What can have happened to him ?" Rita
said to herself, unconsciously aloud : and " I think

Q2

the gentleman must be mad," said tranquilly the
good Benedetta, who thought the English were
all a little insane, and that it was nothing much
out of the way. But that evening when dinner
was over it was the Vice-consul's turn to be undeceived.


Papa," said Eita, suddenly (she had let him
have his dinner first, which showed consideration),
" what is the matter with Mr. Oliver ?"

The Vice-Consul was like a ship at sea, into
whose innocent hulk a sudden broadside is poured
without any sort of warning ; he dipped his sails,
so to speak, all his timbers thrilled and shivered.
He had not been in the least prepared for any
such assault.

"Oliver?" he said, trying to put on an exaggerated
look of innocence, "Oliver? what's
the matter with him? What should be the
matter with him ? He is all right for anything I
know."

He is not all right," said Rita ; " he has not
been here for a fortnight, he who used to come
almost every night ; and you should have seen
him when I met him to-day ; I thought he would
have run away. He tried it, I declare. He
looked all round to see if he could not make his

escape, and when I cried out, ' What has become
of you V he said, ' Very well, thank you !' Was
there ever anything so absurd ? I like him for
that, he is so English, and so absurd."

I don't see anything absurd about it," said
the Vice-consul, with a very grave countenance.

Don't you, papa ? you are growing dull, you
have been very dull for some time back. Since
Mr. Oliver ran away ! Perhaps it is because of
that. Perhaps it is the same thing that has
affected you both."

You pay me a high compliment," said Mr.
Bonamy, nettled, " to think that my dulness,
as you are pleased to call it, should result from
the withdrawal of Oliver; he is not such a
shining light "

No, he is not a shining light," said Rita, " he
is perhaps just a little dull himself; that is why
I like him. He never tries to say clever things,
he is never a bit brilliant, he never even pretends
to understand when he doesn't understand, but
looks at you with nice, round, wide-open, surprised
sort of eyes. That is just what I like him
for. He is always himself."

To this the Vice-consul made no reply, but,
hoping to change the conversation, said.

By the ways, I've got you that book you were
talking so much about ; nobody had it here, so

I sent to Paris "

That was very good of you, papa ; but I can't
let you run off like that. Let us finish one subject
before we begin another. What is the
matter with Mr. Oliver ? Why did he come every
night, and then leave off coming all at once?"

What a fool I was to think I was going to
be let off so easily !" Mr. Bonamy breathed to
himself. " My dear Eita," he said, '' I don't see
why you should be so anxious about Oliver. It
was a mistake having him here so much at the
first."

Why was it a mistake ? you never thought
it was a mistake till now. What has happened ?
I am more and more puzzled with every word
you say. Papa !" cried Rita, stamping her little
foot on the floor, " don't trifle with me, for I am
determined to find it out."

Then you must just find it out your own
way," cried the Vice-consul, angry with the
anger of impotence; for he knew very well he
could not resist her, and that it was only a matter
of minutes how long she would take to find the
necessary clue.

Do you mean to say you will not tell me V
cried Rita, with wondering, wide-open eyes.

My dear child," said the unfortunate Yice-
Consul, " sou are making it of far too much importance.
What does it matter about this young
fellow one way or the other ? He came, he has
gone ; we ought not, perhaps, to have glen him
so readily the run of the house."

Has anything  wrong  been found out about
him, papa?"

Bless my soul, no ! nothing wrong ; on the
contrary !" cried poor Mr. Bonamy ; " for I won't
take away a man's character behind his back  he
has behaved like a gentleman, quite like a
gentleman ; about that there is not a word to
say."

Of course," said Rita, " he would behave like
a gentleman, for he is a gentleman ; but on
what pretext, then, have you banished him from
the house ?"

"Rita," cried her father, "I wish you would
not talk of things you don't understand ! Am I
the sort of man to banish a young fellow from
my house ? If you icill know, it was he that did
it himself."

Rita opened her eyes wider than ever. She

laughed, though a little angry colour came to her
face.

"I suppose it was he, then, who disapproved
of usf she said.

What was the Vice-consul to do?

*' That is nonsense," said he, " he neither disapproved
of us, nor did I disapprove of him ; but
there might be other reasons. We thought, both
of us, both he and I, that it was as well  he
should not come  so often  for a time, at least."

"So often? but he never comes at all," cried
the inquisitive girl, " and when I met him he
wanted to run away. Don't you see all this is
absurd, papa ? If you want me to believe you,
tell me the right reason. I will not be satisfied
till you tell me the right reason. Do you think
I can be taken in with pretences of that sort ?"

Rita, you annoy me very much, you distress
me. I don't know why you should drive me
into a corner like this," the Vice-consul said
piteously.

But I want to drive you into a corner, I
must drive you into a corner ; for I insist now
upon knowing what it is. I might have let it
pass before, but now I insist upon it, you must
tell me, papa."

The poor man gave a deep sigh.

'' You take a very unfair advantage," he said ;
you compel me to betray poor Oliver and to
distress myself. And I warn you that it will make
you blush, that you will feel very uncomfortable."

I don't mind blushing," Rita said ; and as she
spoke a sudden suffusion of heat and colour came
all over her. She blushed from the crown of her
head to the soles of her feet. It was a strange
sensation, but it was not altogether disagreeable.
The girl had as little idea of any painful or
shameful occasion for blushing as if she had been
a baby ; and she met the father's eyes quite
steadily all the same.

I never saw a creature so pertinacious," said
poor Mr. Bonamy. " Well, then, if you must
know. It is because of you that young Oliver is
not coming here any more."

Because of me !" She was too much astonished
to blush now, and then she had already had her
blush out.

Just because of you. He has been so silly
as to fall in love with you, and feeling that it
would be dishonourable to me to continue to
come here, this being the case, he has explained
it all and withdrawn. There is now the short and

the long of it, Rita. You have no right to says a
word against poor Oliver. He has paid you, as
people say, the highest compliment a man can
pay a woman, and he has acted in the most
honourable way to me ; feeling that he cannot be
quite sure of not betraying himself if he continues
to come, he has ceased to come. He
would have left the place altogether if I had
asked such a sacrifice of him. He has behaved
in the most gentlemanly, honourable way. He
tells me he did say something, but he did not
know whether you understood it or not."

Eita was struck dumb. She sat and gazed at
her father silently while he spoke, too curious
and strongly interested even to be abashed by
this strange news. She blushed no more. Having
paid that one tribute of startled maidenliness to
the new revelation, she was too much impressed
and overwhelmed by it for any lighter feeling.
She sat in an attitude of the most absorbed attention,
her eyes fixed upon her father's face, her
lips a little apart, the breath coming quickly.
She was astonished, yet not so much astonished
as overawed, penetrated by the news. When her
father ceased speaking, she continued the same
rapt aspect of attention. He thought she would

have been shame faced, blushing, shy of it, unable
to look him in the face ; but he was not
prepared for this curious, absorbed interest. By
and by she repeated to herself softly, " So silly
as to fall in  love:  with me  would have left
the place altogether." Then she made a pause,
and, putting her hands softly together, said,
with a sigh of satisfaction at having found
out one problem : " Then that was what he
meant !"

What was what he meant ? He told me you
took no notice; he thought you hadn't understood
what he said."

I did not understand it," said Rita, soft,
I only wondered. It was about going to
England "

Rita, Rita ! you would not, for a new lover,
a man you scarcely know, a being quite untried 
you would not break my heart and go and risk
your life  your life that is above all things precious
to me ?"

Rita scarcely seemed to hear this interpolation
this interruption of her thoughts.

*' That there would be no danger, he said, and he
would take care  he would take care that was
not much ; but I did wonder. I will tell you the

truth, papa. I had a great anxiety to know what
he meant."

"Young idiot!" her father said, with hotly-rising
wrath, "he meant nothing nothing, my
love ! only a brag that he could do more, and know
better  a boy, an uninstructed fool than those
who have watched over you all your life."

Even this made no impression upon the girl.
It is curious," she said, still to herself, " very
curious  quite different from  the other way. I
suppose this is the English way"? Benedetta
always says the English are half mad. I suppose
instead of asking about the dot, and that kind of
thing, you know, papa  I suppose this is the
English way f

It is the foolish way," cried the father. " Come,
it is nothing to you, Rita. You don't mean to
say  no, no, my darling; I know better you
don't mean to make me believe that you, so
clever as you are, and knowing so much, could
think twice about any notion that came
into the noddle of such an empty-headed young
man."

*' Is he empty-headed f said Kita, reflectively.
He does not know much, that is quite true ; he
is not a bit clever; but I think it is a little unjust

to call him empty-headed. He was always just
himself; he never pretended to anything else.
Sometimes he understood  very often he didn't ;
but he never pretended, papa. Don't you think
it is a little hard upon him V she said, turning
round upon her father suddenly, and fixing him
with her large, serious, impartial eyes. "Don't
you think it is hard to take advantage of what
he has said himself, and turn him out like
this?"

*' I have not turned him out. Rita, this is mere
foll3 I will not have you led away by your
feelings. If any man were to kill me, I believe
you would say he didn't mean it, poor fellow, it
would be hard upon him to hang him. Come,
child, let us be done with this."

But, papa," said Eita, " there is no evidence
against him but his own confession. I have often
heard you say that one should not take advantage
of that. Kill you who wants to kill you ? There
could not be a more different question. I am not
led away by my feelings. I have no feelings but
right and justice. I don't think you ought to
have taken that advantage of him. It must be
very hard upon him, papa, to shut him out.
Think ! he will have nowhere else to go to. I

dare says he spends his evenings in the cafes. He
can't know what to do with himself at nights."

As if I had anything to do with his entertainment
in the evening I I wish to heaven he
had never set foot within my house !"

Ah ! but that is past praying for. I don't see
why you should wish such a thing ; but still, if
you do wish it, it is a pity, for it is too late. He
has set foot within your house, and we have a
responsibility about him. We have a responsibility,"
said Rita, very gravely shaking her
head. "He is young, and he is very simpleminded,
and he might, as you are always saying,
take a wrong turn ; and then whose fault would
it be ?"

Not mine," cried the persecuted man, " certainly
not mine  that I'll swear to. Am I the
fellow's keeper ? Rita, for heaven's sake be done
with all that nonsense. If you can talk of nothing
more sensible, you had much better go to bed."

Yes," said Rita, calmly, going on with her
argument, " you are his guardian in a kind of
wa', papa. It was you that took him up first.
You did it of your own free will, nobody persuaded
you. You settled him here, and you opened your
doors to him, and said, Come on Sunday, come as

often as you please. Do you think you are justified
in casting him away now, as if it was of no
importance ? never thinking where he will go
instead, or if he has anywhere else to go to? Do
you think you are justified? for no other reason
than that you think he might perhaps do or say
something you would not like ? I do not."

*' Then you think, I suppose, that I ought to
have him back and beg his pardon, and tell him
he is quite free to make love to my daughter if
he likes ? Bless my soul ! why should I interfere
with such a pretty amusement ? That's
what you think. Rita, don't sit there, my dear,
talking nonsense : say no more about this
young fool, but go to bed*'

Papa, I am sorry to see you are so deaf to
sound argument," said Rita, with judicial composure
; " you always bring in the personal question,
as if that had anything to do with it. On
the face of it, to deprive a stranger of the
benefits you have been heaping upon him, and
leave him in a moment to his own resources,
all because you are afraid of a distant and unlikely
thing he thinks he wants to do, is dreadfully
unjustifiable ; my dear papa," said Rita,
looking down from the heights of youthful

superiority, " I never expected to find you
inaccessible to reason, especially on such an important
point as this."

Inaccessible to fiddlestick," the Vice-consul
said ; but he was entirely shaken in his conviction
of having done what was right and kind,
both to one party and the other. He got up and
walked about the room. He was a man who
wanted moral support; he wanted to be approved
of, and to feel that the opinion of those
around him went with his. And especially he
had learned to prop himself up by Rita's
opinion. He was always uneasy when she
differed from him. Even in this matter, which
concerned herself, and in which her judgment
might justly be doubted, he was not comfortable.
He was unfortunately too accessible to reason
so that nothing could be more unjust than this
reproach. "Go to bed, my love; go to bed,"
he said, faintly. " It is getting very late ; another
time we can talk of this."

Then do you think, papa," said Rita, still
magisterial, " that it is right to postpone a
matter which concerns other people's comfort to
another time ?"

*' Don't worry me to death," said Mr. Bonamy,

stretching out his hands with a half-despairing
appeal. " I never thought I was going to be led
into such a discussion don't worry me to
death !"

But she showed no signs of mercy, and there
is no telling what might have happened to Her
Majesty's humble representative had he not betn
called away at this moment to receive a messenger
with despatches from the Consulate-General
and important instructions. Mr. Bonamy hurried
away with a sigh of thankfulness ; never was
culprit suddenly delivered from the bar more
glad of his escape. He knew, indeed, that it was
only for a time : but yet even for a time it was
well to get out of her hands. At least he
could collect materials for his defence.

Rita, for her part, after sitting for some time
waiting for her father's return, and sharpening
up various arguments for his complete discomfiture,
got tired, und made up her mind to take
his advice and go to bed. But she had a great
deal too much to think about to have any desire
to go to sleep. When she had sent Benedetta
away she sat by her window in her white
dressing-gown, with her hair about her shoulders,
a romantic little figure, and felt a little Hke

VOL. n. R

Juliet. She had never felt like Juliet before.
She had, even with the flippancy of her age,
been disposed to think of Juliet as of a very
forward and bold young woman. People who
have been accustomed to hear of marriage as a
matter of convenience, so much dot so many
advantages, and who have even been negotiated
for in this way, are apt to think but poorly of
that ideal impersonation of youthful passion.
But now that Romeo had appeared on the scene,
Rita, at the window, thought upon Juliet with a
little secret wonder, and awe, and pleasure.
Romeo  well, there is no evidence that Romeo
was clever. He was only one of the gallants of
the period, one of the swash-bucklers who sometimes
talk just as badly as their kind, though
often they forget themselves and talk Shakespeare.
There was nothing extraordinary about
him till love and the poet got hold of him, and
put divine words into his mouth. Very likely
that gay Mercuric was the cleverest of the two.
Sitting thus at her window, Ria all at once was
sensible of a figure on the pavement looking up at
the house from the opposite side of the street.
There was nothing but a little night-light burning
on a table in the corner, nothing to betray

her figure where she sat. And nothing could be
more common-place and absurd than that Harry
should come there and stare at the windows.
He was not by any means in the habit of doing
so ; but yet when he was out, taking his forlorn
walk, he would allow himself to take that turn
through the street in which the Consulate was,
and fix a wistful eye upon it for a moment.
When Rita saw him she darted back with a
movement of fright and wonder, and mirth and
shyness, all in one ; and sat out of sight for a
few moments, panting, blushing, with the same
overwhelming flush of sudden warmth which had
come over her for the first time when her father
spoke to her. Then, in the dark and the silence,
she gave vent to a little low laugh, at which she
was frightened when she heard it, and became suddenly
as solemn and serious as an old picture. Then
she returned shyly to the corner of the window,
peeping, though she ought to have known that
it was impossible he could see her. The figure
opposite was in the act of passing on ; it gave a
long look back as it went slowly away, lingering
as if reluctant to be out of her neighbourhood.
Rita drew back this time with a kind of awe. She
knew he would have thought no more of climbing

R 2

the garden wall, however high it had been  if
there had been a garden wall and a balcony, and
she out upon it discoursing to the moon  than
Romeo did. " But there is the difference," Eita
said to herself ; " he may be in love with me, but
lam not in love with him. I would never stand
out there and sigh Romeo, Romeo. No," she went
on, with a little shriek of a laugh, " not Romeo.
Oh, Isaac, Isaac, wherefore art thou Isaac ? That
is too ridiculous ; it is all too ridiculous. I don't
wonder at what Benedetta says, that the English
are half-mad."

And then she sat a long time in the dark, and
thought, and thought. It was all very new and
very strange. It roused her lively faculties with
the pleasure of a novel sensation. She had taken
her proposals of marriage with sedate contempt,
and announced authoritatively to her father on each
occasion that she had no intention of ever marrying,
and that she liked him much better than any
other man in the world, an assurance which the
poor Vice-Consul took great comfort in, though it
was not possible that any man in his senses could
accept it as a matter of serious faith. But now Rita
could not deny to herself that this strange new
bewildering sensation was a pleasant one. Her

former suitors would no doubt have gladly
adopted it had it been thought that such an easy
mode of love-making would have been permitted ;
but in their cases it would not have moved the
foolish girl. To see somebody standing silent
on the other side of the street, doing nothing
to call her attention, not wishing to be noticed,
doing it only for a little comfort to himself,
was entirely different. That was the English
way, she thought with awe. To be able to give
love up for the sake of honour, and yet to have
it so much at heart as to be driven to come
and look at the house in which the beloved
object lived, standing about alone in a
cold night  Rita's whole heart was penetrated
by the sincerity, the modesty, the self-restraint,
yet self-abandonment, which were English, only
English, nothing else. It was not in the least
a cold night ; Harry outside felt it to be warm
and genial : but there was a cool little night-breeze
lifting the curtains, and she strove to call
it cold to heighten the effect. This was how the
Vice-consul had mismanaged matters. He was
not a happy man as he read his despatches ; but
he had no idea of the mischief which was going
on under cover of the night.

CHAPTER Xii
A lover's ordeal.

Rite said nothing more to her father on this
subject for a day or two, and the poor man,
deceived once more, began to believe that it had
made little impression upon her, and was to be
allowed to pass as of no particular importance.
He had even begun to congratulate himself on
the beneficial effects of his system of training,
and the knowledge of the world which her early
initiation into life had given her. 'shad I
brought Rita up as most girls are brought up,"
he said to himself; "had she been fresh from a
convent, for instance, like some of her friends, or
shut up indoors as Italian girls are, her head
would have been turned by the first mention
of a lover. But she has seen a great deal.

though she is so young. In our position she
could not help seeing a great deal. She knows
how to discriminate, and can judge what is what.
What a good thing that T did not follow the
advice of all these ladies, but was bold enough to
trust to my girl's innocence and bring her up my
own way !" Thus artlessly did the Vice-Consul
console himself. And his mind was a great deal
easier; for before he was always nervous lest
she should question him about Harry, and afraid
of betraying himself, even afraid of letting Rita
perceive that there was something to betray.
Now that he had made a clean breast and got it
over, his mind was relieved, and he felt that
he could carry his head as high as usual, and
need not be afraid to look any girl in the face.
For the first day he rejoiced with trembling, but
after that had passed began to feel that he had
really secured his footing, and might take comfort
that the danger was over. Poor Yice-
Consul ! He had but just allowed this sensation
of pleasure to enter his mind when Rita, looking
up at him suddenly from a book in which she had
all the air of being completely absorbed, addressed
him suddenly as follows 

Papa I I have been thinking over what you

told me the other day  What is the matter ? "
she added, interrupting herself.

"Nothing, nothing," said poor Mr. Bonamy,
faintly. He had been lying back in a very comfortable
chair, whiffing gently at intervals a mild
cigarette, and giving himself up to the comfort,
the ease of being done with a subject in which he
had foreseen trouble. When his daughter began
to speak, a presentiment of danger awoke in him,
and he started up in his chair when she had said
these words. " Nothing, nothing," he repeated,
letting himself drop again, but alas, with what
different feelings; wi the languor of a conflict
foreseen, in which he knew he should be
worsted. " What have you been thinking about,
Kita?"

About what you told me the other day. Of
course it was not just an ordinary thing that one
could think nothing more about. Poor Mr.
Oliver ! I think he has been badly treated. I
want you to tell him just to come as usual. He
must be on his guard, you know ; but in any
case he would be on his guard after speaking to
you. He must not suppose that I know anything
about it."

'but, my dear," said the Vice-Consul, with a

troubled face, " I don't think that would do at
all ; he would think that he had my permission
to  to pay you his addresses, as people used
to say ? "

What are addresses ? " said Rita, with much
appearance of innocence. " You must tell him,
of course, that there is to be nothing of that
kind; but only just that he is to come as before.
I don't see that it need do him any harm  I
mean any further harm," said the girl, correcting
herself. She spoke with unusual airiness and
carelessness, so lightly indeed that her indifference
had the aspect of being somewhat studied.

Him  harm ! that was not the question," the
perplexed father said.

I hope you don't mean to infer that it would
do me any harm f said Rita, turning upon him
with a smile of superb disdain. She even laughed
a little at the folly of the idea, opening and shutting
a fan which she held in her hand. " That
would be too ridiculous  too ridiculous," she
said.

But, my dear child, you are young and inexperienced,
and"

Don't insult me, please, papa," she said,
fanning herself. If she had been fifty she could

not have looked more superior to any such temptation.
"And, on the other hand," she added,
I dont see why poor Mr. Oliver should be
punished, positively punished for liking me. It
is not a sin to like me. Of course he must learn
to keep it to himself; it will be a good lesson
in self-control  which everybody is the better for,"
said this young oracle, ' and especially, as I have
always heard, young men."

This wisdom took away the Vice-consul's
breath. " That is very true ;" he said " but I am
not at all sure that this is a safe way of teaching
it. I think, if it is the same to you, Rita  "

But it is not the same to me," she cried, impatiently.
" If you will not set poor Mr. Oliver
right and do him justice, I think I will go and
pay that visit my aunt Ersilia always wants me
to make her. You said yourself I must go one
day or other. I will go now."

Now if there was one thing more than another
which Mr. Bonamy was afraid of, it was this visit
to her aunt Ersilia, her mother's Italian sister,
with which she threatened him from time to time.
He said hurriedly, " I don't think this is a good
time for going further south, Rita. Of course, if
you wish it so much, I will gladly remove the

embargo on poor Oliver, who is a very good,
honest sort of fellow; but I can't have him
tormented, poor boy  and you must promise to
be very distant with him, which is the kindest
thing you can do."

But not too distant, papa," said Eita ; " for I
think it a great deal better that he should suppose
I do not know. Far better. I will behave
to him just as usual. I will withdraw gradually,
bit by bit, that he may not feel too much difference.
Indeed, unless he is different to me, I
don't see why I should be different to him. Of
course he will be on his guard. You see he
knoivs now. Naturally he will be more careful.
He will understand that if you let him come back
he is upon his honour. So, on the whole, 1 will
make very little difference. I think it is far
better that everything should have the look of
being just the same as before."

With this Mr. Bonamy was obliged to be satisfied.
He had known very well when the discussion
began that Rita's will, whatever it might be,
was the thing that would be done. He had in
his own mind a great many troubled reflections,
considering how he was to do it, so as not to
excite false hopes or vain expectations in the

young man's mind ; but it was, from the moment
when she declared her sovereign will, a foregone
conclusion. He had not resolved the question
how it was to be done, up to the time he went
into his office in the morning, and then thought
it best to leave it to chance and the inspiration
of the moment. When he sent for Harry to
speak with him he had still but a very faint idea
what to say. The young man came in looking
somewhat dull and depressed, as he did always
now, and no longer expectant of anything
better, as he had been at the first. It was a
moment of leisure, and the Vice-Consul had
the air of a man with something disagreeable
rather than something pleasant to say. His look
was artificial, and the smile which adorned his
face was forced and uncomfortable.

Come in, Oliver, come in," he said, with an
air of affected geniality. Harry thought he was
going to receive his dismissal ; he did not think
that anything less could give his kind and
friendly patron an aspect so little natural. " Sit
down," said the Vice-consul, " I have something
to say before business begins this afternoon.
Oliver, I have been going through quite a passage
of arms on your account."

On m} account ?" said Harry, feeling as if his
heart stopped beating ; he thought within himself,
that this passage of arms must have been with
some of the authorities of the F. 0., who perhaps
had been stirred up to ask what a stranger, without
recommendations, was doing there It seemed
to him that the next thing which would be said
must be, " I have no further occasion for your
services," and braced himself for these words.

Don't be frightened ; yes, you look frightened,"
said Mr. Bonamy, still with that false
geniality, " but no harm has come of it. You
met my daughter  the other day."

"Yes." Harry's heart re-commenced beating,
and went so fast that it almost choked him. *' It
was an accident, Sir ; I did not see Miss Bonamy
till I was close upon her, I could not escape."

Yes, she told me. And she asked what had become
of you, and you answered ' Very well, thank
you !' You will allow that was strange. No
doubt she had been much puzzled by your disappearance
before, and she assailed me directly
what was the meaning of it? I had to say all
sorts of things, that you were too busy to come,
that you were otherwise engaged, and I don't
know what ; but the short and the long of it is.

Oliver, that, if jou want to keep her from knowing
all about it, you must begin to come back
again. Things cannot go on as they are now
without arousing her suspicions. This is her
night, you know ; you must look in for an hour.
Of course I don't want to enter into explanations
with her," said the Vice-consul, becoming more
at ease now he had made out his statement,
and done it, he thought with some complacence,
very cleverly. " You must really, by way of
supporting what I have been obliged to say, lookin
to-nightmare's

heart was making up tremendously
now for its momentary pause. He felt as if it
must be audible all over the house. A flush
of warmth went over him. He spoke with
little breaks in his voice, so much excited and
disturbed was he.

If you  have no objections. Sir. It cannot
be but  a favour to me."

That's a good fellow," cried the Vice-consul
relieved. *'I was afraid you would tell me
it was too painful, and leave me in the lurch."

If I did that, Sir," said Harry, " I should bea
worthless creature indeed, however much it
might cost me ; but this  this If you have

no objections, Sir  you can't have any doubt

that I "

Here he stopped, not knowing what to say more.
"You must understand, Oliver," said Mr.
Bonamy, gravely, " that if I have no objections
it is because I don't want to enter into explanations
with Rita ; and then I have missed you, I
would never deny that. But you must not suppose,
because of this, that I mean you, you know,
to depart from our  bargain, or to do anything
to change the position. In short, I don't intend,
Oliver, that you should take advantage of the

change to in short, to "

This was not very explanatory, but Harry
hastened to reply as if it had been the clearest
statement in the world.

You may be sure I will take no advantage
of the change," he said.

Well, that is just what I expected from
you," said the Vice-consul, falling into his
natural tone ; " but, my dear fellow," he added,
with a little alarm, " I must be sure that you can
depend upon yourself. You told me you were
afraid you would betray your feelings if you continued
to come ; you told me even that you had
done so, or almost done so "

*'Ah, Sir," cried Harry, "that was when I
found myself out ! I know exactly all about it
now, and I am on my guard."

Bless me," said the Vice-consul, " that is

exactly what " here he stopped short with

the guiltiest look. He was just about tq say 
what Rita said.

You need not have any fear on my account,"
said Harry : and then he paused a little, and
added with feeling, " and I am proud that you have
confidence in me. I will do nothing to shake it ;
you may be sure of that. I should be a poor
creature indeed if my heart did not respond to
such trust."

This was a very fine speech for Harry. He
was carried altogether beyond himself by the
emergency. These last lonely evenings had
been wonderful teachers for him. He had
learned to read, he had learned to understand.
He had even learned many things more than
reading and understanding in these days of solitude.
The thought of going back to her, to that
little world in which she reigned, was delightful
to him, but he wondered what change there
would be in it to balance the strange change in
his own breast. It seemed to him that he was a

new man, with deeper feelings and an expanded
mind. And she? Would she just be the same,
and all the things and people round her ? Any
did not want her to be the least different. He
thought she was perfect, the most wonderful of
all beings ; but he felt himself so much altered
that he was excited by the thought that she
might be changed too. He went away from his
audience not knowing whether he walked on
solid earth or air. Certainly he would not take
advantage ; unquestionably he would be upright
and honest, and bind himself as with ropes rather
than betray his kind friend's confidence ; but
with all this he was very much excited, and a
glow of warmth and hopefulness began to circulate
in his veins. The new concession meant no
change in the circumstances ; this the Vice-consul
had been anxious to impress upon him ;
and he was equally anxious to assent, to assure
Eita's father on the other hand that he expected
nothing, scarcely desired anything except this
trust in him. But, nevertheless, it would be impossible
to deny that a something of hope, a
trembling yet happy expectation, had come into
his heart.

How carefully he dressed himself that
VOL. n. s

night! Never in all his life Lad he made so
careful a toilette before. And Paolo, having
heard what had happened (which Harry, reticent
as he was, could not keep from him), was excited
loo, and came and sat by him while he dressed,
and wanted to help him, as if they had been two
girls. Paolo ran out and bought him a bouquet
for his button-hole. He brought in a fresh bottle
of eau-de-cologne. He was very anxious to lend
him something to wear  his studs, which were
little cameos set in gold, or a ring, with a doubtful
gem in it, of which he was very proud, thinking
it a genuine antique. " It is not brilliant
like a diamond," said Paolo, " but it is art, which
is more precious, and pleases much to the Signorina.
Take it, amico mio, you have no ring,
which is an absence that is felt ; and the studs,
that will make your appearance so much more
perfect  what you call finished." Harry rejected
these aids to the effectiveness of his dress, but
he took great pains about his tie, and refreshed his
coat himself, and gave particular attention to the
arrangement of his hair. He said to himself, as he
walked along in the summer dusk, that all this
was very foolish, that he was not on his promotion,
when it might have been wise to make the

best of all his advantages, that he was going
only because he was nobody, because the Vice-f
Consul was not afraid of him, and thought it
wiser to run the risk of him than to disturb
Rita's mind about any such petty suitor. It was
very much like giving him the crumbs from the
table, but he was willing to accept these, or anything.
He went into the lighted room with his
heart beating. Several of the ladies who were
latitudes exclaimed on his entrance, and made
haste to tell him that they had thought he was
gone altogether, and to ask where he had been.
Rita took no part in these questions, but she
gave him her left hand as a sign of friendship,
and smiled and nodded to him without stopping
lier conversation with somebody else. Indeed,
she treated him as if there had been no break in
their intercourse, as though they had met yesterday
and were to meet again tomorrow. This
pleased Harry, and yet it wrung his heart. Was
he of so little importance to her that she had not
even noticed his absence ? But that could not
be. He began to wonder whether it was perhaps
a good sign. She had noticed his absence,
speaking to her father about it. Was it perhaps  ?
His heart began to beat again as at first. Buts

2

Kita took very little notice of him all the evening.
She was perfectly sweet and smiling, and
when she did address him did it with all her old
friendliness ; but Harry could not persuade himself
that she had remarked him and his careful
tie, and his well-brushed curls at all.

After that there ensued a time of mingled torture
and happiness, when Rita played with the
young man as a cat plays with a mouse. She
was more interested in him than she had ever
been in any young man before. He was a study
to her of the most attractive kind. A young man
who was in love  not a young man who was
wanting to marry, a species of which she had
seen several specimens  but one who was actually,
really, warmly in love  and with herself. She
wanted to see how such a person behaved. It
was as good as a play to her. She would laugh
to herself secretly, thinking of it, so much
amused was she ; and it seemed to her almost a
duty to try him in every way, to see how far this
love would carry him, and how long he would
manage to keep it under. It did not occur to
Rita that this was a somewhat cruel process, or
that Harry was pledged in honour to her father
not to betray himself. The cat most likely has

no idea of cruelty in her play with the mouse.
Sometimes Rita would take no notice of him at
all, neglecting all the wistful attention which
poor Harry felt it was within his bond to bestow
so long as he looked for nothing in return. Fora
whole evening she would not so much as look
at him ; then would suddenly turn with her most
cordial smile, with a few words more sweet than
he thought she had ever bestowed upon him
before. Sometimes she would call him to her
side, and ply him with seductions which poor
Harry did not know how to resist ; sometimes
she would devote all her efforts to the task of
making him betray himself, tempting him withall
sorts of opportunities. But Harry stood fast.
He had given his promise, and nothing would
make him break it. He wavered like a tree in the
wind, but he never yielded. Sometimes she made
him think that she was ready to listen to anything
he might say, and another time would take
the first opportunity of showing him that he was
nothing to her. It was hard upon the mouse;
yet we doubt whether he would have exchanged
this agitated existence for the most happy calm.
He went to the Consulate with a continued expectation,
with his heart always beating loudly, not

knowing what he was to look for ; but a
more cain level of kindness would not have
given him those variations of feeling, that dramatic
interest in his life ; so that, perhaps, there was not
much harm done, the tortured liking the play as
much as the torturer. As for Rita she was very
much interested too; the pursuit amused her  it
was a new sensation. She wanted above all
things to overcome his resolution, and make him
betray himself. But here her efforts were vain
against the rock of Harry's invincibility. He
would not, whatever she might do, break his
promise. He kept a watch upon himself which
was not to be overcome.

The Vice-Consul did not know what to make
of the business altogether. It gave him a great
deal of thought. He watched the young man with
a jealous eye : but Harry met every scrutiny with
an unflinching front. And Mr. Bonamy did what
he could to watch his daughter, but that was not
so easy. She was amusing herself, but whether
she was going too far in her trial of Harry's
constancy he could not tell. Lie bewildered her
father, which was not difficult ; but what was
more wonderful, after a while, this venturous person
began to bewilder herself. She thought she

was tired of Harry, who could not be got to
swerve out of the right way, She began to think
that it was all a fiction, or that this love after the
English fashion was far too self-commanded and
restrained for a half Italian girl. She had
thought at first that it would be quite easy and
extremely amusing to make him betray himself.
And she had resolved in such, a case that his downfall
should do him no harm ; she would not betray
him ; she would keep his secret. But she had not
supposed that he would stand out, that he would
be able to resist her: and at length she-got
confused about her own notions, and about his
conduct and everything around her, and knew no
longer what to think.

CHAPTER XIV.

A CRISIS.

IT was like a play the intercourse which went
on between these two ; the perpetual aggressions
of the girl and defences of the young
man, the troubled dictatorship of the father,
who saw that slave of his word resisting, fighting
always, more or less feebly, but yet resisting all
the agaceries, all the temptations, which a spirit
of mischief could throw in his way. Sometimes
the sight was laughable, sometimes it was almost
tragic, to the looker on ; and he was much disturbed
at the same time on his own account, not
knowing what Rita meant by it all. " Take care
what you are doing," he would say to her, with
mingled pity and alarm  pity for the young
man, alarm, for himself and her. "What am

I doing, papa?" Rita would ask, with the
greatest innocence. " That is exactly what I
can't tell," poor Mr. Bonamy said. But his
warnings never came to more than this. And
nothing in all her life had so amused Rita as her
torture of this unfortunate young man. One day
they happened to be alone for a little while, Mr.
Bonamy having been called away. It was on a
Sunday evening, after dinner, a day when the
Bonamys, following the old-fashioned English
rule, were always alone. Harry had avoided opportunities
of being alone with Rita as much as
lovers generally scheme for that privilege, but
to-day there was no help for it. She was seated
at the open window in her usual dress of vapoury
white ; the summer was advancing, and it would
soon be time for the removal of the household
to the country, where they went every year.
Mr. Bonamy had been called away, quite unexpectedly,
to his own dreadful vexation and the
terror of Harry, but to Rita's secret delight. The
night-air puffed the white curtains over her head
and about her white, half-visible figure. The
window looked out upon the garden, and there
was a little moisture of the sea in the air. Harry
was standing at the other side of the window,

half concealed by the floating veil of the curtain.
Eita was half buried in a great chair. A shaded
lamp stood on a table in the other part of the room,
but that was all, not light enough to see each
other by. There had been a somewhat long
silence, and Harry was trying hard to break
loose from this enchantment and go away. But
his heart was faint with the sweetness of it,
poor fellow ! and he could not get free, especially
now that they were alone. If it could have
been helped, he would not have stayed ; but
he had not been able to help it, and it was sweet.
He was snatching a fearful joy, not saying anything,
scarcely daring to breathe. Then into the
soft silence came her voice.

'Mr. Oliver, they tell me summer nights in
England are so much sweeter than here. What
are those long twilights ? I have read about them,
but I don't understand it. Tell me." He could
make out that she leaned forward in her chair,
putting her hands together, which was a way
she had.

"I don't think," said Harry, catching his
breath, " that anything can be sweeter than the
evenings here."

Ah, but there is a difference ; tell me. You

know that I am never to go to England," said
Rita, plaintively ; " though I remember yoa said
you would not be afraid to take me. What made
you say that, Mr. Oliver? perhaps you forget
that you ever did."

Oh, no ; I don't forget."

You never would enter into any particulars ;
but I am glad at least that you don t forget.
Now papa is away, we may talk of it. It always
hurts papa when I speak of England. So tell me
tell me quick  how was it that you thought
you could make it safe? Ah, how I wish you
could !" she said, clasping her hands.

Harry said never a word. His heart was
thumping so against his breast that he thought
every moment it would burst forth from that
uneasy house. Now it got into his throat,
and seemed to choke him; he could not
speak.

You don't say anything," said Rita, with again
a little tone of complaint. '' Do you think that is
kind, or fair ? You rouse my expectations, and
then you never say another word. 1 have thought
of it all this time, and always wondered if you
would ever tell me. How could Mr. Oliver manage
to take me to England T;\ithout danger ? that is

what I have always been saying to myself. What,
Mr. Oliver ! won't you say a word ?"

Here there burst a cry from Harry's breast.
*' Don't torture me," he said ; then collecting
all his strength, "It was my presumption. I
thought only that to take  the most precious care
of you "

His voice shook, and at last his little torturer
felt that she had got almost to the end of his
powers.

That is a very pretty way of saying it, Mr.
Oliver; precious care; it is not slang, is it's I
am sure you would be kind  very, very kind."

Oh, kind I '' cried poor Harry, grasping unconsciously
the white curtains that kept blowing
between him and her, in his strong, hot hands.

Don't you like the word ? I think it is such
a nice word. There is nothing like it in Italian,
and you can apply it so widely. You can be
kind to a horse or a dog ; and then to children,
and sick people and poor people ; and then  to
everybody  me. You have always been, ever
since I knew you, very kind to me."

'' Don't say so  don't say so  not that word,"
Harry cried.

But there is no other word half so good.

Other words express other feelings ; kind means,
just kind. There is nothing else expresses it.
English is a wonderfully fine language. It is so
strong and so trustworthy. You feel as if you
could believe it, every word. Mr. Oliver," said
Rita, in her little, soft, insinuating voice, "did
you really, really believe that  that I might goto
England, if  someone were to take care of me,
such care as you call precious ; but, then, who
would do that ? not papa, for he is so frightened.
No one I knows'

"Miss Bonamy, I must say good night," said
Harry, very shortly, taking himself out of the
floating curtain, almost tearing it down in his
agitation.

Good night ! before papa comes back ? Oh,
but that would be wikind. Don't. Why should

you run oiF in such a hurry in the very middle of

our talk?"

"Because' he said, with the crushed curtain

like a wisp in his hands, " I can't stay I mustn't

stay. Forgive me, and, if 3'ou will, excuse me :

and good night !"

He was rushing away, when she put out her

hand. He saw that, though there was so little

light. He could not refuse to shake hands with

her; and instead of leaving the pressure to him,
she took hold of his hand for a second, lightly
bat firmly detaining him. " Mr. Oliver," she
said, with that little plaintive tone, " you should
not run away."

Harry was hoarse with agitation and distress.
That soft, light touch of detention made him
wild. " I must fly," he said, " fly ! Do you
think I want to go? I must fly, and come no
more."

And he turned and disappeared like an arrow,
as swift, but not so noiselessly, stumbling through
the dark room. She lay back in her chair and
listened to him all the way rushing down the
stairs, shutting the great door with a clang.
Then his steps were audible along the street
hurrying away. The very foot, Eita thought,
spoke English among the other footsteps. She
seemed to hear them ever so far off, hurrying,
flying. She was a spoiled child. She had not
succeeded in her wicked attempt, and some other
feeling mingled with the childish disappointment
which provoked and mortified her. When the
Vice-consul came back, not without a great deal
of anxiety in his mind, he found her still sitting
there, crying as if her perverse heart would

break. It gave him a mingled sense of fright
and relief to see that there was no one else in
the room ; but when he found that Rita was
crying, his foolish, fatherly heart was melted
altogether. He hurried across the half-lighted
room. " "What is the matter, my darling, what is
the matter? Where is Oliver? Is it his fault?"
he said.

Papa," cried Rita, with sobs, " do not speak
to me of Mr. Oliver; he is a clod, he is a stone.
It isn't a bit true what you told me of him. He
must have been laughing at you or perhaps at
me. It is not a bit true."

What is it that is not true ? My pet, this
young fellow has been saying something to vex
you ? Bless my heart ! he shall go tomorrow if
he has broken his word and said anything to
annoy you."

And the Vice-Consul, very wroth, drew a chair
to the side of Rita's, and put his arm round her,
soothing her with soft words and caresses, and
launching thunderbolts of anger at the supposed
culprit. Rita cried softly for some time on her
father's shoulder. Then she interrupted him,
putting her hand upon his mouth.

'papa, don't; you don't know. What provokes

me is different. It is not because he said
anything. Listen," said Rita, putting her lips
to his ear ; " I hioiu it is not true what he said
to you. It can't be true, because I have tried
him and tried him, and he icon say anything.
He has no feeling at all in him, and it cannot be
true."

"Rita! Rita! what are you saying?" Mr.
Bonamy cried.

The horror in his voice brought her to herself.
She sat up suddenly, drying her eyes. " Well,
papa, it is your fault. You gave me a puzzle to
make out. I thought it would be fun ; but it is
not fun. As for Mr. Oliver, he is just an excellent,
trustworthy Englishman. You need not
fear that he will ever be carried away. As for
feeling, 1 don't think he knows what it is. He is
English English all over." She clapped her
hands together to give emphasis to her sentence,
like a true Italian, which by turns she was.

Yes, he is English  very English. I thought
you liked everything that was English," the surprised
father said.

"And so I do ; but what does it matter if you
will never, never let me go to England ? Take me
to England, papa !"

"My darling! when you know what my feeling
is on that subject  anything but that, Rita;
ask me anything but that.'''

"Well," she replied, "Mr. Oliver said there
would be no difficulty about it ; he said he would
take the most precious care of me. Is that
slang, papa ?"

Slang ? bless my heart, it sounds like something
quite different to me," cried the Vice-consul,
frowning. But Rita once more put her
hand upon his mouth.

You know better than I do," she said,
demurely. " I could not be sure which it was ;
but you may make yourself quite comfortable,
papa, for Mr. Oliver is very conscientious, and
never said a word. I begin," she said pensively,
' to understand English now."

Rita, I think you must be taking leave of
your senses. You begin to understand English !
your own language !"

She nodded her head a great many times in
reply.

Yes, I begin to understand it," she said.
And this was all he could get out of her. She
began presently to talk upon other subjects, and
kept him amused all the rest of the evening, and

VOL. n. T

Harry was not mentioned again between them.
But Harry himself, poor fellow, went home like
the wind, or rather like a straw blown before
the wind ; hastening, without any apparent
movement of his own, to the bare rooms which
were his only refuge. He arrived there panting
like a man pursued, and shut his door as if it
where a fence between him and his pursuers. He
could not have explained to himself why he did
this, for Rita, though she had certainly assailed
him, had not come after him through the streets,
as by his appearance one might have thought
she had done, forcing him to his best speed.
But when he sat down and thought it all over,
though Harry was excited to the highest degree,
it could scarcely be said of him that he was
unhappy. He was breathless with the excitement
of his escape. He said to himself that he
must not go again ; that he would not run such
risks again, that another time he must betray,
himself; but all the time, underneath everything,
he had the consciousness that his very flight had
told his story as effectually as words could have
done it, and that she could not now be at any
loss to know what was the moving spring of all
his recent life. He felt that she had suspected

him all these days. He knew that she had
meant to surprise his secret somehow, whether
in simple love of mischief and curiosity, or
whether with some other motive, who could tell ?
but certainly this was what she had been doing:
and there dawned upon him a light of something
which was not exactly hope, but which
yet warmed and brightened his horizon, and
made the whole world somehow a better, a less
heavy and tedious place. He did not say even to
himself that anything definite was in his hope ;
what he said was that he could not go back, that
he would run no more risks, that, whatever might
be said to him on the subject, his policy was to
keep away. But this had no such tragic meaning
to him as it had on the previous occasion,
when his life had been cut off in half, and his
heart, he thought, rent in twain. If he was ever
made to go back again  a thought which made
Harris heart jump, but which he did not feel, as
before, was impossible  then it would not be to
hold his tongue. And whatever happened there
was one thing which he could not be doubtful
about. He had saved his honour, hard as had
been the trial, and yet she knew. She could not,
he was sure, either mistake him or ignore him

T 2

any longer. Reject him, yes; allow him
to languish fur from her, which would be the

kindest thing, unless but certainly now she

knew.

And then a week or more elapsed. After the
first twenty-four hours Harry began to have heats
and chills, wondering if he would be forbidden
to go again. He did not intend to go, but yet
to be sent away is different ; and he awaited a
summons to the Vice-Consul with feelings of
alarm. But though he was constantly summoned
to the Vice-Consul's presence, he heard nothing
upon tht all-interesting subject. Mr. Bonamy
looked coldly upon him for the first day, but said
nothing save about business. And afterwards
Harry went on just as before. Rita's 'night" came
round, but Harry did not go. He dressed himself
as if he were going, and got rid of Paolo, who had
been greatly disappointed by the total absence
of confidence in him which his friend showed.
Naturally, after his exertions on Harry's behalf,
the offer of the ring and the studs, the purchase
of the flower and the eau-de-cologne, Paolo had
felt that he had a right to hear all that had taken
place, and how the lady had been won, which he
did not think would be a difficult matter. The

idea that his friend could be called back without
the lady being won, did not occur to his swift
Italian mind. And after that critical moment
when he linked his arm in Harry's, and led
him eagerly off to the quietest promenade he
could think of, to hear all about it, Paolo had
treated Harry's indignant denial that there was
anything to tell with the contempt it deserved.
Nothing ?" he had said, with an astonishment
almost beyond speech. " Nothing ? But that
means that you do not wish to tell me 
that you will not give your confidence to me."
When Harry disclaimed this, Paolo had only shook
his head. " I see that you have not trust in me,
he said, and he had retired in his turn for a few
days from his friend's society, and a little coolness
and momentary estrangement had ensued.

But some time had elapsed since then, and
one of those reconciliations of which Harry was
afraid had followed, and Paolo's interest was
warmer than ever. He watched his friend's looks
and noted every visit he paid, so that it required
nothing less than the effort of dressing and setting
out for the Vice-Consul's to shake himself free from
Paolo's society and remarks. Harry went to the
very street, to the opposite side, to watch the

windows, and to get a glimpse if he could of
the little white figure, which was the central
point in the world to him. But long before
the usual hour the party broke up, and Harry
was surprised by a sadden outpouring of groups
of people in evening dresses  ladies with scarfs
thrown over their heads, and satin slippers, not
adapted for the rough pavement. Some of these
groups, departing guests, perceived him, before he
was aware. " Oh ! are you going to the Bonamys V
said a lady ; " don't go ; the Vice-Consul has been
taken ill ; he has had a fit or something. You
may see how early we are coming away." The
whole street was soon full of a babble of voices,
all talking of this. The Vice-Consul had been
suddenly taken ill ; he had fainted in the midst
of the assembly, and the doctor had been sent
for in haste. When Harry looked up at the
windows they were all deserted  the lights still
burning, the white curtains faintly swaying about,
but the rooms entirely empty. In a moment all
had become miserable and neglected. Life had
ebbed out of the room, and left everything cold
and silent. He felt with a chill at his heart as
if death had come in instead to fill up the vacant
place ; be went to the door to inquire about his

kind patron, his trustful master, his fatherly-friend,
with a heart out of which all the previous
thoughts had departed for the moment. He
thought of Rita, indeed, with instant anxiety ;
but 3'et her father was foremost in his mind.
Very bad, sir," the servant said, who was an
Englishman, "very bad," holding the door wide
open as he said so ; and Harry went in in his
evening clothes, looking as if he had meant to goto
the party He was a little scared afterwards to
think that Rita never could know that he did not
mean to come to the party. He went upstairs into
the empty drawing-room ; there Averse a few signs
of hasty disturbance about it, evidences of the sudden
interruption ; a card-table set out with all the
cards as they had been dealt round it ; groups of
chairs standing together, and a tray of ices on a
side-table. Such a forsaken room always raises an
infinite crowd of suggestions. It is such a lesson
upon the dangers and changes of life as no sermon
can read. Harry stood in the midst of it, feeling
as if he had seen the writing on the wall which
startled the ancient king in the midst of his revel.
It had been an innocent revel  nothing in it to
offend earth or heaven ; but the touch of a sudden
calamity makes even the most innocent pleasure-making

seem vain. He stood there feeling as if
on the edge of a tomb, hearing in the distance
muffled yet hasty steps running to and fro, and
all the excitement of a sudden illness. And he
had plenty of time to indulge these thoughts, for
nobody came near the room for, he thought, hours ;
though, of course, this was a mistaken estimate
of the time that really passed. At last Harry
heard measured steps and voices coming downstairs,
and hurrying to the door found the English
doctor in company with one of the ladies of the
English community who had known Rita all her
life. They told him that the Vice-Consul's attack
was a very serious one, that he was still unconscious,
and that no one as yet could say how it
would turn. " I have told him for some time he
ought to go away. He was struggling foolishly,
Ashen he ought to have given in as so many
people do." " And poor little Rita, what is to
become of her?" the lady said.

Harry stood with his heart in his mouth, ready
for any service. Alas ! what can a young man
do in such a case ? An old woman is of more use.
He was sent off, however, to fetch a nurse, and
to get various articles that were necessary, and
this gave him occupation. He was about the

house all the night, hearing with faint pleasure
that Rita would not leave her father's bedside,
and glad to share her vigil. He would have liked
to be there too to help, not caring what he did.
The Vice-Consul was very ill for many days,
during which time Harry threw himself Into
the business of the office, and worked like a slave.
He thought neither of reward nor of the manner
in which his behaviour was being contemplated
by the little community around, all as much interested
as the population of a village, though
they formed an important part of a large and
busy town. He thought nothing of all this ;
his new life absorbed him so that he had no
faculty or thought that was free for anything
else. He did not seem to require either rest or
regular meals, but took up Mr. Bonamy's work
during the day, and ran about on any errand of
the sick-room all the night.

And at last the patient began to get better.
The seizure had been a very bad one, but he
mended, and was at last able to be removed.
He was too confused even then to know what
was being done for him, or to realise the state
into which his work must have got but for the
strenuous and anxious deputyship of his clerk.

He was taken away even without knowing, without
being able to say a word to Harry. But
Rita, who had so tortured him, who even in the
midst of her watch had heard without knowing
it how Harry had taken her father's place, and
how he had made himself the servant of the
house, did not leave him without a token of her
gratitude. One day, while he was sitting absorbed
in business, but not able to keep himself
from thinking now and then wistfully whether
he should see either of them before the'' went
away, there came a soft little knock at the door
of communication by which the Vice-Consul had
introduced him first into his house. Harry was
at Mr. Bonamy's own table, taking his place, and
feeling himself already so much at home in the
work that the appeals which he had dreaded
at first no longer affected him. But when he
heard this knock his whole frame quivered.
He did not know what to expect. He got
up trembling from his chair, and opened the
door. In the passage stood Rita, very worn and
pale, with dark lines round the eyes that seemed
to fill up all her face. She had scarcely left her
father's bedside, he had heard, watching over him
night and day. Her slight little figure, always so

slim aod girlish, seemed to have shrunk to nothing.
There was not a trace of colour in her
face. "Miss Bonamy ! " he said, with a sharp
tone of surprise, though he was not surprised ;
the moment he had heard the knock he had
been aware that Rita, and no other, must have
made that appeal. The touch on the door had
conversed a plaintive sound to him like her voice.
She smiled, but did not say anything. Her eyes
filled suddenly with tears, and the soft lines of
her mouth quivered. She came into the office,
where he stood gazing at her, and held out to
him both her hands, smiling up in his face like a
child. '' I have come to thank you," she said,
at last, the two big tears dropping like drops of
rain in a thunder shower, " for all your  kindness."
She paused a little before that last word, and
through the tears, through the angelical, pathetic
smile, which wrung poor Harry's heart, there
came something that was like a ghost of mischief.
She remembered their last conversation,
though so much had happened since, and could
not refrain, though her heart was moved to its
depths, from throwing this ghost of a malicious
shaft at him. Somehow the effect upon Harry
was was of a different kind from before. Perhaps

he felt that he had now a standing-ground which
no one could undervalue or take from him. At
all events he kept her hands in his, and looked
at her with a gaze under which her eyes swerved.
It was not kindness," he said.

Rita drew back a step, though her hands were
held fast. Her eyes drooped, she could not meet
his, though Harry's eyes were insignificant
English eyes in comparison with those great
dreamy lights that shone out of her little pale
face. Then she gave one sudden glance at him,
wavering and trembling. " I know it was not,"
said Rita, with a great effort to steady her voice.

CHAPTER XY.

THE ICE- consul's RESOLUTION.

THE Bonamys had a little country-house near
the sea, one of those grey houses, with its
vineyard and its fields, which are so common in
Italy, so homely, having so little of the picturesque
grace which is suggested by everything
Italian to our minds. The rooms were large
and sparsely furnished, one of them, the only
pleasant one, opening upon a terrace which overlooked
the sea. Here the Vice-Consul was
brought, and laid upon a couch in the long warm
days, after the sun had gone off the house,
to breathe in the pleasant saltness, and refresh
himself with that profound Mediterranean blue
which is like nothing else. At first he was
able for no mental, and not much physical, effort.

but by degrees life came back to him ; and with
the earliest gleams of revival came the recollection
of all that had dropped out of his hands,
his work, the office, all that had depended upon
him. When this first crisis came, which had
been much dreaded by the doctors, Rita had to
meet it alone. It came in a moment, after a day
of listless enjoyment. There had been some
cool breezes, and a little breath of more vigorous
life had got into his relaxed and feeble frame.
He had fallen asleep in the afternoon, his
daughter sitting b} him. All was tranquil roundabout,
as became the surroundings of a convalescent,
the air breathing softly, the violent
sun, which is in Italy an enemy of the feeble,
happily gone out of sight, the sea sounding softly
upon the rocks, the cicala shrill in the trees. It
was the only sharp note in all that quiet, but
Rita, for one, no more knew of the existence
of a country landscape without the shrill tones
of the cicala, than an English girl could realise
one without the birds. There were no great trees
about, nothing but those which were useful according
to the frugal custom of wealthy Tuscany,
where everything is expected to bear fruit. The
lattice-work overhead was partly covered with a

vine, which made a green roof over one part of it;
but the sick man wanted all the air he could get,
so he was not below the pergola, but in the open
part, the soft breeze blowing freely about him.
He lay with his fine head turned towards the sea,
a beard, the growth of his illness, softening the
gauntness of the lower part of his face, sleeping
with that utter abandon of weakness which seems
to restore something of the charm of childhood to
the sick. Rita sat by, with a book in her hands
which she was not reading. It would be hard to
tell what she was doing; not thinking either; 
scenes in the past, scenes in the future, were
gliding through her dreamy mind. Which was
most real she could not tell. She was standing
on the edge of fate, not knowing what a day ora
moment might bring forth. All the world
had paused with her in that suspense which was
sweet. She did not want to be done with it
or to shorten it, or to make anything advance a
step faster; indeed she did not know what it
was that was going to come. But it would
not end there, she said sometimes to herself; it
was impossible that it could end there ; one
thing or another must come of it. But what it

was she wanted to come of it, Rita, even to
herself, would not venture to say.

When all at once, everything being so quiet,
the Vice-Consul suddenly woke up. He opened
his eyes with more energy than usual, and made
a little movement to rise, with an Impulse of
active life, such as he had not shown before.

Ah, you are there, my pet," he said. ** I was
dreaming that we were at home ; that there had
been despatches. I fear I have been sadly idle.
How long have I been ill? It is too early for us
to be here."

No, papa," said Rita, alarmed. " Oh, not at
all too early  at this time we are always here."

He raised himself on his arm, and a startled
look came upon his face.

How long have I been ill f he said.

Never mind, papa  a  good while. You are
not to think of that ; but to get better, and not to
trouble yourself."

That is nonsense, my dear ; there is the
office that must be thought of ; if you knew the
arrears that accumulate even in a few days. I
seem to have lost count of time ; oddly enough.
I can't remember anything. How many  days
is it?"

His eyes opened wide, his under lip quivered a
little, and a flush of weakness and excitement
came upon his cheek. Eita threw down her book
and came hastily to his side, kneeling down by
the sofa.

"Papa! you must not be anxious; you must
not ask any questions yet. This I can tell you,
there are no arrears. Mr. Oliver has got the charge
of everything, and he is doing it all so well,
so well, Mr. Henderson told me. He said, ' If it
was not so heart-breaking to miss his dear face,'
and here Rita gave her father a sudden kiss to
conceal, and at the same time to express, her own
agitation, ' one could scarcely see the difference.
Mr. Oliver has behaved like  nobody ever behaved
so well'"

Bless my soul !" said Mr. Bonamy, putting
up his hand to stroke his daughter's face, " here
is enthusiasm ! I did not know you thought so
much of Oliver." Then it suddenly occurred to
him to look at that hand. He held it up and
contemplated it, at first with amusement, afterwards
with a little alarm. "Here is a poor old

claw," he said, " that looks like why, Rita, it

looks like a very bad bout ; it looks like a  long
illness. Good heavens ! am I deceiving myself.

VOL. n. u

HARRY JOSCELYN.

How long have I been ill f this he said in a very
peremptory tone.

"Papa," Rita said, putting her arms around
him, "Mr. Oliver has managed everything, there
is nothing to trouble yourself about. Mr.
Henderson said so, and so did the man from
Florence  that man, I forget his name."

A look of anguish came upon Mr. Bonamy's
face. To come under the reproof, or subject
himself to the interference of the Consul-general
at Florence, had always been the terror
of his official life. He had kept the danger at
bay hitherto, acting with great independence,
and being permitted to do so in an astonishing
way; but he had known, or thought he knew,
that they were ready to pounce upon him at
the first opportunity. The idea of a man from
Florence was bitter to him beyond conception.
A dark colour came over his face, a sort of purple
hue, which made Rita wild with terror.

What  what  what f ' he cried, stammering.
Rita thought he was going to have another fit'
she called out for Benedetta, Benedetta! and with
anxious hands, caressing, yet half forcing him
back upon his pillows, began to fan him with a
great fan which lay on his sofa. He allowed her

to lay him down, and perhaps the sight of her
anxiety moved him to exert all his powers of self-control.
He subdued the rising confusion of passionate
mortification within him ; in which effort
he was helped by his weakness, which made any
great convulsion of feeling impossible. By-and-bye
he looked up at her with a half-smile. Bene-delta
had come at her call, and was bringing
water and vinegar, and bandages of linen to put
on his head. He waved all these appliances
away with his hand.

*' Don't be afraid, I am not going to be  worse,"
he said feebly. " I may be bad enough, but not
worse. "When did the man from Florence come ?
Tell me everything now."

Then Rita, hesitating and faltering, told him
the story of his illness, and all the long history
burst confusedly upon his brain. He had thought
he had been a few days, perhaps a week ill, and he
had been six weeks. He had been preparing himself
for a great deal to do when he should get welland
he found himself replaced, put aside. There
were points in the story which consoled him. It
was no man from Florence who had been doing
his work  that was a wonderful comfort  but
his own friend, the young fellow whom he had

u 2

taken up and been kind to, who was the
creature of his bounty. The Consul General
had not found a word to say ; he had approved,
and sanctioned, and authorised everything, and
the character of Mr. Bonamy's work had been
kept up. He lay still and kept himself quiet,
and listened to every word. Benedetta, who did
not understand the English, stood by with all
her appliances, her cold compresses, her bandages,
the soft white folds of linen in which his hot
forehead was to be bound. But the patient
eluded her. He kept himself quiet in spite of
all temptations.

You can send her away, Rita," he said.
*what are you frightened for? I must have
known sooner or later. It is far better that I
should know. I have been surrounded by
friends, everybody has been good to me; and
if you have no objection, my darling, I should
like to see Oliver here."

I don't know," said Rita, " why you should
think I could have any objection to  anything
you wished, papa."

There was almost a glow of amusement in the
Consul's eyes. " My dear, you are very dutiful,"
he said. And then the time came when he had

to be carried back again in his couch indoors
before the hour of sunset, which is feared
throughout Italy, and to have his invalid meal
brought to him. The evening was marked by a
great event, for that night the Ylce-Consul
walked to bed, which was a thing which never
had happened before. And from this time Mr.
Bonamy began to accustom himself to all that
had happened, and when the doctor came he
extracted from him the full history of his illness,
which interested him very greatly, and gave him
something to think about. It was not unnatural
that he should be startled. " It is a thing that is
sure to recur again ?" he asked.

Well, we do not say that anything is sure to
recur again. We say that, given the same
disposition, the same symptoms might reappear."


"And the third time kills?" the Vice-Consul
said.

My dear Bonamy, that again is not a thing
we say. Every repetition of course weakens the
patients' said the judicious doctor.

The sick man laughed, but when he was alone
his countenance was very grave. He lay and
reflected upon everything, and thought how

lonely his child would be when he was taken
from her. She had some relations, but his
anxiety to keep her from going to England
had made him negligent of his own family at
home ; and he had something to leave her ; he
had not left his child altogether without provision.
But what a change it would be to Rita,
from the house where she was queen, where everybody
worshipped and served her, where everything
she said was reckoned wiser, and everything
she did more wonderful, than any other
sayings or doings, to be a semi-dependant
in the house of her Aunt Ersilia, or some
other of the Italian kindred, with their different
ways ! This thought filled Mr. Bonamy's mind
as he lay in the long unoccupied hours of his
convalescence with his face turned to the blue
Italian sea. Two days after he made a request
to his child. " Will you write a note to Oliver,"
he said, "and ask him to come and see me?
But not if you have any objection." He watched
her intently, and he saw a quick, faint colour
flash over her face.

Why should I have any objection ? I told
you I had not any, papa ; and if I had what
would it matter ?" she said.

"It would matter a great deal to me. But
you do not dislike poor Oliver, Rita?"

'dislike him! Do you think I am made of
stone ? He has done everything, everything,
while you have been ill. I should be a demon if
I did not  if I disliked him as you say."

' But there is a great difference," said the
Vice-consul, " between dislike and  I don't
know, my pet, what word to use''

'' Yes, there is a great difference," she said,
demurely ; and having her paper neatly arranged
before her, she proceeded to write the note which
follows : 

"Dear Mr. Oliver,
Papa is a great deal better. He thinks he
Avould like to see you on Sunday if you would be
so good as to come out here. He has been very
much touched to hear of all you have been doing
for him. And so am I. He wants to know all
about it, and to thank you. But do not think
you will be troubled with any thanks from me,
for I know that you do not mean to be kind to us,
though on the outside it looks like it.
Truly yours,

Marguerite Botany."

Here was once more her malice, which she
could not put out of the question between them.
She was glad that her father did not ask to see
her note, and she put it up and sent it away with
a little quickening of all her pulses. Sunday was the
next day, but she felt sure enough that Harry would
let no engagement prevent him accepting this
invitation. They sat in silence for some time after
that letter was despatched. Rita felt her whole life
quickened, her horizon wider, the day of more
importance, the passing moments more weighty.
She sat quite silent, her mind being full of so many
thoughts. At last the Vice-consul spoke, as if
no pause had occurred. " Notwithstanding," he
said, "you know Oliver is not clever, Rita; that
must be taken into account."

On this Rita, not perceiving that she betrayed
the strain of her own thoughts by receiving the
remark without surprise, answered, with a little
sigh of regret, " No, he is not clever ; but perhaps
there are some things that are better than
being clever," she added, in a doubtful tone.

Mr. Bonamy laughed a little, faintly. " Are you
coming to see that ?" he said.

I don't know if I am coming to see it,
papa. I think I always saw it. One does not

think much whether the people one cares for are
clever or not." Then perceiving the inference
which might be drawn from her words, Eita
blushed wildly, and turned suddenly upon her
father defiant eyes. But he did not make any
remark, half because he was weak, half because
of a mingled pang of satisfaction and pain to
think that "the people she cared for" now included
other relations than those of the earliest stage in
life. A father, perhaps, feels it more than a
mother when his daughter's heart goes away from
him to another man : there is a keener jealousy
in it, a sharper sense of contrast. He had concentrated
all his happiness in his child ; and, lo !
in a moment there appeared a stranger in her life
who would be more to her than he was. The
first shock of this discovery is always painful ;
and as he lay there bearing this and thinking
over all that was before him, an infinite sadness
came into the Vice-Consul's smile. It was not
only natural that this blossom of his life should
detach itself from him, but it was well. To preside
at and assist in the replacement of one's self
by another, preparing as it were the preliminary
ceremonials of one's own funeral, is a curious
experience : but Mr. Bonamy felt, with a little

melancholy that this was the thing which
it now remained for him to do. He could
not help making comparisons between himself and
Harry. Harry was not clever; he was a good
fellow who sat and gaped when the conversation
took anything beyond a practical turn. Yes : he
was a very good fellow ; he had been a saviour in
trouble ; but yet  Mr. Bonamy smiled sadly
at the idea of stepping down from his throne,
and bidding Harry mount in his place ; he could
not promote him to his vice-consulship, but he
could promote him to the throne of Eita, which
was more. And it would be well the best thing
that could happen. Having once had an " attack,"
which was how he put it euphuistically a man
was sure to have more ; and the third kills.
Therefore, how needful it was, how essential to
have some one to care for Rita, somebody in
whose hands he could leave her  when he died I
When I die "  these are words which it is hard
to say without some faint shiver. When one is
far off from all appearance of that conclusion,
they may be easy ; but when the preliminaries of
the end have already taken place, and the clouds
are gathering towards the great final tableau and
termination, then the very cadence of them has

something in it that gives a tingle to all the
nerves. " When I die." Mr. Bonamy was not
much over fifty ; he had not thought of anything
of the kind. But here it was looking him in the
face whether he would or not.

Harry came at the summons without a moment's
delay. He brought a full report of all the business
to lay before his chief. The Vice-consul, notwithstanding
his dreary thoughts, was making
unmistakable progress. He was better every day.
He was able to take an interest in all that his
deputy had to tell him, and to feel the gratification
which all the oflSce had shared in baiting the
man from Florence, and showing him a state of
affairs with which no fault could be found.

I told him, Sir, that your business was always
in too perfect order to break down with such a
little trial. I showed him how we had only to follow
your rule, and all was clear." Mr. Bonamy laid
his thin hand upon the young fellow's shoulder,
and patted it softly.

I wonder," he said, '' if you would say as
much for me if I had no daughter V

"Yes," said Harry, with the utmost energy;
"don't think. Sir, that I had any interested
motive." This pleased the Vice-Consul; and it

pleased him too that Harry resented with scorn,
and almost indignation, the idea that he might
not return to his work, or that this illness of his
was a break up, as in his heart Mr. Bonamy
believed it to be. Harry knew nothing whatever
about medicine, but his light-hearted certainty that
his patron would be in the office again in October
as well as ever, gave a cheer to the sick man's
failing heart, as shouts of encouragement from
the shore, and the sight of all the eager assistants
ready to help and watching every struggle, cheer a
vessel which is trying to reach a dangerous harbour.
There began to steal into his heart a feeling that,
perhaps  after all. Notwithstanding he held by
his first resolution. He had a long conversation
with Harry, which had nothing to do with business.
The young man never forgot that half
hour's talk, with the sea air blowing softly overall
the sweetness of the garden, the cicala in the
trees, the sound of the Mediterranean beyond.
Harry thought that once or twice he saw in the
dim room beyond a little white figure appear in
the distance, opening a door, looking wistfully to
see if the conference was nearly at an end, then
disappearing again. And though the Vice-Consul
was opening the gates of heaven to him, at that

moment even Mr. Bonamy seemed tedious. The
last time the apparition showed the Vice-Consul
had gripped Harry's hand with those long worn
fingers, which he called claws, not without a
certain justice. " And you must give me your
word never to take her to England," he was
saying, in a low and earnest voice. But
before Harry could reply, Rita, Impatient, had
come across the dim room indoors, and was
standing in the window with a pucker in her
forehead, and a tone of querulous impatience.

You ought to have had your beef-tea, and
your champagne, and your tonic, and all your
nourishments," said Rita. "I have looked in a
dozen times, but you were always so busy ! What
can you have to say to Mr. Oliver all this time ?
He ought not to keep you so long  when you know
an invalid wants feeding constantly," she said,
turning with petulance to Harry. " How could
you be so thoughtless, Mr. Oliver ? that was not
kind at all."

Harry did not reply anything to this tirade.
He looked at her as if the mere sight of her was
enough for him ; as if nothing that could be said
made any difference. As for Rita, she was not
tranquil, but excited, and half angry. It was

impossible to suppose that they had not been
talking about her, and like many other people
she objected mightily to being talked over. She
came out and in with a nervous, irritable haste,
bringing trays with food and medicine which
she would permit no one to touch. Harry, when
he offered his help, was driven from her with
contumely, and even Benedetta, making her
appearance behind, had the cup of jelly she
carried snatched from her hands and was sent
summarily away.

I will have no one serve papa but myself,"
Kita said. Perhaps there was a little compunction
in it. When the heat of devotion has
cooled do not we sometimes add all manner
of observances to make up outside for what is
wanting within? She was nervously conscious of
Harry's presence, and aware of the approaching
moment when he would insist upon speaking for
himself. And now compunction had seized her
capricious soul. She was angry with her lover because
he had stolen her heart from its first owner.
And she would fain have persuaded that first
owner even in the act of betraying him that she
was his entirely, aud that everything which withdrew
her from him was a pain and irritation to

her. Harry, being simple, was deceived and
greatly discouraged ; but the Consul, having more
insight, was never deceived.

And in the evening the inevitable explanation
came. It could not be delayed any longer. The
Curiosa Impertinent reaped the consequences
of all her tricks, and all the trials to which she
had subjected Harry. She fell into the pit
which she had herself digged. She might even
have been said to be at his mercy, but for his
simple devotion, which thought of no vengeance,
and her own spirit and pride, which would have
carried her through any reprisals, and still might
have turned the tables upon him ; but in the
evening, when the Consul had gone to bed, the'
wandered about the terrace under the soft Italian
stars, and understood each other.

' There is only one thing'' Rita said. " Nothing
in the world shall induce me to call you Isaac.
Choose another name, choose any name you
please ; but Isaac you are not going to be. What
could tempt anybody to call a child Isaac? it is
dreadful. Godfathers and godmothers ought to
be within the reach of the law."

Then there suddenly seemed to encircle Harry
for a moment the atmosphere of a very different

place. Grey hills rose around him, the stars
took a cold, yet a kinder sparkle ; the blue depths
of the sea faded away into a misty valley full of
vapours.

When I was a child," he said, " they called
me Harry." He did not make any further explanations,
nor did he feel that any were necessary.
For a moment he seemed to see his
mother, with her two thin hands clasped together,
and to hear her voice calling him : but this was
but a phantom, a pale vision, a thing that had
passed awa} for ever. Next moment he was
back again in the warm Italian night, with the
cicala chirping, and Rita, in a little burst of
enthusiasm and pleasure, calling him by that
familiar relinquished name.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

London : Printed by A . Schulze, 13 Poland Street.*



*Wk' . r

4

1-v JM

 

K-m"

lA

* '/ *

"LI B RAR.Y

OF THE
U N Diversity
or ILLINOIS

v.S

1

The person charging this material is responsible for
its return to the library from which it was withdrawn
on or before the Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons for disciplinary
action and may result in dismissal from the University.
To renew call Tel eiho ne Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OsSJLlSfoiS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

m

L161 O-1096

.f Sf

VOL. III.

BY

MRS. OLIPHANT

AUTHOR OF

"STfje f)ronirles of Carlingfortj/

&c., &c.

IN There VOLUMES.

VOL. in.

LONDON:
ElURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, Great Marlborough Street.
1881.

All rights reserved.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/harryjoscelyn03olip

SAKKT JOSCELYN.

CHAPTER I.

AFTER TEN YEARS.

TEN years is a large slice out of a life ; but it
slips by, not leaving much trace in a rural
country where everything goes quietly, and where
Christmas follows after Christmas with scarcely
any sign by which one can be identified from
another on looking back. We will not say that
nothing had happened in the White House to mark
the ten years from the time when young Harry
Joscelyn disappeared from the Fell country and
it became evident that no one there was likely to
hear anything of him more. Various things had
happened : one, for instance, was that Joan had
married Philip Selby, and was now the mistress of
VOL. m. B

Heatonshaw, and could not easily remember, so
strange is the effect of such a change, how she
had contented herself in her previous life, or
what had been the habits and customs of Joan
Joscelyn. More had happened to her in this
than in any other ten years of her life ; but yet
they had glided over very calmly, day following
day with such a gentle monotony that it was
hard for her to decide how many of them there
were, or which was which. She had no child to
measure the years by, which was a misfortune,
but one which she bore with submission : reflecting
to herself that if children are a comfort they are
often also a great handful, and that when they are
troublesome there is nothing else so troublesome
in all the world. Philip Selby himself was less
philosophical, and would have ventured gladly
upon the risk for the sake of the blessing ; but it
was not so to be. And thus they had little evidence
before them of how the years stole away. But
all that he had augured, and Joan had agreed to,
about the house, had come true. There were the
best of beasts in the byres, and heavy crops on
the arable land, and a phaeton in the coach-house,
and horses in the stables such as no man
needed to bo ashamed of. And with all this,

there was a very comfortable couple Inside.
Joan, on her marriage, had been half ashamed of
the fine room, which was called  not according to
her old-fashioned formula, the parlour, but  the
drawing-room, to which her husband had brought
her home, and which had been furnished by one
of the best shops in Carlisle, with furniture such
as was approved by the taste of the time. There
was a white paper on the walls, and a great deal
of gilding, and sofas and tables with legs that
were crooked and curly. But by the end of ten
years much that was somewhat showy once had
toned down. The furniture had got more shapely
and a little human ; the place had worn into the
fashion of the people that inhabited it. In summer
it was a perfect bower of lilies and roses, the
great white shafts of the one rising above the
broad branches, heavy with flowers, of the other
(for in those days there were no standards), and
the whole air sweet with the mingled perfume.
Liddy Joscelyn, Mrs. Selby's little sister, thought
there was no flower-garden in the world like it ;
but then she had not been away from home since
she was twelve, and had not seen much, and there
was nothing like it about the white House.
That, place, too, had changed in these years.

B 2

Ralph Joscelyn was the one upon whom the
change had told most. It was not that he was
much altered in personal appearance, nor yet
that he had entirely mended and corrected his
ways. Perhaps indeed the alteration visible in
him was more due to the fact that there was nobody
about the place who crossed him, no one
who opposed any strenuous opposition to his will,
or dissented from his opinions, than any real
alteration. But it was a quieter life which the
homestead led, subject to much fewer storms than
of old ; and Mrs. Joscelyn lived a far less anxious
life. The loss of her youngest boy so long ago
though it might not be really the loss of him,
since who could tell what day he might re-appear
again ?  was not a thing, as everyone said, that
she could be expected to get over. But the
ten years had calmed her, and, what was more,
Liddy had calmed her. Lydia had been sent for
to her school when her mother was in the depths
of this trouble, and she had never been suffered
to go back again, her presence being the only
consolation which the gentle and unhappy woman
was the better for. And after ten years of
Liddy 's constant company, Mrs. Joscelyn was a
very different woman. Joan, who had been so

sympathetic with her mother through that last
family trouble, without understanding her in the
others, understood still less the effect produced
by her little sister, who smoothed down everything
without any apparent trouble, more by
understanding it, so far as appeared, than from
anything she did. When Joan's reign terminated,
Lydia became the dominant spirit in the house.
She was so at fourteen ; how much more at
twenty ! It was not a good thing for the butter
and the cheese. The dairy produce of the White
House fell off wonderfully. It was no longer half
the quantity, and still less was it equal in quality,
to the butter of Joan's time. Old Simon never
ceased shaking his head over it till his dying day,
and went out of human consciousness moaning to
himself that " A' things was altered, and no t'
half o' t' money coming in." It was he that had
always been the salesman, and he felt it deeply.
For half of the time or so Joan had done her
utmost, driving over in the morning and spending
hours endeavouring to indoctrinate her sister with
the mysteries of that art ; but Liddy only laughed,
and kept her pretty white hands by her side, and
declared herself incapable. " I don't know what
to do with these things," she would say, gazing

at the bowls of milk, without the least sense of
shame, with even a smile on her face ; and to
Joan's consternation her father, coming in when
this was said, and himself standing in the doorway,
swaying his big figure to and fro, said,
Let her alone, let her alone, Joan. You did it,
but she is another kind from you."

That she is," said Joan. " She's not the profitable
kind either, if she let's the dairy take care
of itself."

But to this Joscelyn paid no attention ; and
Mrs. Selby was led to her chaise stupefied, not
knowing whether she was asleep or awake, so
bewildered was she. The dairy went off, it was
no longer celebrated as of yore. The cows decreased
in number, for what was the use of
keeping them when they brought in so little
profit ? And by degrees the house changed altogether.
Lydia, slim and straight, with her white
hands, and feet that scarcely sounded upon the
old passage, gradually modified everything.
When she was seen in a new riding-habit,
and a hat with a feather, going out to ride
with her father, the old servants could scarcely
contain themselves ; and the timid mother, coming
out to see her, smoothed the horse's sleek coat

with a frightened hand, and did not know how to
look at the girl, or her father, who was as proud
of Lydia as Mrs. Joscelyn herself could be.

And then the old piano, which nobody had
touched for years  for Joan, who had ended her
education at fifteen, had never learned any more
music than was contained in a first book of
exercises  was sent oS" to an attic, and a new
piano was bought for Lydia. Where it came from
no one could quite understand, for it was impossible
to believe that Joscelyn had drawn his
purse-strings to such an extent; but all the
same it arrived, and Lydia, sometimes going
into Wyburgh, sometimes having her professor
out to the White House, had lessons, and practised
diligently, and by-and-bye became in her
way a musician, astonishing all the neighbourhood
with her powers. A young lady who rode
about the country on a handsome horse, and who
played the piano, was something altogether new
in the place. She might have been much more
profoundly instructed without producing half so
great an impression. The house altogether rose
in the social scale. People came to call who had
never been seen near the White House before ;
and they found the mistress of the house, who

had always been genteel, a gentle woman, ladylike
and subdued, and her daughter one of the
prettiest girls in the county, with a sort of
elegance about her which was the inheritance
she had received from her mother, strengthened
and consolidated by the superior strength which
she got from the other side of the house. When
Joscelyn himself appeared, which was rarely,
his fine form and strength, and the refinement
imparted by a crown of white hair, raised him,
too, to a sort of pinnacle. People began to say
that they found they had done him injustice, and
that after all the present representative of the
Joscelyns was not unworthy his race. The
process was slow, but it was very complete.
When Will and Tom appeared with their wives, it
was unaccountable how "put out" and " set down"
they felt, as if they were going to their landlord's,
where everything was finer than the surroundings
they were accustomed to, and not to their father's,
upon whose shabby furniture Mrs. Will and Mrs.
Tom had looked with contempt. Even Joan
looked round her with a curiosity which was
mingled with grievance, scarcely able to restrain
the thought that what was good enough for her,
might certainly have been good enough for Liddy.

Liddy it was clear did not think so. And how
that little thing knew, or where she had got her
instinctive acquaintance with polite ways, Mrs.
Selby, who was on the whole proud of Liddy,
could not tell; but so it was. The house
brightened up generally ; here a new carpet, and
there a new curtain, made a change in its dingy
aspect. The old furniture was made the most of,
and old china, and all the stores of a long established
house brought out to embellish the
parlours ; the very hall and passages were
brushed up, the table, and the service at the
table, so improved, that Joan too thought she
must be dining with some of the great county
people, whom the Joscelyns had always thought
themselves equal to, but who had not acknowledged
the Joscelyns.

The thing that surprises me is where she
learned it all," Mrs. Selby said ; " a bit of a
thing that has seen no more than the rest of us ;
but she has a deal of you in her, mother, far more
than any of the rest."

Ah, my dear," said Mrs. Joscelyn, shaking
her head, "I never had the courage to settle
things my own way. It was not that I didn't
know : I knew very well how things ought to be

done." This little gentle assertion of her
gentility Mrs. Joscelyn felt was her due in the
new development of affairs. It was not all
the discovery of Liddy. She had known well
enough all the time. Circumstances had been
too much for her; but the refinements of society
were her natural atmosphere. Joan looked at her
mother with mingled respect and amusement,
proud that she was such a lady, yet feeling the
joke of her superiority.

*' Yes, mother," she said, " I mind how you
and Phil talked the first time he came to the
White House. It was as good as a play to
hear you. He never let on it was me he wanted,
but to have a talk with you, such a superior
woman. I did not understand a word you were
saying, and I took pains to let him see that the
dairy and the stables were what I was most
acquainted with ; but that didn't make any difference,
you see."

*you were never one to make the most of
yourself, Joan," said the mother, mildly. " I
always knew there was a great deal more in you
than you would ever show," at which Joan
laughed ; but she was not displeased. And she
was proud of her young sister when Liddy came

riding over on the last perfection from her
father's stable, looking like a young princess.
She was the nearest thing to a child of her own
that Joan was ever likely to have, and she forgave
her possession of a great many indulgences
which no one had thought of conceding to Joan.
When it appeared, however, that Lydia had a
groom behind her, Mrs. Selby's soul was stirred
within her.

*' Now, Liddy," she said, *' T can stand a deal,
but you'll ruin father if you go on like this. A
groom behind you ! what will you want next ?
Father's just infatuated, that is all I can say."

It's only a livery coat," said Liddy, " that's all.
It doesn't cost very much. I'll pay it off my own
allowance, and father will never be the worse "

Here she was interrupted by a shriek from her
elder sister. " Your allowance ? What next ?"
she said. " I never had a penny to myself when
I was at home, and hard ado to get a bill paid.
If it had not been for the butter money, I should
never have had a gown to my back."

But that would not do for me," said Lydia,
with a toss of her head ; and, indeed, to see her
here with her airy figure, and her close-fitting
habit, and the beautiful bay arching his fine neck

in the background, and to suggest any connection
with the butter money was a thing which only
an elder sister without sentiment or sense of
appropriateness could have done. The Duke's
daughter did not look more unlike any such
homely particulars ; indeed, the Duke's daughter
was not fit, as Joan said, proudly, to herself, to
hold the candle" to little Liddy Joscelyn.

I don't know what's coming of it," Mrs. Selby
said to her husband ; " but, Phil, you and me will
stand by that child, and see her out of it  will
you, goodman ?"

That I will, my dear," Philip Selby said ;
but Joscelyn has been doing not badly, and I
dare say he can afford to let the little one have
her fling. He has none to think of now but
Liddy  and there's Uncle Henry's money."

This allusion always made Joan ready to cry,
though she was not given to tears. "I would
rather burn off my fingers than touch Uncle
Henry's money," she said. " It will never be me
that will put my hand to it, and give my consent
that yon poor lad is not coming home "

"We must be reasonable, my dear," Philip
Selby said, mildly, "and the others will not
be so patient. There is one thing you shall do if

3'ou like, Joan, and that is give sour share to
Liddy. It would never be any pleasure to you."
Joan looked at her husband with a startled air.
She was more matter of fact than he was, and
the idea of giving over actual money to which
she had a right, to anyone, was a thing which
gave her somewhat of a shock. In their ordinary
affairs she had to keep rather a tight hand upon
her Phil, who was too easy about his money
generally ; but this was a complicated case, and
puzzled her much.

Give Liddy my share ? You say true it would
be little, little pleasure to me; but money is
money, and there are some to come after us. It's
fine to be generous, but we must think upon
justice. What's Liddy's is Liddy 's, and what's
mine is mine."

It was from no want of kindness that Joan
spoke : but she could not help it. It was as
natural to close her hand over money, even when
she hated it, as it was for others to throw it away.
You will think better of it," her husband said.
"Oh! it's very likely I will think better of it.
A woman cannot live with a prodigal like you
without getting into ill ways. But I was always
brought up to stick to my money ; and I've you

to look after as well. If you had not me to
watch over you, you would give away the coat
off your back."

"For all that I've always had plenty," said
Selby, " and now more than plenty  with a goodwife
to take care of it and me."

"You may say a wife to take care of you'*
said Joan, " and how you ever kept a penny in
your purse before you got her, is what I cannot
tell ; though, after all, when a man spends nothing
upon himself, it's easy keeping him going.
But I'm one that sticks to my money. Give what
you please else, but keep a grip upon your money,
that's always been my way." Then she added,
after a pause : " There will never be any question
about that ; when he knows it's all left to him, it
stands to reason that he will come back. Joscelyns
have more regard to their own interest. They
are not easy-going like you."

I wish I could think so," Mr. Selby said.

And so the conversation ended. Uncle Henry
had died not very long before, leaving behind him
only an old will in which everything was left to
Harry. The executors, who were both influential
persons in Wyburgh, had advertised for him, or
for news of him, but none had come ; and the

family generally had accepted this as a proof that
Harry was dead  the family, all but the mother
and Joan, who were both strenuous that nothing
should be done, and no division made. Mrs.
Joscelyn would have been overruled before now-but
Joan was a stronger opponent, and she had
the backing of her husband, of whom her
brothers stood in a little awe ; so that the division
and distribution of Uncle Henry's funds had been
postponed. But this dehiy could not last: the
elder brothers, who were men with families
and in want of money, were certain to push fora
settlement. They had no doubt, and n(ft
very much feeling, about the younger one who
was lost. It had been entirely his own doing.
He was a fool to have gone away like that, and
compromised himself, and thrown away all his
chances ; but whatever happened to him in consequence
was his own fault. If he had died, or if
he was living in some obscure corner far away,
were not they equally innocent ? They had tried
all they could to find him  the trustees were trying
now. Old Pilgrim was advertising far and wide.
If Harry were dead, or if he were so far away as
to be out of reach of this call, it was not their
fault ; and they wanted no more than their share

but that share, there was no doubt, would be
verj convenient. Will's sons were growing up,
and Tom was taking in more land to his farm.
To each of these, as to most people, a little money
would have been of the greatest use. And it was all
very well for Joan to talk who had neither chick
nor child, and was in such easy circumstances ; it
was well for her to talk whose husband supplied
her with everything, and who had no need of
money ; but they were men and knew better. They
knew that men are not such fools as to stay away
from their home as Harry had done. Nobody
did such a thing, especially when advertisements
were in the papers about them, and " something
to their advantage" promised.

Something to your advantage means money,"
said Will. " 'Wouldn't be long I'd skulk away
at the end of the world if you were to give me
the chance."

He's never skulking away at the end of the
world," said Tom. " If he went off at all, he
went to California or thereabouts ; and he'd have
come home at the first scent of money. Bless
you, we know our own breed ;" and in this the
other brother concurred. But the trustees held
fast. They would not consent to any distribution

of the money till Harry, if Harry still existed,
had every chance of hearing of it. Privately Mr.
Pilgrim had no objection to advance to Tom the
money wanted for that addition to his farm. There
was solid security, and a feasible reason for borrowing.
" There's but too much reason to think that
your poor brother will never turn up again," the
executor allowed ; " but we mast not go too
fast." Alas! such is the weakness of human
nature that the other Joscelyns ere long were not
sure that they wished their poor brother to turnup
again. The money would be so convenient !
When is there a time that money is not convenient?
And it could do him no good, poor
fellow, if he was in his grave which at the same
time would be his own fault.

Very different, however, from the conclusions
of Will and Joan were those which were held
at the White House on this subject. Mrs. 
had never consented to that view. "He
may have been led away," she said ; " but do you
think my boy would die and me not know? Oh,
Liddy, ray darling, many a time when you seeme
in low spirits, and ask me why, and I say it's
nothing, that is what it is. It is borne in upon
me that something is the matter with one of the

VOL. III. C

boys. I've different feelings for each of them.
People may laugh that don't understand, but
you'll not laugh, my Liddy dear. I never said it
to one of the others, but I may say it to you.
If it's Ben, or if it's Huntley, I have a kind of a
feeling  and as sure as letters come it's found to
be true. There is always a something. Now it
stands to reason that Harry should be the same,
but as he never writes we never can tell. Sometimes
I've been quite light-hearted for nothing at
all, and I've said to myself, ' That's Harry : something
good's happening to him.' Do you think it
is natural that if he had died  oh, the Lord
preserve him !  his mother would not know f

*' It would not be natural at all," said Lydia,
con silently ; " he would come and stand by
your bedside ; I don't feel the least doubt of that.
But there is one thing I should like, mamma; I
should like to go abroad. I feel sure that I
should find him. I think that I should find him
somewhere not very far away  or else in America :
I have quite made up my mind to that."

You would scarcely know your brother if you
saw him," said Mrs. Joscelyn, shaking her head;
"You were so little, my pet; and poor Harry
must be changed in ten years."

'' Oh, I should know him," cried Lydia. She
held her pretty head high. She was very sure of
most things. " After you are grown up you don't
change so much. He might not know me, but I
should know him wherever I saw him. Ah, how
delightful it would be to bring him back to you I"
said Lydia, throwing her arms round her mother.
The words and the arms were alike sweet. Nobody
had given Mrs. Joscelyn this food for her
heart in the old days.

My darling !" she said ; " but I see no chance
for you to go abroad, far less  far less "

There is no telling what may happen," said
Liddy, "everybody, you know, goes abroad
now."

But Mrs. Joscelyn shook her head. She saw
the practical difficulties here.

c 2

CHAPTER II.

A NEW COUSIN.

LYDIA had indeed as little prospect of going
abroad as any girl could have. Her own
kindred dreamt of no such indulgences, and she
had no friends likely to suggest them. In these
days people stayed still where their home was,
and did not think of the continued changes and
absences which make up our modern life  though
the spirit of travel was beginning to be in the
air, and younger spirits, even in the Fell-country,
began to form dreams on the subject. Perhaps
there never was a time when the idea of
travelling was not attractive to the young, and
when Italy was not a name to conjure withal.
Lydia Joscelyn had read everything that fell into
her hands all her life, even the Book of

Beauty, which her brother-in-law, Philip Selby,
presented to her with an inscription on the fly-leaf,
at Christmas. Half the stories, and half,
almost all, the poetry there, bore reference to " the
sunny South." She was resolute to go " abroad "
some time or other ; to live among the dark-eyed
Antonio and lovely Rosalbas of romance. And
there, she had made up her mind, she would find
Harry, and bring him back to her mother. It washer
dream. Whenever she had nothing else todo
she thought of it, and represented to herself
how she should find him, how he would try to
conceal himself from her, and by what wonderful
ruses and clever expedients she would discover
his secret and prove him to be her brother. It is
not to be supposed that there did not mingle in
Lydia's dreams, visions of some other figure still
more attractive than that of her brother, who having
been five-and-twenty when he disappeared, ten
years ago, was according to her calculation " quite
old" by this time. It is not quite certain that
she did not expect him to be grey-haired, and a
little decrepit ; but there would be some friend,
some protector, some handsome young count, or
even prince, who would have assorted the stranger
hospitality, and in whom Liddy felt the possible

hero of her life to be embodied. He was quite
vague, except a pair of beautiful eyes ; there was
nothing at all about him else that she was certain
of ; but those eyes looked out of the mists upon
her, with every kind of tender and delightful look.
He would help her, could any one doubt, to bring
Harry home ? and afterwards  perhaps  would
ask for his reward. Such was the natural
sequence of events. To do Lydia justice,
however, this visionary prince was a secondary
personage, only indulged in as a dream by way
of recreation, after she had, in her thoughts,
tracked Harry down, and got him at her mercy.

She had not much society or recreation at the
White House. There were times, indeed, when,
if it had been possible for a girl to have done so,
Lydia would have had no objection to try, as
Harry had done, what the society of the
Red Lion " could do for her ; but to do her
justice one trial would have been enough. She
did what was quite as good, and more innocent ;
she ran off sometimes into the kitchen of the
White House, and talked with the servants, and
heard a hundred stories both of the past and
present, and learned the countryside, so that she
knew who everybody was, and their mothers, and

their wives, and all that had happened to them.
It was there, rather than from her mother and
her sister, that she heard about Harry. The old
cook remembered everything about him, from the
time when he had cut his teeth. She had
a recollection of that night when he had gone
away, and still excused herself for not having
gone to the rescue. " T' master was all about
t' house, travelling up and down in his stocking-feet
 was it my part to op and open the door ?"
Thus her apologies accused her according to the
proverb. The other women were younger, but they
too had something to tell. And then Liddy
would go back to the quietude of the parlour,
where her mother was sitting in the same
attitude, reading the same book. The parlour
looked cheerful enough, but there was never any
change in it, not half so much as in the kitchen,
where some one was always moving about, and
there was a perpetual flow of talk. Liddy never
spent an evening away from home, except two or
three times a year to her sister's, when there was
a party " prepared weeks in advance, and talked
of for months after; or at Dr. Selby's in the village,
where now and then there were entertainments
of a homelier kind.

Young Selby, who had been Harry's friend
and a frequenter of the " Red Lion," though he
had not yet sown all his wild oats, was a person of
some importance in the village society. He was
his father's assistant, and although it was said
that he was far more interested in the fees than
in the Doctor's patients, yet the fact that he was
almost the only unmarried man in the neighbourhood
gave him a certain importance. He
was continually meeting Liddy when she went
out to ride, and he looked very well on horseback,
and gave her a great deal of good advice about the
management of her horse. Perhaps but for that
young Count in her dream, she would have got to
understand what young Selby meant, though she
scoffed at the adjective, and declared that he was
not young, but as old as his father. He was the
most entertaining person in the neighbourhood
all the same, and the hero of Joan's parties when
they came round, one in summer, one about
Christmas. These entertainments were pretty
much alike, whatever was the time of year.
Garden parties were not known in those days.
In summer the windows were open, in winter
the shutters shut over them and the curtains
drawn. In other ways they were very

much alike. There was a great round game
carried on at the round table in the centre of the
room. The tea had been served in the diningroom,
so it did not interfere with the evening's
arrangements. Mr. Pilgrim's family from Wy-burgh
were among the guests, and all the clergymen
round, and any other notability who was not
too great for the occasion. Few of the guests
indeed could be called county people ; but there
were a good many who visited with the county
people, and is not that very nearly the same "?
Joan, though she was homely enough, held her
head somewhat high at her own table. The
Selby were but of moderate pretensions, but she
never forgot that she was a Joscelyn. And she
kept Liddy by her, not allowing any indiscriminate
flirtations, and distinctly discouraging young
Selby, who was her cousin by marriage, but had
never won her heart. Mrs. Joscelyn never came
to her daughter's parties, though she was pleased
to hear all about them ; and it was only on
condition that Liddy was to keep by her sister's
side that she was permitted to go, " You needn't
fear, mother, that she'll meet with anyone she
oughtn't to meet with at my house," Joan said,
and she took care of her accordingly. It troubled

her mind on the occasion to which we are about
to refer, that a 3oung man had come with Mrs.
Pilgrim's party about whom she knew nothing.
He was nice-looking, but she had not even caught
his name. She could not help thinking it a little
wrong of Mrs. Pilgrim to bring a stranger to
such an assembly. If he had been in love with
one of her girls, Joan allowed that would have
made a difference ; but there was not the least
appearance that he was in love with one of the
Pilgrim girls. They were very assiduous in their
attention to him, pointing out everybody and
making conversation for' the young man, who,
without being rude or disagreeable, held himself
just a little aloof from the company in general,
as if he had come there solely because he was
brought, and had no special interest in the proceedings.
His head, for he was tall, appearing
steadily over Mrs. Pilgrim's, at last began to
irritate Mrs. Selby, who felt herself to be in
every way a greater personage. She called
her husband to her again and again to point out
to him this wholly ineffective member of the party.

"What is he wanting here ?" she said.

My dear, what they all want  to enjoy himself,"
Philip Selby replied.

"Enjoy himself do you call that enjoyment?
He looks as if he had swallowed a poker ; and
is never trusted for a moment out of the charge of
two or three Pilgrims. I don't think I'll ask
these people again."

" They are very good sort of people, Joan ; and
considering the position in which they stood to
your uncle Henry "

I'm very tired of Uncle Henry, Phil ; besides,
the girls didn't stand in any position  and I
never authorised them to bring a strange young
man."

He will be after Amy or Tiny  or "

"He's after none of them. Can't you see that
with half an eye ? It's my belief he's spying out
for our Liddy. And what will mother say to me
if I let her make acquaintance with a stranger ?
I said, ' You needn't fear, mother ; she'll meet
nobody you don't want her to meet at my
house'' "

Well, well," said Philip Selby, soothingly ;
there's half the room between them ; and nobody
can say, my dear, that it's your fault."

But that's just what mother will do," s aid
Joan, with a puckered brow, as if her mother had
been the most alarming critic in existence. She

laughed at herself afterwards, and went to the
table to superintend the round game, in which
Liddy was deeply involved, seated by young
Selby's side. There was a strong sense of responsibility
on Joan's mind, or rather, she was a
little cross. Her calces had not come quite so
well out of the oven as she intended, and Mrs.
Doctor Selby had suggested a fault in the flavour
of the tea. She went up to the players in a
stormy state of mind. " Come, come," she said,
you're not sitting right. Liddy, you come over
here and help little Ellen ; all you strong ones
are together. Raaf," this was to young Selby,
stay where you are. I'll put Miss Armstrong,
she's not playing at all, next to you."

At this young Selby made a grimace, but
Liddy tripped out of her place with all the
alacrity possible, leaving her seat and devoting
herself to little Ellen. She even gave her sister
a smiling look of gratitude. " Thank you," she
said, in an under-tone, " but it was rude, Joan'*

Now you are a deal better arranged, and the
game will go faster ; there will be no cheating,"
Joan said. She did not care a bit for being
called rude. Raaf Selby should know that he
was not good enough for a Joscelyn whatever his

cousin might be. " One's enough," she said to
herself. Besides, she wanted for Liddy something
that should be out of the common altogether.
She herself had done very well in marriage.
She had got an excellent man, with
enough to be comfortable upon. But she did
not feel that she would be satisfied with only so
much for her little sister. Not that Raaf Selby at
his best could hold a candle to Phil. He was not
much except when he was on a horse ; then she
was obliged to allow he looked pretty well. Buta
man can't always be on a horse's back, and anywhere
else he was not worth looking twice at ;
very different from Phil. Even Phil, however,
much as she respected her husband, was not
the kind of person she wanted for Liddy.
A fairy prince, if any such fantastic being
had ever existed in Joan's steady imagination,
was the sort of person who ought to be Lydia's
fate ; a fine young fellow (young to start with),
and handsome, and well off, and with an air
above the rest of the world. Unawares, as her
eyes went round her guests, they fell once more
upon the tall young stranger behind Mrs. Pilgrim's
chair. Was that the kind of man ? Well, if he
had not been an intruder, a stranger, a hanger-on

of the Pilgrims' (though certainly not in love
with either of the girls), that was the kind of
person. She drew near Mrs. Pilgrim as this unsolicited
thought arose in her mind. She was
annoyed with herself to think that a person whom
she did not know, and who had no right to be
here, should thus have taken her eye.

You are doing nothing, Amy," she said to the
eldest Miss Pilgrim ; " I'm sure they want you in
the game yonder  or you might give us some
music. You and your sister might play a duet.
I like to see everybody employed."

That is what I always say. You don't let
the grass grow beneath your feet, Mrs. Selby,
neither in work nor in pleasure. I was just

saying to " here she made signs with her

thumb, pointing to the stranger, who was inspecting
the party from his eminence, and talking
languidly to one of the girls. " He was introduced
to you,' she added, in a whisper, " when
he came in f

I should thinks"' said Joan, " that nobody
would bring a strange man into my house without
introducing him to me. But your friend is doing
nothing either," she said, with compunction, and
a relenting of hospitality. " He has just got

into a corner ; and the evening's lost when you
once do that."

Oh, Mrs. Selby, he doesn't know anybody.
We promised we would take care of him if he
came with us," Amy Pilgrim said ; and the object
of Joan's mingled interest and indignation
laughed a little, and said that he hoped Mrs.
Selby would not trouble herself, that he was very
well there.

Then Joan sought her husband again. " Look
at them," she said, " all sitting in a corner with
this strange man, as if they were above the rest
of us : as if it was my lady Countess and her
party from the Castle looking at the poor people's
amusements. I will never ask these Pilgrims
again."

My dear, my dear," said Philip Selby, " they
are very good sort of people : and if they have a
strange man with them that knows nobody, incivility
what can they do ?"

Then in civility it's your part to make him
know somebody. Are you not the master of the
house ? Phil, you are lazy ; you are not doing
your duty," Joan said, giving him a little push
towards the corner in which the Pilgrims were
enthroned. " If there is one thing I cannot put

up with it is a knot of people in a company
making their observations." She was quite
excited by the Pilgrims and their guest  " for he
is their guest, and not mine, though it's in my
house," Joan said to herself. But alas for her
consistency ! Next time that she disengaged herself
from the lesser crowd round the card-table,
Joan saw a sight which displeased and satisfied
her at the same time. The group of the Pilgrims
had broken up ; that is to say, " the strange man "
had been led or had strayed away, and Amy and
Tiny, having no longer anyone to take care of,
and describe the company to, had sought refuge
at the card-table, and were much merrier, if
not so fine, as in their former position. That
was all very well ; but, on the other hand, there
was Lydia, seated demurely in a chair apart,
with Raaf Selby standing on one side of her like
a thunder-cloud, and on the other, talking and
making himself very agreeable, the Pilgrims'
strange young man."

Eaaf," said Joan, promptly, " you're as bad
as Phil ; you're taking no trouble. How is the
game to go on without you to look after it, when
it's well known that you are far the best player
here ?"

I have been plapng all the evening. I think
I may be permitted a little rest," Eaaf said, with
a gloomy countenance. He was older and shorter
than the strange young man, and not so tall, and
there was a something about this personage
which was above the level of young Selby. He
could not tell what it was. He himself had more
ornaments, he had a finer head of hair, and more
shirt-front, but yet there was something. Lydia
was replying very gravely to what the stranger
said to her, but she gave him her whole attention,
and the other girls had given evidence that they
saw something in this new comer which was not
in their familiar hero. He felt crestfallen, and
he felt angry. He was not in a humour to be
ordered about by Joan.

Then sing us one of your songs," Mrs. Selby
said. " Things are going a bit slow ; I don't
know what is the matter : or perhaps it's only me
that's the matter. But I think things are going
a bit slow."

** That's my opinion, too," Raaf said ; " but I
don't think it's my fault."

Upon which Lydia suddenly struck in, *' Never
mind how they are going, Joan, Joan ! Let the
people alone ; they will amuse themselves. Mr.

VOL. m. D

Brotherton has never been among the Fells
before, and he wants to learn about us and all
our ways. We are the natives  a kind of
savages, but friendly ; and talking a kind of
dialect that can be understood with a little trouble.
Come, Joan, and listen. It is nice to hear so
much good of ourselves."

This she said a little vindictively, with a glance
at her new companion which brought the colour
to his face. He had opened the conversation unguardedly,
as fine people are often in the habit of
doing with each other, by talking about the
natives and the barbarous people. It was a compliment,
if Lydia had known, to the superior air
of her dress, and her appearance generally;
how it is that one individual looks comme il faut,
and another does not, is the most difficult of
questions. Lydia in fact was no way superior to
the rest; but the stranger thought she was a
young person of the world, somebody who was in
society, storm-stayed like himself.

Do not take me at such a disadvantage," he
said ; " if I spoke nonsense, it was because I did not
know any better. I have got a relation somewhere
among these good natives. You cannot think I do
anything but respect them when that is the case''



"Do yon always respect your relations?" Lydia
asked. She was perfectly disposed to flirt, and
had an instinctive knowledge how to do it,
though she had so little practice  no practice, it
may be said ; for young Selby was not light
enough in hand to give her any experience, and
he was almost the only individual with whom it
would have been possible to flirt.

If you are looking for friends'' said Joan,
with immediate interest, " we have been herein
this country since before the memory of
man, and, if anybody can help you, we should
be able to do it. Who is it you want V She
took a vacant chair and sat down by her sister
partly to guard Lydia, partly because she was full
of curiosity about the strange young man  and
partly, also, because Joan was a great genealogist,
and knew everybody's descent and how their
grandfathers had married  when they had any
grandfathers, it must be said.

*' They are people of my own name'' said the
stranger, "or, I should rather say  it is a distant
cousin of my own name, who married somewhere
hereabouts heaven knows how many years ago.
My father recollects her well enough. She was
a pretty girl in his day, and he told me to look

D 2

her up ; but as he had forgotten her present
name (if she is still living), and she was married
some forty years ago or more, I doubt if I am
very likely to succeed."

Your  own name V said Joan, with a little
confusion. In her own house, and in the capacity
of hostess to the stranger, she felt that it
was rude not to know his name. She gave a
glance of appeal at Liddy, who was mischievous,
and in no humour to throw any light on the
subject.

Joan will tell you," the girl said. " She knows
everyone, and whom they married, and all their
aunts and uncles. You have only to ask my sister."

More and mere confused grew Joan. She
looked at Liddy with reproachful eyes ; she even
addressed a plaintive glance to Eaaf, who did
not understand her embarrassment, and for the
moment was too angry to have helped if he
had. "Of your  own name?" she said,
faltering.

Yes ; forty years ago, or so, she was Lydia
Brotherton."

Why, it's mother !" said Joan, her countenance
beaming. There was a victory over
everybody, Pilgrims and all ; while the young

man, starting, turned round with amazed pleasure,
and looked, not at Joan, who spoke, however,
but at Lydia, who listened, looking up at him, as
much astonished as he.

"Mother!" Lydia said, and her fair countenance
brightened into smiles from which all the
mischievous meaning had gone.

Well, that's as easy a find as I ever heard of,"
cried Joan, " and how lucky you should have come
here ! Mother icill be pleased ! She has not seen
any of her relations for years. She was an only
child, so she had never any near friends. How
pleased she will be, to be sure ! The best thing
you can do is to stay here all night, and ride
over with Liddy tomorrow ; she is going home tomorrow.
Bless me, I think I'll go too, just to see
mother so pleased !"

It is a delightful discovery," said young
Brotherton. "How fortunate that I mentioned
it now ; my father charged me to find out  but I
confess I had forgotten till this moment. How
lucky I thought of it ! I am afraid I must go
home to-night with these good people who have
been so kind to me ; but I will come back in the
morning. It is delightful to fall among kindred,"
the young man said, looking at Lydia, whose

face reflected all manner of pleasant sensations,,
surprises, a delightful sense of novelty and exhilaration.
She had but few relatives, and a new
cousin was delightful  especially a cousin so
completely creditable, a gentleman, one about
whom there could not be two opinions. The
Pilgrims, who had been so proud of this " strange
young man," had altogether disappeared now,
and Raaf was left entirely out of the little group
of three, all so pleased with themselves and each
other. Joan forgot even those duties which
usually she performed with such devotion, leaving
the round game and its players to themselves,
and no longer thinking either of the duet of the
Pilgrim girls, or Raaf s song.

"I took the greatest notice of you from the
moment you came in," she said. " I cannot tell
you how it was. It's not that there is any family
likeness, for I can't see any. Liddy favours
mother, and there's not a feature alike in her
and you ; but all the same I took notice of
you from the first. I didn't catch your name, or
it might have made me think  but there was
something. I was more vexed than pleased with
those Pilgrims ; but all the same, when I caught
sight of you "

'' It was kindred at first sight," said the young
man.

That's a new way of putting it'* said Joan,
laughing ; and it glanced through her mind that
she had already thought, if he had not been with
the Pilgrims, that this might be the right sort of
man ; and now it was clear that he did not belong
to the Pilgrims. She gave a rapid glance fromhim
to Lydia, and back again. As yet she had not
the least idea who he was. She had never seen
any of the Brotherton connections, and knew
nothing about them. Mrs. Joscelyn had often told
her children that she had no relations nearer
than cousins, and with them even she had kept
up no acquaintance. Her children were entirely
in the dark about the family. They knew
that there was a Sir John who gave dignity
to it ; but that was all. Joan was very straightforward,
but she did not like to plunge at once into
details, and ask him who he was. But when she
had talked a great deal to the new relative, and
arranged the expedition to the White House
tomorrow, she went back to Mrs. Pilgrim, who
sat somewhat deserted in her corner, a little
humiliated by the desertion of her " gentleman,"
with the most cheerful cordiality. " I did not

catch the gentleman's name," she said, " when
you brought him in ; but what a good thing you
brought him ! He's a cousin of ours, and came
here looking for mother ; for her own friends live
far away, and were long lost sight of them.
Of course," said Joan, with a little artifice, " he
had no notion whose house he was coming to.
There's always a great confusion in a family about
your married name."

Came here  looking for ? I thought he

came looking for a place for the shooting," Mrs.
Pilgrim said, confounded. She could scarcely
allow herself to believe it. It had been a distinction
to bring a new " gentleman," a person of
such distinguished appearance, in her train ; and
to have him taken from her bodily, nay, carried off
soul and body, so to speak, not indeed to her
enemy's side, but at all events into another
family, was hard to bear.

CHAPTER m.

CONFIDENCES.

THEY were still at breakfast at Heatonshaw
next morning when the new cousin came to
the door. He was on a good horse, which was a
thing they all remarked at once, being learned in
such matters  and looked handsomer in daylight
than he had done at night. The household had
been late on the previous evening  a party being
a matter of such rare occurrence that it was
considered only right to make the best of it,
both in kitchen and parlour, and to bustle half
the night " putting away." The whole company
had dispersed at a little after eleven ; but next
morning there was as much license as if it had
been the morning after a ball. And the household
felt equally dissipated ; everything is comparative

; eleven o'clock at night was in Heating
as bad as three or four in the morning at
another place. So they were still around the
breakfast table when young Brotherton rode up.

That's not Pilgrim's horse," Mr. Selby said.
*' It must be out of his own stables ; and he did
not get that for nothing." Even Liddy got up
from where she was sitting, a little out of the
way, to peep at the new arrival. He came in a
few minutes after whip in hand.

You are not so early, Mrs. Selby, as I feared.
I made a very early start lest you should be gone
before I could get here."

We are not so early as all that," said Joan,
and we're not used to have our home disturbed,
and the house turned upside-down, as it was last
night. I'm one that thinks it a duty, where
people have a nice house and plenty to do with,
to have your friends from time to time. But ita
great trouble both before and after. Not a
servant in this house was in their bed till long
past twelve o'clock at night ; and, poor things, we
could not be exacting this morning," Joan added,
apologetically. " Liddy, if Mr. Brotherton will
not take anything, we will, maybe, better get
ready to go."

Do not hurry for me," the young man said.
He was quite at his ease talking to Philip Selby,
whom it pleased his wife to see putting on mildly
the air of a man of the world when any Invasion
came from that big place into the Fell-country.
When they had gone to " put on their things,"
young Brotherton made himself very agreeable
to the master of the house. He spoke
of my " cousins " as if he had known them
all his life : though all the time there was a
look of semi-amusement on his face. He had
stumbled into a new life without knowing anything
about it. The servants up till after twelve,
which was spoken of With bated breath as a
wonderful interruption of rule ; the master and
mistress, who " were not exacting " after that
tremendous vigil ; the freshness and sweetness
of the rural place, all produced a great effect
upon him. He thought it a kind of Arcadia, an
Arcadia dashed with reminiscences of hot supper,
and some vagaries of homely fashion which
struck Brotherton as more amusing than all the
similar vagaries which he had come across before.
When the ladies came down again, Joan attired
in a bonnet which was more striking in its
colours and composition than was common,

ready to drive her phaeton to the White House,
and Lydia in her riding habit, his pleasure in the
sunshiny expedition he was about to make was
as great as his amusement in finding himself a
member of the primitive society, almost of the
family, which was so simple and so kind. He
watched the packing of the phaeton with laughing
eyes. Lydia's box, containing her evening
dress no doubt, was carefully fastened on behind,
and in front, in the vacant seat, was a basket, in
which there were a number of delicacies from the
feast, which Mrs. Selby thought " Mother might
like : or if she doesn't care for them herself, it
will always be a pleasure to give them away,"
said Joan ; " though you must not think, Mr.
Brotherton, that I am forgetting our own poor
folk. A little bit that is out of the way, that
comes from the party  everybody likes that." He
helped to lift the basket into the phaeton almost
with reverence. The feast of last night became
beautiful to him in this light. How many had
he seen, much more delicate and costly, of which
the fragments went to the dogs, nobody dreaming
of the " poor folk !" Mr. Selby put Liddy upon her
horse while the young stranger was helping with
the basket, and this he felt to be a sacrifice on his

part, in consonance with the kind and homely
charity that breathed about the place. Then Philip
Selby promised to walk over to join his wife in
the afternoon, and the party went off, Mrs.
Selby in advance, talking cheerily to her horse,
bidding him to get on, and not bother her
with a whip. Liddy and the young man set out
soberly together. They did not say much for the
first mile or two. Now that they were alone
together they were a little abashed by each
other. He thought her the prettiest girl he
had ever seen which was by no means the
case, for Lidd} though very pretty, was not a
wonder of loveliness ; and she thought him, with
more reason, the finest gentleman that had ever
came across her path. She asked herself how it
was that he was so different from Raaf Selby ?
but could not make any reply. He was like
nobody she had ever seen. " This is what a
gentleman is, a real gentleman, the kind
that goes to Court and sees the Queen ; the kind
that is in Parliament and rules the country ; the
kind that everybody tries to be like, and that
Kaaf Selby would fain be taken for  he !" Liddy
said to herself; and she was abashed, and did
not talk much to her companion. Indeed it was

not till they were near the White House that she
ventured to ask a question which had been long
on her lips.

Are you a member of Parliament, Mr.
Brotherton ?"

Oh, no," he said, laughing ; "it is my father
you are thinking of. I have never attained that
dignity. I ought to have told you more about
myself before I asked admittance ; but Mrs. Selby
was so kind. I am a briefless barrister, if you
know what that is."

A lawyer with nothing to do," said Liddy ;
one reads about them in books."

Young Brotherton laughed. " It is as good a
definition as another," he said ; " but sometimes
it means only some one who has pretended to
study for a profession which is all a pretence
together, and never comes to anything. That is my
case: and I have been wandering over all the world."

In Italy ?" asked Lydia, with eager eyes.

Oh, yes. You are fond of Italy ? I daresay
we shall find we have sympathies on that point.
My mother is a great devotee ; she would live
there all the year round if we would let her.
I wonder which is your favourite spot."

Oh I" cried Lydia, with all her heart

in her voice, " I have no favourite spot ; I
only know it by name. Italy is where everything
happens  aU the stories are there; and
besides," she added, "I have a private reason too."
He looked at her with some curiosity, and a
great deal of interest. What could the private
reason of a young girl be ? *' You have, perhaps'"
he said, " friends there f

Lydia shook her head. " If you are our cousin,
Mr. Brotherton, and going to know all about us  ''
If I am your cousin ! Do you think I am
making a false claim, Miss Joscelyn V he said.

 then you will soon know about Harry," said
Lydia, going on in the same breath. "1 have a
brother who went away a great many years ago.
We don't know where he is, or anything about
him ; but I am sure if I could go abroad I should
find him that is why I am always so anxious to
talk to anyone who has been there."
Where?" he said.

Abroad." Lydia said the word with all simplicity.
" Abroad " meant everything to her.
It meant the place in which Harry was, and
where she should certainly find him if she got
there. When she said " Italy " she meant much
the same thing. Not Italy, of which she knew

little, except by the stories in the "Book of
Beauty ;" but a vague and beautiful place in which
everything that was wonderful happened, and in
which it would be natural that this should happen
too.

But Broth eton, whose knowledge was more
precise, was puzzled. He did not know whether
to follow out this line of conversation, which promised
to become intimate, or to go back to subjects
personal to himself. He had no right to inquire into
the story of the family prodigal, he thought ; but
still, as the door had been opened to him, how
was he to turn from it ? "I have gone abroad
since ever I can remember," he said ; " my
mother, as I tell you, is never so happy in England
as out of it. She is rather an invalid, and
she cannot bear the cold. When I was a boy I
scarcely knew where my home was."

Are there many of you f asked Liddy, full of
interest. She did not understand a small family,
and a vision came on her of sisters, girls like herself,
companions such as she had never had; but
this new idea was alarming as well as delightful,
and she could not help fearing that young ladies
who were equal to her new friend would think themselves
above her ; therefore it was almost a relief,

though at the same time a disappointment, when
he laughed and said, " I am all the daughters of
my father's house, and all the brothers too," 
words which she thought she had heard somewhere
else, but was not clear about. And then
they went on again quite silently for a time, the
wide valley all about them, the air breathing in
their faces, the great world all to themselves.
Joan, driving in her steady way, was round
the next corner, well ahead, and there was nothing
but these two figures stalking on in the
sunshine, with their shadows behind them.
Liddy felt that she did not care to talk. The
sensation was sweet, and tranquil, and friendly
and furnished all that was required, without any
talking at all. It is impossible to describe what
an interruption it was, a kind of outrage upon
the quiet, when, as they went round that next
corner, skirting the hedgerows, they were suddenly
met face to face by young Selby, on his
big brown horse. Even Lydia, not too favourably
disposed towards him, had been obliged to
admit on former occasions that Raaf Selby looked
well on his big horse. But to-day he positively
offended her by his appearance. There is no
class of men in the world so delightful, so help-vol.

III. 

fill, SO kind, so modest about their own merits,
and of so much service to all the rest of the
world, as doctors ; but yet there is a compound
of rudeness, jauntiness, pretension, and vulgarity
to be found now and then in a country
practitioner, which can nowhere else be paralleled.
Raaf Selby was not always like this, nor was it
at all the impression which he made upon the
general mind, or even upon Liddy's, who, in
other times, had considered him, as all the
country did, " quite a gentleman." But when he
met them now he had a red face (which was not
his fault) and the air of having been up all
night (which, if it had been true, would have
been a virtue in him), and looked altogether like
a rural dandy trying to be something which he
was not.

"Hullo, Miss Liddy,'* he said, "I suppose
you kept it up to all the hours last night
after the rest of ns were gone f

'' I don't know what there was to keep up,"
Liddy said, with an indignant blush ; upon which
young Selby laughed loudly.

Ah, I daresay ; but / know," he said, with
an open look at Brotherton, a look full of insolence
and jealousy  and he gave a great laugh.

I was out of it last night ; bat I haven't always
been out of it," he said.

Lydia was a girl not at all disposed in her
own person to submit to any impertinence, but
she got alarmed when she saw the gathering
clouds on her companion's face. '* I think you
are alluding to something I don't understand,"
she said, firmly, " but I need not ask what it is,
to detain you. We have got to keep up with
Joan. Did you see Joan ? She has got the lead
of us, and we are bound to make up to her
now."

"Yes, I saw she had got judiciously out of
hearing," said young Selby, with another laugh.
That's the first duty of a chaperon."

In this he meant no particular offence, but
spoke with the rough bantering which was not
disliked by ordinary country girls, just sharpened
with jealousy and envy, and the sting of seeing
how thoroughly harmonious and sympathetic
Liddy and her new companion looked. As for
Brotherton he kept apart as far as he could.
Good manners in another generation would have
suggested a use of his whip. Good manners
now restrained him from taking any notice, though
his blood boiled.

E 2

Library

Universal OF lino's

I don't know about a chaperon's duties,"
Liddy said ; " I think we must go on. Good
morning, Mr. Selby," and they went on,
leaving him in the middle of the road, staring.
He could not help looking after them, though
he did not like the sight. Two handsome young
people, in complete accord and harmony, moving
along together as if to music, with no noise nor
boisterous gaiety, as would have been the case
had Selby himself ridden home with Liddy after
the party, but in perfect friendliness and union,
as he thought.

Good morning," he called after them, " and
my congratulations to Joan upon her success last
night."

He was so bitter that he could not forbear
from sending this last shaft after them. Who
was this fellow, that he should come in and spoil
other people's chances ? Selby recalled furiously
to his recollection, incidents of a similar kind that
he had known. A swell comes down, he pokes
himself between a foolish lass and some honest
man that likes her ; and when he has turned her
head he rides away ! The country gallant was
aware that he had acted this fine part himself in a
lower class, when he had merely laughed at the

lass's credulity and the fury of the clown who washer
true lover, but whom she could not endure after
being courted by a gentleman ; but he did not
laugh when the case was his own. This swell, of
course, would go away ; but Liddy's head would be
turned ; and she was a girl who would have a
good bit of money, besides being the prettiest
girl in the county. Joscelyn had been making
money of late, everybody said, and there washer
Uncle Henry's money, which must be divided
sooner or later; and all this to be put out of
an honest suitor's reach by a young fellow who
would not even take it himself, but only spoil
the lass for a better man. This was what was
rankling in Selby's heart as he rode away.

*' Is Mr. Selby a relation of yours ?" Brotherton
asked.

Only of Joan's  my sister's  husband. It is
not bragging," said Lydia, with a little blush,
yet a slight elevation of her head as well, " but
we are very different from the Selby, Mr.
Brotherton. Many people thought Joan made a
very poor marriage. I don't think so, for she is
fond of Philip, and he is so good ; but the 
are the oldest family I don't speak out
of vanity the oldest family in the county. We

used to be great people," said Liddy, laughing,

but very serious all the same, "in the old

days."

"I always knew," said Brotherton, "that it

was an old name."

' Oh, there are all sorts of people who

have old names ; but we are the real people ; if

you stay long we will show you the old tower.

There have been Joscelyns in it ever since there

was any history at all."

She gave her head a slight fling backwards,

and laughed again, half at herself but yet Lydia
meant every word she said. Young Brotherton,
for his part, had been brought up in more enlightened
circles, and would have thought of himself
that he failed in that " sense of humour"
which is the modern preservation from all
absurdities, had he spoken of his family in this
way. He held his tongue on the subject, and
thought that he esteemed one name as much as
another, and was no respecter of persons ; and
he laughed in his heart at Lydia's brag, and
admired, with an indulgent sense of superiority,
to see how this sentiment of family pride kindled
her eyes and elevated her head. But all the
same he was impressed by it. It produced its

effect upon him, as it does upon every Englishman.
He liked the boast, of which he did not
fail to see the ludicrous side, and which his more
cultivated taste would have entirely prevented him
from puttiuo forth in his own person but in
Liddy he liked it, and laughed, yet was more
pleased with her and his connection with her.
She carried it in her face, he thought, and in
every movement of her untutored, yet graceful,
carriage. It did not occur to him to think that
homely Joan, soberly speeding along the road in
her phaeton, had all the same advantages of
blood.

Mrs. Joscelyn came out to meet them at the
door. She liked to see her Liddy get down
beaming, from her horse  the horse as handsome
as herself, which Mrs. Joscelyn began for the
first time to see the beauty of, now that her child
was the rider. She did not know who the young
man was, and she did not much care. Her mind
had not been awakened to the matrimonial question,
though, to tell the truth, no wild beast, no lion
with a devouring maw, would have wakened so
much alarm in Mrs. Joscelyn as the appearance
of a lover for Liddy. That would have inferred
the saddest fate for herself, the destruction of

her present sweet life, and all the late happiness
which had come to her in compensation for her
troubles ; but fortunately such an idea did not
enter into her mind. It was a pleasant arrival.
Joan, always active and bright, lifting down with
her own hands her big basket, stood in the hall
watching too the arrival of the young people, yet
caning out to the groom some prudent suggestions
about her own horse, which was being led away
to the stables. She was as well informed about all
the necessities of the stable as any of them, and
took the deepest interest in the welfare of the
animals, and she stepped forward to pat the fine
neck of Liddy's steed as her mother got the young
rider in her arms.

Did you ever see a prettier creature ?" she said
to Brotherton, " and I would not say but there were
two of them. But mother's just a fool about
Liddy. She thinks there's nothing Hke her on
the face of the earth. Mother, here's a relation
come to see you," she added, turning round.

Mrs. Josceljni gave a Httle cry. Brotherton was
standing against the light, so that his features were
not at first decipherable. She made a quick step
forward, throwing out her hands, then grew suddenly
pale.

"I don't know what I was thinking of' she
said, faintly. "I am sure I beg your friend's
pardon, Joan, and yours too."

I see what you're thinking of, mother  but
there's nothing in it' Joan said. " This is young
Mr. Brotherton, who's come to the Fells asking fora
cousin of his name that married here long ago.
If it's not you, I don't know who it can be  and
I've brought him to see you. It would be his
father you knew, for he's but a young lad himself,
as you can see."

He's kindly welcome," Mrs. Joscel}Ti said, and
he was brought into the parlour, and a great
deal of family explanation was gone through.
Mrs. Joscelyn had her pride of birth, as well asher
daughter, and it had always been a secret
pleasure to her to think that there was a Sir John
in her family, who might turn up some time or
other and balance the faded Joscel)Ti pretensions
with a far more tangible h\TQg dignity. For her
own part, she did not know anything about Sir
John ; but it gratified her mightily to think that
he had remembered he had a cousin married in
the Fel-country. " There could not be any 
stranger that it would give me more pleasure to
see," she said.

Young Brotherton, for his part, was delighted
with his old cousin. It was from her, he perceived
with pleasure, that Liddy had taken her willowy
grace, and the refined and delicate features which
lore little resemblance to those of Mrs. Selby. He
was in a humour to be pleased with everything he
saw. When the master of the house appeared, he
thought him the model of an old North-country
squire, rough, perhaps, but manly and full of character,
as suited that strong-minded country. The
plainness of manners and Having, the woman-servant,
not very adroit, that served the dinner  which
was plainly dinner, and not luncheon  the atmosphere
of farm and stables outside of the house,
instead of park and pleasure-grounds, aU struck
him in the most favourable light. Liddy had
thrown glamour in the young man's eyes ; he saw
them all through her. These, the unusual features
in her surroundings, appeared to him in the form
of characteristic traits and country peculiarities,
not as symptoms of a level of society lower
than his own. It was all piquant, novel, delightful,
and when he was asked to stay, a grace
which Joscelyn put forth to the wonder and
admiration of all the household, he accepted
the invitation with eagerness. Mrs. Selby,

for one, could not get over her astonishment.


"Nay, when father's asked him there's nota
word to say," she cried. " Father ! I would
as soon have believed that you and me, Phil,
would have been asked to take tea with the
Queen'*

CHAPTER lY.

BEGINNING.

Atherton stayed a week at the White
House  to the great mortification of the
Pilgrims at Wyburgh, whose guest he had been.
Nobody Hies to have their visitors interfered with,
or that a new acquaintance, whom they have themselves
introduced and brought out, so to speak, in
society, should desert them for a new circle. The
girls and the mother were alike indignant, and the
incident even had the effect of quickening the action
of the father, and making him more impatient of
the delays in respect to old Mr. Joscelyn's estate.
But this had little effect upon the household at the
White House, which for the moment was more
happy and peaceful than perhaps it had ever been
before. It was the beginning of one of those

new chapters in life which revive the interest of
the old story. Poor Mrs. JosceljTi had Heed
through many such, but they had been in most
cases not of the pleasant, but painful kind. Her
blood had been quickened in her veins, her heart
driven into wild beating, as one crisis after another
occurred in the family life. But now everything was
changed. Lydia had become to her another self.
She was not sure whether it was not herself again,
glorified, elevated, made beautiful by present youth
and infinite hope, which was always about her 
moving with her step for step, talking, even thinking
with her : the same thoughts rising to their hips.
Between two sisters such a dual life is sweet ; but
to a mother it is a recompense for all the pangs of
Hfe, which are seldom few or small. She was not
sure that it was not herself who spoke, and thought,
and smiled in Lydia ; but only a self far more firm,
erect, and self-supporting than she had ever been.
Lydia was not afraid of anything, and of Ealph
JosceljTi least of aU. This of itself made the strangest
difference. It gave a flavour and fragrance to their
mingled Hfe. The mother felt herself more brave
and more strong in her child ; and now romance
was arriving to her late in the same way. Ralph
Joscelyn's wooing had been a rough one. During

its course the pretty, drooping Lydia of those days
had been charmed by its very abruptness, and considered
the peremptory passion a double compliment
to herself, and to the power of love in subduing the
strong. She had liked aU the silly similes, the Hon enchained,
the giant deprived of his strength, and had
beHevedin her foolish heart that her half-savage hero
would be always in her toils  however rough to
others, yet to herself the gentlest of the gentle.
From this fooHsh dream there had been a summary
awakening ; and aU her long Hfe since had been
calculated to convince the romantic woman that
romance existed only in her dreams. But now
another kind of awakening was coming to her.
Youth had come back with its visions, and Arcadia,
and love. The young man who was her own kith
and kin (which of itself was sweet) was also, as
becomes a young man, something of her own kind.
He was full of poetry, and sympathy, and enthusiasm
: it was not after her old-fashioned mode, but
yet it was not the common strain of prose to which
she had been accustomed. To see his eyes turn to
her Lydia was to Mrs. Joscelyn like the revival of
all her own maiden fancies ; and the affectionate
worship which he gave to herself completed the
charm. Perhaps she was happier than Lydia in

those early days of wooing. She saw the dawn of
admiration and enthusiasm in his eyes, when
Lydia herself thought of him only as a sort of
advanced playfellow, a something new in his youth
and pleasantness. Mrs. Joscel}Ti saw it all from the
beginning ; she felt from the beginning that it was
written in heaven. It was half like a story which
she was reading in snatches, or chapters, a single
page at a time, always longing to go on with it, to see
what the next step was to be, to anticipate the end.
As for Lydia herself, after the little excitement
of the arrival, and the pleasure of bringing this
new cousin to her mother  the most delightful
present that could be thought  of she subsided
sedately into her usual life, and treated him
as a new companion, not doubting his interest
in her simple occupations. His servant came over
from Wyburgh with his baggage, which was a shock
to the primitive household ; but as the man was
rather in charge of the horse than of his master,
and that is a point on which princes and grooms
may fraternise, the alarm was soon over. Brotherton
wanted, it appeared, to find a shooting box, a little
place in which he could establish himself for the
autumn. He explained that he was not rich
enough to aspire to a Scotch moor, and modestly

permitted it to be understood that the Duke's
youngest son was his intimate friend, and that it
was chiefly to be near him, and share his shootings,
that he had chosen this part of the world. With
the hospitality of primitive regions, Ralph Joscelyn
would have taken him in permanently, and allowed
him to be an inmate of the White House ; but his
wife retained enough of her old breeding to see that
this expedient was undesirable, even though her
heart stirred faintly with a hope that in that case
the Duchess might have called, which is the chief
sign of belonging to the aristocracy in these countries.
The Duchess had never given her this sign of recognition,
which had been a Hfe-long smart to the poor
lady. What did she care about such distinctions
now ? but yet for the sake of Liddy, she said to herself.
To have her Lydia asked to a ball at the Castle
would indeed be something to reward her for having,
to make her feel that now she could die in peace.
Mrs. Joscelyn did not say anything about this hope 
for the disappointment, if nothing came of it, would
have been very severe she felt, tod great a trial to expose
her child to : but she cherished it in her heart of
hearts. And in the meantime they made every effort
they could to find for this new relation the lodging
he wanted. It was Lydia at last who suggested the

old Birrenshead, the house which had been
Uncle Harry's, but which had not been inhabited
by anybody but Isaac OHver in the
memory of man.

It is a very tumble-down old place," she said,
deprecating. " but it is only two miles from here."

Oh, if it is only two miles from here  !" cried the
young man, eagerly. This was one of those
elliptical forms of speech which he had begun to
employ unawares, and which only Mrs. Joscelyn
understood. She smiled within herself, but she
said nothing ; and it was agreed that he should walk
there next day and see what accommodation th
place possessed. The name of it threw a little
tremor over Mrs. Joscel}Ti, although she had smiled.
And next morning, when vnXh great simplicity, and
without any thought of harm, Lydia set out with
the stranger to show him the way, she told him the
circumstances in which the family stood, as she had
before revealed to him the fact of her brother's disappearance.
It did not occur either to Lydia or to
her mother that there was anything \\Tong, anything
out of the common, in showing young
Brotherton the way to Birrenshead. It seemed
indeed of all things the simplest and most natural.
She walked by his side as seriously as if the young

VOL. m. F

man had been her own grandfather, with all the
dignity of a princess in her own country. Nor did
anyone in the village think it strange. They saw
her pass, and wondered who it was who accompanied
her over the bridge ; but that was all.

This is part of the property," she said gravely,
which was left to my poor brother whom I told
you of. That is what made my mother look so
serious. She does not like to hear about Uncle
Henry's property. If we do not hear something
of Harry soon, it will have to be divided, they
say."

And that is a grief to her f Brotherton said,
sympathetically.

Oh, Mr. Brotherton, think ! to be the heir of
your own child  do you wonder that she cannot
bear it ? They say we should all have our share,
father and mother too. He does not say much,
but he thinks more than he says, and I am sure he
would rather die than touch it. But my brothers,"
said Lydia, with a sigh, '* my other brothers, don't
think so. They want us to yield and consent that
Harry is dead. But that is what I will never do."

Brotherton looked at her animated face with
admiring interest. "You must have been very
fond of this brother," he said.

*' I scarcely remember him ; but I am sure I
should find him," cried Lydia. " You will say that
is nonsense; but then I have been my mother's
only companion all these years, and she wil never
be happy till she has seen Harry again. She has
not had a very happy life ; perhaps she has not
always understood and then no one has understood
her. I must, I must get her some happiness before
she dies !"

There was a glow of tender enthusiasm about
the girl which touched her companion deeply. " I
think," he said, " she is happy in you. It would
be strange if she were not," he added, half under his
breath.

This brought a wave of colour over Lydia's face.
She is a Kettle more happy in me ; but she "still not
be really happy till she sees Harry."

And if "

Don't say so, Mr. Brotherton, please ! Don't
think so even. Do you imagine if he had been

that mother would not know ? If I could

only go abroad I know I should find him. Here is
old Isaac Oliver, old Uncle Henry's man. He wil
let you see the place ; and if he is cross you will
not mind? He has been here so long that he
thinks it is his own''

F 2

They were walking along the edge of a field of
corn, on a little footpath so narrow that here and
there they had to walk singly. The wind, which swept
the tall rusting crop in waves Hke breath coming
and going, blew the pale yellow heads against them
as they went along in pleasant contact with this
wealth and freshness of nature. The corn was
still pale in tint, ripening slowly under the northern
sun, with a gammer of red poppies under the
surface Hke the woven under-ground of some rich
Indian stuff. As Lydia spoke, an old man became
visible between the corn and the hedgerow, pushing
his stooping shoulders along before him with a
sidelong movement Hke a crab. His head was bent
to one side, his footsteps shuffling. Ten years had
told upon Isaac. He did not take off his hat when
he saw Liddy approaching, such a ceremonial being
scarcely necessary to the familiar intercourse of the
country, but he nodded amiably, and made signs of
welcome with his hand. As, however, the path
widened a Httle just at that moment, and young
Brotherton, making a quicker step, appeared suddenly
at Lydia's side, Isaac, who had not seen him
before, was greatly startled. He stopped short in
his crab-Hke course to stare at the new comer. He
feU back a step or two and screwed his stooping head

aloft in a sidelong attitude. Then he gave vent to
a shrill, prolonged " E-eh !" which penetrated the
air like a skewer. " So he's doomed back," the old
man said.

"Who has come back?" said Lydia, startled and
eager.

'* Lord, Master, give us a grip o' your hand.
You're no Master Harry now, you're master's sel'.
T* ould Master left it all to ye, as I said he would if
you'd let him be ; but you never would listen, nor

think on " When he had got so far, old

Isaac paused. His head had sunk a little from its
first energy of motion, but he kept one eye screwed
up and shining, and his mouth twisted upward atone
corner. Here, however, he paused, and a
cloud came over his face. " Miss Liddy,'' he said,
reproachfully, " you might have tell me it wasn't
him."

*' Who did you think it was, Isaac ? It is Mr.

Brotherton, a distant cousin. Did you

think ? Oh, tell me, is he like, is he like ?

The old man recovered himself gradually. He
gave a grin which seemed to twist upwards from
his mouth to his little twinkling eyes.

Not a feature in his face," he said, T\dth a
growl of angry laughter, " not a bit, no more nor

I'm like. I'm just an old fool. I take anyone for
him. Ne'er a soul comes down t' Fells but I
say, it's him, as if he was coming from t' skies. A
fine joke that ; and him t' prodigal son, a good joke;
to look for him from t' skies ! He should coin
from t' other place, Miss Liddy, up from
t' ground."

But he was no prodigal' said Liddy, indignantly.
" He did not go away for any harm,
Isaac, you know that !"

I know a' about it, a' about it," said the old
man. " Step forward. Sir, into the light. Ifvou
keep there dangling behind her  Lord ! but I'll
think it's you after a'."

*' You must be like Harry," cried Lydia, turning
round quickly upon her companion. "When she
saw you first, my mother started too."

He's about the same age," said old Isaac, " and
tallness no more, not a hair. Don't you speak
to me, Miss Liddy. If I dunno know him, who
does? I brought him up, though you wouldn't
think it. I put him on a pony the first time. I died
him most of his lessons, out of t' school. But this
isn't him," the old man said indignantly, " it's
not him, I tell ye. Don't you think to impose on
me."

Isaac," said Lydia, " will you let Mr. Brotherton
see the house? He wants to live here fora
little. Mother thinks you might put in a little
furniture, and make him comfortable."

Com portable !" said the old man, prolonging
the word with a half-laughing, half-angry cry ;
and it was your mother said it ? If he likes t' bide
with the bats and the rats, he may be com  portable.
There's been nobody else there as long's I mind.
Do you mean," he added, suddenly screwing up
his eye into a little spark of red fire, " that she's
consented, and Miss Joan, and you ? I'll not
believe it ; and who," he asked fiercely, " is to get
this share?'

'' You must not speak so to me. We have not
consented, and I never will consent. But this gentleman
does not understand what we are talking
about," said Lydia ; " take him into the house
and show him what rooms there are, and I will
go and see your wife."

Oh, ay," said Isaac, " speak to t' missis, you'll
find her in a fine way. If she hanna gotten t'
meekest man, next to Job, that was ever in this
ill world  a picture and a pattern. But you'll see
for yourself, Miss Liddy; you can drop a word
about t' gentleman to soothe her down. Come

this way round, come this way round, it's the hest
way."

Old Isaac had turned in front of them, and was
creeping along hy the side of the path scarcely so
high as the corn, his battered old hat about the
same height as the yellow ears. When the cornfield
ended they came out abruptly upon a grey
old house, surrounded by a small rough square of
grass, in which were some fine trees. The house
looked as if it had been forgotten there, Hke an old
plough. It had a square, respectable portico, with
a pediment above it, and rows of windows chiefly
broken, the lower ones closed with shutters which
were falling to pieces. A huge elm-tree stood up
at one corner, throwing its shadow over half the
house ; behind it were traces of the trees of an
orchard ; but the fields all round had encroached on
the place, potatoes were growing within a stone's
throw of the great door, and everything bearing
witness of its deposition and reduction from a
human centre of life to a mere wreck and encumbrance
on the earth.

Ay, ay," said old Isaac, shaking his head,
'' they'd just like to pull it down and no leave one
stone on another, like Jerusalem in t' Bible ; but
the walls is good, and the woodwork's good, audit

would last his time and mine  and far more if Mr.
Harry would come home, as he ought."

Then you think he'll come home," said young
Brothers, not knowing what to say.

\Vha said he wasna coming home, why should
he no come home?" said Isaac, screwing up his
eye once more into a red spark of angry Hight.
Them that say so know nothing about it, I can
tell you that, Master. Them that are of that
opinion have nothing to found it on. Who
understands Master Harry like me, unless, maybe,
it was his mother ? Well, his mother and me,
we're both expecting him. That should be au
answer, except to them that argues just for the
sake of argument," the old man said, fiercely.
Will you come in and see the house V

To Brotherton it had begun to seem, by this
time, as if the house and aU about it, the very
skies overhead, had darkened. He did not quite
know at first what was the cause. It was some
cloud that had come over the sun ; or was there
some obscurity about the house, some shadow of
fate, which darkened the skies at midday? It
seemed to him suddenly that nothing could be more
dreary than the aspect of the place altogether,
though before Lydia disappeared round the broken

bit of garden-wall, it had seemed so inviting
and desirable. But he did not ask himself if
Lydia's disappearance had anything to do with
this sudden change : all he said to himself was,
it is only two miles from the White House," and,
strengthened by this reminder, he went on with
courage into the dark portal. It was, as Liddy had
said, a very tumble-down house. There was a
dirty and ragged carpet on the floor, sometimes
moving in waves when the windows were opened ;
a table stood in the centre of the largest sitting-room,
and the chairs were put round, as if some
sober party had just risen from them. This was
on the first floor, in the drawing-room of the house ;
behind it were some bed-rooms scarcely more
inviting ; the dust rose in clouds when the air was
admitted, the furniture seemed dropping to pieces.
Brotherton stood at the door of one room after
another, \vith a blank stare at them. They had
but one quality; they were within two miles of
the White House.

*' And do you think they will suit you V Lydia
asked, coming back to him when his inspection was
over.

She had not been in dusty places like those
which he had just left, but came round the corner

of the garden wall, looking so fresh and bright,
that somehow that cloud over the sun disappeared
in a moment, and the whole landscape brightened,
and the dust went out of his throat. He had been
feeling half choked, but he felt so no more. He
had thought that they would not do at all ; but
now a sort of heavenly suitability seemed to come
to them all at once, and it appeared to him in a
moment that, if he could have the choice of all
soils of lodgings, these dreary rooms were those
which would suit him best.

They will do beautifully," he said, with much
cheerfulness. " So far as I can see they are the
very thing I want ; and then so near the White
House ! What is two miles ? I shall be able to
walk over constantly  if you will let me," he added,
in a softer tone.

Of course we will let you," said Lydia, sedately.
"We shall miss you so much that we shall be
very happy to have you whenever you like. But
were they not in very bad order ? the furniture
dreadful 1 and everything dropping to pieces V

"I did not see it," said young Brotherton,
stoutly. " They were, I daresay, a little dusty ;
when a place has been uninhabited for a long time
I suppose nobody has lived there lately V

Nobody has lived there since I can remember
oh, and not for a long time before. Even Uncle
Henry never lived there. I think I must have
been silly to bring you, for it can't be fit to Hve in
now I think of it ; and while matters are undecided
about poor Harry they will not do anything. Oh,
I am afraid mother and I were hasty in thinking it
would do."

On the contrary," said young Brotherton, feeling
in the enthusiasm of the moment as if it had
been a palace which he had just quitted, " it is
everything I require. Perhaps," he added, modestly,
as if by an afterthought, " they would not mind 
sweeping it out."

I spoke to Jane, that is Isaac's wife. Isaac is
a very funny old man, but he is frightened for his
wife. She keeps him right. And she will scrub
it, and sweep it, and dust it, and make it as clean
as a new pin. Oh, you may be quite sure of that.
And then, at first, you can take your meals with
us, the White House is so near  only two miles,
what is that?"

"Nothing," said Brotherton, with enthusiasm.
Then he added, " I must not tire you out. I shall
do very well. I can get everything I want
here."

Oh, no ; until you get used to Jane, and
accustomed to the cooking, and all that  I know
these things are of consequence to gentlemen,"
Lydia said, with a soft smile of feminine superiority,
" you must come and take your meals at
the White House. But Jane Oliver is quite a
good cook," she added, encouragingly. Brotherton's
heart had sunk within him at the mention of
Jane's cookery The cookery could not but be a
terrible necessity in such a place. But he scorned
to show any such weakness.

I am sure she is," he said, cheerfully. " I feel
certain that I shall be in the best of quarters. Is
there a ghost ?"

A ghost ! why should there be a ghost ?"
cried Lydia, in surprise. Then she added, with a
little dignity, " There was never anybody injured
or betrayed in a house that belonged to the .
So there can't be any ghosts."

"You reprove me justly," he said, feeling his
little joke very small indeed in the presence of
Lydia's youthful dignity. " It was a vulgar,
slangy sort of suggestion. I see the folly of it
now."

No folly," said Lydia, from her pedestal ;
you did not know."

And then they went on together, once more very
sedately, as if they had been a sober, middle-aged
couple, the corn rustling and nodding towards
them, the soft wind sweeping over it, bowing its
yellow plumes in soft successions of movement, the
whole air full of a happy rustle and sweep of
sound, the sound of the atmosphere, the subdued
hum of summer happiness common to all the
world. He made up his mind that the landscape,
all full of young trees and northern colours, and
the moment, in which there was no positive bliss
indeed, but only a dreary, dusty lodging, and the
prospect of being cared for by a ploughman's
wife  were perfect, and that life could not hold
anything sweeter. Lydia went on talking of the
chance that perhaps Mr. Pilgrim, the executor,
would "do something" when he heard of a
tenant, until it gradually began to appear to the
young man as if she were talking of improving
heaven. What could be equal in all the world to
a place which was within reach of the White
House ? " But if your brother were to come
home suddenly," he said, " what would become of
me ? Should I be turned out ?"

Harry !" cried Lydia, with glistening eyes ;
and then she said, turning to him (he was behind

her for the moment, the path was so narrow),
Harry ! Oh, how kind you are ! To speak like
that is to give one courage; for you really, really
think, Mr. Brotherton, don't you, now you have
heard all about him, that he must come home ?"

CHAPTER Y.

THE DUCHESS.

WHEN it was known that the old house at
Birrenshead had been taken by a gentleman
for shooting quarters, the astonishment of the
neighbourhood was great. The house was known
to be in a most dilapidated condition, and the
rooms had not been occupied in the memory of
man. The village took the most anxious interest
in the rash gentleman, and inquired, with much
solicitude, " what motive " he could have for burying
himself in such a place ? Was it for the sake
of Lydia Joscelyn ? But then he had been much
nearer Lydia Joscelyn at the White House, where
the family no doubt would gladly have kept him
had he wished it ; or was it on the other hand to
get away from Lydia, who had been devoting herself

too unreasonably to him ? Both these opinions had
their supporters ; but as it was impossible to prove
either, the question remained a burning question
for half of the time that young Brotherton Heed at
Birrenshead, where he soon became wel-known.
He was quite a gentleman, there could be no doubt
of that. He had a couple of horses and a man,
and money did not seem to be wanting vith him.
The neighbours soon found out all that was to be
found, which was not sang much  that he was
Sir John Brotherton's son, and a great friend of
Lord Eldred, the second son at the Castle ; and
that he was actually, on his otsti shoving, second
cousin to Mrs. Joscel}Ti. Had she said it the
neighbourhood might have doubted ; but he said it
himself; and he was constantly at the White
House. Scarcely a day elapsed that he was not
there on one pretence or another, and sometimes
Lord Eldred would go with him, having his dinner
there, the gossips said, and sometimes tea, and
conducting himself as if the Joscelyns were his
equals. This opened a new and exciting question,
which was discussed warmly by the different sides,
each maintaining its owt view. What would the
Duchess do ? She had excluded the Joscehns
from the list of county gentry when they were
VOL. m. G

first married, asking, with a contempt for blood,
which was most unbecoming in the local head of
society (and the Joscelyns had blood  it was the
one thing that could not be denied to them), " Why
should I call upon people who have nothing to
recommend them but that their grandfathers were
gentlemen f This leaving out of the family altogether
had been very marked ; when you consider
that the Selby, who were nobodies, had cards from
the Duchess because the old Doctor was their
father! Mrs. Joscelyn had not said anything
about it, but she had felt the sting all her Hfe.
And she was not less interested than the rest of the
world in the question  What would the Duchess
now do ? This problem was not solved for several
weeks ; but at last, just before the great ball which
absorbed the whole county in consideration of what
to wear, and how to appear to the best advantage,
the village was convulsed by the appearance of the
ducal liveries. It was an October day, with frost in
the air, so clear that you could see to any distance,
from one end of the dale to the other. The Selby,
called to their windows by the roll of wheels and
the jingle of the horses' feet and furniture, and the
flood of blue and yellow in the air, rushed to the
vicarage to rouse their friends to the seriousness of

the crisis. " The Duchess is going to call," they
cried, rushing in open-mouthed. '' The Duchess
has called," cried the others, who were all grouped
round a telescope which they had brought to bear
on the door of the White House. There the
carriage was undoubtedly standing, delayed an unreasonable
time at the door which both the
families felt, whatever reason they might have,
showed bad taste on the part of the Joscel}Tis.
Then the footman, a splendid apparition all plush
and powder, was seen to make his way a second
time up the narrow path, between the t'o grass
plots, bordered all round with chrysanthemums.
The watchers had a moral certainty that Mrs.
Joscelyn was not out. Had she denied herself to
the Duchess ? A thrill of sensation passed through
the minds of the observers  of mingled stupefaction
and excitement. To say " not at home" was a
moral offence upon which people were hard in that
primitive community ; but to have the courage to
say it, was something which overawed them. And
to the Duchess! Imagination could scarcely go
further.

Ashen Mrs. Joscelyn perceived, with a sudden
rush of blood from her heart to her head, that the
honour she had been looking for all her Kfe had

G 2

actually happened to her, she rose up precipitately
and fled, throwing a shawl over her head. This
was partly fright, and partly resentment, and
partly it was a wise impulse. The family parlour
and Betty in her white apron to open the door,
were not accessories which would impress the
Duchess, and Mrs. Joscelyn had not much confidence
in the refinement of her own appearance.
She was not so bold a sinner, however, as to sit
still and instruct her innocent maid to say, " Not at
home," a task to which Betty, knowing it was not
true, would not have been equaL So she went out,
meeting Betty trembling with excitement, tying on
her clean apron as she came. *' It's the Duchess,
missis!" Betty said, overwhelmed. "You will say,
Not at home," said Mrs. Joscelyn breathless. " I
am going out, you see. '' Going out ! Missis ! and
the Duchess at the door." Betty thought it was
incredible. Mrs, Joscelyn, however, deaf to remonstrance,
though herself trembling with excitement,
ran out upon the FeU side, and enjoyed the
spectacle. She was an Englishwoman, and it is not
to be supposed that the sight of the blue and yellow
Series, and the carriage with a Duchess in it, did
not touch the highest feelings in her nature ; and to
have spoken to that Duchess, to have realised the

full glory of the event, would have been sweet  but
it would have been alarming too, and discretion is
the better part of valour. She stood upon the
rising ground with her heart beating, and gazed at
the wonderful sight, visions rising before her of the
ball, and the invitation for Lydia which would be
sure to follow, and the ball dress, and all the excitement
of so great an occasion. She breathed more
freely when the great lady drove away, and she
was delivered from the fear of being sent for, and
compelled to come back by some dreadful mistake
on Betty's part. But Betty too had risen to the
occasion. She had said trembling, but resolute,
Not at home, Sir," to the fine footman  arguing
with herself that it was quite true that Missis
wasn't at home, for hadn't she seen her, with her
own eyes, go out ? Betty went out too to ease her
Mistress's mind, when the incident was over,
carrying the cards in her apron. She did not like
to touch them with her hands, though she had
scrubbed those hands crimson only a few minutes
before. " T' gentleman said as Her Grace was
sorry," said Betty, her eyes almost out of her head
with staring. " T' gentleman " was the biggest
part of the event to her ; she had never in her life
seen anything so grand so near. Her ruddy cheeks

were crimson, and her liberal bosom palpitated.
And Mrs. Joscelyn could not herself restrain a
tremor when she took these sacred bits of pasteboard
in her hand.

The excitement about the ball, however, was
not all pleasurable. The invitation came a few days
after, and at first Lydia, who had a great spirit,
altogether refused to avail herself of it. She was
in the parlour with her mother, arranging bunches
of the ruddy leaves and rowan berries which made
the country gay, in the big old-fashioned china
vases which stood on the mantel-piece, and which
were worth their weight in silver, though nobody
was aware of it. Lionel Brotherton had come in
on his way back from a short day's shooting. He
had brought some game, which lay in a shallow
basket on the table, the mingled colours of the
plumage harmonizing well with the warm autumnal
tints of leaves and fruit. The whole culminated in
the girl's glowing and animated countenance as she
stood by the table, twisting her garlands of leaves
and throwing them about with a freshness of
gesture and energy which only a touch of indignation
could have given. She had put a cluster of
the red berries into her hair, with a few long serrated
leaves, marked with brilliant red upon the green ;

and thus crowned was like an autumnal n}'mpli, not
mature enough for a Ceres, but yet warm with the
northern glow of colour and Hfe. " Why should I
go ?" she was sajdng. " What is it to me, mother 1
If the Duchess chooses to fling an invitation at us
after all these years, are you and 1 to seize upon it
as if we cared ? I don't care. I don't want it. I
should not like to go  Of course I may be forced,"
cried Lydia. "I may have to do it, for all the
several reasons which people always bring up ; but
Ksten, mother, this is the truth, I should not like
to go."

My dearest," said her mother, joining her hands
in that instinctive movement of entreat' which washer
natural attitude. Nobody could admire Liddy
as her mother did, not even the young man who
sat a little apart gazing at her, and thinking all
kinds of foolish thoughts. Mrs. Joscelyn saw in
her the perfection of herself, the accomplished ideal
to which she had been striving all her life. She
herself would never have had the strength of mind
to look so, and speak so but Liddy had ; and even
while she remonstrated and entreated, she approved.
My pet, that is just your fancy. Why shouldn't
you like it ? You have never been at a ball."

That is just the reason," cried Lydia ; " when I

do go I want to enjoy it. 1 want to be as good as
anybody there. I want people to think as much of
me as anyone, and ask me to dance, and think my
dress pretty, and like me altogether. I won't go
anywhere unless I can be sure of that."

And so you will, my darling," Mrs. Joscelyn
said. Brotherton did not venture to speak, but he
put a great deal into his eyes. Lydia indeed did
not look at him, and so could not perceive this, but
perhaps she had some notion of it all the same.
Her colour increased the least in the world, taking
a glow from the red leaves in her hands and the
red berries in her hair.

No, mother, I know how it will be. We shall
come in at the end with the Selby, and the
Armstrong and the Pilgrims, and  oh, a great
many more. There will not be any want of companions
in distress. We will all keep together atone
end of the room, and our hearts will all beat if
anybody comes near us. If it is an officer from
Carlisle, or if it is Mr. Brotherton, or still more if
it should happen to be Lord Eld red. Oh my !"
cried Lydia with momentary mimicry, clasping
her hands, " We shall look at him as if we could
eat him, and almost hold out our hands like the
children at school, and cry, me, me I If you

think that is nice for nice girls to have to do,
mother, I don't," said Lydia with a sudden vivid
flush. " So I don't want to go."

But that is impossible," Brotherton cried.

No, not at all impossible ; it is just what
happens, when people ask you because they cannot
help it ; of course they don't take any trouble
about you ; and of course the gentlemen prefer to
dance with girls they know, and who belong to
their own class, instead of seeking out poor little
Miss Selby and Miss Armstrong, and Miss Jos 
No," said Liddy vehemently, " a Miss Joscelyn
has never been in it, and, mother, if you please,
never will be. I don't say," she added, calming
down, "that it is anyone's fault. I feel quite
sure for one that you would ask me to dance,
Mr. Brotherton."

"Do you really  think so? The time has
come," said the young man, hurried and nervous,
but with a laugh of excitement, "to set one
matter to rights. Mr. Brotherton will certainly
not ask you to dance. Miss Joscelyn. I have a
right to be Cousin Lionel, and I will be so. I am
not to be defrauded of my birthright any longer.
You talk of the Duchess, but you are far more
haughty than the Duchess. Take the beam out

of your own eye, Cousin Lydia, and then you
will sec more clearly to take the mote out of
the Duchess's. Mrs. Joscelyn, am I not
right?"

Mrs. Joscelyn looked at them both with a
pleasure that almost went the length of tears. In
the sudden union which her glance from one to
another made between them, the young man and
the young woman blushed  blushed for nothing
at all, for sympathy, for fellow-feeling, and a
little for pleasure. " Yes, yes, my dear," Mrs.
Joscelyn said, " yes, yes, I think he is right ;
and your cousin  your cousin would make a difference.
And then, my darling, if you do not go,
people will never know that you were invited,
Liddy ; and that means  "

That we are not county people ; and we are
not county people. We need not keep up any
pretences before  before Cousin Lionel," said
Lydia with a blush and a smile, and a curtsey to
the young man, who looked on with a sense of
enchantment. " Uncle Henry was one of them ;
but not we. We are Joscelyns, however," she
cried, tossing her head upwards with a proud
movement, " aud if blood means anything, that
means something better than her Grace."

But why' do you say if blood means anything,
Liddy ?" said her mother, " of course it means
everything, my love."

Then Lydia looked straight at the two people
before her ; both so admiring, the one more
foolish than the other  and the meaning
changed in her face. She sighed ; her pretty
head, crowned with the glowing red berries and
brilliant leaves, drooped a little. " Because I
don't believe it does," she said.

Then there was an outcry, "Oh, Liddy,
Liddy !" of horror and alarm from her mother,
who had borne everything else, poor soul, but
who could not bear any attack upon her last
stronghold, her pride of family. It had always been
a comfort to her in all her troubles, and specially in
those social ones which her greater neighbours had
made her suffer that, to everybody who knew, the
Joscelyns were far superior even to her Grace, who
had been nobody. To hear her favourite child express
this scepticism was terrible. Even Brotherton
sustained a slight shock of disappointment.
He would have preferred on the whole that Lydia
should have felt a romantic certainty of the claims
of " blood ;" but since it was not so, he made a
virtue out of her incredulity, and looked at her

with, a smile and little nod of sympathy. Lydia,
however, was wise enough to make no answer to
her mother's exclamation of horror.

If I went," she said with great decision, " you
would have to go too ; I will not go with anybody
but you."

''Me, Liddyf Mrs. Joscelyn cried in alarm.

*' And my father. I will go with you both, or
not at all," Lydia gave out as her final deliverance ;
and then she went out of the room, carrying the
remains of her autumnal wreaths, and paying no
attention to the pathos of her mother's protestations.
Mrs. Joscelyn could do nothing but turn
to her young kinsman, and appeal to his impartial
judgment.

*' What should I do among all those fine people ?
I have not been out in the evening nor worn a
low dress (in those days dow dresses' were exacted
even from old ladies by the stern fiat of fashion)
since that child was born. You must speak to her,
you must speak to her, Mr. Broth eton  I mean
Lionel. Oh, yes, I want her to go ; but me !
and Ralph. Ralph has never gone among them,
I think he has done himself injustice ; but it is
too late to change now. You must tell her it
would never do."

But \'ou would not like her to go sith the
Selby or the Pilgrims people not fit to be in the
same room with her. / should not like that,"
young Brotherton said. And Mrs. Joscel yn's pale
countenance coloured with pleasure to think that
her child should be so determined, and her young
cousin so approving. This sudden appreciation of
herself was late, but yet it was pleasant, though also
embarrassing. And after this there were continual
remonstrances and arguments, Liddy holding to her
point, her mother fighting desperately against it.
As for Ealph Joscelyn, he separated himself at once
from the feminine part of his household. " Go to
what tomfoolery you like," he said, with his usual
courtesy, " but don't ask me ; I've nought to do
with such nonsense." Mrs. Joscelyn was then
driven to the end of her forces. She was disturbed
too about Lydia's ball-dress, which Joan
would fain have gone to Carlisle for and been
done with," in her energetic way ; but the
mother had no confidence in Joan's taste. And for
her part, though Joan had behaved generously, it
cannot be denied that she felt her exclusion from
the splendour which ought to have belonged to
her as the eldest Miss Joscelyn, but which her
husband's position excluded her from. The other

Selby even, who went on sufferance as the Doctor's
family made it more hard for Joan.

My husband is a deal better a man than Eaaf
Selby will ever be," she said with some indignation
to Brotherton, who heard the complaints on
all sides, " and nobody that knows them would ever
hesitate between them. But Heatonshaw is only
a little place, and we've nothing at all to do with
the great folks at the Castle. Of course it is me
Liddy ought to go with ; and it is a joke to think
that Raaf Selby's family should all be going, and
not me. But I will never forgive mother if she
sends Liddy with them, and does not go herself
to take care of the child. Mother's a strange
woman. She was never happy till the Duchess
called, and now she has got her desire she'll not
hear any more of it. I like consistency. Now I
don't care a snap of my fingers for the Duchess ;
but if she invited me," said Joan, magnanimously,
I'd go." Here she paused, but a minute or two
after resumed with great gravity. " A woman
takes her husband's rank, whatever that may be.
I am not ashamed of my husband because he does
not take her Grace's eye." And here Joan laughed
again, but with an uneasy laughter. She was
sore on the subject, and perhaps if she had been

entrusted with the buying of the dress the result
might have been disastrous. Mrs. Joscel3'n would
not trust Joan, but in her own timid person hesitated
and doubted what to do, when Brotherton,
the confidant of all their troubles, came to her aid.
He proposed that his mother, who was in town
(much the best place for everything of the kind ;
the place where fashion reigned, and ball-dresses
were much more plentiful than blackberries),
should get the dress.

"Which will be of no use," said Lydia, sternly,
without a dress for my mother too " At this
Mrs. Joscelyn was ready to cry, not knowing
what else to do. Her hands stole towards each
other with the nervous gesture of old, when
Brotherton again whispered in her ear a message
(jf hope.

My mother is coming leave it to me," he
said. She had almost thrown her arms round his
neck in her intense relief and thankfulness.

And this was how it was that Lydia Joscelyn
made such a sensation at the ball. Had she gone
with the Selby, all would have happened precisely
as she predicted. She would have stood among
them, in a white gown bought at Carlisle, at the
bottom of the room, surrounded bv a little crowd

of other obscure young ladies, left out in the cold,
tremulously eager to secure partners, and taken
notice of by nobody. There she would have
stated, pretending to be amused, till old Mrs.
Selby gave the signal, and gathered her little
flock around her, tired with standing, sick with
waiting, cross, and humiliated and mortified,
consoled only by the thought that the ball at the
Castle would be a thing to talk of long after
people had forgotten to ask, "Did you dance
much ?" But for Lydia was reserved a more
splendid fate. She had a dress which everybody
at the White House thought would have been fit
for a princess, and she went with Lady Brotherton,
with whom she stayed at the Wyburgh Hotel
afterwards, and whose presence introduced her
into the selected circle, and the company of all
the first people. Lady Althea went so far as to
admire her dress, and Lord Eldred danced with
her so often that his mother was alarmed, but
yet could not do anything but smile upon the
stranger whom Lady Brotherton patronised and
introduced as " my young cousin." Lady Brotherton
was a fanciful and romantic woman, and
she seized at once upon the idea that Lydia was
the object of a romantic attachment on the part of

Lord Eldred. Perhaps had she known that her
own son was in any danger from the same
quarter, it might have checked her enthusiasm.
But Lionel did not feel bound in honour to give
her any information on that point. She was
seized with an enthusiastic friendship for Liddy
before they had been half an hour together, and as
she was a graceful, sentimental woman, with very
tender and engaging manners, Lydia was not
wanting in her response. Then Sir John, who
was much older than his wife, added his contribution
to the rising warmth of the relationship
by vowing continually that this was the Cousin
Lydia of his youth over again. The fact
was that he had seen his cousin Lydia only
once or twice in her youth, but he was old enough
to have forgotten that, and nobody knew it was a
mistake. So all things concurred in the growth
of this sudden devotion, and before Lydia returned
to her mother she was invited to accompany the
Brothertons abroad, and had become, so to speak,
one of the family.

I will come and see your mother," Lady
Brotherton said, " and I will take no denial ;"
while Sir John patted her on the shoulder, and
told her with his toothless jaws, that she was

VOL. m. H

'' sh'image of " her mother. Lycia came home
with her head turned, but faithful, among all these
new crotchets of other people's, to her own.

You are not to say no, mother dear ; but I
know you will never do that. You are to put up
with the loneliness, and manage without me the
best you can ; for I am going to find Harry,"
Lydia cried. This new piece of excitement
obliterated the ball, which was quite an inferior
event. Mrs. Joscelyn cried, and clung to her
child in a kind of despair, yet hope.

Oh, my darling, what shall I do without you ?
and how are you to find him V she said ; then wept
and wrung her hands. "And how am I to make
sure that your new friends will be kind to you?
Oh, yes, they are kind now ; but it is different now
and when you have nobody else ; and what, oh
what, if you were unhappy, my pet, when you
were away."

Well," said Lydia, who was a young person
of much strength of mind, " even in that case
there could be nothing desperate about it, for I
should come back. They could not lock me up in
my room and feed me on bread and water. If I
was not happy I should come home."

*' But oh, my pet, think," cried Mrs. Joscelyn,

with a fresh outbreak, " if you should be left like
that to travel alone."

And why not ?" said Liddy. " Nobody would
meddle with me if I behaved myself; and I hope
I should always behave myself. But they will not
be unkind to me. Do you think there is anything
unkind about  Cousin Lionel." She pronounced
his name always with a little hesitation, which, to
the foolish young man himself, made it very
sweet.

No, no, Liddy ; but then he Is only a man 
only a young man, and admires you. His mother
A\T.ll not be like that. A lady is different : a lady
is not carried away'"

"A lady is  much more easily satisfied," said
Liddy. " She took to me in a moment, mother.
They said they never saw her take so quickly to
anyone ; and Sir John says I am like you."

Like me ! I don't think he ever saw me."

"Never mind, never mind, mother: they are
not a den of robbers. They caun(jt do me any
harm. And I shall find Harry," Lydia said.

H 2

CHAPTER YI.

THE OPINION OF THE FAMILY.

THE Joscelyns were much excited and disturbed
by all this '' to do" about Liddy, which
the sisters-in-law thought intolerable, and which,
as has been already related, moved even Joan
to some sensation of displeasure, notwithstanding
the gratified sense of family pride which she experienced
as a Joscelyn in the recognition of her
family, which, though late, was satisfactory.
But Mrs. Will and Mrs. Tom had no such
feeling. To them the sense of being left out was
not less but rather more disagreeable because a
little chit like Liddy had been made much of and
received as the representative of her race.
Neither of these ladies could bear to hear of it,
and Will and Tom showed their feelings in indignant

ridicule, scorning the thought that a little
lass should be put in the foreground, and their
own substantial claims as the heirs of the 
name disregarded. For what is a girl in a
family? nothing; a mere accident; perhaps
useful in a way as extending the connection, but
directly of no sort of benefit at all. When they
heard, however, that Lydia was going " abroad "
their indignation burst all bounds. Where was
the money" to come from ? The sons and the
sons' wives were as angry as if it came out of
their own pockets. Mrs Will even cried, and
enumerated a whole list of things which were
wanted to make her house comfortable. " I never
have even a trip to the seaside," she said, " and
as for a piano where I'm to get one I can't tell,
and the children all growing up ; and there isn't a
sideboard in the house, not like I was used to,
and the poorest stock of linen ! while your sister
is gallivanting all over the world." Mrs. Tom
suggested that nothing but a surreptitious slice out
of Uncle Henry's property  which it was a sin
and a shame to keep hanging on because of a
runaway, who must be dead years ago or he would
have come back on the hands of his family,
no doubt about that  could have induced

Ralph Joscelyn to consent to such a mad piece of
expenditure. " That Pilgrim just plays into
their hands," she said ; " your mother's silly
enough for anything, when it's for Liddy, but
your whither 'd never have done it without something
to go upon." The brothers were so moved
by these arguments, and by their own sense of
injustice, that they made a joint raid upon the
paternal house to see what remonstrance would
do. 'Til tell you what it is, father, it's time
that money was divided," said Will; "it would
come in uncommon handy, I can tell you, in my
house, with all my children growing up." Tom
had no children, but he was not less forcible in
his representations. " We're a laughing-stock to
all the county," he said, " hanging on waiting for
Harry turning up. If Harry had been going to
turn up he'd have done it long ago. There never
was a good-for-nothing in a family but he came
back." Now the day of this visit was a day
which Joan had chosen to come to the White
House to hear '' all about it," and these words
were spoken at the family table just after the
early dinner, for which an additional chicken had
been killed on account of the guests.

Good for nothing !" said Joan, indignantly,

that's what our Harry never was. You may say
what you like of yourselves, but of him I'll never
stand such Ivins:. He was as honourable a lad as
ever stepped. He never asked a penny from one
of you, nor from father either  that he got. Sofar
from taking anvthinsr of yours with him, he
left his own behind him. Poor lad! there's his
very clothes in his drawers. It must have cost
him a mint of money to get more to put in their
place. I've often thought of that. If it's just to
put mother out, which is all you'll do, you may as
well try some other subject than Harry. Mother,
don't you take on. He's no more dead than I
am. He'll come home some fine day to take up
his property  if you don't let them put you into
your grave first."

Mrs. Joscelyn's hands had crept together in a
nervous clasp. She looked pitifully from one to
another. " Boys," she said, in her soft voice, to
the threatening men who looked older and infinitely
harder than she, " I hope you'll have a little
patience. If I had the money, oh ! how gladly
I would give it you! It is hard, too, when you
have need of it. I say nothing against that."

"Need of it! I should think we had need of
it," said Will-As for giving it if you had it,

that's easy speaking ; and there are plenty that
promise what they haven't, and think no more of
it when they have. What's this we hear of Liddy
going abroad? I should say that would cost a
pretty penny. My wife and me, we can't take
our family so much as for a fortnight to the seaside."


"And what business is it of your wife's and
yours where Liddy goes f said Joan, instantly
throwing her shield over her own side. " You'll
not get Liddy's money, you may be sure of that,
to take you to the sea-side."

Oh, children !" cried Mrs. Joscelyn, clasping
her hands.

Well, I must say it's more reasonable that a
family of children should have a change, than
that a bit of a lass like Liddy should go picking
up foreign manners and ruining her character 

not that I am speaking for myself " Tom

interposed. But he was interrupted by a cry
from Joan, repeating his last words, "ruining
her character !" and by an exclamation of pain
from her mother. " Well," cried Tom, " I say
again, ruining her character. Is there any decent
man about here that would have anything to do
with a Frenchified wife ?  not to say that a woman's

morals are always undermined in those foreign

places. And Lidd/s flyaway enough, already "

Here Joscelyn commanded silence by striking
his fist upon the table with a blow that made the
glasses ring. " Hold your dashed tongues," he
said. " What have you got to do with it, you
lads ? You've got what belongs to you, and you
can go to Jericho and be blanked to you. If
there's any man has a right to interfere in my
house, I'd like just to see his dashed face. Hold
your tongues, the whole blanked lot of you.
Them that's in my house will do as I please, and
them that has houses of their own had better go
where they came from; and, Liddy, don't you
say a word, my lass. I'll look after you," he
said, laying a large hand upon her shoulder, ashe
thrust his chair away from the table with an
impulse which displaced the table too, and jarred
and shook everything upon it. When Joscelyn
spoke up," there was nobody in his family that
ventured to withstand him. The sons rose, too,
somewhat abashed, and strode forth after him to
view the stables, which was the recognised thing
to do after the meal, which thus came to an
abrupt conclusion. They shook their heads over
father's weakness, and declared to each other

that "they (meaning the women) had got him
under their thumb "  though " who would have
thought it of father ! " It's what every man
comes to when he begins to break up," Tom
said.

When they were gone Mrs. Joscelyn cried, but
the two sisters were indignant. " Now, mother,
don't be a silly," Joan said. " They are just as
worldly and as hard as they always were. But what
can you expect when you think of the two women
these poor lads married ? It is a wonder they are
no worse "

'* Oh !" sighed poor Mrs. Joscelyn, " when I
think the bonnie boys they were !" for she was a
woman upon whom experience had Kettle power,
and who never could learn.

As for Lydia it struck her against her wil with
a strong sense of the ridiculous to hear her middle-aged
brothers, in whose favour she had scarcely
even a natural prejudice, spoken of as "bonnie
boys." It was aU she could do out of respect for
her mother not to laugh. And she was more
angry than she was amused. " What harm does it
do to Will and Tom," she said, " that I should
be going abroad?"

'' They are just furious that Liddy has been

asked to the Castle," said Joan. " Oh, I know
them down to the bottom of their hearts ; but I'll
tell you what, mother, if it's a question of making
a lady of Liddy, and sending her out in a way todo
us credit, you mind there's nothing to be spared
upon her, for Phil and me, we'll do our share."

This was all Mrs. Vill and Mrs. Tom (for the
other women of the family scouted the idea that
the brothers were anything but puppets in the
hands of these ladies), made by their motion.
They threw Joan vehemently upon the other side,
blew away the little vapour of envy and uncharitableness
which made the elder sister grudge
for a moment the younger's elevation, and bound
Joan in enthusiastic partisanship to all her little
sister's wishes. "She shall do us credit," Joan
said, " if I don't have a gown to my back for years
to come. She shall want for nothing if I have to
give up my party next Christmas. She shall find
out who it is that stands by her, and them that
think of her in the family."

I never had any doubt about that," said Lydia,
throwing her arms round her sister, " and, Joan, I'll
bring you the best of presents, I'll bring you Harry
back."

At this Joan shook her head and wiped a tear

out of the corner of her eye. " It's a blessing,"
she said, *you little thin, that Phil's just as silly
about you as me ; but to find Harry, poor Harry,
will take a cleverer than you."

Joan, do not you say that. I have it borne in
upon me here," said Mrs. Joscelyn, laying her thin
hands upon her bosom, " that before I die I will
see my boy back."

And it is I that will find him," Liddy cried,
throwing back her head with a proud movement of
self confidence ; for the moment, being fooHsh
women, they all behoved in this inspiration. " And
why not," said sensible Joan, " it may be the Lord
that has put it into her head. And all these fine
folks, the Duchess and my lady and the rest of
them, may just have been instruments."

This suggestion filled them all with momentary
awe. To see such noble means bringing about a
triumphant end, and to be able to trace so easily
the workings of Providence, is always the lightest
of pleasures to the simple-minded. To bring Harry
back to his own, and comfort the heart of his
mother before she died, was this not an object
worthy the employment of Duchesses ? Meanwhile
I'm and Will went home discomfited, and told
their wives how father had 'shut them up."

These women have got him under their thumb,"
was what they all said.

Then there came another agitating crisis; Sir John
and Lady Brotherton offered a visit to their cousin
to arrange the details of their journey, and this
made such an overturn in the White House as had
not been known in the memory of man. To the
wonder of everybody, Joscelyn made no objection toit.
A shade of complacency even stole over his
face as he gave his consent. " My lady  will
maybe take a fancy to me, as some one else has
ta'en a fancy to thee," he said, pulling Lydia's ear
with unprecedented playfulness. Certainly the
women had got him under their thumb at last.
Joan and her husband came over with a great
sense of importance to help to prepare for this great
ceremonial, he enacting butler and she housekeeper
to the admiration of aU concerned. PhiHp Selby
knew about wine, nobody could gainsay that ;
while his wife prepared enough of what were then
called " made dishes," and pastry and cakes, to have
lasted a month instead of a day. Then the amiable
pair drove home at a great rate, to dress themselves
in their best and present themselves solemnly as
guests to meet the strangers. Lionel Brotherton
was in aU these secrets ; Joan and he indeed exchanged

a smile of intelligence when after working
together all day they met and shook hands in the
evening; but he kept inviolate the confidence
bestowed upon him, and never betrayed even to
his mother the tremendous pains that had been
taken to prepare for her, and receive her fitly.
When he went up to her room after the dinner
was over, to bid her good night. Lady Brotherton
could not speak enough in praise of their new
cousin. " You did well to say it was an idyllic
life," she cried. " You did not say a word too much,
Lionel ; what freshness, what simplicity, what a
breath of the moor ; and all so nice, such pretty
curtains (Lionel himself had helped to fasten them
up that morning), such nice old furniture! I
thought pretty Liddy was quite an exceptional
moor-blossom, but I quite understand her now.
Her mother is a most refined woman. I should
like to model those hands of hers ; they are full of
expression. And that handsome whitewashed fatherlike
a tower, quite the ideal representative of a very
old impoverished family, little education, and not
much to say, but with long descent in every
feature !" It was, all Lionel could do to keep his
countenance.
I am so glad you like them, mother ; I don't

know when I have been so glad ; and you can't
think how kind they have been to me."

"I love them for it," said Lady Brotherton,
not that I am surprised for they like you, Lionel,
one can see that, and nothing could be more
delightful to your mother. Tell me, dear, does
poor Lord Edited come often, or is he forbidden
to come 1 I want to know how far it has gone."
"How far what has gone?" said Lionel aghast.
Is it possible you have not noticed ? I am
sure he made no secret of it, poor fellow ; the
Duchess saw it well enough, 'shy, that Lord
Eldred is over head and ears, or if there is any
stronger expression deep, deep in the depths of
love ; and I am mistaken if she does not know
as AveU as I  "

In love  with ? not Lydia ? Lydia !" Lionel
cried, as if this were the most astonishing thing
in the world.

Lady Brotherton's back was turned ; she did
not see his lamentable countenance. She laughed
with a tinkling silvery laugh for which she was
famous, but which her son at that moment felt
to be the harshest and least melodious of sounds.
Who else ?" she said ; " there is no one but
Lydia here capable of being fallen in love with.

Not that nice Mrs. Selby, you may be sure,
which would not be proper, and is impossible 
no, Liddy  I like thenameof Liddy. It is quite
rural and moorland, like all the rest. Well, don't
you think she knows it too ?"

"I shouldn't say so," Lionel answered with
the greatest gravity. He tried very hard not to
be so deadly serious ; but he could not smile.

Well, we shall see, we shall see," said Lady
Brotherton gaily, " of course I shall not interfere.
I dare say the Duchess blesses me for taking her
out of the way. But if the lover has the courage
to follow, nobody need expect me to put obstacles
in the course of true love. It shall run smooth
for me. Going, Lionel ? God bless you, dear ;
the Fells have agreed with you, you are as brown
and strong as you can look, and I must go and
see your den tomorrow. Good night, good night,
my own boy."

Lionel went away in a frame of mind very
different from that with which he had followed
his mother upstairs. He looked into the parlour
with a countenance so solemn that the little party,
assembled there, and congratulating themselves on
everything having gone off so well, were entirely
chilled. Mrs. Joscelyn, reposing in her chair with

her hands clasped, was smiling with relief and
pleasure, while Joan described all the pangs with
which she had looked forward to the arrival of my
Lady. " I thought she would be so stiff and so
grand," said Joan, "Lord, I dont know what I
didn't think ; but she's as nice a woman as mother
or myself, and takes nothing upon her. As long
as I live I'll never be afraid of a fine lady again."
Here Lionel's solemn voice was heard at the door.

I have come to say good night," he said ; " no.
thank you, I will not sit down. I have a long
walk before me ; not anything, thank you. My
mother is very comfortable , and much obliged to
you, Mrs. Joscelyn. I beg I may not trouble anyone
to open the door."

"What is the matter with him with all his
'thank you,' and his 'not troubling any ones'"
cried Joan when he went away without a smile.
It was generally Lydia who let him out, which
perhaps Mrs. Joscelyn should not have permitted.
But to-night Lydia was checked by his cold
looks, and held back shyly, and it was Philip
Selby who opened the door. This was a slight
matter ; but it seemed to prove to Lionel everything
his mother had said. He felt rather glad
to have left a chill behind him, as he had evidently

VOL. m. I 

done ; and he was very much tempted to steal to
the window and peep in at them, and enjoy the
wonder with which no doubt they would ask each
other " What is the matter f It was well he did
not do so, for he would have seen the company in the
parlour laughing all but Lydia, who was wondering
by herself in a corner, what was the matter '?  at a
witticism of Joan's, who had made a solemn face in
imitation of poor Lionel the moment his back was
turned. Lionel was fortunately not aware of this ; but
felt that he had produced a sensation, and was not
sorry ; and so went away gloomily, not to say misanthropically,
down into the village and across the
bridge and along the river's side to Birrenshead.
On the way he met with old Isaac, who had once
more been beguiled into the " Red Lion," and was
now making his way home with much stumbling.

It was you as kept me. Master," the old man
said, " you know 'twas you as kept me. I'd never
have stayed out so long if it hadn't been for you.
If you would mention it to missis I would take
it kind, for women is very unreasonable."

*' T'auld sinner," cried a voice in the dark, " to
larn t.'young gentleman a pack o' lies. D'ye think
I dunno know where you\x been just to hear your
voice?"

My good woman," said Lionel, " don't be hard
upon poor Isaac."

He was still so terribly serious, and spoke intones
so hollow and tragical, that Jane OHver
was alarmed. She darted forward in the dark and
caught hold of his arm.

*' Oh ! my bonnie young gentleman," she cried,
"tel me! Something's happened to my silly auld
man ?"

At this hint Isaac began to moan, and grasped
at Lionel's other arm, leaning heavily upon it.

Its nothing, Missis, nothing ; that is, not
much, nothing to frighten you. T' young Master's
been that kind, he's given me his arm to lean upon
aU along t' water-side," Isaac said, with a limp
which would have been much too demonstrative
had it been addressed to the eye ; but in the dark
it answered well enough. For once the Missis fell
into the trap, and Lionel, dragged round by his
pretended patient to the back door, with blessings
called down upon his head by the deceived woman,
went through the little fiction with the gravest
countenance, and without the least inclination even
to smile. It was not tiU he had left Isaac with his
foot elevated on a chair, elaborating the story of a
supposed sprain, and had groped his way round to

I 2

the otlicr entrance, and climbed the dilapidated
stairs to the musty old sitting-room, in which his
solitary lamp was flaring, that he burst into a
short laugh, as he threw himself into a chair.
If it was Isaac's little comedy that called forth this
sudden outburst, it was only as the climax of a
hundred other comedies which were not mirthful.
His disappointment, and the confusion of aU his
thoughts, which his mother's revelation had
brought about, made him, as was natural, misanthropical
and bitter. He laughed at the tragical
folly and falsehood of everything, himself included ;
from the Joscelyns making all sorts of efforts to
appear better, more refined and comfortable, than
they were, by way of pleasing, i.e., deceiving.
Lady Brotherton and Lady Brotherton accepting
everything, adding her own fanciful interpretation,
not only deceived, but deceiving herself 
down to old Isaac, who had so often tried in vain
to dupe his wife, and his wife, who was now
duped so easily, not by Isaac, but, save the mark !
by himself, Lionel, without intention or purpose.
And I, who am the biggest fool of aU !" the poor
youth said to himself. What had he been doing
all these weeks? making a fool's paradise out of
this squalid ruin, and princes and princesses out of

the Joscel3ms, half farmers, half horse-coopers as
they were  all because he had believed in the
sweet looks of a girl who the whole time had been
aiming these sweet looks over his head at a better
match, and a greater personage than himself.
WTiat an idiot he had been ! the scales seemed to
fall from his eyes. He saw everything round him,
he thought, in its true colour. What would his
mother think if she came and saw the wretched
place in which he had been living ? She would ask,
Hke the village folk, what could his motive be?
His motive, what was it ? Even now, mortified and
discouraged as he was, he sat upright in his chair
with a thi-iU of alarm, when he imagined a research
into his motives. Lady Brotherton might
stop the expedition altogether if she found them
out. Lydia's perfidy was terrible, but it would
be more terrible still to leave her behind, perhaps
to lose sight of her, to miss the opportunity to
which he had been looking forward with so much
delight. When he came to think of it, his mother
had not said Lydia was in love with Lord Eklred,
but only that Lord Eld red was in love with
Lydia  which was so different. At this Lionel
roused himself, and the sight of his portmanteaux
packed and ready to be shut up, roused him still

more. After all it was tomorrow they were to
start, and he, and not Lord Eldred, was to be for
the present Lydia's daily companion. There
would be time to do many things before that
hero could arrive, even if, as Lady Robertson
suggested, he should join them afterwards. Tomorrow,
nay, to-day, for it was already past
midnight, was all his own, with nobody to interfere.


And next day, with some suppressed tears and
fictitious smiles, and a general excitement of the
whole neighbourhood, as if the village itself had
been going abroad, the party went away. The
vicarage people and all the Selby came out to
their doors to see them pass. Raaf Selby on
horseback stood like a statue at the end of the
bridge, and took off his hat and gave Lydia a
look half-tragical and altogether melodramatic.
Joan drove her mother in the phaeton steadily,
but with a very grave countenance, though now
and then bursting into momentary jokes and
laughter, to the station to see them off, her
husband riding very slowly by their side. Joan
laughed by times, but that did not change the
seriousness of her face ; and Mrs Joscelyn sat
with her veil down, a large Spanish veil covered

by great spots of black flowers, behind wbicb
nobody could see what she was doing. Lydia
herself broke down, and cried freely, though
her mother could not cry. "I'll bring home
Harry," the girl cried, with a passionate promise,
out of one window of the railway carriage.
Lionel was at another, keeping in the background,
eager to be off, and shorten the moment
of farewells, when his attention was distracted
from the pathetic group by the sudden swaying
upwards of old Isaac's shock head. " I thought
you'd like to know. Sir," old Isaac said, " as my
missis and me 's the best of friends. And it's allowing
to you, as had the judgment never to says
a word. Good-bye and good luck to you, Master;
don't forget old Isaac Oliver as will do you a
good turn and welcome whenever he has the
chance. Lord! but we took t' Missis in, that
time," Isaac said, with a grin that reached from
ear to ear. And that was the last the travellers
saw of the village folk.

CHAPTER Iii.

lydia's travels.

THE quiet that fell over the White House, not
to speak of other houses, when Lidcly was
thus carried off into the wider world, was something
which might be felt, like the darkness in the
vision. Mrs. Joscelyn subsided into a kind of
half-life. She had been living in her child, and
when her child was withdrawn, her existence
ebbed away from her. She began to wring her
hands again, especially when in the wild winter
weather the posts were delayed. All that could
be done for her was done by the Selby, who
humoured her and petted her, everybody said, like
a child. Joan drove over in her phaeton as often
sometimes as thrice in a week, and Philip, who
was "an understanding man" his wife allowed,

did what was still better. He subscribed for ber
to the circulating library, and kept the poor lad'
supplied, in defiance of all prejudices, even those
of his wife, with a boundless supply of novels.
Joan was somewhat indignant and much scandalised
by this, asking him if he thought mother
was a baby, and if it was his opinion that an
old person should waste her time over such nonsense
? " If it was a good book indeed," Joan said.
But Philip verified his title to be called "understanding."
He helped her through the dull days
as nobody else could. She read and read till she
got a little confused among the heroes and heroines,
all of whom she wove together by an imaginary
thread of connection with Liddy, comparing their
fictitious graces, their adventures, their history
with those of her child, and following her imaginary
Liddy through many a chapter. Lydia's
letters when they came were like another warmer,
fuller romance, the most enticing of all.

And then KalphJoscelyn himself suddenly developed
a new character. He was miserable when
his daughter was fairly gone, though he had never
betrayed any unwillingness to let her go. He
read every word of her long letters with a
patience which had never been equalled in his

life. He gave up the dashes and blanks of which
his conversation was once full, and Avoid come
in the cold afternoons and sit with this wife, often
fatiguing her greatly, and keeping her back from
the end of an exciting story, but always meaning
the best, and filling her soul with gratitude, even
when she felt most bored. And by and bye he
would put on his spectacles, and surreptitiously
turn over a novel too, when the day was wet, or
on a long evening. Thus the sight might be seen
of these two in their old parlour, one at each side
of the fire, rather dull but friendly, like people
who had grown old together, and in whom a
moderate modest affection had outlived all quarrels
and years. He was a little shamefaced when he
was found thus in his wife's company, but by
degrees that wore off too.

Meanwhile, Lydia went far afield, leaving
dulness and darkness and cloud behind her;
finding winter turned into summer, and her life
into sunshine. It would be impossible to use
words too strong to express the change that had
come upon her. From the north country of
England to the south of France was not a more
complete difference than from the grey and
limited life of the yeoman household to the

brightness and variety and grace of existence
among people accustomed all their lives to wealth
and refinement and luxury. The way in which
they travelled, the attendants always round
them, the ease with which they took all their
gratifications, surprised by nothing that was
pleasant, taking luxuries, which were princely to
Liddy, as a matter of course, had an extraordinary
effect upon her  the effect of a forced and
miraculous education, in which every half hour
told like a year. For a short time she was much
subdued, almost stupefied, indeed, by the revolution
in everything round her, and was so very
quiet that Lady Brotherton almost came the
length, notwithstanding her 'animated countenance,
and the favourable first impression she
had made, of thinking her dull. In fact, she was
only in a state of intense receptiveness, taking
in everything, opening her mind and spirits to
all the new influences, which confused and
dazzled her. But after thus lying dormant fora
time, Lydia suddenly awoke into new life, and
bloomed like a flower. She awoke to a great
many things which were completely new and
strange ; to beauty and wealth, to art, which
was entirely unknown, and a revelation to her ;

and to Nature of a lavish and splendid kind,
almost as entirely unknown.

There were other revelations, too, upon which,
at this moment, it is unnecessary to dwell.
It was more than enough that little Lydia, out
of what was not much more than a northern
farmer's house, should have found herself in
society, in that wandering society of the English
abroad where the finest specimens are to be found
afloat among the coarsest, and in which all the
elements of life are represented ; hearing names
familiarly pronounced every day which she had
hitherto read with reverence in books, talking
to personages whose distant doings she had but
heard of with awe and wonder, and living in
palaces, which she heard found fault with as
poverty-stricken and uncomfortable, she who had
known nothing better than the drawing-room at
Heatonshaw. The party went from France to
Italy ; to Florence and Rome, and still further
south, Naples and all its dependencies. So
dazzled and transported was she with all the new
things she saw and heard that for the first
month or two Lydia forgot all about her quest.
When she bethought herself of it, a question
arose which was far more troublesome here than

it had been at home, What was she to do? To
examine anxious' every new face she saw, to
look out in the streets and in every company she
entered for somebody like HaiTv, seemed a far
less hopeful enterprise in Italy than it had been
in England. She did not remember Harry's
face, which was disabling to begin with, and then
why should he be in Italy ? she asked herself.
Poor people (unless they were artists) did not
seem to come to Italy, but only people with
plenty of money and leisure, who came to enjoy
themselves. She was so bewildered by this altogether
new idea that she did not know what todo,
nor did Lionel, " Cousin Lionel," to whom
she began to refer everything (as indeed his
mother did), suggest anything that could help
her. They looked over all the visitors' books
together, and lists of the English inhabitants in
every new place they came to, with their young
heads together, and much secret enjoyment of the
business ; but neither did this stand her in much
stead. In Rome, where they spent Christmas,
they were joined, as Lady Brotherton's prophetic
soul had divined, by Lord Eldred ; but when
they left he did not follow, and Liddy's course,
which was not that of true love but wandering;

fancy, required no trouble to keep it smooth. But,
by others besides Lord Eldred, Lydia was " very
much admired," as people say. She might have got
a very good match " out of her wanderings ; but
walked through all these possibilities unwitting,
not having even her little head turned, which
Lady Brotherton expected. The elder lady, however,
was delighted with the little sensation she
made. She liked the little flutter of moths about
this gentle taper. She liked to have half-a-dozen
young men standing ready to do every necessary
civility, to procure everything that was wanted.
Lydia saved her a great deal, she said, in commissioners
; and old Sir John laughed his
chuckling old laugh, and said she was just like
her mother ; his Cousin Lydia had always a train
after her. Liddy wondered sometimes whether
it was a former Cousin Lydia, a century old or
so, whom the old man meant. But they were
very kind to her. They became fond of her as
the time went on. She lived an enchanted life
among them, with " Cousin Lionel " always at
her side, seeing everything, doing everything,
along with her ; and she could not have believed
that it would prove so easy to forget Harry
and all about him. Sometimes she awoke to this

thought vith such, a sense of guilt as depressed
her for days ; but in the meantime life was flowing
on in content, brightness, and variety, full of a
hundred occupations. There was not a moment
vacant. Sometimes it would glance across her
that the day must come when she must leave it
all and return to the AYhite House. Alas, poor
mother ! vegetating there, keeping herself alive
by means of her novels, and chiefly the unfinished
romance of Lydia, most delightful of all. What
would she have felt had she known the cold chill
which came over Lydia as she realised that the day
must come when she would be once more at home ;
and how wretched, how angry Lydia was with
herself, how she despised her own frivolous being
when she felt this chill invading her ! Generally
however she put the thought away, and was content
to live, and no more. To live, how sweet it
was ! " Good was it in that time to be alive, and
to be young was very heaven." At last Lydia
came, as the time of return approached, to throw
away every consideration, and exist only in the
moment, with a kind of desperation of happiness.
"I shall never have it over again," she
said to herself, and shut her eyes and went on,
forgetting home and forgetting Harry, refusing to

think of anything but the sweet hours that
were going over her ; " I shall have had ray day."
Thus time came to have a prodigious sweep and
fling as the long delicious holiday approached its
end. The hours and days rushed on like the waters
of a river hurrying to the falls, every minute increasing
the velocity ; already the skies were getting
bright (as if they had ever been anything but
bright !) with spring ; the flowers were bursting
forth everywhere; the warmth becoming excessive
; the English tourists beginning to return
home in clouds. And the Brothertons spoke
quite calmly of going back to England. To
them it meant a natural succession, no more ;
they would return home to other delights. When
autumn came back they would set out again, and
go over the same enchanted lands ; but for Lydia
all would be over. She tried to enter into their
plans, however, quite steadily, concealing the
vertigo that seized her, and her wild sense of
the hurrying rush of those last days. When it
was suggested that they should rest a few days
at Pisa, Sir John having a cold, and from thence
go on to Leghorn, and take the steamer, Lydia
felt like a criminal who has got a reprieve ; but
oh, how guilty, how more than ever deserving

of any sentence that could be passed upon
her!

By this time there had come a strange uneasiness
into her intercourse with " Cousin Lionel."
Liddy had always been more reserved with him
than with anyone else, she could not tell why.
Since the first frankness of the days when she
went with him to Birrenshead there had been
a great seriousness in all their relations. This
was partly his doing, and partly hers. Lord
Eldred's appearance had checked him when he
had been getting rid of the impression which
his mother's opinion on the subject of Lord
Eldred had produced on him. And Lydia's
seriousness had subdued the young man. She
had consulted him indeed, referred to him constantly,
took his advice, kept up an invariable
tacit appeal to him in all her concerns, which,
she was scarcely herself aware of, but which
went to the very bottom of his heart ; but she
was always serious. Her gayer flights were
with the moths, as Lady Brotherton called
them, the commissioners, the 3'oung men who
fluttered about the two ladies, and whom Lydia,
caring nothing about them, treated with every
kind of gay malice, and a hundred caprices ;

VOL. m. K

but she was never capricious with cousin Lionel.
They treated each other with a sort of stately
dignity, reserved on one side, reverential on the
other, to the amusement, but great gratification of
Lady Brotherton.

Thank heaven there is no fear of these two
falling in love with each other," she said,
** which is an embarrassment one is scarcely
ever safe from." As for Sir John, he chuckled
and declared that his son was an old woman.
Talks like two ambassadors," said the old
man. Never was anything more satisfactory
; for to have a course of true love so near
to her, notwithstanding her sentimental sympathy
with the thing in the abstract, would not
have suited Lady Brotherton at all. But on
the day of Sir John's cold at Pisa, something
occurred which, if she had not been
so busy administering gruel, she might not
have found so satisfactory. The two young
people being thus left alone went out together,
and walked very soberly, as was their wont,
about the Cathedral and the Baptistery, gazing
at everything as it was their duty to do. They
stood and looked up at the delicate fretted
galleries of the leaning tower, and the blue sky

above which filled up every opening. They had
been very silent, and silence is dangerous. At
last Lionel said hastily :

* I don't know why this should make me think
of the old Joscelyn tower you showed me ; there
is not much likeness certainly between this and a
Border tower."

The sky was just as blue," said Lydia,
in all the crevices ; though they say that in
England we never see the sky."
You remember it too ?"
Yes," she said with a faint little tremor in her
voice.

And soon you will be there again," he said
(as if it were not brutal to remind her of it !),

but I where shall I be ?" He threw so much

pathos into his tone that Lydia, feeling herself
on the brink of darkness and desolation,
could not quite restrain a little outburst of impatience.
He to talk like that, who would have
nothing to give up, whose life would always be as
beautiful as it was now !

Where should you be  but where you please !"
she said, with a sharp tone of irritation in her
voice.

"Where I please? do you think?  but I

K 2

must not ask you that," Lionel said, drawing a
long breath. And then he added as if he were
breathless and hurried, though in reality there
was nothing to hurry him, " Lydia I want to
speak to you before  before "

I don't know what you mean ; you can talk
to me whenever you please," cried Lydia, with the
daring of anger. She was angry with him, she
could scarcely tell why.

He was silent for a minute, looking at her with
a curious expression which she did not understand.
What did it mean ? No doubt Lionel
thought that Lydia knew exactly all that was
overflowing in him ; the eagerness in his eyes,
the hesitation in his mind. He thought she
looked him through and through, and she thought
he looked her through and through. The young
man felt as if it could scarcely be necessary for
him to say what was in his heart ; she must have
seen it in every look for months ; and she, on her
side, felt that her secret, which he was so likely
to have divined, must be kept from him at all
hazards. Thus they stood for a moment as in a
duel, the man sealing his lips by force, considering,
with a generosity that cost him much, that
to speak now would make the position intolerable

for her, and that any formal declaration of his
sentiments (which she must know so well before
he uttered them !) must be reserved for the very
end of the family intercourse in which they had
been living ; while the woman, who had been far
too much interested on her own account ever to
discover his meaning fully, doubted still, and
guarding herself against a mistake of vanity, had
to guard her own secret, which she would not
have him divine. They looked at each other
thus for a breathless moment ; then he spoke.

I can talk to you whenever I please ? but not
now ; before  if ever  we part."

What did that mean ? " Before  if ever." Her
heart beat so loudly that she seemed unable to do
anything but keep it down, and yet she asked
herself wistfully what was the meaning of it. She
was tantalized and aggravated beyond words.
That will soon be," she said with a little mocking
laugh, and turning, walked away towards the
river. He followed her quite silent and cast down,
for he thought this laugh meant the very worst.
And when they got back to the inn Lydia disappeared,
and save in his mother's presence saw
him no more that day. Lady Brotherton saw no
difference for her part. She tried to throw them

together benevolently. *' You must try and make
the best of it," she said. "I must go back to
your father, Lionel. Take Lydia somewhere, show
her the town. You are cousins, you need not
stand upon ceremony, you don't want a chaperon."

I am so sorry, Lady Brotherton," said
Liddy with an innocent air, *' but I must go and
write letters. We have been moving about so
much lately. I have not written half so often as
usual to my mother. I thought I'd take this
afternoon for it."

That is a pity," said Lady Brotherton, " I am
sure she will excuse you, my dear ; you will be
with her so soon ! and Lionel will be quite lonely ;
you might give him this afternoon. Your mother
will have you in a week, you know."

Poor wicked Liddy ! what a pang it gave her !
and a still greater pang to think that it should bea
pang. She looked at Lady Brotherton with
sorrowful, half reproachful eyes, into which, much
against her will, the tears came  but fortunately
kept suspended there, making her eyes big and
liquid, not falling. " I know," she said, trying
hard to suppress a sigh ; " but I must write all
the same."

"Don't think of me," said Lionel. "I shall

play a game at billiards or something." Lady
Brotherton paused to launch a mot at the absurdity
of coming to Italy to play billiards before she
went to Sir John, and in that interval Lydia disappeared,
and except at dinner, when his mother
was present, the two did not meet again that day.

Sir John was a little better next morning, and
declared himself able to go the little way there
was to Leghorn, where he would rest another
night before taking the steamer. " And there' sh
old Bonamy," he said, " old friend's, never
forsake old friend's. Bonamy, Yicesh-Conshull,
famous old fellow." He was delighted at the idea,
though Lady Brotherton shrugged her shoulders.
Oh, yes, he is ver' nice," she said, " not old,
quite a handsome man ; but all these Consular
people, they are  you know what they are  However
Mr. Bonamy is quite superior. Another
night in Italy Liddy, though it is only a mercantile
place and not interesting. Let us hope there
will be a moon."

But Lydia did not wish for a moon. She had
got into a state of feverish indifference. It was
so nearly over now, that she wished it over
altogether. What was the good of a few more
hours? She would have run away, had she been

able, to get out of it all, to forget Italy if that
were possible, and all these five months of
happiness. She felt angry with Sir John and
his friend, and the place they were going to, and
everything about it. A moon ? what did she
want with a moon? she would have liked to pluck
it out of that blue, blue intolerable sky that never
changed. It was all Liddy could do to keep
herself from making a cross reply.

They got to Leghorn early that Sir John might
not be exposed to the heat of the day ; and the
aspect of that place did not tend to soften Lydia's
feelings ; a town with shipping and docks and
counting-houses ; she declared to herself that
it was like any town in England, not like Italy at
all. Sir John, who was fond of novelty, had his
card sent at once to the Vice-consul, with a
request that Mr. Bonamy would go and see an
old friend who was not well enough to visit him ;
and the old man grew quite brisk on the strength
of something new, and sat up in a chair and
declared himself quite well. He looked so
comfortable that Lady Brotherton was very
sorry that she had settled to stay another
evening. " When we have quite made up our
minds to it, it seems a pity," she said, " to lose a

day." How tranquilly she spoke I while the two
young people listening to her, and too languid or
too nervous to take any part in the discussion,
felt a secret fury burn within them. " Lose a day !"
Neither of them knew whether it was a loss or a
gain, an incalculable treasure of possibilities, ora
miserable hour the more of suspense and unhappiness.
Perhaps they were both most disposed
to look upon it in the latter light ; and yet they were
both angry with Lady Brotherton for talking of
losing a day. There is no consistency in youth,
nor was there any reason for the nervous excitement
which possessed them both. They sat down to
luncheon together, both of them devouring their
hearts, and quite indisposed for other fare.

Mr. Bonamy knows our English ways. I should
not be surprised' said Lady Brotherton, " if he
came to lunch."

Yes, yes, knowshur English ways, English
himself," said Sir John , " knows what's what.
Sure to come in to lunch."

And then they sat down at table. Lady
Brotherton ate her bit of chicken with all that
unearthly, immeasurable calm which distinguishes
elder people, taking everything quite cooly, though
with a flaming volcano on each side of her ; would

lie cat her chicken all the same, they wondered,
if they too were to explode and he carried off into
the elements'? Notwithstanding their mutual opposition,
they could not help giving each other a
glance of sympathy as they watched her, wondering
how she could do it. Lionel felt that he
never could again believe in those sensations which
his mother had often described to him, which
affected her when he was in any trouble. Sympathy
! She could not take things so quietly if
she was a woman of any sympathy at all.

The meal was half over. Lydia had scattered
salad over her plate to look as if she had eaten
what was set before her, and Lionel, on his side,
had practised some other artifice. Thank heaven
the moment was almost over when they must sit
there together exposed to observation. When the
door opened, Lionel rose to his feet to receive his
father's old friend. But what did Lydia care for
Sir John's old friend ? it was an excuse to push
her chair away from the table. It was Sir John's
English servant who introduced the stranger ; an
Italian might have made a mistake about the
name, but about this there was no mistake.
Thomas came in before the visitor with all the
imperturbability of a British flunkey.

"Mr. Isaac Oliver," he said.

Then Lydia too rose to her feet wondering,
with a little cry of surprise. She did not know
what she thought, whether it was a messenger
from home with evil tidings, or merely a fantastic
coincidence. Lionel was greatly astonished too.
He made a step forward to meet the new-comer 
and there was something in the aspect of the
new-comer which puzzled him still more, he could
not tell why. Where had he seen him before ?
He was certain he had seen him before.

Mr.  Isaac Oliver f he said.

He perceived, without being aware of it till
after, that at his surprised tone the stranger
turned a suspicious look upon him, and glanced
round upon the party with the manner of a man
who was not entirely at his ease.

Yes, that is what I am called," he said.

CHAPTER Visit.

ISAAC OLIVER.

AND after all, what is there in a name ? That
was not an original observation in Romeo's
case, much less in that of an English resident in
Italy far on in the nineteenth century. The
person who thus presented himself in Sir John
Brotherton's rooms was tall and strong, and fair,
with the amplitude of chest and breadth of back
which show a man to have attained the very
fullness of manhood, or perhaps a little more.
His hair was light brown and curly, with life and
vigour in every crisp twist of it, and in the short
beard then unusual with Englishmen, and considered
" foreign " by the inexperienced. Except
this beard, and something in his dress which
betrayed a continental tailor, he was altogether

English in his appearance, and in his voice there
was something that betrayed the North-country,
or so at least two of the company, startled by his
name, supposed. Lydia who felt ashamed of herself
for her little cry of wonder, sat down
in a corner behind backs, and felt the better
for the curious stir of surprise and expectation
which seemed to blow on her like a breath of
fresh air: while Lionel bestirred himself to welcome
the stranger, who explained that he came on
the part of Mr. Bonamy, then occupied in public
affairs, who hoped to pay his respects to Sir John
later. " I ought to introduce myself as his son-in-law,"
Mr. Oliver said.

Oh, you are Kita's husband," said Lady
Brotherton, " little Rita ! forgive me, I used to
know her when she was a child. I have not
realised the idea of Rita married."

Then you must prepare yourself for a shock,"
he said pleasantly. " For Rita has been married
more than eight years."

And there are children  of course ?"

'* Four," he said, with a smile of affectionate
pride, *' but my wife still looks like a little girl.
You will not find so much difference in her appearance
as there ought to be. I think Mr.

Bonamy prefers to ignore the babies  and it's
not difficult to do so when you look at hel. My
father-in-law hoped you would come and dine
with us to-night."

Sir John is rather an invalid "

Not a bit  not a bit !" cried the old man,
speaking for himself. '* Yes, yes, lets dine
with Bonamy. Bonamy knows what's what."

And we are a large party," said Lady Brotherton
deprecating.

Here Lydia came behind her chair. " You
must not think of me, dear Lady Brotherton. " I
have  my letters to write."

Still letters to write, Liddy ? My dear, you
must have set up a most alarming correspondence.
My young friend, Miss Joscelyn, Mr.
Oliver."

The stranger made a slight movement in his
chair, with a hurried breath, and a sudden startled
widening of his eyes. It was a thing which he had
often said to himself might happen any day, but
years of serenity had almost driven it from his
remembrance. As it was, the start was but
momentary, and perhaps among men might have
passed unnoticed. But Lady Brotherton caught
it with her keen observation ; and Lydia, herself, so

excited and curious, saw it with additional excitement,
but without any surprise.

I hope'* he said with a hesitation which did
not sound unfriendly. " I hope we may see 
Miss Joscelyn, too."

I shall certainly bring her if you think toucan
really have us. How kind to think of it !"
Lady Brotherton said. ' But the Bonamys were
always kind. I remember your wife's mother,
Mr. Oliver. She was the prettiest creature "

I flatter myself you will think the same of
her daughter," he said, with a smile (but if he
thinks so much of his wife what business had he
to stare so much at Liddy f Lady Brotherton
said after. " Liddy is a Yevj pretty girl, and
of course with young men one knows what one
must expect  but a man with a family of children !
I don't think I quite like it.*'). He spoke to the
elder lady, but his eyes were on the younger 
not so much admiringly as curiously, anxiously.
Was it ? could it be ? A sort of brotherly
impulse came over him. " I think I must have
met  some of Miss Joscelyn's family  from the
Fell-country?  from the North of England?"
he said, a rush of colour coming to his face.

Oh !" cried Lydia, paling as he reddened,

none of my family were ever abroad except
one. Oh, I wonder if yoii can have met my
brother. I am looking for him. I came to look
for him. Harry Joscelyn? We have people of
your name," she added hastily, " in our village
too."

I come from  Lancashire' he said, with a
sort of hurried abandonment of the subject.
Lionel Brotherton had begun to stare at him too.
Ho felt himself in an atmosphere charged with
electricity of some sort, and thought with alarm
that some one or other of this dangerous party
might put a moral pistol to his head and accuse
him at any moment of his false name. He returned
to the subject of his wife and family,
which was safer in every way. " You know
that Mr. Bonamy will not let his daughter go to
England," he said, " because it was fatal to her
mother. It is her great grievance ; by dint of
being debarred from it there is nothing she wants
so much to do."

And you have you nothing to say ? Is she
so delicate?" Lady Brotherton asked.

Not delicate at all, thank heaven ! I have a
great deal to say ; but I agree. I came under a
solemn promise before I was allowed to marry

her, and then I have no wish to take her to
England  England  " he said, with a little
sternness, *' has no particular attraction to me.
All the happiness of my life is here."

But that is a hard thing to say of your home,
Mr. Oliver."

*' My home is here," he said. What did that
girl mean by watching him so ? He felt that he
was talking vindictively at her, though all that
he desired w-as to ignore her, and escape the
scrutiny of her eyes, which made him angry and
alarmed, both together. All this time Sir John
had been breaking in at intervals, expressing
with a great many titillation his pleasure in
the prospect of dining with " Old Bonamy."

Old Bonamysh sh'a very old friend ; always
liked him, and his father before him," the old
man cried. " Nash for been' able to dine out.
never wash better, never wash better." This
came in at intervals as a kind of chorus, while
Lady Brotherton kept up the central strain of
friendly commonplace, as unconscious of Lydia's
eager eyes over her shoulder, as of the vague,
alarmed curiosity and anxiety that had roused the
girl out of herself.

It was startling to hear his name," said

VOL. III. L

Lionel, when after awhile, as quickly as politeness
permitted, the visitor took his leave.

"What was there peculiar about his name ?
Oliver I it is not a bad name," Lady Brotherton
said.

'' It is not the Oliver, but the Isaac Oliver.
Lydia was startled too. It is a name we
know very well in the Fell-country," Lionel said.
He was able to treat the subject more lightly
than Liddy, on whom, in her excitement, this
new and sudden fire had caught at once. He
told his mother all about Isaac Oliver, with
details that quite satisfied her as to the origin
of the stranger's startled looks and apparent
excitement when he heard Liddy's name.

That's it, you may be sure," she said ; " he is
ashamed of his people. He is a son or a nephew
or something of your old man, and he doesn't want
it to be known ; very natural. He must have kept
it a secret from Mr. Bonamy  who never would
have let Rita marry him if he had known. Well,
I am almost glad it is that, and nothing worse. I
thought you had made an impression upon him,
Liddy, my dear. I thought his eyes would have
leapt out of his head when he saw you. Of
course, I saw in a moment there was something ;

but this explains it. Dear, dear, what a sad
thing for the Bonamys if it ever comes to be
known I Yon must take the greatest care, both
of 3'on, not to betrays him. Now, remember  nota
word," Lady Brotherton said, making as
though she would have put her soft, plump,
white hand first on one mouth and then on
another. Nevertheless, when Mr. Bonamy himself
came in later, she could not help telling him
that " my young people " knew, they supposed,
some of Mr. Oliver's friends. But Lady Brotherton
was very sorry when she saw with how much
interest a statement which she thought too vague
to do any harm was received.

My dear lady," the Vice-Consul cried, " they
knows more than I do if they know his friends.
He is the best fellow in the world and the best
son, and the most excellent husband that ever
was ; but I fear the world in general would think
me very imprudent. I know nothing about his
family, except that he quarrelled with them, and
made a vow never to return till he had made his
fortune. Well, I don't know where he will do
that  not in the service of H.B.M. He has
settled down here with me, and we are all very
comfortable, and it was no small comfort to me

L 2

to find an English husband for Rita who would
not insist upon taking her to England. It was
all settled," said Mr. Bonamy, " when I was so
ill. I believed I was going to die, and so did
everybody else ; and to provide for my Rita was
all I thought of. Well, 1 have nothing to regret.
He makes her an excellent husband, and she is
as happy as the day is long ; and I don't know
what I should do without him. Still I allow
it was rash, for I know nothing about his
friends."

** When a man has proved himself to be all
that," said Lady Brotherton, in alarm, "it does
not matter much about his family."

Well, no  perhaps not," said the Vice-Consul,
doubtfully. " But I have always taken it for
granted they were people of some importance,"
he added, elevating his head. '' He speaks like
a man with good blood in his veins ; he has all
the prejudices of a man of some family. I don't
think I can be mistaken in that ; but I have
never had the least clue to who they were. I
should be quite glad to hear something about
them from your young people."

Unfortunately," cried Lady Brotherton, *they
are both out ; and then it was a mere conjecture,

you know. Excuse me a moment, and I will ask
the servant if he knows whether my son or Miss

Joscelyn have come in " And she hurried to

the door to tell Thomas, who was waiting in the
passage, to tell Miss Joscelyn and Mr. Brotherton, if
they should make their appearance, that she was
very much engaged, and begged they would not
come in. " Remember, not come in," she whispered,
earnestly. Alarm had seized upon her. She had
laughed at Lionel's description of old Isaac Oliver
but, good heavens ! to be the means of introducing
such a very undesirable relation to the
knowledge of the Bonamys ! She was almost too
much frightened to be able to face the Yice-
Consul again ; but it had to be done. She found
him pondering when she went back. Sir John
was lying down to rest, so that they were alone ;
and poor Lady Brotherton's punishment for her
indiscretion was not yet over.

Did you say Miss Joscelyn ?" he asked,
then I am sure it must be the same, for my
son-in-law has Joscelyn in his name. He does
not use it in an ordinary way, but on grand
occasions ; indeed I did not know it till I saw
his signature at his marriage, and he has never
liked to be questioned about it. Perhaps he

msij turn out to be a relation, a connection of
your young friend."

Oh, I don't think that is at all likely," cried
Lady Brotherton hastily, '' her mother is a cousin
of Sir John's  " then she faltered and coloured,
seeing the inference to be drawn from her
words. "I do not mean that Mr. Oliver's family
is not  everything that is desirable," she said.

The Vice-consul looked up for a moment
startled ; but then he bethought himself of Lady
Brotherton's " way." Her way he said to himself
was well known. She was fond of connecting
things that had no connection, and scorning
those that had. So he answered without offence,
I did not suppose for a moment that you meant
anything of the kind, Lady Brotherton ; you will
like him when you know him. He is as good a
fellow as ever stepped ; not very much educated 
but so few of your young English squireocracy
are."

"Do you think so, Mr. Bonamy?" her mind
glanced straight of course to Lionel, and she
felt a little offence as well as a disdainful pity
for so foolish an opinion, and the grounds upon
which it must have been formed.
 " Yes, I think so ; they come here knowing no

language but their own, without a notion what
they have come for, or what they want,
trying to get up cricket matches and yawning in
the face of all that makes Italy desirable. If
they want cricket they should stay in England,
where they would get it at its best. Yes, it
must be allowed we see a great many ignorant
young fellows  who are thorough gentlemen all

the same *'

"I am glad you allow that," said Lady
Brotherton, a little piqued. She was rather fond
herself of finding fault with her country folks,
but she did not like it in other people ; and the
Vice-consul went away with his mind in a considerable
ferment, wondering if now he was
about to penetrate the mystery of his son-in-law's
antecedents The idea that he knew nothing about
them had given him a prick now and then through
all these years; but Harry had never betrayed
himself. He had not done so, for the good
reason that all his young life had disappeared
from him like a mist, and that honestly he never
thought of it, or felt tempted to make any reference
to it. His marriage had taken place while
the Vice-consul was still in a weak state of
health, for the results of his illness had lasted

long, though the seizure itself was over : and in
all those happy quiet years Harry's heart had been
so full and his mind had been so occupied that he
had scarcely thought of the possibility of being
called upon some day to roll away the stone from
the grave of the past. And a sort of honourable
hesitation had moved the Vice-consul ; he had
accepted the stranger as he was ; ought he to
enter into discussion of his rights and wrongs
now, and perhaps be compelled to condemn him,
though he was so good? Now, however there
seemed a prospect of a clearing up. " I should
like to know who he is ; before I die, I should like
to know the rights of it," Mr. Bonamy said
to himself.

"I was so glad you were not here, my dear,"
Lady Brotherton said to Lydia. "It appears
that this Mr. Oliver has said nothing to the
Bonamys about his family. He has allowed it
to be supposed that they were people of importance.
How they could be so foolish as to let
Rita marry him without knowing all about him I
can't imagine; but that is just what has been
done. Now, my love, I want to warn you ; be
on your guard. Be on your guard, Lionel. It
was very wrong of the young man to do it, but

it's no business of ours; and they're married
now, and can't be separated, you know ; and Mr.
Bonamy has not a word but praise to say of
him. Be on your guard ; I have no right to
speak ; I as nearly as possible let it out myself.
I said my young people thought they knew Mr.
Oliver's family; but afterwards I assured him
that this was mere conjecture, and that I didn't
think there was anything in it. So, my dears,
both of you be on your guard."

I shall not betray him, mother : but all the
same it is a shabby business. The fellow must
be a cad to do it," Lionel said.

Lydia looked up at him with hot, sudden displeasure,
she could not tell why. What had she
to do with Isaac Oliver ? But she was excited by
the appearance of this stranger who bore such a
familiar name, and she felt angry that he should
be called a " cad." She was in so strange a condition,
so feverish, and restless, and impatient,
that to be angry for some real cause was a
luxury to her. She did not, for her part, give
any pledge or make any reply, but seated herself
in the carriage with a forlorn and partly fictitious
feeling that this man, whom she had never (she
thought) seen before, and knew nothing about,

would 1)6 more near to her, if he were one of the
Olivers, than these people with whom she had
been so familiar, who had been her friends, and
more than her friends, but who were about to
drop her (she said to herself) next week, as if she
had never belonged to them at all. They were
all reminding her of this parting, keeping it
before her, she thought, even old Sir John without
any sympathy for her, or regret to leave her,
or perception of what the parting would be to
her Anybody from her own country, within
her own circle of being, would be more to her,
she said within herself, would understand her
better, would feel more for her, than the
friends who had been so kind, but who did not
care.

But the visit of the travelling party was contemplated
with very much stronger feelings by the one
of all concerned, dio alone knew all about it, and
understood the full importance of the meeting.
Harry had been unable to keep himself from one
startled look when he heard his sister's name.
"Liddy" first, which of itself roused him a
little  he had not heard the north-country sound
of that familiar name since he left the north
country  and then Joscelyn. Who could she

be? Could there be any Liddy Joscelyn but
one ? It was his mother's name, and his little
sister's, whom he remembered with that tender
partiality with which elder brothers and sisters
think of the little one who is the pet of the
family. Liddy had not been old enough to have
come to the bar of fraternal judgment when he
had left the White House. She was still a child,
and he had been fond of her. They had all been
fond of her. She had been the pet, sacred from
the animadversion even of Tom and AVill, who,
being married, and separated from their home,
were in some measure freed from the family prejudices.
But Harry was not freed. He had been
angry with all his belongings for all these years,
but as soon as he heard her name his heart grew
soft to little Liddy. Liddy Joscelyn I He went
away from the inn full of excitement, saying over
and over to himself those familiar, soft-sounding
syllables, Liddy Joscelyn, Liddy Joscelyn. Could
it really be that this pretty young woman, who
had looked at him over Lady Brotherton's
shoulder, with such earnest eyes, was his little
sister? For a long time he could think of nothing
else but this, and took a long walk in an
entirely different direction from the office to familiarize

himself with the idea, and to get his
excitement calmed down.

But the more he thought, the less he could
manage to get his excitement calmed down. It
might be supposed that he would have thought
first of all of the danger of being discovered, and
the likelihood that something might arise which
would betray him to his sister. But this was
only his second impulse. The first was instinctive,
a sudden surging up of family affection,
a leap of his heart into old prejudices and
tenderness ; and it was only when hie had
exhausted this that he thought of the risk that
he would inevitably run when Liddy found herself
brought into contact With a man bearing so
marked a name as that of Isaac Oliver. He
laughed within himself, half bitterly, half with a
sort of amusement at the sudden image which
lier little cry of surprise and startled look brought
before him as well as before herself  Old Isaac
Oliver! He remembered every line of him, all
in a moment, his stooping, his shuffling, his
desire to give good advice, his fear of his Missis,
and almost laughed out at the strange connection
he had himself formed between this grey old
figure and himself. Why had he been so absurd

as to choose such a marked name ? But the idea
that anybody could suppose him, Harry Joscelyn,
to have anything to do with that old peasant,
amused him more than all the rest. He could
scarcely keep himself from shouts of laughter.
He ! The notion was too incongruous to be
considered with gravity. It was an offence to
him at the same time, but most of all it was
ludicrous. And these people were coming to his
house to-night, to dine at his table, to ask him
questions, to make their remarks, to speak of old
Isaac, and, perhaps, put it into the heads of his
wife and her father that this was the kind of relation
whom he had left behind him in England. The
Bonamys had received him so generously, accepted
his own explanations so easily, given him the
best evidence of their perfect confidence and
trust, and, if now they heard this fine story of
the old north-country clown, what would they
think of him ? The more Harry thought of it
the more he was confused and bewildered. Liddy
had looked at him with a very penetrating,
anxious look over Lady Brotherton's shoulder.
What was she so curious about? How could she
know? And his wife and she would meet, would
talk together, would perhaps come to confidences.

He was not able to face the position. He was
older and more experienced in many ways, but be
was not experienced in such complications of
circumstances. His head turned round and round.
"What was he to do?

The only thing thing he did was a curious token
of the utter helplessness he felt. When he got
to the office he called Paolo, who was still a faithful
prop of the Consulate, and asked him to dinner
to meet some English friends. He waited even
till Paolo made bis elaborate evening toilette, and
walked bone with him arm in arm, clinging to
him as a sort of protection. There could not bea
more clear confession of the state of impotence
in which he felt himself. It was like one of his
early difficulties long ago, in which Paolo was his
only friend.

CHAPTER IX.

THE BRITISH CONSULATE.

IHE Vice-consul's family still lived in the same
house, with more frequent use than before
of the suc cur sale of the Villa, where the children
spent so much of their time. Naturally, however, it
was a changed house, brighter and happier in one
sense, in another  perhaps not all that it had
been. Perhaps Mr. Bonamy had found a more
delicate and complete happiness in it when he and
his little daughter lived there alone, in perfect
companionship, he sharing every thought with his
child, and finding an entire and sweet compensation
for all the troubles of his life in that perfect
union and sympathy. It was true that, as he was
aware now, he had knol very little of Rita all
that happy time : but while it lasted he did not

know this, and thought that he had everything.
It is the lot of fathers and mothers. "When this
last exquisite dream of his life failed him, and his
Rita went over to that amiable, well-disposed, and
kind young enemy, who had conquered and supplanted
her father, Mr. Bonamy had, it is
needless to say, a certain struggle with himself.
But the circumstances helped him to a large
degree. He was ill, expecting to die, and glad to
think that whatever happened to him he had
secured a companion, a support for her. When,
however, death dropped into the background,
and he had to begin again, and to reconcile himself
to a third person in his house, at his table,
and in all the most intimate relations of his life, the
Vice-consul had found it hard ; and very hard it was
to see his Rita turn to this other man as a flower
turns to the sun, with all the clinging and dependence
she had once shown to her father, and
with a constant reference to and consultation of
his wishes. It was quite right that it should be
so, oh, perfectly right! and she was happy, as happy
as a young woman could be  but it jarred upon
the man who was left out in the cold, and who
had to share, nay to give up the best of, this love
which had been the recompense of his life, to a

stranger. It is the lot of the fathers and mothers ;
when they make any difficulty about consenting
to it, we call them hard names ; but yet once in a
way it may be allowed, that it is a bitter thing todo.
Mr. Bonamy on the whole had done it with
a very good grace. He was, more or less, grateful
to the interloper that his house was not left to
him desolate : and he swallowed Harry with as
few grimaces as possible, making in private those
which he could not altogether suppress. On the
whole no man could have occupied so invidious a
position more genially, more officiously than
Harry did. He was grateful and attached to his
father-in-law, and he had a profound respect for
him and his judgment, to which unfortunately Mr.
Bonamy did not make much response. The Yice-
Consul indeed had that half-painful, half-amused
sense of being a better man than his son-in-law,
which at once increases the pang of such a rivalry
and makes it ludicrous. "Having known me to
decline on a range of lower feelings, and a narrower
heart than mine." When a father utters in the
depths of his own heart such a sentiment as this,
it may be somewhat bitterly, but it must be with
a sense that it is utterly ludicrous. Mr. Bonamy
felt all through like the disappointed lover in

VOL. III. M

the poem " Thou shalt lower to his level day by
day ;" for indeed Rita herself, when she became
Mrs. Harry, soon came to have far less interest in
matters above Harry's level, than she had felt when
it was her father's level by which her eager young-being
was founded. Then she had been his leader
sometimes, his little oracle, with a fineness of perception
that filled him with wonder and admiration;
now she avoided those fine questions and speculations
in which her husband did not share. He was
faultless, Mr. Bonamy was just enough to allow ;
he was not exacting, he would still look on With
honest admiring looks when they went beyond
his knowledge, and smile and listen to discussions
in which he could not take any share. But what
Harry did not feel for himself, Rita felt for him.
She would not go beyond him. She limited her
own impulsive eager steps, which had been so
ready for every path of fancy in order to keep
upon the beaten ground by his side. Perhaps it
gave her a little prick of pain too to leave her
father alone, to curb all her natural impulses, to
keep to that steady solid pace which suited Harry ;
and she did it knowing that her father felt it was
a decline. But nevertheless her delicate instinctive
unspoken loyalty to her husband carried

her through. She was *' falsely true " as much
as Lancelot though in so different a way, belying
herself, for Harry's sake, who did not want such
a sacrifice ; but Rita felt it to be his due. There,
as in all cases where there is a divided duty, the
happiness which they possessed was purchased by
a little inevitable pain, it was no longer unalloyed.
The interloper, the breaker up of that
previous blessedness, was the one who felt least
drawback in it. For one thing he was naturally
very modest and humble about himself, and it
did not at all hurt him to acknowledge himself
less clever than his wife and father-in-law. He
would not have objected had they gone on talking
over his head. His taste was less fine, and his
perceptions much less acute than Rita's. And he
got the advantage of that Jiiiesse of thought and
feeling, that delicacy which was so much greater
than anything he was capable of, really without
knowing it, or being at all aware of the sacrifice
she made.

Then the children, though they were a new
bond, and a great pleasure tour. Bonamy (being
good and healthy and smiling children, making
the best of themselves, and looking merry and
pretty, as children ought to do), gave a little

M 2

voulld also to his fantastical delicacy (for it was
of course fantastical) about his daughter, whom
he did not like to think of as involved in all the
functions of motherhood. But the Vice-Consul,
though perhaps not a very wise man by the head,
was wise by the heart, and he would not do or
say anything to throw the least cloud upon his
child's happiness; he accepted everything,
allowing to himself that he was fantastical ; and
their home was pointed out to everybody as the
emblem of a united house, full of love and
mutual consideration, and the closest affection 
which it was, though not the same home as
of old.

On this particular day Rita was somewhat
excited by the prospect of a visit from the
Brothertons. Lady Brotherton had been one of
the objects of her girlish devotion  that devotion
which so often flows forth to an older woman
before it turns to a lover. She had admired the
beautiful lady as only a girl can admire, and had
copied her in many a little matter, and still
believed in her with all the delightful prejudice
which clings to the friends of our youth. She
was eager to show everything  her husband, her
babies, her own maturity of life  to her old

authority, and see how they looked through Lady
Brotherton's eyes. When she saw her husband
before dinner she was full of this pleasant excitement.


"What a pity what a pity that Ralph and Vanna
are at the Villa" (Harry in his perversity had given
his father's name to his eldest boy, though he was
of opinion that he hated his father), Rita cried, " I
should have liked her to see them ; but there is
always Madge and baby. I wonder if she will
think Madge like you, Harry. I wonder if she
will think baby a beauty. English children are
so big and red in the face ; she may think ours
pale ; though I am sure they are quite strong. I
wonder how she will think papa is looking.
I wonder if she will approve of "

Me ?" said Harris, with a somewhat uneasy
smile ; " she will think me not half good enough
for you, and there I agree with her, so we shan't
quarrel on that subject. But listen, dear, there
is some one with her, whom I want you to be a
little on your guard with ; a  a girl a Miss
Joscelyn "

Rita looked up suddenly, with a keen light in
her dark eyes. She had Italian blood in her, to
which jealousy was quite possible. She looked

up startled, ready to take fire ; but Harry went
on tying his neck-tie, not so much as conscious,
in his honest simplicity, that such a sentiment as
jealousy could enter into the possibilities.

I have a kind of idea," he said, " that she
must belong to people  I used to know. I maybe
mistaken, but still I have a notion she does.
80 don't say anything, darling; don't let her
enter upon the subject."

What subject f ' said Rita, breathless. " Do
you mean that you knew the  lady in those old
times that I know nothing about?"

"I can't tell," said Harry ; " if I knew her, it
was as a child. But, Rita, you are always
generous ; you never have bothered me with
questions. Don't say anything to her, or to any
of them, if they should question you  about me."

' About you !" Rita's mind was partially relieved,
but it was not in human nature to receive,
without some retort, this curious commission.
What can I say about you ? I know nothing,"
she said, with a little bitterness. Then, as he
turned and looked at her with unfeigned astonishment,
*' Oh, no, no, I do not mean that ! I know
everything, dear Harry, I know you ; but nothing
before you came here."

That is true," he said, thoughtfully. " I
wonder if 1 ever shall be able to tell you all
about it ?" The sight of Liddy and the sound of
her name had worked upon him more than he had
thought anything could.

"Do I do!" cried Rita, all eagerness, clasping
his arm with both her hands.

He had never said so much to her before, and
she, in fastidious delicacy, had not asked. He
laughed now, but still with anxiety in his face.

At present I must get ready for dinner," he
said.

Ah ! it is always like this," cried Rita ;
when you are in a humour to tell me, something
happens, dinner, or something equally unimportant
I" which was more like one of her early
girlish outbursts than the matronly composure
by which she liked to think herself distinguished
now.

But at this moment her maid came to tell her
that the carriage of the English Signori, who were
coming to dinner, had just driven into the courtyard,
and Rita had to give her skirts a last
settling, and to hurry to the drawing-room.
And Harry had failed in his tie ; he had to take
a new one, feeling his hands tremble a little.

His mind was Id a great ferment. Some months
before lie bad seen the advertisement for Harry
Joscel'n, or a certificate of bis death, in the
Times, were he was described as " supposed to
have emigrated," and this of itself had roused no
small commotion in him. He was to hear of
something to his advantage." Harry could not
tell what that might be, and if for a moment
now and then the temptation came over him to
answer the appeal and understand the cause of
it, it yielded immediately, not only to the old
resentment, but to the new sense of alarm and
apprehension with which the idea of breaking up
his present life, and disclosing to those who knew
him under one name another identity, filled his
spirit. It appeared to him that, if he gave up
his present standing ground by revealing another,
his whole life, so happy, so sweet, so full of
natural duty, work, and recompense, would breakup
and disappear from him. As Isaac Oliver he
was at the head of the Consular business, known
and named in aU its affairs. As Isaac Oliver he
was the husband of his wife. All the town knew
him under that name, his children bore it. It
had become almost dear to him, the name which
he had picked up in bitter ridicule, and adopted

with a perverse laugh, as he might have stuck a
feather in his hat. The sound was familiar now
to his ears, he liked it. It was Rita's name.
She called him Harry, as the name of his childhood,
which he preferred, and he had been led
to admit that the *' Harry Joscelyn Isaac Oliver,"
with which, for precaution sake, he had signed
the register on his marriage, was his full baptismal
name. He signed it now H. J. Isaac Oliver,
and she was Mrs. Isaac Oliver. He liked it, and
had a certain pride in it, as a name that was
honest and without stain, and which should never
suffer in his hands ; and if he cut himself off from
it, what would become of him? his identity
would be gone. But the appearance of Liddy
had made a very great impression on him. When
she rose up suddenly, with a little start and cry,
at the sound of his name, he had seen in a
moment, in imagination, the real Isaac OHver,
shuffling like a crab along the North-country
road, and a sense of the incongruity had
struck him painfully, bringing a sensation of
sudden shame and discomfiture ; but in general
he was not ashamed of the name to which he
had grown familiar, and he felt as if, resuming
the other, his pleasant life would all breakup

and disappear, and he would become another
man.

Rita met the strangers with less composure
than she would have done but for that two
minutes' talk. Even when she threw herself into
Lady Brotherton's arms, in the fervour of
feeling which her Italian blood made a little
more apparent than it would have been had she
been all English, she cast an eye upon Lady
Brotherton's companion. Lydia was not looking
her best in the confused and painful fever of
suspense and expectancy which was upon her;
but she looked younger than her real age, and
almost childlike in her slightness and slimness
beside the matronly form of Lady Brotherton.
Even Rita, though still light and small, was
rounder and fuller than of old, but Liddy looked
eighteen though she was twenty-two, and there
could be no doubt that if Harry had seen her
before it must have been as a child. This somewhat
composed the fanciful bosom of Harry's
wife. Liddy when she had made her cm'tsey to
Mrs. Oliver, sat down behind backs, with a
timidity which had come suddenly back to her,
isolating herself as far as might be, especially
from Lionel, whom she had avoided ever since

their recent conversation. Harry had not vet
come into the room, and she felt herself altogether
in a strange place. Perhaps it was this that
brought Paolo to her side: the little Italian
thought her probably, a neglected demoiselle de
compagnie whom nobody particularly cared to
notice, and this was enough to bring him instantly
to the rescue. "Miss Joscelyn is a
stranger in Italy ?" he said with an engaging
and conciliatory smile. He spoke a great deal
better English than when Harry had made
acquaintance with him, and dressed with less
abandon and devotion to the beautiful ; but he
was still a " funny little man," in the eyes of
the English girl ; his kindness however could
not be mistaken.

Scarcely," she said, " I have been in Italy
all the winter ; and now we are going home."

Ah, you are going 'one, that always
pleases ; but I hope Mees Jos  lyn will retain a
little memory that is pleasant of Italy too."

Oh, I have liked it so much," said Liddy. She
was disturbed at this moment by Harry's entrance ;
and it occurred to her now for the first time
as it had done to Lionel when he first saw him,
that she had seen somebody very like him who

was it that was so like him ? She paused in what
she was saying to interpose this wondering
question in her own mind.

That is Mr. Oliver," said Paolo, " you have
seen him before 1 He is what we call hehomOy
fine man, very fine man ; he is my great friend ;
I was the first to meet him when he stepped
upon this shore ; we have been friends of the
heart always since that day."

Lydia cast an involuntary look from the little
man in front of her, in his elaborate dress, to the
big person of the Englishman. She could not
help thinking they would make a strange pair.
And Paolo, with the quickness of lightning,
divined her meaning.

You think he is so tall, and I  little? Nevare
mind," said the good little fellow, ' we are of
the same tallness in the heart. Nay, even me, I
am a little the tallest there," he added, laughing,
for I have nobody, and the good Oliver, he has
his wife and little children, and many to love.
He is my devotion," added the Italian, warmly.
I have never had a friend before him. I am
English too though perhaps Mees Jos-lyn would
not know it."

Are you indeed ? I beg your pardon," said

Lydia, " I thought you were an Italian. Mr.
Oliver is very English. Do you know where 
he comes from ? and is it long since he came
here ?"

That no one can tell you so well as I,"
said Paolo, delighted with the subject. " It
was in  Ah, how well I remember ! I was
upon the quay to watch for the great vapors 
the steamboat I should say  and echo ! in one
of those little boats that brought the travellers,
this tall, big, beautiful young man. I step
forward. I offer my help, for he could not speak
a word, not one word. But no I he had a
distrust of the foreigner. Mees Jos-lyn has
perhaps remarked ? It is the great fault of the
English ; they have always a distrust of the
foreigners. He would not listen, nor permit
himself to be assisted ; but caught up his portmanteau
and walked along. Wonderful! I
stood and looked. Che bell'uomo! they all
cried. I, I did not take any time to think  I am
English, but I am Italian as well; from that
moment I loved him, though he had a distrust of
me. When I entered tahle-dliote at the hotel
where I always dined, there was he again ; and
then we became friends. We have quarrelled, oh

yes, we have quarrelled  a hundred thousand
times," cried Paolo, " but we are always friends
again. Mees Jos-lyn will pardon that I tell such
a long tale. It is ten years."

What are you saying to Miss Joscelyn, Paul-o,
about ten years f

'* I am telling, amico, how we became
friends," said Paolo, stretching himself to his
full height by Harry's side, raising himself on
tip-toe The other looked down on him with a
kindness that was not without a touch of
contempt. Harry was very faithful to Paolo,
and proud of him in his way ; but the almost
feminine demonstrative affection of the little
Italian was always a thing of which he was
half ashamed.

Is it ten years f he said. " But you might
find some better subject to entertain Miss Joscelyn
about."

'* I asked him," said Lydia. She looked at this
stranger with very anxious, suspicious eyes. He
was a stranger of course. She had seen him for
the first time to-day. Still his name was one she
knew; his face was one she knew; his very
voice sounded familiar. A curious confusion and
suspicion came over her. Strangely enough it

never once occurred to her to think of her
brother.

Let rae take you to dinner," he said.

Could anything be more common place ? The
Vice-consul went before them with Lady Brotherton,
Sir John hobbled after them with Rita.
On either side there were a few words being said.
Lady Brotherton on the one hand pouring praises
of Rita's developed beauty into her father's
pleased ears, while old Sir John spluttered forth
his remarks on the other. '' Father's an
evergreen, my dear. Looks ashyoung ash'ever
he did. Blooming', lorrain', Hke yourself."
Between these two, feeling a little tremor in the
arm she touched lightly with her hand, Lydia
walked with her silent companion. He did not
say a word, and neither did she. But her heart
began to beat : there seemed something strange
and exciting in the air. She felt suspicious of
him as if he had been a criminal ; why did he not
speak? It was scarcely any better at dinner.
There was a great deal of talk at table, and
much liveliness, but in this he took little share.
"When Lydia looked away to the other end of the
table, or talked to anyone else, she invariably
found his eye upon her when she returned to

herself; but he said nothing except in answer
to what was said to him ; either he was a very
stupid man, or  something else. She became so
impatient at last that she turned to him boldly,
provoked by his silence.

Mr. Oliver," she said, '' I know some one of
your name in the North-country."

He seemed to perceive with an effort that she
was actually addressing himself; but turned to
her quickly, as if prepared for the attack.

My name is not a very uncommon name," he
said.

Oliver is not ; but Isaac Oliver is surely very
uncommon  it made me stare when I heard it.
I thought you must be a messenger from home."
Lydia felt herself grow important in her excitement.
" Our Isaac Oliver is a very well-known
person. Cousin Lionel, you know him too !"

It was a most unjustifiable attack ; and to
compromise Lionel too ! Lady Brother ton
stopped short in the midst of something she was
saying, in her dismay at this contradiction of all
her instructions, and this called the attention of
the whole table to what Lydia was saying. There
was a general pause in which every word was
distinctly audible.

Everybody knows lira," said Liddy, " in our
countryside."

And then they all looked at Harry, upon whose
countenance there came a slight shade of colour.

Is it so?" he said ; " bat he is no relation of
mine."

How can you tell," the audacious girl went
on, " when you do not even know what countryside
I mean ?"

*' Harry" said Rita, leaning across the table,
what is Miss Joscelyn saying to you ? You have
forgotten your favourite dish, which was made
expressly for you. Look, there is Antonio waiting,
and cannot make you understand."

I beg your pardon," said Harry, with a hurried
glance round him ; and then Antonio, though
he did not know a word of English, understood
like a true Italian that he was wanted to relieve
an embarrassment, and gallantly stepped into the
breach with his dish. Lydia, arrested in the
midst of her assault, felt herself driven back
upon herself, and confused as if she had received
a soft, unexpected blow.

"Harry," she said, in a low tone, "Harry  I
thought your name was Isaac Oliver. I beg your
pardon, I fear I have been making a mistake."

VOL. III. N

The talk had recommenced again ; nobody
was paying any attention, and Harry's head was
bent over his plate ; but suddenly he raised it
for a single instant, and gave her a look. What
did that look mean ? Lydia was stunned by it
as by a sudden electric shock. She had been
confused before, but not half so confused as now.
The look was tender, affectionate even, half-appealing,
as if, she thought, there was some
secret understanding between them  something
which they knew, and which nobody else
knew. She stared at him in return, arrested
in all the movements of her own mind, her lips
dropping apart in her wonder, her eyes opening
wide. He was not angry nor surprised at her
boldness, nor at her attempt to force upon him
an undesirable relation, but looked at her with an
almost affectionately, an understanding which
she could not understand. Lydia was altogether
confused ; she did not say another word. Sitting
by this stranger's side, she relapsed into silence
like his own. Who was he? What did he
mean? How had he got the command of her?
She vas giddy with the confusion in her mind,
and what it all meant she could not tell.

CHAPTER X.

AFTER DINNER,

BUT Lydia was far, very far from being out of
the embarrassment which she had brought
upon herself. Alien the ladies went back to the
drawing-room, which they did after the English
fashion, Rita took no more notice of her than
civility required, though she could not help
owning to herself that there could be no reason for
displeasure with her husband, or the least sense of
jealousy on Lydia's account ; Rita however could
not help showing her adoption of Harry's quarrel
by the chilliest civility to the girl against whom
he had bidden her to be on her guard. She would
not, as some suspicious women might have done,
seize the opportunity to find out something concerning
that part of his life which was unknown

N 2

to her. She was too proudly honourable to do
this ; and she could not help feeling a certain
enmity towards the girl who might betray him,
even to herself. No, she would not hear a word
Miss Joscelyn might have to say. She lingered by
her a moment coldly, and asked if she would like
to look at some books of engravings (it was before
the time of photographs), placing them before
her on a little table ; and then she sat down on a
sofa in a distant corner of the room with Lady
Brotherton, and talked and talked. When the
gentlemen came in, Lydia was visible in her
white dress, all lighted up by the condensed light
under the shade of a large lamp, sitting quite
alone, while the voices of the two others seemed
to bring her solitude into more full relief. Quite
alone nobody taking any notice. There was
room round her for all the party, and it would
have been natural that they should have collected
about her, the only girl among them, so pretty
as she was, and neglected by the other women.
But the younger men were balked by the Vice-consul,
who stepped forward briskly, and at once
put himself into a chair beside her. He talked to
her, as he had a gift of talking, with delightful
sympathy and kindness. He asked her about

her travels, how far she had gone, ad entered into
all the Httle adventures of which she told him,
telling her stories of the days when he too
had travelled, and giving her all manner of
anecdotes. The Vice-Consul was still a handsome
man, as majestic and gracious as ever; and
he had a way, as everybody acknowledged, of
talking to young people. He charmed Lydia
altogether. She thought she had never met with
anyone so delightful ; and then he led the conversation
quite imperceptibly to England, and her
part of the country, and her family and herself.

England is a closed country to me," he said.
To be sure I might go now that my daughter
is married, and I am no longer indispensable to
her. But I forget that. When Rita was younger,
before she married, I was all she had, as she is
still all I have in the world. I hope your parents
are both living, Miss Joscelyn, and happy in
their child ? Ah, that is well. Rita has never
been in England, and must never be."

"Must never be?" Lydia looked across the
room to the sofa on which Mrs. Oliver was still
sitting, with mingled wonder and pity. And yet,
she reflected, she herself was not so very glad to
get back to England. That was a fate which,

under certain circumstances, might be bearable
enough.

*' No ; I dare not risk her among the fogs and
damps. She is  well, perhaps, I ought not to
say she is delicate, not now : but she was so
during all her earlier life. You see, I forget that
she is not still my little girl, but has now little
girls of her own. That makes a difference. No,
she was never to go to England, that I vowed
almost as soon as she was born. The cold and
the damp were fatal to her mother, and Eita is
so like her ; I dare not risk my daughter there."

But," said Lydia, " it is not always cold and
damp. It is very lovely here, but people are prejudiced,
and talk nonsense about England. If it
is so long since you were there, you have, perhaps,
forgotten. We have something else besides
rain and fog."

Yes, yes ; I know there is an occasional fine
day. You come from the south of England probably,
Miss Joscelyn, where some sort of fine
weather is to be found f

No, indeed, I come from the north  quite the
north, close to Scotland ; and we have often beautiful
weather," said Lydia, with a glow of
patriotism ; " a different blue from this, and a

great deal more cloud; but then that is what
makes it so beautiful, flying over the hills,
clearing off in a moment, then dropping again
like a white veil, and the sun bursting out all
in a moment like a surprise. When one comes
to think of it the variety is the charm.
Here you have the same thing all day long, and
every day ; but with us the skies are never the
same for an hour ; and as for cold, I never feel
any cold ; one takes a brisk walk, and that is all
that is wanted."

I see you enter into the spirit of the country.
The north ? That is where my son-in-law comes
:from." The Vice-consul always said to himself
that he put in his tone a note of interrogation to
this question ; but Lydia took it for a statement,
and received it without hesitation.

Yes, I suppose sc," she said.

I think I heard you say that you knew  relations
of his? Are they neighbours of yours?
I am interested in everything about Harry."

That puzzles me," she said, " to hear you call
him Harry. I thought he was Isaac Oliver. I
know some one of that name."

A neighbour ? It is, as you says, an uncommon
name. I might have thought of that. Yes,

quite an uncommon name. And your Mr. Oliver,

Miss Joscelyn, was f

"Oh," cried Lydia, forgetting all previous
cautions, with a laugh at the unnecessary title,
"he was not Mr. Oliver at all. He was a man

whom  he was a man  he was a "

Here she stopped all at once, bethinking herself
of Lady Brotherton's injunction, and of the
possible effect upon the young man who had looked
at her with such a strange, curious look, of this
revelation. She stopped all at once, and looked
at her questioner with sudden alarm. " I have
not the least reason to think that he is a relation of
Mr. Oliver's," she said. " It was only an idea on
my part. It was because of the name. Wher.
I heard the name I thought it must be some one
sent to bring me home."

It is a curious name. We have got used toit
: we have forgotten that. The man then is
not a gentleman? I think I may guess as
much. He is a  what ? A farmer  a yeoman ?
The yeomen in the north country, I have always
heard, are a very fine, independent class of men."

Oh, it is not a farmer, or a  Indeed,

indeed, it was the silliest mistake on my part.
Besides, it is not really the same name, even if

that were anything, for you call him Harry ; so
he cannot be Isaac Oliver, after all."

"You must not think me too pressing, Miss
Joscelyn. I have a particular reason for wishing
to know. We have never known much about his
family ; and I think I am sure that it must be the

same family, for the name of Joscelyn is

What is it, what is it, Harry? Am I wanted?
This is the way we are worked, we poor servants
of the public. H.B.M., God bless her ! is a hard
taskmasters : but this conversation is too interesting
to be abandoned. Keep my seat for me
here, Paolo. 1 put great confidence in you till I
come back."

Paolo, who had been hovering about with many
longing looks, took the seat with enthusiasm.

I take it," he said, " with all my heart ; but
to give it up, even to the Signor Consul himself,
that is what I shall not do if I can help it. Mees
Joscelyn has known Mr. Bonamy before ? He is
charming. He will not only talk, but make
talk. He has great education and feeling ;
and in art, he knows himself much better than
most of the English  not to speak with unkindness
of the English, who have much fine qualities :
and also I am English myself''

"But one would nottliink so," said Lydia, "to
hear you talk." She was of opinion on the whole
that this was rather a compliment than otherwise,
for " foreigners " in her opinion were more
interesting" than commonplace Englishmen.
But Paolo was in despair.

You think me? Ah, it is cruel ! and if Mees
Joscelyn say so," said little Paolo, " it must be
true. No, I am not like my friend for example ;
but Englishmen are not all one like another.
There is variety, as you have said so beautifully,
like a poem, about the weather. Ah, the English
weather ! I should like that."

I don't think you would altogether," said
Lydia with a quiet smile. She had no attention
to bestow on Paolo. But she did what impulsive
people are so apt to do with strangers, insignificant
but sympathetic, often to the great damage
of the victim. She leant forward a little and
took him into her confidence, " You are a great
friend of Mr. Oliver ?" she said, " you told me so ;
then please don't go away when Mr. Bonamy
comes back, for he is asking me questions, and
I would rather not answer. It might do Mr.
Oliver harm."

I will not go  for the King himself if you

thus tell me to remain' cried Paolo, enchanted.
But he was confounded too ; he did not understand.
The first and most natural idea seemed
to be that Lydia and Harry were old friends or
lovers, with a secret between them ; or else this
was a mere pretence to secure the pleasure of
his, Paolo's, society, instead of that of Mr.
Bonamy. English young ladies, who were so
free in their manners, so emancipated, did very
strange things. Paolo smiled upon Lydia with
his most captivating smile. *'I could stay here
for evade," he said.

Lydia gave him a look of amused surprise,
but she did not mind the little man at all, nor
did it for a moment occur to her that he might
interpret her sudden confidential impulse according
to any theory of nationalities.

It is very hard," she said, leaning back in
her chair with a little sigh of relief, " when anyone
looks you in the face, and keeps on asking
questions, not to tell everything that you
know."

You think so," said Paolo. " Ah ! Mees
Joscelyn, it is that you are so true, what you
call straight forwards in England ; here one would
take a pleasure in doing otherwise. In Italy,

when it is imagined that you desire to know more
than is necessary that pleases to ns to confuse
you. Not to me," he said, bethinking himself,
and beating his breast lightly to indicate himself
as an exception, " not to me, for I am also English
: but to noi altri Italian :" this little confusion
of a double identity as English, yet one
of noi altri, pleased Paolo ; he laughed at his own
cleverness with the frankest self-appreciation.
It pleases," he said, " to put a too much inquirer
wrong."

"But when he looks you in the face," said
Lydia, amused and relieved, " how can you say
anything but what it really is ? There is a  person
in England whom I know. He is not a gentleman,
but he has the same name as Mr. Oliver. Mr.
Oliver's name is Isaac, is it not ? but then they
call him something else, and I don't know what
to think."

*' My amico, Oliver, pleases to Miss Joscelyn ?"
Paolo said.

"Pleases to   1 I feel a great interest in
him," said Lydia. " He startled me so much
with the sound of his name ; and then he is like
somebody 1 know. I cannot remember who it
is  but there is some one; and then Mr. Bonamy

asks me so many questions  I feel an interest.
I do not think it very wise, if you have
poor relations, to be ashamed of there  do you?
And yet one does not like to betray another
if there is any reason" Lydia became so
fragmentary in her utterances, that Paolo
could not follow the broken thread of her
thoughts.

Ny-ce ?" he said. " But my friend Oliver is
very ny-ce  there is not a thought in him that
is not ny-ce. I know," said Paolo, with an ingratiating
smile, " that word so well."

How nice of you to answer for him so !" cried
Lydia, turning upon him with a sudden radiance
of smiles. " It is delightful to meet with such a
true friend."

Paolo's very soul expanded with pleasure. He
put his hand upon his shirt front, and bowed over
the little table, laden with the picture-books. He
did not deprecate as an Englishman would have
done, or disclaim any merit in this ; but took the
full credit of it with a pleasant consciousness of
deserving it. He thought, however, that there
had been enough of Oliver, and determined to
push his own successful fortunes without further
delay. "Miss Joscelyn, I hope, will stay long, a

little while, two, tree weeks at Livorno ? No !
Oh ! that is bad news, very bad news," said
Paolo, his face growing longer and longer as she
shook her head.

*' Only till tomorrow  tomorrow evening weare
to go by the steamboat ;" and Lydia, reverting
to her own thoughts, recorded this statement
with a sigh.

"You are sorry to leave the beautiful Italy.
Ah ! and Italy too will be desolated when so
many charming Inglesi, so many beautiful ladies
leave her shore  tomorrow ! That is bad news,
very bad news," Paolo said.

I am afraid Italy will not care very much,"
said Lydia, with a little laugh. " The English
come and go every year ; but I don't think I shall
ever come back. For me it is once in my
life," she said, this time with a sigh ; and the
sigh was a sad one, for there came once more over
her mind, which had been temporarily distracted
by a new subject, all the heavy and troubled
thoughts which had made her so restless and
wretched for a few days past.

'' No, no," cried Paolo. " No, no  ah ! pardon,
it must not be one time in the Signorina's life.
She must return  she must return! There are

impressions, made in a moment  which will
nevare, nevare be effaced "

Paolo was carried out of himself; he leaned
across the table, almost kneeling at Liddy's feet,
and with the most passionate expression in his large
liquid Italian eyes. Lydia on her side looked at
the little man with the sublimest composure.
She elevated her eyebrows the least in the world
in mild surprise, and a passing wonder crossed
her mind, immediately checked by the reflection
that these were "Italian ways." But Paolo's rapt
looks attracted the attention of others, if not of
her to whom they were addressed. Two champions
stepped forth immediately to the rescue. On one
side Harry, hasty and disposed to be a little
peremptory with his friend, and on the other
Lionel, anxious and alarmed, thinking of course
that any rival might come in at the last moment
and " cut him out."

Paolo," said Harry, " I wish you'd look after
that gymnastic man for the children  the man
you told me about. Ralph is coming back tomorrow
; he wants exercise when he's in town."

' Ralph?" said Lydia, looking up, and once more
meeting a look which bewildered her. Harry's
brow was a little clouded, but his eyes had the

same tender appeal in them, the same solicitude,
as if he wanted her to understand him. What
did he want her to understand ? and here was
another familiar name.

Yes," he said, but a little uneasily ; " it is an
English name. We are divided a little in our
family. The next is Giovanna, after an aunt 
of my wife's.

But that has an English form, too," said
Lionel. " Joan."

A spark seemed to flash out of the eyes of this
strange Mr. Oliver. He meant something. What
did he mean? Lydia seemed to herself to be
groping after him as if he had led her into a
dark passage with a doubtful outlet, yet one that
showed faintly far off. Isaac or not, he must be
somebody who knew about him, who was conscious
of some connection. And to see him
standing there before her, the idea that he belonged
to old Isaac Oliver seemed too absurd to
be entertained. How foolish she had been to say
anything about it; how unkind and impertinent
to try to vex him by producing that ghost of an
old country servant! But then how was it that this
stranger knew she was speaking of an old peasant,
a man of a different species ? He knew all about

him, she was convinced. Old Isaac meant to him
what it meant to her. Here again Liddy got
entirely confused in the darkness, and groped
and felt that she must be on the edge of finding
out all about it, but for the moment knew nothing,
and had not even begun to suspect any new turn
which the confusion might yet take.

' Names seem very much the same in all languages,"
said Harry ; " the contractions are different.
In England we take the first half of the
name, in Italy the last. My wife's name is Rita ;
one little girl is Madge ; but they are the same
name  Margaret. And you've only to stick on
a vowel, and an English name becomes prime
Italian. There's yours, for instance, Paolo ; in
English you would be Paul."

"That is true," said Paolo, dissembling, with
a broad smile of affection, the sensations produced
by the slap upon his shoulders which Harry
was in the habit of administering, and which he
was too polite, too devoted, to complain of.
Paolo had a keen pang of disappointment too to
have been thus interrupted while he felt he
was making such progress with the beautiful
young Englishwoman; but he was too
sweet-tempered to resent it. He winced under
VOL. in. o

the blow, but he smiled all the same. " That is
true," he said ; "but, amico mio, if you could but
learn what it is to pronounce two vowels in the
Italian ! Mees Joscelyn must know that my
friend Oliver, he is in Italia for ten years,
and still he cannot do justice to two vowels.
Will the Signorina make me the pleasure to
pronounce my name?  Paolo. Pao-lo, broad,
like this  ow. He will never catch it, he is so
true an Englishman ; but Mees Joscelyn will say
it  ah, perfectly !" cried Paolo, clapping his
hands together, and once more throwing himself
into that adoring attitude ; " thanks a thousand
times ; that is to make music of my poor little
name."

At this both the Englishmen made a step forward,
and stood tall and frowning like sentinels
on either side of her, glooming down upon the
little Italian, thrown forward almost upon his
knees, with his clasped hands half way over the
table, and rapture in his big, beautiful eyes.
The scene roused Lydia in spite of herself.
She was only a girl after all, and this conflict of
emotion around her, the demonstrative adoration
on one side, the furious defence on the other,
which was quite as great a compliment, amused

her, and gave her a little thrill of pleasure. Both
Harry and Lionel, however, were much disgusted
to perceive that, instead of being indignant and
offended by Paolo's demonstration, she was at the
least amused, and perhaps pleased. This made
them more angry than ever.

' The vowel may add softness'* said Lionel,
in a tone of irritation ; '' but I don't think that is
any advantage, at least in a man's name. In that
a little abruptness, a bold conclusion, is desirable,
not a liquid a or o."

You want English for that," said Harry ;
these foreign beggars (I beg your pardon, Paolo)
are all for airs and graces. I suppose I can't
get my mouth about them ; though to tell the
truth I don't see any difference between my pronunciation
and Miss Joscelyn's."

It is true," said Paolo, " there is a sound in
both your voices  what you call it  a tone. You
have in brief, by the way, the same voice  that is
strange. Mr. Brotherton, he is in a different key :
but you, that is a great compliment for
you, amico, you are in the same note with Mees
Joscelyn. She will speak perfectly, perfectly!
the Italian, and you no. Oh, you no I nevare,"
said Paolo with a laugh, clapping his hands;



but nevertheless it is true you are in the same
tone'

That is strange," Harry said. Once more he
looked at her so affectionately, with a kind look of
pleasure in his eyes, that Lydia was more and
more bewildered. " It is a great compliment tome,
as Paolo says."

"My mother seems to want you, Lydia,"
said Lionel, very coldly. He did not like it
at all. It seemed to him that Oliver, who was
a married man, was forgetting himself altogether,
though he was an Englishman, and ought
to have known better ; and was paying court undisguisedly
to Lydia as well as this little hop-o'-my-thumb
of an Italian who was languishing at her
feet, just like a foreigner, showing off those sentiments
which an Englishman has the delicacy to
conceal. And Lydia was pleased ! Was it possible
? Such a thoroughly nice girl, so modest and
delightful in all her ways, never putting herself
forward, always with the pretty reserve in her
frankness which is the very bloom of maidenhood.
To think that she should be pleased ! Lionel felt
that he could not understand it. This, no doubt,
was the sort of thing which made cynics declare
women to be incomprehensible creatures. A really

nice girl, everything about her good and pure, and
yet this kind of thing actually pleased her I
Lionel's indignation, and disgust, and disappointment
were extreme, but he tried to restrain himself.
My mother is looking for you," he said. "And
I suppose she wants to go. You must not
forget my father has been ill, and that we have
a long journey before us"" He hoped the fellow
would understand this ; that she was going away
tomorrow, and that he had no further chance
of philandering in this barefaced way: and he
hoped Liddy understood that he thought her
forgetful and inconsiderate, and showing no
feeing for poor old Sir John, not to speak of Sir
John's son. But his ill-temper did not have so
great an effect as it might have had in other
circumstances. She was looking up at Oliver,
wondering, with her pretty eyebrows slightly
raised and a softened, gentle, almost child-like
look, interrogating the eyes of that fellow, who
was a married man ! Lionel thought it absolutely
immoral. He was disgusted and bewildered, and
did not know what to think. He made another
step nearer and offered her his arm. " My
mother," he repeated, with some sharpness, " is
moving to go away."

Lydia made no resistance. She took his arm
quite submissively, and held out her other hand.
Good night," she said to Harry. " I suppose
we must be of the same country, as we have the
same voice."

Yes," he said, holding her hand a moment,
we are of the same country, and I know what
you think ; but it is not that."

"It is not that What is its Lydia said,
with a startled look, as if she saw light somewhere
; but then Rita came forward with Lady
Brotherton and took leave coldly of Miss
Joscelyn, and there was nothing for it but to go
away.

CHAPTER XI.

THE COUNSELS OF THE Night.

 T Liddy, Liddy, my dear I you should not
J have said anything about that old man.
How is it possible that he could be a relation of
Mr. Bonamy's son-in-law ? It is odd, of course,
about the name ; still, you know, there might be
another Lydia Joscelyn in the world who was
no relation of yours. There are Joscelyn s down
in the South. I thought when Sir John first
remembered about your mother that it was one of
them she had married ; and there might just as
well as not be a Lydia among them. Lydia is nota
common name, no more common than Isaac 
but there might be a Lydia among them, who,
of course, would not be related to you."

I don't think now that he is related to Mr.
Oliver," Lydia said.

I wonder' said Lionel, " what reason you
have for that ? It seems much more likely tome
than before. I don't think the fellow is a
gentleman. Oh, he looks well enough, there is
nothing amiss about his appearance ; still there
are some things I have remarked."

"If Lionel thinks so," said Lady Brotherton,
my dear, in these matters, I always take the
opinion of a man, just as about women I would
take a lady's opinion before all the men in the
world. Oh, yes, it is very pretty to talk of
jealousy, and all that ; but you may be sure we
all know our own kind the best. If Lionel
thinks so, I would take his opinion before my
own."

At this Lionel had compunctions, and drew
back a little.

Perhaps I went too fares' he said. " I was
out of temper. Still there are some things a man

would not do, if " but though he felt that he

had been rash, he did not complete his sentence.

A.

The carriage stopped, indeed, at that moment at
the inn door, and there was no time for him to
say anything more ; and Lydia took no further
part in the discussion.
She bade her friends good night in the hall of

the inn and ran upstairs to her room. She was
rather glad to have disagreed with Lionel and
set her own opinion before his, and she felt
angry with him, indignant, and almost wounded,
that he should have given such an opinion.
She felt it almost to be something against herself.
She hurried up to her own room, to finish her
packing, she said. She had taken out her white
dress to wear that evening, and had now to put
it back, to resume her travelling-garments. It
was their last night in Italy ; next evening they
would be at sea, seeing the sun set in the Mediterranean.
It was a warm night, and her mind
was far too restless and busy for sleep. When
she had put away her dress, and arranged all her
possessions in order, she went to the open window
and sat down there, looking out at the moon.
The room was high up near the skies, and she had
all the firmament to herself, nothing to disturb
its calm except the old belfry of a convent with
its little tinkling bell, which was always in
movement all day long, but which seemed to have
gone to bed along with the peaceful sisters and
their pupils. This little belfry stood out against
the deep blue of the sky, which lined out every
Httle curve and corner, but all was quiet in and

about it, its shrill tongue still till morning. All
was quiet ; the room looked out to the back of
the house, and not an echo of the street reached
Lydia in her retirement. She felt, half with the
giddiness of her excited condition, half with the
expectation of tomorrow, as if she were sailing
upon a sea of space, floating between the earth
and sky ; and as she sat there so still, her candles
burning in the background unnoticed, sedately
awaiting her leisure, and the soft night blowing
in upon her with a breath of the sea in it, a
perfect crowd and storm of thoughts burst on Lydia
in the quiet. She thought, you would suppose,
of what she had been doing to-night, of the
curious questions about Isaac Oliver, and the
examination to which the Vice-Consul had subjected
her, and all the novelty of this story into
which she had been thrust head and shoulders
without any will of her own; but, to tell the
truth, Lydia thought nothing about this at all,
at first. She thought of tomorrow, of the tide
of movement which would sweep her away, of
leaning over the bulwark and seeing the long
trail of the water gliding under the ship, and of
what might be said to her there. Sir John would
be safely installed in the deck-cabin, which had

always to be secured for him, and Lady Brotherton
would stretch herself out on a sofa and close
her eyes, in preparation for being ill. And then :
what would be said? She wove a great many
imaginary conversations that came to nothing.
Why should they come to anything? He would
tell her  what he was going to do in town ; that
he hoped she would enjoy going home ; something
commonplace, ordinary  or else he would
say foolish things about the months they had
been together, and pretend to regret them. Why
should he regret them ? Lydia imagined herself
saying much that would not be true, that she
was impatient to get back, that the quiet of the
Fells would be delightful after so much wandering
; and much besides which would pique him and
wound him, and perhaps goad him to say other
unpleasant things in return.

And then all at once, without any doing of hers,
her thoughts gave a leap back to to-night, and
there began to float and move before her all the
new faces never seen before, never, probably, to
be seen again, which for an hour or two had filled
her with such strange, strong interest. From
the moment Mr. Isaac Oliver had been announced,
startling her out of herself, until now, when still

discussing him, she had left the rest of the party
in the hall, the encounter had agitated and disturbed
her. " We are of the same country, and I
know what you think  but it is not that." "What
did he mean ?  it is not that I and why did a
stranger whom she had never seen before look at
her so, and understand her so strangely ? Her heart
began to beat loudly once more when she thought
of her impertinent production of old Isaac, when
seated beside her silent host at the table, taunting
him with the old man ; and he understood her 
that was the strange thing. If he did not really
belong to old Isaac Oliver, how was it that he
understood her ? When he looked at her with that
curious appeal, as if saying " Do not vex me  do
not trouble me," there would have been no meaning
in it if he had not known what she meant ;
and how could he know if it was not true?
Lydia felt herself caught as in a net of confusing
questions and thoughts. Another man would
have been surprised ; he would have asked " Who
is this namesake of mine? Tell me about him."
But this man did not ask a question ; he knew.
She felt that from the first moment she had perceived
this involuntarily, and that her little pricks
of questions could not have had any point if he

had not known old Isaac, and if she had not felt
that he knew him. Mr. Bonamy, for instance, did
not know at all, and asked natural questions 
who th gentleman was ? the gentleman ! if he
was a neighbour, a farmer, a yeoman ?  none of
which things Mr. Oliver so much as suggested.
Then who was this that knew Isaac Oliver, that
knew her own name she began to remember,
starting when he heard it first, as she had started
when she heard his ?

By this time Lydia began to get hot after
the puzzle which unfolded itself slowly before
her. Why did the Vice-Con sul ask her so many
questions ? and he had begun to say something
about " the name of Joscelyn." AYhat
about the name of Joscelyn ? Then a crowd of
bewildering recollections, like motes in the sunbeam,
like the whirling flakes of a snowstorm,
began to circle and dance and palpitate around
her. " We are of the same country, and I know
what you think  but it is not that." What was
it, then ? What was it ? He a relative of Isaac
Oliver ! no, no !  it was impossible ; but he
knew Isaac Oliver ; he knew his name and herself;
he knew what she meant when she spoke ;
and when she tried to humble him with her impertinence,

he was not angry, but sorry. She
seemed to see now his kind, half reproachful,
half-appealing eyes, the look which bewildered
and arrested her, she could not tell why. Quicker
and quicker went the course of Lydia's thought.
He had a child who was called Ralph, and another
Joan  no, not Joan, but Giovanna ; but there
had come a gleam out of his eyes when Lionel
had suggested Joan. Who was he, who could hebe
to use these names, to look like that, like somebody
she had seen, to understand all she meant,
yet not to be angry? And their voices that were
of the same tone ! She could see this herself, or
rather she could hear it herself  that their voices
sounded alike, with a suspicion of a North-country
accent. Good heavens! where was this flood of suggestion,
of recollection, carrying her ? She jumped
up from her seat in the confusion and hurry of her
thoughts, and began to pace about the room, her
hands clasped together like her mother's. Then
she stopped in the centre of the room, and in
the silence, in the middle of the night, threw up
her arms above her head with a wild gesture,
and gave a sudden cry. " Harry !" she almost
screamed to herself in the stillness. Everybody
was asleep around her, the stars winking in the

sky as if about to shut up their wakeful eyes,
the blue behind the belfry beginning to glow
with a pale radiation into the air of the coming
dawn  and as if they had given each other a
signal, all the clocks of the silent town began
chiming and striking, some of them prolonging
the lengthened measure of the Italian time into
the soft tuning of the night. L3dia standing in
the middle of the room in wild excitement, her
hair streaming about her, her arms thrown up,
her mouth open, looked like a prophetess in a
trance, seeing the invisible, almost shrieking her
revelation into the heart of the silence. Harry !
Harry ! She could not keep it to herself; she
could not help but scream it out into the night, to
make sure that she was not dreaming or raving 
but was a sane creature, who had made a discovers
seemed to set her whole being on fire.

It was a long time before she could calm herself
down. If there had been anybody to tell it
to, that would have been something ; but, as she
had no way of getting rid of her excitement, it
blazed up in her higher and higher. She did not
know what to do to calm herself down. She
walked about for nearly an hour, now and then
going to the window, leaning half out, exposing

herself to the fresh air and coolness, eagerly
looking for the first early riser, the first window-opening,
and watching the little belfry grow
black against the lightening sky, then flash and
blaze to the first touch of the sun. Sleep ! she
could have sooner done anything else in the world
stretched out her arms like wings and flown,
leaped down from the window, called out to all
the city, that was what she wanted to do 
Harry, Harry !" She seemed to have but one
idea left in the world.

After a while, however, in the desperation of
being unable to communicate her discovery, or do
anything to bring herself more clearly face to
face with so wonderful a revelation, Lydia sat
down to trace it again step by step, then lay
down on her bed, going over and over the familiar
ground. She fell asleep just as the sunshine
began to stream into her room, and slept soundly
for an hour or two in the depths of her exhaustion ;
but when she woke it was still early, and a long
day before her. Naturally the first thing she did
was to survey again the entire circumstances,
going over them one by one. She had not much
experience, and in her whole life no such lawless
incident as a nuit blanche, a night spent without

taking off her clothes had ever occurred to
Lidd} before. She felt almost guilty as she
found herself lying there, her long hair streaming
about her, in her dressing-gown, as she had been
when she first sat down at her window to think.
Sometimes the morning light dissipates the wisest
calculations and conclusions of the night, and
turns its theories and revelations into folly ; but
as she started up hastily, and began to put her
facts together again, no such awakening occurred.
They seemed more conclusive, more certain, in
the sober light of the morning, than they did
in the feverish wakefulness of the long, silent
night. She pieced them all together hurriedly,
in a tremble of excitement. He had been there
ten years, and it was ten years since Harry disappeared.
He had said nothing about his family,
he had even married without any explanation
on that point. He had started at the sound of her
name ; he had understood all she said. He had
called his child Ralph  Ralph ! after his father,
with a prejudice that was North-country all over;
and his name was Harry, so called by his wife,
though he had himself announced as Isaac Oliver
Lydia thought she could understand exactly what
had made him take Isaac Oliver's name a
YOL. m. P

moment of despite and despair, yet humour 
a putting down of himself from the pinnacle of
the Joscelyns to the humility of the lowliest
servant, an expedient which would direct the
thoughts of anyone who might seek him into
another direction. She sprang up, and was fully
dressed and ready to begin the extraordinary
piece of work she had in hand, before anyone
else of the party had stirred. But what was she
to do? Was she to go to him straight, without
any further inquiry, without a pause, and say.
Are you my brother Harry? or, You are my
brother Harry ! If by any chance he was not so,
after all, he would think her mad. What was
she to do ? She sat down again at the window
where she had sat for half the night. The sunshine
was pouring in, growing every moment
more brilliant, not like the temperate British
sunshine which it is a pleasure in the early
morning to bathe and bask in, but already
blazing, slaying in its Italian force and fervour.
She had to close the peisiani, which she had herself
thrown open in her restlessness on the
previous night. When all the people of the hotel
were in motion, and life fully astir, she went
downstairs; but there was nothing to be done

there, save to sit down once more and think it
all over again. She had not been there long,
however, when Lionel came into the room in
search of a book ; he had been restless too ; but
he started violently when he caught sight of her
buried in a great chair, with her hands clasped in
her lap. For the first moment he thought that
she must have been there all night.

"Lydia!" he cried, in great alarm, "what is
the matter?" Then he added, hastily, "My
nerves are entirely wrong, I think. You startled
me so, as if you had been all night in that chair."

Not in this chair' said Liddy. willing, however,
to have some credit of her sleepless night,
"but almost the same. Cousin Lionel, I want
advice very much. I am very lonely and very inexperienced
to do anything important by myself."

He came quickly and drew a chair close to her.
She was excited physically by her vigil, and the
tears were very near her eyes, which were brimming
full when Lionel, much concerned and very
tender and sympathetic, looked her in the face.
He put out his hand to take hers with anxious
solicitude ; and Lydia did not resist. Her heart
was so full, and she was so overburdened with
this new thing, that the mere touch of a s\nn-

p 2

pathetic hand was a consolation to her. The
tears dropped out of her eyes Eke two drops of
rain upon her dress, and then she looked at him
and said, " I have found Harry," with the tremor
of a sob in her voice.

You have found !" he was so startled

that he did not know what to say in reply.

Cousin Lionel," cried Lydia, " answer me
this  how did he know what I meant when I
spoke of Isaac Oliver ? He knew very well, he
never asked a question ; and why did he start
when he heard my name ? I saw it myself. He
arrived here ten years ago, without knowing anybody,
he has never told them about his family,
he called himself that, don't you see, in a kind
of disdain at himself and everything. Then he
married and promised never to take his wife to
England. He did not want ever to go to England,
why was that? And he called his son
Ralph, fancy, Ralph! why was that? And
though he is called Isaac Oliver to the world, he
could not bear that at home, and they call him
Harry, his true name. Oh, Lionel, do you not
see it all ? It is perfectly clear, as clear as noonday.
And now tell me what am I to do T

But " Lionel said, who had not followed,

entirely without preparation as he was, her
breathless argument. " What do you mean ? tell
me what you mean ? I am utterly bewildered.
Are you speaking of Oliver  Oliver I don't
understand what you mean."

Lydia made a gesture of impatience.

Oh, everybody is so slow, so slow !" she cried,
*' except him. He understood at once. Don't
you see he must have known it all beforehand,
everything that could be said ? He never asked,
'Who is Isaac Oliver?' he said in a moment,
directly, ' He is no relation of mine.' How could
he know if he had not known ?" cried Liddy, too
eager to be lucid. "Mr. Bonamy asked me,
Who are you talking of? a neighbour, a farmer,
a yeoman, who is it V but lie never asked a question.
He said directly, ' He is no relation of
mine ;' and when we were coming away he said
to me, *I know what you think, but it is not
that.' Now how could he know what I thought
if he had not known ?"

By Jove !" said Lionel. He was very much
startled, so that some exclamation was necessary.
That is very acute," he said ; " I see what you
mean. It is very acute, and this is very strange.
Perhaps  there may be something in it. But

you know," he added, 'Mt is far too pat, too
complete, to be a real discovery. People do not
find long lost brothers like this."

Oh, do not talk  in that common way," cried
Lydia ; " as if strange things did not happen as
much as they ever did ! Why should it be too
complete*? The more you think of everything,
the more you will feel sure. Don't you see just
why he chose that name to disguise himself with?
I do. And all those little bits of kindness to
call his boy Ralph, like a forgiveness to my
father, who was so hard upon him. He has
not a Liddy,'' she cried, with a little regret.
*' Ah, I see how that was too ! mother, dear
mother, he had nothing to forgive her. Lionel !
Lionel !" she cried, grasping him by the arm in
her excitement, "tell me what I must dos

You see meaning in everything," he said,
more than there is, more than there can be,
Lydia. All that about his child's name is just
your own delicate feeling  though after all, when
one comes to think of it, Ralph ! it is an odd
name for a little Italian boy."

"And the girl is Giovanna ; you said yourself
it was the same name as Joan."

Did I ? I am sure I did not mean anything,"

said Lionel, with a short laugh, and then he
cried, "By Jove!" again. "I really do think
there is something in it. He gave a look, I
remember now, as if he did understand, as if
he thought I meant something. It looks very
odd, Lydia ; and I had a strong impression he
was like some one that I had seen him before."

"He is like all of us' said Lydia, with a
little breathless gasp, "not one nor another, but
all. But tell me, tell me what to do ! We have
only to-day, a few hours, nothing more !"

As for that," said Lionel, " of course, if this
turns out so important, my mother must simply
arrange to stay till we see the end of it. She
will not mind, she will like to jump into the
middle of a romance ; and my father will easily
be persuaded to stay, there will be no difficulty
about that."

And then there was a long debate and consultation
between them ; a debate  for Lionel, not
understanding that even when a human creature
is a woman she likes to do her work with her
own hands, was for proceeding to the Vice-Consul
himself, and going through all the pros and cons,
and bringing the result to her, to save her fatigue,
and to keep her from all disagreeable contact with

the world ; whereas Lydia's most prevailing desire
was to follow out the clue at which she had
caught, and to track her prey into his last refuge,
and to unveil the impostor. She did not use
these words, but this was the course upon which
she was intent. She was not afraid of contact
with the world, or of what anybody might say.
The discussion rose somewhat hotly between
them as the servants came and went, laying the
table, bringing in the English urn and teapot,
which all the Inglesi preferred. They were still
sitting close together, talking warmly, interrupting
each other, Lydia's face glowing with the
excitement of the situation, when Lady Brotherton
appeared. She was startled by the sight,
but for the moment she did not ask any questions,
being much pre-occupied by Sir John's breakfast,
that the tea should be strong enough without
being too strong, that the cream should not be
turned," and that the fish should be done to
his mind. She did not take much notice of them,
and the meeting between them broke [ip, each
retiring upon his and her own side of the question.
Lydia was too much excited to talk, or to
think, of ordinary things. She sat at the table
as upon thorns, and the moment the meal was

over, got up with some excuse and hastened
away. Lionel followed her a few minutes after.
He lingered in the hall, hoping he might be intime,
at least, to go with her, wherever she might
choose to go. But as she did not come, after hassan
-hour's waiting Lionel resolved to act upon his
own theory, and accordingly set out on his volunteer
mission, hoping that she might have thought
better of it, and was staying with dignity in her
room, however anxious she might be, waiting till
he, her representative, should bring her news. It
was a pretty division of labour, and one that fell
in with all Lionel's views.

CHAPTER XII.

ACTING FOR HERSELF.

BUT it is not to be supposed that Lydia, her
whole being ablaze with excitement and
eagerness, was likely to assent to this masculine
view of what was best for her. Before Lionel
had got downstairs into the hall, where he waited
so long to intercept any rash enterprise she might
be bound on, she had stolen out, tremulous yet
brave, and was speeding along the morning
streets, where the passers-by, who gazed at her
with that frank admiration which Italians feel,
without any impertinence of meaning, to be the
due of every pretty woman excused, yet
wondered at her solitary progress, on the score
that everything was to be pardoned to an Englishwoman.
Lydia herself was confused by the looks

she met on every side, but her mind was so
entirely preoccupied that they made less impression
upon her than they would have done had it
been at freedom, and it did not occur to her that
she was being guilty of any breach of decorum.
What troubled her more was that she was
uncertain of the vvay, having paid but little
attention to it last night, and she was shy of
asking which turning to take. But by right
of the inspiration that was in her, and of that
good fortune which attends daring, she at last
found herself in a street which she recognised,
and saw with a beating heart the well-known
shield over the doorway. It was not to the
official entrance she was bound. She saw with a
smile, even in the midst of all the ferment of her
agitation, the little Italian, her admirer of the
previous night, in light clothes and a cigar,
making his way towards it ; and, lingering a
moment till he disappeared within the doorway,
she hurried after him till she got safely within
the shelter of the courtyard and to the door of
the Vice-consul's house.

The Vice-Consul that morning had been early
astir. He had been painfully affected by the
half-revelation of last night. All these years,

since the beginning of their intercourse when
he had framed his theory about Harry's
parentage so easily, and satisfied himself so
entirely that he must be right, nothing had
occurred to put this theory to the test. The
marriage had taken place while he was still ill,
and in a state of some danger, and perhaps at the
bottom of his heart he was glad and relieved to
be ill a condition which made all inquiries impossible,
and which forced him to throw himself
upon Harry's honour. He had never had any
occasion to be shaken in his faith as to that
honour personally, and use and wont had made
everything natural. For years he had not thought
on the question. Nothing had occurred to bring
it up. The serene domestic life had flowed along,
and notwithstanding the drawbacks on Mr.
Bonamy's part which have been already noted,
they had been happy together. He was aware
that, though he might sometimes grudge Harry
the position he had acquired in Rita's affection,
yet that he himself would have been the first to
miss him had any accident taken Harry away.
But at the first whisper of a real discovery of his
son-in-law's antecedents, Mr. Bonamy was roused
out of the quiescence of years. The very suggestion

of some one bearing Harry's name roused
him, and something about Harry, an awakened
attention in his eyes, a strain of watchfulness
quite unusual with his simple, easy-going nature
had aided the impression. He had already heard
something from Miss Joscelyn, and was on his
way to learn more when Harry had interrupted
the conversation, calling him away for a matter
of business to which strictly speaking it was
necessary that he should give his attention, but
which in other circumstances his son-in-law, he
felt sure, would have managed himself rather than
disturb him among his guests. And what he had
heard had roused him still more. It was evident
that the person, whoever he was, who bore the
same name was not a relation to be proud of, and
the Vice-consul too was impressed by the fact,
dimly apparent, that Harry had shown no surprise
and asked no questions when this namesake was
spoken of. There had been that look in his eyes,
neville, on the watch, on bis guard; but no
curiosity  and he had not said a word about it
when the guests were gone. Neither had Eita
said anything about it, which would have seemed
so natural. She had not asked who Miss Joscelyn
was speaking of, or what she was speaking of;

but had maintained a complete silence on the
subject. All this awakened the Vice-consul's
anxious curiosity. He was on the watch at
breakfast next morning, hoping that something
might be said, that Harry might laugh at the suggestion
made to him, or take some notice of it.
But nothing occurred to throw the least light upon
the subject. Harry was still watchful, still on his
guard, but chiefly occupied with little Madge and
the baby, whom he brought in to breakfast seated
high upon his shoulder, and who occupied him
completely in a way which filled the elder man,
though he had usually all the indulgence of a
grandfather for his descendants, with impatience.
He was glad to get away from this scene, rising-somewhat
abruptly, and going out without any
explanation. Had Lydia come the direct way
she would have met Mr. Bonamy and saved him
a great deal of annoyance and trouble. But,
as she took two or three wrong turnings, the Yice-
Consul reached the inn and was shown up to the
sitting-room to wait for Lady Brotherton about
the same time that Lydia reached his house ; and
Lionel, by no means so sure what to do as either
of these straightforward and one-idea persons,
had gone to the English bankers, the best informed

persons he could think of, to see what information
about Mr. Isaac Oliver he could pick up
there.

Lady Brotherton was still busy about Sir
John's breakfast, endeavouring to beguile him to
the simple luxury of an egg instead of the something
much less safe on which he had set his
fancy. " You must not forget that we start tonight
; that we have a sea-voyage before us'' she
was saying. " Morsh-a reason for deshuut breakfast
now," said the invalid, and chuckled and
laughed at his own cleverness. His wife
was not at all disposed to go downstairs and
hear what Mr. Bonamy might have to say.
Let's have old Bonamy up here  show him up
here," Sir John said ; but that was so much
worse that Lady Brotherton left him to his
ortolan, and went off to answer her untimely
visitor. She thought it was no doubt a mere
visit of goodwill, to inquire " if he could be of
any use." " As if we wanted anybody to be of
use I As if we were not experienced enough to
know what we want, and how to get it' she
said to herself, as she went to the unwelcome
guest. Her mind was a little perturbed besides ;
the servant had declared that he could not find

either Mr. Brotherton or Miss Joscelyn. They
had both gone out. Where had they gone, had
they gone together? she asked, but nobody could
tell. Now Lady Brotherton had bidden them to
go out together, had said they were cousins, and
had no need of a chaperon, but she did not like
this adoption of her advice so suddenly. The
last morning, just when Sir John wanted special
managing, that he might commit no imprudence
before the evening, and when they might
have known Mr. Bonamy would be sure to
call !

But when Lady Brotherton heard that it was
not civility, nor for her sake at all, but a
visit full of self-interest upon his own business,
this interruption in the midst of all her cares
threw her out of temper.

No, indeed, I cannot tell you much," she
said ; " I heard them talking of it, but I did not
pay much attention. The man is an old servant,
I believe, belonging to Miss Joscelyn's family, a
sort of old factotum at a farm. My son lodged
in some rooms in the old Manor-house (I think),
and this old Isaac and his wife  did for him,' as
people say. Yes, I am sure that was the story.
They all know this old man, quite respectable, I

feel sure, a sort of good class of family retainer ;
servants of this kind still flourish, you know,
in some out of the way places. Mr. Bonamy, I
am afraid you are ill."

*' No, no," he said, waving his hand, " nothing,
it's nothing, a kind of faintness I have sometimes
since my illness, which goes ofi" directly.
I see  I see  an old servant. Well, of course,
it was a very odd coincidence, very odd. But I
thought at first the young lady supposed that
this old man of hers was somehow connected
with my son-in-law. Thank you ! thank you ! I
see how absurd I was."

Oh, I don't think Lydia could be so ridiculous
as to think that," said Lady Brotherton, " only
my son and she were both struck by the name ;
it is such an uncommon name. At least, the two
together were struck by it ; they both cried out,
Isaac Oliver !' My son is rather fond of telling
absurd stories about this poor old man. He is a
kind of a wit in his way, it seems, but a little
of that goes a long way in the country. I don't
think I have seen much humour in what they
tell of hin  "

"A thing that is quite commonplace often
VOL. m. Q

seems original from the lips of a clown," said the
Vice-consul, with solemnity. ' Perhaps you
have heard something about the family, or children,
or other relatives of this  old mans Mr.
Bonamy felt disposed to call him a confounded
old man, but, after all, it was not the old man's
fault.

"Nothing at all, nothing whatever, I assure
you. You must not think, Mr. Bonamy, fora
moment it was only pour rire ; they never
supposed, I am sure you will believe me when I
say it, of connecting old Isaac with  any gentleman
; it was a mere joke. They thought the
coincidence so amusing, and Lydia, I suppose,
as girls do, thought it was fun to tease Mr.
Oliver a little ; that was all. I have never heard
a word more about it. It was only at the moment.
I hope you will forgive my silly youngsters.
They are both out. I cannot think where they
are gone, or they would make their apologies
themselves."

"No apologies are necessary," the Vice-consul
said. He was very grave, his countenance had
changed even since he came in, much more since
yesterday, when his handsome head had been
full of serene content. There was a deeply

marked wrinkle in his forehead, and the lines at
the corners of his mouth drooped heavily He
seemed to have aged half-a-dozen years. " There
is no harm done ; and where there is no offence
there need be no excuse." He said this with a
sort of formality, such as he was in the habit of
employing to troublesome British subjects, who
got into many scrapes and gave much occupation
to the representative of their country in pulling
them out. It was a style that told (for the
moment) upon such persons, and it came to his
hand readily on an emergency. " I am glad to
hear there is so little in it," he added, rising.
"Unfortunately my son-in-law is estranged from
his family, and we know but little about them ;
so that I thought it just possible this might be
some one  in whose well-being he was interested.
It is I who should apologise for troubling you.
I hope Sir John is none the worse for last
night f

He is not at all strong," said Lady Brotherton.
" It begins to be anxious work when we
have long journeys to take. But he bears them
better than anyone would think," she added.
*' Oh, no, he is none the worse ; I left him making
a very good breakfast. He would have liked to

see you, but I could not think to trouble you
coming into a sick-room."

'- No trouble at all," Mr. Bonamy said, but he
did not make any motion to go, neither did she
wish him to do so, and they parted with mutual
politeness and professions of regret to have
given each other trouble, and repeated protestations
that it was no trouble at all. But when
the Vice-consul got out of doors, he went along
slowly with a dejected tread, his head drooping,
his eyes dim, and little in him of the
dignified tranquillity becoming the representative
of H.B.M. He was wounded in his pride,
in his self-confidence, in the serenity of his
judgment, in the force of his instincts. He
was not going to give up Harry ; Harry was
Harry, whatever happened. But to think, after
all, that he was not a gentleman that the family
which Mr. Bonamy had taken for granted was a
family of laborious peasants, not of gentlefolks,
that his relations were such as would not help
him, but burden him in every particular of life 
in short, that he himself had been entirely
mistaken, and that he had given his daughter to
a nobody, went to his very heart. He had the
generosity to reflect that Harry had said little,

that it was he who had jumped at conclusions
and given him credit for connections which he
had never directly claimed. It was he, rather
than Harry who was the fallen personage, fallen
from all certainty, from all faith in the future,
in himself. He would say nothing about it, he
thought, to anyone. "Why disturb poor Rita,
who need never know that her husband's father,
or uncle, or near relation was a farm servant'?
Why even bring poor Harry to book, and force
him to confess, and convict him, if not of falsehood,
yet of sanctioning a false impression?
Mr. Bonamy with true magnanimity decided that
he would not humiliate, as he might do, even the
chief culprit, if culprit he could be said to be.
It was no use to make all suffer. He thought it
best on the whole to make an effort to keep the
trouble to himself.

Meanwhile Lydia had knocked with some timidity
and trembling at the door of the Vice-Consul's
house. She asked for Mrs. Oliver with a hesitation
that was very unusual to her. Now that the moment
had come her heart beat so loudly, her breath
came so quick, that she did not feel able to face it.
She was led soberly up to the large, cool, shadowed
drawing-room, in which with so much agitation

she had spent the previous night. There was no
trace of agitation or disturbance of any kind
about the tranquil place, all closed up and semi-dark,
according to the Italian wont, against the
fierceness of the sun. The old graceful furniture,
the dim pictures on the walls, the signs of long
established living everywhere, made it almost
impossible to think of any change or revolution
that could happen in such a settled place. Lydia
sat down in a corner, feeling herself more than
an intruder  a traitor and introducer of strife
and trouble into the stillness. She had asked
instinctively for the wife, lest after all she
might be making a mistake ; and only after
she had done so, had it occurred to her
that to have her husband thus discovered
and identified, though he had done no wrong,
might not be an agreeable incident in Eita's
life. This, however, was but a momentary
thought. To feel that she was herself within
a few minutes of the truth was an excitement
which occupied all her being. Her mind had
room for little more.

Rita was busy with her housekeeping, arranging
the affairs of the day. Her husband was in
the office at his work ; her father gone out, no



doubt about business ; her little children enjoying
the morning air in the garden. All had
begun pleasantly as usual in the well-ordered,
calmly constituted lite. She had been a little
disturbed, a very little, last night by her visitors,
with the slightest possible jealousy in her mind
of the new-comer, who seemed to have some sort
of connection with her husband's early life, that
portion of it with which she was completely unacquainted.
It was a mere superficial sentiment,
not strong enough to be called jealousy, yet
veering that way ; for she did not like to think
that anybody anywhere could know more about
her Harry than his wife, a feeling which even in
its most unreasonable phases is not uncommon
among wives or husbands either, for that matter.
But that Miss Joscelyn was going away, was
gone away so far as the Vice-consul's household
was concerned, and Rita thought no more of
her  She was interrupted in the very midst
of her discussion of the spes, and examination
of the contents of the cook's basket, which old
Benedetta was helping to turn over, and making
sharp remarks upon, to the damage of the cook's
temper, as so much dearer and not nearly so good
as in her time  by a message that a lady wanted

to see her. She was predisposed to be annoyed
hy it. " A lady ! how often must I tell you to
bring me the name ! It can be nobody for me ;
it must be some one for your master' she said.
The man was very humble and apologetic ; he represented
that the English names were very hard
to pronounce ; that it was the young lady who
had been there last evening  the young lady who
resembled the bambino so much. " Resembled
the bambino? What bambino?" cried Rita. And
then old Benedetta burst in and explained that
all the servants had remarked it  that the
English young lady was the very image of nostri
bambino, our own blessed baby whom everybody
admired.

Resemblances are very strange," Benedetta
said ; " they will come without rhyme or reason 
for of course our darling can have nothing to do
with a stranger  a young Signorina Angles whom
no one ever saw before."

I wonder you can allow yourself to talk such
nonsense, Benedetta. There is not the slightest
resemblance," Rita said. The other servants
bowed and deprecated, and agreed that the
Signora must know best ; but Benedetta stood
like a rock, and completely ruffled the impatient,

fanciful temper of her mistress. Rita delayed
consequently as long as she could find something
to occupy her in her kitchen, wilfully keeping her
untimely visitor waiting. " What can she want
with me ? She had better ask for Harry if she
has anything to say. Like my baby indeed! I
wonder what next ?" Rita said to herself. But
at last, when there was no further excuse,
she mounted reluctantly the stairs, and walked
slowly towards the drawing-room, Lydia within
counting her deliberate steps with a beating
heart that went a great deal faster. It was a
duel that was about to take place between the
two.

"Good morning," Rita said, coldly ; "Italian
servants never can manage English names.
I was told it was a young lady, and that
is vague. Pray sit down. I hope there is
nothing amiss with Lady Brotherton or Sir
John."

I come  entirely on business of my own,"
said Lydia, with a little timidity. She was
taller and altogether a more imposing person by
nature than this small, little, half Italian matron ;
but Rita had always a certain grandeur about
her, and she was the invaded chatelaine, the

defender of her house against an intruder. Lydia
felt almost afraid of her, and a little compunctious
too.

My husband would probably be of more use
than I can be. But pray sit down, and if there

is anything I can do " Rita said, with a

majestic wave of her hand towards a
chair.

But Lydia did not sit down. Her hands sought
each other in that same clasp of agitation which
was habitual to her mother. '' I must beg you
to pardon me. It is about your husband that I
want to ask."

My husband !" Rita said, and no more.

They stood and looked at each other for a
moment, Lydia, appealing, agitated, as if (she
felt) there was something wrong in her interest
in Harry, the little wife towering over her in
offended dignity, something like a Queen Eleanor,
though without any cause.

I want you to tell me if you know anything
of his family, or where he came from ; and when
he came here ? and if he has ever spoken to you

of any of , and why he has never taken any

notice? It must seem very strange to you'
Lydia sat pausing, trying a smile of anxious

deprecation, " that I should ask such questions as
these."

"It is very strange indeed. I cannot understand
them, or what right you can have to put
them. A stranger must have a very good reason
indeed for interfering at all between a man and
his wife."

I do not want to interfere," cried Lydia ;
oh, believe me, it is not that ! I want only to
know ; and it may be very important for you and
the family, as well as for us. I am only surmising,
groping ; and I am not  very old," the
girl said, with that instinctive appeal to personal
feeling with which women invariably back up
all arguments, " nor experienced. I don't know
how to go about it. But it is of so much importance,
if I only could tell you right, to my
mother, and all of us, and may be to you
too."

Your mother, and all of you I What do you
mean ? What have you to do with my husband ?"
Rita cried.

The wonder, and even the indignation, were
natural enough. To be confronted all at once
by a stranger demanding news of your husband,
declaring that what she wishes to find out will

be very important to her mother  what could
be more bewildering, more irritating to a
woman? Her nostrils began to expand, and
her eyes to flash. " There is evidently some
mystery here which I am unable to fathom' she
said.

It is a very innocent mystery," said Lydia ;
'' there is nothing in it that will do him any
harm, or you. If you will not tell me, will you
take him a message from me? It must be
cleared up one way or another, for we are going
away to-day."

Mr. Oliver is in the office," said Rita coldly,
walking to the bell. " He can be sent for at
once."

"Will you wait a little, please?" Lydia said,
faintly ; " though I feel so sure, yet I may be
wrong. Will you take a message forme? It
will be better if you will do it than seeing him
myself."

I would rather not be mixed up with any
mystery." Eita had her hand on the bell. She
was drawn up to twice her usual height, her
small foot planted firmly on the ground, her head
thrown back, her whole person instinct with
resistance, defiance, and indignation. And Lydia

before her, flushed and excited, was not at all
unlike a suppliant handmaiden, whom the wife
had a right to reject and cast forth out of her
house.

.Oh, do not be so hard upon me," she cried.
"Listen to what I want you to say to him.
Would I send any message that could hurt him
by his wife?"

Hurt  him  " Rita began to be confused,
and took her hand from the bell. " But it might
hurt me."

It will not hurt you. Don't delay, don't
delay !" cried Lydia ; " if you knew what a thing
it is to wait. And think how my poor mother has
been waiting all these ten years  and I said when

I left her that I should find him. Mrs. no, no,

I cannot call you by that name  it is unworthy !
Mrs. Harry  will you go and say this to him
from me? Listen, listen; you must not make
any mistake. Uncle Henry is dead. He has
left all his money to his nephew who went away.
If he does not come home it will be divided,
and wrong will be done. Will you say that to
your husband for me ?"

Uncle Henry  and his money  and his
nephew. What is the meaning of all this?

Wluit do we know about all this  and who are
you ?" It was Rita now who was losing command
of herself.

If he understands," said Lydia, dropping
down in a chair in the mingled exhaustion and
relief of having at last had her says, " I will tell
you who I am. You don't know the meaning,
but I am sure he will know. Oh, Mrs. Harry, it
is so simple a test! Will you not try it? If he
does not understand no harm will be done, and
you can judge of it for yourself. If he knows
what it means you will soon know all about
me."

She began to cry, with little tremulous laughs
between, in her agitation. She was entirely
overcome by the excitement of the crisis  so
near finding out, so sure, and yet still a little
cloud of suspense and uncertainty between.
Rita stood and looked at her  her rival was it ?
who was it?  with a tremor of wonder and
rising excitement, and even a sympathy which
nature exacted, which she was most unwilling to
bestow. Then reluctantly she went out of the
room, slowly and carefully closing the door
behind her, and walking along the corridor as if
counting every step she took. It was the

last struggle of her instinctive opposition with
awakened interest, excitement, curiosity, and
alarm. She ran along the passage to the office as
soon as she was out of hearing of the other.
In a moment more she would know.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE DECISIVE MOMENT.

MR. BONAMY felt weary of his morning's
expedition. It was not that there was
really anything to tire him in it ; but he
was dejected, disappointed, mortified. He did
not feel able to go into the office as usual, to
meet Harry as usual, to do and say the usual
things. He thought he would go into the house
instead, and rest a little, and see Rita and the
children, and try to console himself with the
reflection that this painful discovery only made
them all belong to himself the more. It was a
poor consolation, and yet in a way it was sure.
He felt them more his now that he was certain
no other family could claim them. Poor girl !
poor babies ! some time they might be glad

to take the name of Bonamy instead of that
wretched one that was their own. He did not
intend to say a word to Eita on the subject, but
he did what it was the habit of this imprudent
man to do, he thrust himself into temptation.
He went, all emotional and disturbed as he was,
into the dwelling-house, into the room where his
daughter would most likely be found, and where
she was certain to inquire into the cause of his
depression. In half an hour, in the ordinary state
of affairs, he would have been at Rita's mercy, and
notwithstanding all his fine resolutions would have
betrayed everything to her. He went in, however,
determined not to say a word, only to show his
child who was injured, though she did not know it,
that her father's tenderness would never fc\il her.
He was so foolish that he went into a jtiWL41er's on
his way, and bought a little ornament for her.
And he meant to say something very kind of Harry
too, though it was by Harry that his humiliation
had come. A peasant, a servant! and his poor child
who might have been a princess I but he would
make it up to her, and she should never know.

In this mood Mr. Bonamy went into the dim
and cool drawing-room, out of the heat and glare
of the streets. He saw some one seated near the

VOL. m. R

window, but he could not for the first moment
make out who it was. He was greatly disappointed,
however, to have the privacy of his
first interview with his daughter interfered with,
and though he was too polite to show his
annoyance, yet it was with no friendly feelings
towards the intruder that he made his way
among the furniture to the spot where she sat.
He had looked for a moment of attendrissement,
of something like the old unbroken union between
the father and child. Your husband is a disappointment,
but your father will never forsake
you; he did not mean to say this, would not
have said it for the world ; but he intended that
it should be understood, and there was no doubt
a melancholy enjoyment in the anticipation.
Whoever this stranger might be he wished herat
Jericho; nevertheless courtesy goes before
all, and he went up to her, with the full
intention of being friendly if he knew her,
and at all events civil, as became a man in all
circumstances towards a lady in his daughter's
drawing-room. Lydia looked up as he approached.
She saw him well enough, her eyes being accustomed
to the darkness. She was white as a
ghost, and trembling, expecting, though there

was not yet time, the return of Eta with an
answer to her message  perhaps, if she was right,
of Harry himself, and his recognition, and the
clearing up of the whole matter. But when she
saw only Mr. Bonamy, her heart seemed to standstill.
She threw up her arms with a pained and
wondering cr}

Oh, is it only i/ou ? Oh, am I wrong, am I
wrong, after all ?"

The Vice-Consul was as much surprised as she
was to find her there ; and he was piqued, as an
oldish (not very old) man, who knows himself to
be a handsome man, notwithstanding his years,
would naturally be by such an address ; but he
pulled himself together, and laughed, and bowed.

It's only I, as you say. Miss Joscelyn. I
am very sorry to disappoint you. I daresay
some one more interesting will soon be here."

Lydia was so over-excited, so exhausted with
the agitations of the night and the excitements
of the morning, that she burst out crying while
he was speaking. The Vice-consul was confounded
; but he was never more in his element
than when administering consolation. He
took her gently by the hand, and put her back
into the seat from which she had risen. "My

R 2

dear young lady' he said, soothingly, "I am
grieved to see you distressed. What is the
matter ? In what are you wrong ?" Then he began
to understand dimly that Lydia's distress must
be somehow connected with his own. He grew
very grave, though he still held her hand with
fatherly kindness. ' If you have come to tell
Rita anything unpleasant about her husband," he
said, "I am very, very sorry you should have
thought it right to do so. Miss Joscelyn. I have
heard it all from Lady Brotherton. I don't deny
that it has wounded me ; but, after all, my
daughter did not marry her husband for his relations,
but for himself. He is the just the same
in himself as he has been these nine, ten years.
To tell me would have been right enough, but
why vex Eita ? She need never know anything
about it. Neither, so far as I am concerned, is
there any need to reproach Harry with it. I do
not even intend to let him know that I am
acquainted with the condition of his family.
Let me persuade you, Miss Joscelyn  you ought
to be of gentle mind, so young, and pretty, and
gentle-looking as you are  to pretend this is onlj
a common call, and not to say anything to Rita,
or to him either, poor fellow. Rita is a girl of a

high spirit ; she might not forgive her husband.
Come, come, let me take you back to LB,dy
Brotherton ; and forget that you have ever seen
young Oliver, or his wife, or myself, or any one
here."

"Mr. Bonamy, you are very very kind. We
don't say much in the north country, but I think
I love you," Lydia said.

A smile came over his face ; even in such circumstances
the Vice-Consul could not help being
pleased. " This is very sweet and very pleasant,
and I have no doubt the feeling would soon be
mutual  if you will do what I ask you, what I beg
of you. Let these young people alone. Why
should you interfere with them ? I hope the Olivers
are decent people, at least, if nothing more."

The Olivers," cried Lydia, hotly, " are poor
folk ; they are nobody ; they have nothing to do
with it. I will never more submit to call Harry
by that name. I couldn't do it even at first,
though I couldn't tell why."

Now what does this mean ?" said Mr. Bonamy,
quickly. " What does this mean ? Is there some
further story to be told ? God bless my soul !
what is it, young lady ? You are not the sort of
person to interfere and make mischief. If there

was anything disagreeable to be told, why not
send for her father and tell it to me ?"

There is no reason why it should be disagreeable.
I may be wrong I may still be wrong," cried
Lydia. " Oh, don't speak for a moment that we may
hear her step coming back ! If he comes with her,
then I shall know I am right. A few minutes
will make me  I sent Mrs. Harry with a message
to him. I thought he would like best, if it was
true, to tell her himself. Oh, listen, listen ! is
there nobody coming ? This was the message I
sent: 'Uncle Henry is dead, and he has left his
property, and it will all be divided and lost to you
if you do not come back.' Did you hear anything?
If he understands that, don't you see? 
you can judge for yourself  I shall be right; and
mother, dear mother !" cried Lydia, with an outburst
of tears.

Mr. Bonamy stood by her confounded. " Uncle
Henry is dead, and has left his property ? What
else could Uncle Henry do ? he could not take it
with him if he is dead. If he understands that! Well,
I do not understand it, that is one thing certain."

Oh, open one of those dreadful windows ;
that there may be a little light  a little light!"
Lydia cried.

The Vice-consul obeyed quite humbly ; he had
lost his standing-ground altogether, even the
painful bit of soil he had got under his feet this
morning. He seemed swimming in a sea of
bewildered conjecture. He opened the persian,
throwing a broad bar of sunshine across the
dark room : and then there ensued another pause.
They waited in complete silence, be confounded,
shuffling about, taking up things and putting them
down, to the exasperation of Lydia's nerves, who
sat bolt upright and pale as her dress, with her
eyes fixed upon the door.

Xo ordinary measure of time could be sufficient
to calculate what this was ; it was hours ; it was
weeks ; it was minutes. Lydia had time to go
over everything in her thoughts ; to glance at
the aspect of affairs at home ; the consternation
of Will and Tom : the happiness of her mother ;
the mingled wonder and delight of Joan. She
had time to go through half-a-dozen scenes with
Lionel ; to speculate how her father would take
it : to realise even old Isaac Oliver's gape of
astonishment when he heard that Harry had taken
his name of all names in the world  before at last
there came a sound, unfamiliar to her, but which
Mr. Bonamy knew, the little click of the swing

door at the end of the passage which communicated
with the office. Then came the sound of
steps. Lydia rose up to her feet to meet the
decision whatever it was. She trembled so that
she could scarcely stand, and seeing this the Yice-
Consul, though not yet in charity with her, went to
her side in his kindness, and drew her arm within
his. " Lean upon me, my poor child," he said.
They stood on one side of the broad band of
light which divided the room, and which, though
it showed to them the other two who came ti, also
arm-in-arm, concealed them from the new-comers.
Eita, tearful and excited but not melancholy, was
clinging to her husband's arm. He with an
eager, pre-occupied face pressed forward across
the light. "Confound that sunshine! who opened
the window ?" were the first words he
said, then strode along across it, paying but
little regard to Rita, whom he dragged after
him. When he got face to face with Lydia he
paused.

' Was it you that sent me that message?" he
said. " Is it true?"

Lydia's emotion fled in a moment at this
matter-of fact address. She drew her arm out of
Mr. Bonamy's, trembling no longer.

It is true," she said ; " they have advertised
and done everything to find you."

I know  I know. I saw that ; but they never
said vhy. And they would like to take it
from me ! Will and Tom  and their father."

'* For shame !" she said ; " not father. He is
the one that stands out  with mother, and Joan,
and me."

He had been quite steady and business-like,
almost stern, up to this moment ; now he suddenly
fell a-laughing in the strangest way.

What a united family !" he said, " Mother
and Joan  and you. Who are you ? Little
Lidd}, the little girl at school, that poor mother
always thought  but, poor soul I she thought
that of me too."

Lydia's excitement was almost uncontrollable ;
but she was a North-country girl, and she kept
herself down a moment longer.

*' Joan always says still," she said, " that there
was a great deal of mother in you."

And then he burst forth into a half shriek of
laughter and sobs.

Look here, I can't stand it any longer," he
cried. "Mother is living then, and all right ?"
He seized her by the shoulders, looked her in the

face, kissed her almost roughly, brushing his
beard along her smooth cheek. " I knew you the
first moment," he said, " you little thing ! I knew
you the first moment. You were always a clever
baby from your cradle. I have often thought the
last baby was like yon. You were the sharpest
little thing ! Of course I knew nobody else could
be Liddy Joscelyn. And you thought I belonged
to old Isaac, eh ? that is the best joke I ever
heard. Old Isaac  is the old fellow living 1 And
father  stood out for me ? Well he ought to, for it

is along of him " Here Harry stoppedaminute,

put Lydia away, and looked round him upon the
two silent spectators who regarded this scene with
an astonishment beyond words. He made a pause,
pulling himself up all at once. " Poor old father,"
he said, " after all he's done more for me than
anyone (I called the boy after him, you can tell
him). It is along of him  that I found the best
friend and the dearest wife that ever was."

And Harry gathered his Rita  who had been
standing by with a countenance swept by all
manner of emotions : now angry, now melting,
wondering, bewildered, indignant, always chill
with that sense of being left out, which is the
most terrible of sensations to such as she  into

his arms and kissed her, and put his hand over
her forehead as if clearing some veil away.
You are not Mrs. Oliver any longer," he cried ;
that's a good thing over. You're Rita Joscelyn,
and the best and the sweetest that ever did
honour to the name. Isn't she a little beauty,
Liddy ? What will mother say to her, and to
the children ?" Here poor Harry, overmastered
by excitement and pleasure, fairly burst out crying,
and kissed his wife over and over, sobbing, and
bedewed her hair with his tears.

"You might let her speak to me, Harry," said
Lydia, crying a little in sympathy, but brightening
and beaming too.

This is all very astonishing," said Mr. Bonamy.
You have talked a great deal in an unknown
tongue, and kissing is all very well, Harry; but
you owe a fuller explanation to me."

Then Lydia stepped forth. " We are the
Joscelyns of Joscelyn Tower  the real old Josce-
lens whom everybody knows in the Fell country,"
she said. " We are not quite so rich as we once
were (but father has been doing so well lately,"
she added, in a parenthesis to Harry) " and we
live in the White House. He ran away ten years
ago, and never has written, never has sent a word

(oh, shame, Harry ! and poor mother breaking her
heart) all this time. But when I left home in
November," Liddy said, holding her head high,
to come abroad, I told them I should find him,
I should bring Harry home; nobody believed me
of course, but I have done it ; and now, Mr.
Bonamy, you know why I said I loved you. Weare
relationship she said, holding out her hand;
we all belong to the same family now."

The Vice-Consul was greatly touched ; and he
was deeply relieved at the same time in his own
mind (though, if truth were told, a little, just a
little, disappointed too). He took the hand she
offered to him very gallantly, with his old-fashioned,
paternal grace. "Then, my dear, I
may as well follow Harry's good example," he
said, stooping over her to kiss her forehead. " I
am very glad to receive you into my family." Yet
he would have liked to have had his daughter all
to himself. The Isaac Oliver business, which had
seemed such a terrible downfall an hour ago,
looked a little, just a little, to be regretted now.
It was an unworthy thought, and Mr. Bonamy
felt that it was so. He in his turn held out his
hand to his son-in-law. "When you are at
leisure," he said, plaintively, " perhaps you will

shake hands with me in your new capacity. Harry
Joscelyn  is that your name now ? Well, it is
preferable to that of Isaac Oliver one must allow."

As for Rita she was crying a little on her
husband's shoulder. "I don't think so," she
said. " I like all things as they were. I shall
never know who people are speaking to when
they say Mrs. Joscelyn ; and how are we to explain

to . "VVe are not going to tell everybody

all the story, I hope."

This was a little perversity not to be got overall
at once. She had not said anything to Lydia ;
she could scarcely forgive Lydia for being her
Harry's sister, for finding him out, for resembling
the baby : she saw that herself now, but was angry
with Benedetta for having discovered it, and with
Lydia for having in that disagreeable way announced
a private claim upon her (Rita's) family.
No doubt Ralph would be like her too, for he and
the baby had always been said to resemble each
other. Poor little Ralfino  Rita, who up to this
moment had called him Raaf in defiance of all
Italianisms, instantly conferred upon him the
softening vowel and diminutive : Ralfo, Ralfino
he should be henceforward, she decided in a
moment ; and she took no notice of Lydia.

Papa, she said to herself, was doing all that was
necessary in that way.

Thus the scene of the discovery, the restoration
of Harry to his family, and his inheritance to its
right owner, which according to all dramatic precedent
ought to have been ecstatic, was not at
all so, and ended in embarrassment and mutual
annoyance. The results would be very advantageous
in every way to the hero himself and his
wife and children, and would not he advantageous,
but the reverse to Liddy, who was at once so
much the poorer by Harry's discovery. But it
was she who gained, not she who lost, who took
the revelation unpleasantly. " You will have to goto
England I suppose," she said, looking askance
at the new-found sister, and clasping the arm of
her husband ; and there was a grudge in her tone.

"Yes, my darling; I must go and see my mother."

That is your first duty," said Mr. Bonamy,
almost severely ; the severity was intended for
his perverse child, but she took no notice of it.
Of course you must go to your mother. If I
had known, my boy, that there was a mother in
the case "

Oh ! for heaven's sake, papa, don't upbraid
him now ! it is bad enough without that. When

must you go? and wh} now that I am strong asa
little horse, why shouldn't I go with you?"
cried Rita, clasping his arm with both hers.

I don't know any reason, dear, except "

Harry turned appealing eyes upon Mr. Bonamy,
who had stiffened into a man of stone.

Except your solemn promise," said the
father ; '' but that was thought very binding in
my day."

'' In that case there is nothing more to be said,
Sir," said Harry, not without a shade of incipient
offence ; and then he turned to his wife. " It
will only be for a very short time, my darling. I
shall not be away from you, you may be sure, a
moment longer than I can help."

Oh, sublime selfishness of marriage ! which
looks like the most generous and perfect of 
the two concerned; the bystanders scarcely
saw it in the same light. The father, realizing
that his child had to be consoled for being left a
week or two to his sole company and tenderness ;
the sister, who had taken so much trouble to reinstate
her brother in his fortune and family,
finding out that he was to give to that family
not a moment longer than he could help-looked
at each other with a mutual understanding,

which found vent on Lydia's side in an uncontrollable
laugh of mingled humour and disgust.
Mother would be pleased to hear you say so,
Harry," she cried, " after ten years. I think you
might give her a day or two of your free will
beyond that."

Rita was very quick-witted, and she saw and
was ashamed. She detached herself from her
husband and drew near to his sister. " I daresay
you don't like me, d'avance, because I have the first
right to him," she said.

"I have never seen him since I was a child,"
said Liddy, with dignity. "It cannot be supposed
that it makes much difference to me. I
was very anxious to find him for mother's sake,
and to let him have his property, because it was
justice, but otherwise why should I fight with anyone
about him 1 he is a stranger to me."

"Don't say so, Liddy," her brother cried.

I must say so when I am asked such questions.
Mrs. Harry does not seem to understand,"
Liddy said.

There is nothing perfect in this world. How
different, how very different, she had expected it
all to be ! She had expected perhaps that Harry
himself would be a little gratified, that he would

be touched by the faith in him of his little sister
and her determination to find him. Lydia had
herself forgotten that this determination had
fallen much into the background in her recent
wanderings. She thought her mind had always
been full of it, and that this was the recompense
of her devotion. She was hurt and wounded.
Though she was Harry's sister, and though she
had brought him a fortune in her hand, she was
still a stranger in Harry's house, and his wife
defied her. She could have cried this time in
sheer mortification and injured feeling. " I will
let them know that you are here," she said with
as much stateliness as she could muster. " I
have done all that I suppose is in my power. I
will not intrude upon anyone." What a dreadful
thing it is to be a woman and have that weakness
of crying when you are hurt ! Liddy kept
her tears in her eyes only by main force, and
could not altogether succeed in subduing the
tremor in her voice.

At this moment, however, the door opened,
ind the servant appeared, introducing Lionel,
who stared when he saw the party thus assembled.
Lionel was not in the best of tempers. He had
been making inquiries as best he could, and he

VOL. m. S

had found all Lydia's guesses confirmed. But he
had gone back to find that she had stolen a march
upon him, and he was exceedingly cross, so cross
that he was sometimes very angry with, and at
other times very sorry for, himself. When he
had made his bow to Rita, and stared with a
gloomy countenance at her husband, he turned te
Lydia with suppressed passion. "My mother
has sent me for you," he said. " She wishes you
to remember that everything muss be ready early
to be sent down to the steamboat. Time and tide
will wait for no man, you know." This was said
with a little smile, as if he were beginning to
perceive, and wanted at least to hide from the
others, the vexation in his tone.

This made a diversion, and as the whole story
had to be told him, the members of this strange
family group were drawn nearer to each other in
spite of themselves. Under cover of the little
commotion of talk which got up, all of them
sometimes speaking together, Rita, who began
with her quick intelligence to realize the position,
and to see her own ungraciousness, took the
opportunity to draw a little nearer to Lydia. She
kissed her when she went away. " I  I hope you
will forgive me if I was bewildered," she said :

and Lydia forgave. But she was not the less
stately when she left the party, feeling, with a
little bitterness, that without her they would talk
the matter over more at their ease. Lionel was
stately, too. He made them his congratulations
with the utmost gravity, as if pleasure were out of
the question, and he took the earliest opportunity
to remind Lydia a second time that his mother was
waiting, and that the things must be sent to the
boat. They went out of the house together in a
sort of armed pacification, a truce hastily patched
up, stalking side by side, not looking at each
other. Going out into the street was a sort of
solemnity to them, like steering out into the sea
on a voyage in which they did not know what
might happen. Anything might happen in it.
They might quarrel for ever and ever, they
might part not to see each other again. They
might do anything  except walk quietly from the
British Consulate to the Leone, where Lady
Brotherton was waiting, fretting over Miss 's
box, which was not locked, and of which
no one could find the key.

S 2

CHAPTER Xii.

IN THE STREET.

OUT ill the street, out upon the world, out
upon a perfectly lonely sea, where they saw
nobody and thought of nobody, but those two
worlds of themselves, he and she, moving alone
together, with a little space of clear daylight
between them, the two parallel lines which can
never come together so long as measurements
last  For a time they moved on with no communication
at all, each feeling very solitary, and
unspeakably dignified and superior to all trivial
thoughts and words. What could they have to
say ? What does he care ? Lydia said to her .
self ; what does anyone care but me ? She had
done her work, but she had not got much satisfaction
out of it. It had estranged her friends

from her, and everybody. Her mother would be
pleased, that was always a little consolation to
think of. Dear mother ! and what if she were
disappointed too ? You never can tell how little
satisfaction there is in a new thing till it has
happened, she said to herself. In her preoccupation
she stumbled over a crossing, over the rough
pavement, and then her companion spoke.

Take care ; these little streets are so many
traps. Will you take my arm till we get into
the smoother way ?"

"Thank you," said Lydia, "it is not at all
necessary. I did not notice where I was going."

You prefer not to be helped in anything," her
adversary said.

Indeed, no ; if anybody will help me, I am
always very thankful'' Lydia replied.

And then he turned his eyes upon her. " I think
you are mistaken in yourself," he said, quickly,
we often are. You think women should be
independent and manage their own affairs."

Lydia raised her eyebrows a little.

"I was not thinking about women, or what
they should do. I think everyone, woman or
not, likes best to look after their own affairs
themselves."

"Do you think so? I have always been
brought up to believe that it was a man's part to
take the rough work, and that a woman did well
to accept his help."

Cousin Lionel' said Lydia, " if you are
angry because I went off to Mr. Bonamy's myself,
instead of leaving you to work things your
own way, you are surely very unreasonable. I
was sure of it ; there was not any reason to
doubt ; and why should I bother you about what
I could do so easily ? It was my business ; you
could not be supposed to  take  much interest."

Trouble me !" he cried, " take much interest
! Do you think there is anything you care
for that I don't take an interest in ? What is
the chief thing I have thought of ever since I
knew you ? You speak so much at your ease ; I
wish you would tell me that."

"I hope it is nothing to be angry with me
about," said Lydia, with meekness, " but how
can I know f

*' No, I suppose you don't know," he said, with
almost a scornful tone, " you have only seen me
every day these five months, and talked to me,
and pretended to take some interest in me, as
you say ; and now you turn upon me and ask me

how can you know ? How can you help knowing?
is what I should say."

Cousin Lionel, I don't know why you should
be angry. If I had waited for you this morning
I should have lost my chance. There was so
little time to do anything ; and time runs away
so fast when it is the last day."

"Do you think I am talking only of this morning?
"VYhat is this morning? It is all the time I complain
of. It has just been the same all the time."

And now it was Lydia s turn to look round,
this time in unfeigned surprise ; but her glance
at him, perhaps, gave her more information than
his words : at least, there was a subtle tone of
hypocrisy in the meekness with which she asked,

"Have I displeased you all the time?" with a
little tragic accent of remonstrance. " I am so
sorry," she said.

"sorry! and displeased ! it is not words liii
those that will do any good," Lionel cried.

Liddy looked at him again piteously, but perhaps
in the puckers round her eyes, and the
droop of her mouth, there was a dimple or two
which the faintest touch could have turned into
smiles. She shook her head.

You are hard upon me, Cousin Lionel ; you

are angry about this morning, and then you tell
me it is not this morning ; but all the time ; and
when I say I am sorry (what else can I say?
for I am very sorry, and so mistaken ! I thought
we were such friends !) you say, words like these
will not do any good. What am I to say ? It is
a discovery I never expected to make, that I had
been  disagreeable all the time."

I think you want to drive me out of my
senses!" he cried.

Which, indeed, was very foolish ; she had all
the reason and force of the argument on her side,
and he, having at some point in the altercation
taken a wrong turning, got only further and further
astray at every step he made.

Lydia by this time had recovered all her usual
composure. When one party to a controversy
gets hot and weak, the other becomes calm. She
felt herself to have the best of it, and it was a
pleasure to her, after her recent discomfiture, to
have the upper hand, and find herself in the exciting
position, not altogether un-enjoyable, of
skilfully fencing and keeping off an agitated man's
self-disclosure. It agitated herself a little, but the
circumstances strengthened her. Besides, whatever
was going to be said, this was not the moment

to say it, in the streets, with the Leone almost
within sight. His self-betrayal gave her force to
stand against him.

Here we are," she said, softly, " almost at
home  if you can call the hotel home. Whatever
I have done amiss, I hope jou will pardon me.
We shall be such a short time together now.

Oh !" for some one, darting forward, caught

her with the very tears in her eye, the quaver in
the tone. " Mr.  Paul ; Signor "

Not me," said Paolo, shaking his head ; " I
am born in Livorno, but except that I am an
Englishman ; Mees Joscelyn will not find it is
necessary to .say Signor to me. I have had a
commission  from the bureau. I am in this
direction, and I wait to pay my  homage  to lay
once more my respects  from the heart, from the
heart !" said little Paolo, laying his hand upon
that organ, " at these ladies' feet, and to ask if I
can be of service. The Signor Consul has authorized
me. I am known, well known, on the board
of the vapors. I could arrange the baggage,
select the cabins, what Mees Joscelyn will."

Lionel repeated instinctively his movement of
last night ; he came a step nearer, as if to keep
the anxious Italian off.

We are much obliged to you, but our own
sextant has looked after all that," he said.

Paolo's eyes flashed a little. The Englishman
was rude ; but in Paolo's experience Englishmen
were very often rude, and he was not surprised.
Englishwomen, that was a different matter. He
gave his shoulders a little shrug, and turned to
Lydia once more.

A servant that is one thing," he said, with
a wave of his hand, " there are many, and the
travellers many. One pays not too much attention
to servants ; but me, I think I can command
" Paolo said this with an ineffable

look of modest importance ; and he added in a
lower tone : " To make it more easy for these
ladies to go away  that is not what I should wish
to do ; but one must forget one's self, and there
may come another time  perhaps ?"

Yes," said Lydia, smiling. She was so glad
to come to an end of the tete-astute, which was
becoming so embarrassing, that she smiled with
double sweetness upon Paolo. " Indeed I shall
have more to do with Leghorn than I ever
supposed. Mr. Oliver who is your friend "

My friend  of my heart," said Paolo,
laying his hand once more on his much-decorated



bosom. He had dressed himself in
all his finest chains and buttons, and a beautiful
waistcoat, that Lydia might see him at his
best.

Ah I  he is my brother," Lydia said. She
had begun to shake off the jarred and painful
feelings that had spoiled her morning's work.
Daylight and ordinary life, and a new excitement
between her and that, began to restore the perspective;
and as she made this announcement
the first really wholesome natural sense of
pleasure came over her. It was Lionel who was
out of perspective now, too close to her, overshadowing
heaven and earth. But the other
event began to appear in its natural size and
aspect. Paolo's state of wonder was unfeigned.
The Italian was quick enough to observe the
undercurrents around him on ordinary occasions ;
but Lydia had made too great and immediate an
impression upon him to leave his eyes free for anything
else.

Your brother !" he cried.

Tell me how he arrived here, as you told me
last night; but I did not know all the meaning
of it then," said Lydia. " Tell me again how he
came, and carried his own box."

She was more than half in earnest, wanting to
hear about Harry, and yet it was half a pretence ;
she could not help but be conscious of the figure at
her elbow stalking along in silent disgust, ready
to abandon her for ever, and all the plans connected
with her ; ready to seize the little Italian
by his controller and whirl him away into the
sea or air, yet jealous of losing a word of what
was said. Lionel walked along the street
like an embodied thunder-cloud, and they were
already at the door of the Leone, which thank
heaven, he thought, would at least put an end to
this. It did not do so, however, for Lydia in her
perversity insisted upon carrying Paolo with her
to Lady Brotherton, interrupting him in the
midst of the narrative she had asked for, but
which in her gradually increasing excitement
about her other companion she could not listen
to. She broke into it just as Paolo, with the
water in his eyes, was recounting how he had
thrown himself on Harry's bosom and sworn
eternal friendship. " Siamoo amici, I said to
him," said Paolo. " What is mine is thine. I
will be your caution ; I will respond for you ;

I will present you " *' Come upstairs, Mr.

Paul," said Lydia, restless, " Lady Brotherton

will be glad to have you to help us*' He stopped
short, thus interrupted in the midst of his
narrative, and it hurt poor Paolo. But next
moment he smiled with his usual sweet temper,
and followed her. Lionel could not help feeling
that in the same circumstances he could have
almost killed her  which, indeed, was the state of
his mind now. And then there followed such an
afternoon of trouble and excitement as drove
Lionel nearly out of his senses. Lady Brotherton
had to be told the strange story, and then
Sir John, who could not understand it at all ; and
afterwards, in the midst of all the preparations
for the start, " all Leghorn," the indignant young
man said to himself, poured down upon them.
All Leghorn meant Harry and his family, and
Mr. Bonamy, who came one after another in
different degrees of excitement. Rita arrived
first with her two youngest children and their
nurse, to show to her new sister-in-law, and to
make amends for her previous want of graciousness.
"I could not understand it  how could
I understand it ?" she said, and she was magnanimous
enough to point out the resemblance of the
bambino to his aunt. Then came Harry to say
that he had made hasty preparations to go home

with his sister, and would join them that evening
at the steamboat. And finally the Vice-consuls
exertions brought some sort of enlightenment
to Sir John, whose first idea was that Mr.
Bonam3;'s son-in-law wanted to marry little
Liddy, though he had already a wife of his own.
All these perpetual visitors kept the party in a
whirl of commotion, and Lionel, at last driven to
the end of his patience, sallied forth and walked
about till the moment of departure came, all but
cursing Harry, and vowing to himself that he
would take no further trouble, but let Lydia
depart as she came. Why should he take any
trouble? His mother would not like it. They
(his parents) would wish him, if he married, to
marry somebody with moneys, somebody with

position, somebody Ah ! Here he took

himself by the shoulders, so to speak, and shook
himself fiercely, and called himself, " you fool !"
as if there was any question of marrying anybody
! as if she would have him ! Was she
not pouring contempt upon him ? putting even
that little hop-o'-my thumb before him, preferring
a little Italian beggar, hung all over with jewellery
! These were poor Lionel's reflections as he
wandered about the streets. And that other

fellow, the brother, if he was her brother, was
going with them ; would talk to her, who could
doubt it, the whole time, and never give a man a

chance ! Lionel would have liked, without

much hyperbole, to smother them all, or pitch
them into the sea.

At last the moment of departure came. Rita,
with a flush of excitement about her, her cheeks
hot, her eyes shining, and without a tear, came to
the steamboat with her husband to see him away.
He whispered again in her ear that he would .not
stay a moment longer than he could help ; that
he would count the days he was away from her ;
that she must not worry about him, must not feel
lonely.

"Lonely !" she cried, in a tone which wounded
poor Harry deeply. " Oh no, I shall not be
lonely. I mean to amuse myself very much. I
shall go everywhere. I shall not miss you at all.
Ser Paolo will take care of me."

You will have your whither to take care of
you. my darling," Harry said, very gravely, with
a little surprise ; and then he added, with a laugh,
he will be glad to be rid of me for once, to have
you all to himself. But Paul-o, all the same, will
stand by you, I know," he said, turning round to

his friend lest his susceptible feelings should
be wounded ; " it is not that I doubt Paul-o  who
will do everything."

Yes, everything," Paolo said, with a fervent
grip of his friend's hand.

And Rita laughed. Why should she laugh?
She did not shed a tear to part with him. Harry
looked over the bulwark of the ship and watched
his little wife standing in the boat which had
brought them on board as long as he could make
her out. The boatmen lay on their oars, and
Rita stood up, waving her handkerchief, with
Paolo by her side. These two figures, and after
them all the features of the well-known scene,
and then the very place itself, which was his
home, which contained all his independent life,
dropped away into the mists, into the distance.
He had said to himself many a day that he would
never go back ; yet he was going back, severing
himself, as he had done before, from everything
he knew or cared for. And Rita had not seemed
to care ! He was not sentimental, but he turned
away when there was no longer anything to be
seen of Leghorn, with a little shiver, and a pang
at his heart.

CHAPTER XV.

AT SEA.

IT was a beautiful night, the stars shining like
diamonds, like ethereal lamps in the sky,
clear and crisp, with a twinkle and movement in
them as of something living; the sea all in a
ripple, in absolute peacefulness jet endless life,
sweeping like a smooth, green, transparent flood
of liquid metal under the bow, seething in white
curd and spray behind, marking a long, moving
line of white across its surface as the great boat
rustled and fretted on. The air was so sweet,
the sea so calm, that everybody stayed late on
deck, except Lady Brotherton, who had placed
herself at once on her sofa with her eyes closed,
not to see the motion, of which, even when there
was no motion at all, she was afraid. But Sir
VOL. m. T

John sat on deck till it was late, enjoying the
voyage greatly, and, in the absence of his wife,
keeping his son near him, and addressing to him
all his thousand questions. "'Shay, Lionel,
what's that Consul fellow doing with Liddy,
'shot a wife of his own." *' You forget'*
Lionel said, " that he's her brother, Sir  Harry
Joscelyn. Mr. Bonamy told you all about it today."
" Yes, yes, old Bonamy, easy-going old
duffer. 'Shish own daughter  should take more
care of her. You look after little Liddy ; shot
wife of his own." Lionel looked at the pair
walking up and down with feelings it would be
difficult to describe. It was easy to say, take care
of little Liddy. Liddy was hanging on her
brother's arm, quite independent of him. They
two were now the two who belonged to each other
now. When they parted in England it was her
brother who would take Lydia home. She had
no need of Lionel to talk to, to make a companion
of; Harry was much better  a novelty, and all
women like novelty  and then he was her brother ;
what could be more natural and right ? Lionel
took to theorizing about women, as men naturally
do when ill-used by them. This was the kind of
thing to be expected from these unaccountable

creatures, whom, of course, no man could understand
 though every man is surrounded by them
all his life ; triumphant folly of sex which
transcends all experience ! He railed at women
in his heart, because Lydia was occupied, and had
no attention to give him. He heard her laugh,
and the soft current of her voice running on continually,
with a kind of maddening contempt.
She leant on her brother's arm, which she never
did on his  Lionel's. It made his heart sick to
see her thus enjoying herself, enjoying the balmy
night. There was nothing so bad that he did
not think it as the hours of the delightful twilight,
the soft, early night, flew by. Perhaps it
was not her fault : were not all women the same ?
treacherous, fickle, blown about by every wind 
off with the old whenever there was something
new to take to ; mysterious, worthless, untrustworthy
creatures, who, however sweet they might
be one day, were never to be relied upon for the
next; who would part from you with the tenderest
of farewells and meet you next time as if
you were the merest acquaintance ! Lionel felt
that he hated the whole sex as he stood by his
father's side watching these two about the decks.
When they passed she would nod at him, or give

T 2

him one of her easy smiles, not in the least
ignoring his position, recognizing it, and coolly
suffering it so to be. At last he had to withdraw,
helping Thomas to move his father into the
cabin reserved for him, and consequently losing
sight of them for a moment. When he returned
he could not see them, and the rage in him
burned fiercer than ever. Then, on the bridge,
high up against the sky, he discerned something
like Harry's figure, with a red tip of a cigar
appearing above the collar of his warm coat.
Harry had become chilly after ten years of Italian
life. Lionel laughed at this effeminacy. He liked
to feel that his own coat was thin, yet quite
enough for his muscular Anglicism. No doubt
she had gone in, retired for the night, and all
that was out of the question. He did not specify
to himself what all that was. He had not
the heart even for a cigar. If he smoked he
would come across that fellow, and be compelled
to talk to him. After all, it was a great mistake
to dis-inter relations whom you know nothing
about. One might be nice  though even of that
he felt far from certain  but the rest were almost
sure to be bores, like this fellow. Indeed, the
brothers were all bores, and without any breeding.

It was a mistake to have taken any trouble about
them, or ever to have sought them out at all.
Confound them I" he said to himself, facing the
breeze, diving his hands deep down to the bottom
of his pockets, and angrily gazing into the
night.

"Confound whom, Cousin Lionel ?" said a voice
by his side.

Lionel started violently, then turned round.
Oh ! are you there ? I did not know where you
were. I thought you had gone to bed."

Must one go to bed ? They say we get to
Genoa quite early ; and it is such a lovely, lovely
night."

*' Do you think so?" he said, softened ; " so do
L If you will stay with me, I don't think you
need go to bed ; but if you are going off again
with that fellow  I mean, of course, with your
brother "

It is quite delightful," said Lydia, with
energy, " to have a brother  you know, a real
brother  a little like one's self: not elderly,
and worldly, and Westmoreland, like Will and
Tom."

I thought you were so fond of Westmoreland,"
said Lionel.

"Ah! so I am; but not that kind. Now
Harry is  you can't think what Harry is "

I know what you want me to think him the
most disgusting interloper, the worst nuisance in
the world. It is quite unaccountable of him to
go and leave you alone here. Doesn't he know
how a lady should be taken care of? In a
common steamboat when there are all sorts of
people "

I never knew you were so ill-natured
before'* said Lydia in a plaintive tone. "Poor
Harry ! he took me to the cabin-door ; he thinks
I am there now. I came up afterwards  well 
because it is hot there, because it is such a lovely
night, because the sea is so beautiful  look at
that light on it  and, then, because I thought
you would perhaps think it civil to come and say
good night."

"Ah, Liddy !" he cried, seizing her hand and
drawing it through his arm, " come and walk
about a little. I thought I was never to have a
chance of saying a word to you to-night. I have
been swearing at everything and everybody'*

I thought so," said Liddy, with a little laugh,
from the expression of your face""

And you laughed  at ray torture "


f

Would you have had me cry ? What could
I do ? I could not take you from Sir John ; and
then you never looked as if you wanted to have
anything to say to us. Well," said Lydia, stopping
short, " now all the purposes of civility are fulfilled,
and we can say good night."

But they had not said good night full two hours
after, when the short voyage was almost over,
and the lights of Genoa stretching round the
whole breadth of the lovely bay in an ineffectual
struggle with the dawn, began to rise upon their
dazzled eyes. Then after a little struggle Lydia
made her escape. " What will Lady Brotherton
think ? It must be three o'clock in the morning,
and how can I face her ? She will see it in my
eyes, and she will not like it. Ob 1 why didn't
we think of that sooner ? They will not like it,
neither she nor Sir John ; for I am nobody,
Lionel."

"Nobody? you are Liddy  that is enough;
and then you forget," he said, with a slight sense
of humour, " you are a Joscelyn."

Yes, that is true," said Lydia, very gravely,
I am a Joscelyn ; but we are not at all what we
used to be. Being Joscelyns," she added, mournfully,
" we are rough country people."

Yon a rough country people ! You are Liddy,"
he said.

Oh, what is the good of saying that over andover
again! Liddy! what is Liddy? an ugly
old-fashioned name. We should have thought
of that sooner. They will not have me," she said.

** No, I hope not. It is I that must have you,"
said Lionel, and he took no notice of the fact that
it was morning ; but, to be sure, there was nobody
except the sailors about. He walked with her to
the door of the cabin as the deceived Harry had
done. How much had passed since then ! Liddy
thought with shame and self-reproach, as she
stole into the darkened shelter where a peevish
little lamp was still burning, that it would never
have happened had she not given him that
opportunity. She had given him the opportunity
She ought to have stayed in the cabin
and prevented all that followed. It was her
fault ; but perhaps, though she felt guilty, she
did not feel so penitent as she might have done.
Lady Brotherton by dint of shutting her eyes
had gone peacefully to sleep, which was a thing
she professed never to do on board ship. Lydia
retired to rest ; she stole out of her gown as
quiet as a mouse, and compunctious and guilty,

but very happy, crept into her berth. The
steamer was coming to anchor with great jars
and creaking, and heavy footsteps overhead ;
and by and by Lydia's drowsy eyes, so full of
happiness and freshness, yet soft weariness and
dreaminess, closed in spite of her. She did not
suppose that she could have slept on such a
night.

But next day was much more difficult to get
through. The honest girl did not feel that she
could look Lady Brotherton in the face. As long
as they were apart, the position, though painful,
was possible : but, when they were together,
Lydia was so changed from her usual aspect
that Lady Brotherton could not avoid noticing
the alteration. " Liddy, my child, something is
the matter. Are you ill ?" she said.

No, Lady Brotherton."

* Nervous then this new brother does not
quite fit in with your ideas ? You ought to have
calculated upon that, Lydia. People cannot be
separated for ten years, and fall into one another's
ways again in a moment; though I think he is
very nice and very gentlemanly myself''

'rit is not that, Lady Brotherton."

What is it then, my dear ? You are not a

bit like yourself. You are sorry, a little, to part
with us? So am I, my sweet  dreadfully sorry ;
but it must only be for a little while. And,
then, you know you are going home'

Oh ! Lady Brotherton, my heart is breaking !
It is not even that. It is that I have got a secret,
and you will not be pleased."

They were sheltering in Sir John's deck cabin
from the heat of the sun, the steamboat ploughing
peacefully on its further way to Marseilles, the
journey approaching its last stage, and the time
of separation drawing near. Lydia's eyes were
full of tears ; she covered her face with her
hand ; the other was clasped in that of the kind
friend whom she felt she had betrayed.

A secret  how can you have a secret ? You
have never been away from my side. I suppose
it must be something about love, Liddy  that is
the only secret at your age. And why should I
not be pleased unless you have made an unworthy
choice ?

Oh, no, not that  too good too good."

"Lionel, go away; we don't want you just
now. Liddy has something to tell me."

It is better that I should tel you for her,
mother. She will not let the secret be kept a

da'. I wanted to put off till  we parted : in case
you should be, as she thinks, displeased : though I
can't believe you will be displeased "

Lionel !*' Of course, from the time he had
begun to speak Lady Brotherton had perceived
but too well what the secret was. She loosed her
hold of Lydia's hand, which lay white and passive
in her lap after she had withdrawn hers,
with a kind of appeal in it. Lady Brotherton *s
colour went and came. Hard words came to her
Hps ; but she looked at her son's face and paused.
*' I am displeased, more than displeased ; and your
father will never consent to it," she said.

Lydia did not say a word, but she sighed and
took her hand away, to clasp it with the other
in that pathetic gesture, "the trick of grief,"
which she had learned from her mother. As for
Lionel, an only son and spoilt child, he took
matters with a high hand.

'' My father will consent gladly enough if you
consent, mother," he said ; *' and what did you
expect? You have thrown us together constantly
for five months. You must think me a
wretched creature if you thought I could not
manage to persuade her to like me  a little, withall
the opportunities we have had."

"It is not that," said Lady Brotherton, with
simplicity, falling into the snare, ' any girl might
like yon ; of course there is nothing wonderful
in that."

"And, you see," he said, "unfortunately I
loved her  before we ever started at all."

Before ! and why didn't you warn me ? and
I who have been saying you were so safe, and
never thought of each other. Liddy ! Liddy !
you have deceived me ! You would never look
at him, never amuse yourself as you did with the
others, sou were always so serious ! And pray
was it going on all the time, and was that only
dust thrown in my eyes 1"

I have never deceived anyone," Liddy said,
with a proud elevation of her head. She could
riot say, even in her own defence, what the cause of
her serious treatment of her lover was.

"And how was it settled at lasts Lady
Brotherton said. "Since we started? She has
never been away from me night or day."

This produced a slight flicker of suppressed
laughter even in Lydia's depressed bosom.

She did not leave the deck till we were in
harbour this morning; I kept her by forces
Lionel said.



Well, that is the most wonderful of all," cried
the not hard-hearted mother ; '' did you get into
your berth by the port-hole ? for 1 declare I never
closed my eyes all night, you know I never do 
and I never once missed you. I believe you have
dreamed it all," Lady Brother ton said.

CHAPTER XVI.

AT HOME.

rilHE rest of the journey was hurried and
JL feverish. Lady Brotherton was not hardhearted
; she melted every day when in Liddy's
company, and under the influence of her son's
persuasions and the sight of his happiness ; butin
the night hardened again, occupying herself
with reminiscences of former hopes, and summoning
up the ideal woman whom she had
intended Lionel to marry, a girl who should be
noble if possible, rich and beautiful, and with the
highest connections, adding to the dignity of the
house of Brotherton, as well as the happiness of
its future head ; and in this alternation the long
journey was got through. There was a night in
the railway between Marseilles and Paris, a night

at Paris, a night in London, in every one of which
this freezing process was performed. Every
morning the same round had to be gone over
again ; by noon the ice was melted ; by evening
Lady Brotherton would listen between tears and
smiles to her son's picture of his future life
and all the happiness she would have in her
daughter ; and would kiss Liddy and bid her goodnight
almost with an enthusiasm of tenderness.
But before morning all this was undone, and she
got up as unwilling as ever. By common consent
Sir John was told nothing of it while the journey
lasted. The information was only to be given
him when he was safe at home, and his fatigues
over. It was evening when Lydia, escorted by
Harry, left finally the party of which she had so
long formed part, and with which now her fate
was linked so closely. She had stayed two days
in London, days during which Lady Brotherton
had been very kind to her  in the afternoon. And
she was vers kind to her on that evening, when she
took her in her arms in a farewell embrace. She
cried over Liddy, and called her my child, and
bade God bless her.

I don't know what I shall do without you.
It will he like losing my right hand," Lady Bro-thereon

said. And Lionel, as was natural, took a
still more tender leave at the railway.

I shall not be long after you' he whispered,
with his head projected half-way into the carriage.
Liddy shook her head.

I don't build any hopes on that. Your mother
will ''

"What will my mother do? If you think I
will allow myself to be coerced by anyone "

But I shall !" said Lydia. " It must never,
never be, Lionel, unless she is pleased. "

She wil be pleased ; but it shall be anyhow,
whether she is pleased or not."

Oh, no," Lydia said.

Oh, yes, yes I and I shall have the last word," he
cried. This little contention went on tiU the very
moment of their parting, and Lydia put down her
veil and cried gently when it was over, and the
darkness had closed over her and her train, and
all that chapter of her Hfe was over. Was it
over ? for ever and ever done with, not one last
moment still left between her and the blank of the
elder world ! It was dreadful, she knew, to feel
as she did, to think of her home with despair, and
aU those lingering days which would pass without
an incident, without a break, in dread monotony



and quiet, nothing happening but a visit from Joan,
nothing even to be afraid of but a fit of
temper on her father's part. She was frightened
by the prospect. It took away her breath.
"Mother, dear mother !" she said to herself, with a
gasp of self-disgust ; that poor mother would be
happy to-day thinking of her child's return ; she
would go aU over the house to see that everything
was in order for Liddy. There would be flowers
gathered, and fresh curtains hung, and cakes made,
and butter churned, and cream put upon the table
for Liddy. And Liddy, she cried to herself, with
an ache in her heart, Liddy would not care ! Oh,
the hypocrite she would have to be ; the pretences
she would have to make for love's sake ! She must
look happy whether she was happy or not; she
must make believe even to be thankful to get home
again. At this Liddy cried still more behind her
veil. Harry observed her with curious eyes. He
was very much interested in his little sister, and
he thought he understood women  not like Lionel,
who pretended that they were inscrutable; but
then Harry was a married man.

You don't seem to be very cheerful about
going home," he said, at last.

Oh, yes, very happy," said Liddy, and cried ;

VOL. III. U

It is only  such a change  Wandering about
has been so different  and one never knows  "

Here she broke off, and made a vehement effort
to be cheerful. "You will find it very different,
too."

"Yes, I shall find it very different ; but I am
always sorry for a girl  we can get away, but you
can't. You have never said a word to me, Liddy,
but I am not so blind as not to see how things
are. Are the objections  on their side ?"

I don't know that there are objections. Yes,
I suppose they are on their side. But how can I
ever leave mother ?" the girl cried, waking up to
the other side of the question. She had never
thought of it before, but now stared at her recovered
brother, very pale, with large, wide-open
eyes.

Poor mother !" he said, softly. By dint of
having children himself Harry had come to a
little understanding. " She will never stand in
anyone's way," he said. He began to perceive a
little what lite was to some souls. She had been
happy in little Liddy, and now Liddy was going
too. She would not struggle, but resign the last,
with one more pathetic wringing of her hands.
She had wrung those hands often for him, and he,

more than any, had wrung her heart, and had
thought Httle of it ; but somehow he perceived it
now. She would stand in nobody's way. She
would give up, having given up all her life ; and now
there would be no compensation possible, nature
herself would be against her. A great pang of
pity was in his heart for his mother. She did not
know yet what was in store for her. Whoever
was happy it must always be her fate to suffer
for them all.

The rough little country phaeton, which Harry
remembered long years ago, was waiting for them in
the early morning at the station. Nobody knew that
Harry was coming. The man who drove it stared
at him. It was none of the young masters he
knew (middle-aged Will and Tom being still indifferently
called t' young masters at the White
House), and yet there was a look of the young
masters, and of the old master, too, about this
finely dressed (as Robin thought), foreign erring
gentleman, wrapping himself in his fur-lined coat
against the chill freshness of the morning, Was
it some one Miss Liddy had picked up in her
travels? Liddy had a perception, as she got into
the carriage or, rather, remembered afterwards,
that she had perceived other people, strangers,

u 2

getting out at the little country station, which was
not a very usual thing ; but she was excited and
preoccupied, and did not stay to look who they
were, or even notice them much, at the time.
She had not written home, except the merest intimation
of her return, since she had found her
brother, and now she was a little alarmed at her
own reserve, wondering what her mother would
say, whether she would know him at once, and what
effect the discovery would have upon her. Such
things had been known as people dying of joy.
She began to grow alarmed and very nervous ;
and Liddy looked round upon everything, to tell
the truth, with troubled and doubtful eyes. She
was afraid even of the sight of the home landscape,
the grey hills, the misty valley, the limestone
houses, and dividing dykes, which were so
very different from everything she had been
seeing. But it was a beautiful morning, and all
this grey northern world was bathed in the early
glory of the sun ; and to Lydia's great relief the
country had not grown smaller, or the hills insignificant,
or the sky dirty or prosaic, as people in
Italy said. The blue was pale, but still it was
heavenly blue ; the white mists on the hills, here
and there breaking away like the opening of a

prison, unfolding on both sides and showing the
grey slopes, the stony peaks, the lonely stormy Fells,
were as full of poetry and dramatic life as ever.
The stream still looked bold and rapid, the village
friendly, nestling about the church and over
the bridge. " It is not a bit Hke Italy," said
Liddy, to her brother. He felt the sharpness of
the morning air as he never would have done had
he stayed among the Fells. " Xo, you can be quite
confident on that subject," Rarrj said.

'* But it is just as fine as ever," cried Lydia,
with a little enthusiasm. " It is not small nor
contracted, nor ugly, as I feared. It is finer than
it used to be. These are real hills, after all ; and
it is so broad, and so pure, and such a delightful air.
What would you give in Tuscany for air like that V

We should die of it in a month," Harry said,
buttoning his furred coat at the throat.

Lydia was almost angry. He had been there
so long, he had got choke full of Italian prejudice.
But she was thankful, very thankful, to find that
the country-side was still pleasant in her own eyes.
And now they drive through the village, one or two
early risers looking with expectant faces out of the
windows and waving their hands to her as she
passes, aU with a look of surprise at the strange

gentleman in his fur coat, quietly smoking his
cigar behind : and the river is crossed, and they
come within sight of the White House. Well !
there was no doubt it looked small : she had been
sure it must look small, grey and homely, and
undistinguished, scarcely discernible in its whiteness,
which was grey, like everything here, from
the slope of the Fell-side. But Lydia had no
time to make remarks of this description to herself,
for immediately at the door there appeared a
slim and tremulous figure, with clasped hands,
looking out ; and she gave a cry of uncontrollable
joy and excitement, and sprang down, almost
before the carriage stopped, from her seat, and
into the arms of her mother. No, no ! there was
no change there ! For a moment all her depression
and heaviness, and sense of guilt and baseness,
in the thought that her return was no pleasure
to her, all melted away in real natural happiness
to see that worn face, and feel the clasp of those
tremulous arms again.

Oh, Liddy, my daring ! it's been long,
long ! but here I have you again, my owt V

Oh, mother ! why did I ever leave you ?" cried
the girl, and they clung together as if they would
never part.

Mrs. Joscelyn had no eyes for anything but her
child. She was about to lead her in with her
arm round her.

They will all be out in a minute, Liddy ;
but never mind, my pet, you'll see them later,
and they'll bring in your boxes and all your
things. Come in, come in, you must be tired with
your night's journey  and let me look at you ; I
want no more, but just to look at you, you're
better than Italy to me."

"Mother," Lydia said, holding back, " I have
brought some one with me  a gentleman ; you
must give a welcome to him too."

"A gentleman !" Mrs. Joscelyn gave a little
sigh of disappointment. "It will be Lionel.
Yes, I am glad to see him ; but I should have liked
you all to myself this first morning. He knows
he is welcome, my dear."

"It is not Lionel, mother: it is some one whom
I met in Italy."

Mrs. Joscelyn began to tremble a little, and
looked earnestly in her daughter's face, but not
with any suspicion of the truth.

* I mil tr}  to give anyone a welcome, my
darling ; if you love him, and if it is for your sake."

Harry had got down from the phaeton like a man

in a dream. He gazed about him at the place which
was so familiar, yet so strange, as if he had dropped
from the skies, remembering everything all in a
moment, his boyhood, his old childish holidays,
his last night. He remembered the foolish
exaggerated passion with which he stood, furious,
shut out, before that closed door. He was full of
agitation, of compunction, of wonder, at his own
boyish unreasonableness, and at the long obdurate
closing of his heart, which could not have been,
he said to himself, had it not been full of other
things. His heart beat as he looked at his
mother, and heard the cry with which she clasped
to her her other child. And Liddy was going to
forsake her too, poor woman, poor mother ! Somehow
he thought more of this than of all the
trouble he had himself brought upon her. He
stood at a little distance, keeping his furred coat
closely round him, stamping his feet a little to
get them warm. Had he lived always on the
Fells, he would have wanted no furred coat, and
felt no cold in his feet. Then Lydia beckoned to
him, and he went towards them. It was all he could
do to keep calm. " I am sure the gentleman is
very welcome, Liddy," he heard his mother say, in
her tremulous voice. He came up to them where

they still stood in the doorway. Something about
his air, about his general aspect, startled her,
though she was so pre-occupied, and Harry did
not know how to contain himself as his eyes met
hers. She gave him a smile, a little forced, with
her lips, but her eyes more sincere, betrayers of her
heart, investigated him with anxiety and wonder.
He could not meet them without betraying himself.
He took the hand she held to him, and
bowed over it and kissed it, as he had learned todo
in Italy; and he felt as he did so that the
worn white hand, which he thought he must
have recognised had he seen no more of his
mother, trembled. She said, " Come in, Sir," with
a quaver in her voice ; " Come in  you are kindly
welcome," and tremulously led the way into the hall
he remembered so well, and opened the parlour
door. The fire was burning brightly within, the
table laid for breakfast, everything as if he had
left it the day before. Mrs. Joscelyn would have
had her guest, who had set her all a-tremble, yet
whom she thought she welcomed reluctantly, enter
before her, in old-fashioned politeness ; but when
he held back, went in precipitately, holding Liddy
by the hand. She turned round instantly to look
at him again.

Liddy  you have not told me  the gentleman's
name?" she said, feeling her head go round.
Liddy ! I think I must have seen him before."

Then Harry could keep himself in no longer.
He loathed a scene like every Englishman, but he
forgot this, as even Englishmen do in moments of
extreme feeling. He fell down on his knees before
her, not knowing what he did. "Mother! will
you forgive me ?" he said. And he did not well
know what followed, till the air cleared a Httle
again, and the day came back, and they had put
her in the great chair, her face like death, her eyelids
quivering, her Hps trembling and incapable of
speech. She had given a great cry of " Harry !
Harry !" which startled all the house.

Then some one else came noisily clattering down
the stairs, crossing the hall with a heavy foot.
' Where is my little Liddy?" Ralph Joscelyn said;
and he added with a certain rough sympathy as he
kissed his child, " I told her it was more than she
was up to. Let her be, let her be  she will come
round. I wanted her to bide in her bed, and I
would bring you to her there. Well, and so
you're back, my lass and welcome ! There's nobody
like you to mend her. Did you bring  a
doctor with you all the way ?"

Then there was a pause ; nobody spoke to give
any explanation. " Did you bring a doctor with
you," Joscelyn repeated, with a sudden excited burst
of laughter, "all the way? or who may this be?"

Harry turned round and came forward into the
light, holding out his hand. "You turned me
out last time I was here, father," he said, not able
to forego the gratification of this taunt ; " I ought
to have asked your leave first before I came back
now."

Ralph Joscelyn stood and stared, a dark red
colour coming over his face. He looked uncertainly
from Liddy to the stranger. " I don't know what
you mean,' he said shortly ; then, " Do you mean
this is  Harry ? that's what your mother meant,
shrieking out, disturbing everybody in the house.
Look to your mother, Liddy ! Well ! you've been
a long time coming back. You seem," he said,
looking at the new-comer from head to foot, " to
have done well for yourself."

I have done very well for myself," Harr}' said,
shortly. " I want help from nobody now."

Well, my lad I" said Joscelyn, suddenly striking
his hand into that of his son with another
hoarse, unsteady laugh, " that's the best of reasons
why you should have whatever you want. You're

welcome home; and there's a pretty property-waiting
for you. And it saves a confounded
deal of trouble, I can tell you, that you should
turn up now."

All this time Liddy was kneeling by the chair,
kissing her mother's feeble hands and colourless
face. There was no particular alarm about her
among them ; but she lay floating between Hfe
and death for a moment in the extremity of
emotion which was too much for her feeble flesh
and blood. Then the balance turned  the wrong
way. If she died then, how happy for her ! but
instead she slowly came back, opened her eyes,
and returned to life. " Is it a dream f she said,
feebly. " No  my Liddy, my darling, you are
real ; and the other  wasn't there another ?"

They all sat at breakfast half an hour after
like people in a dream. Mrs. Joscelyn sat
between her son and daughter, and looked at
them alternately, and sipped a feeble cup of tea,
and shed a tear or two of pure happiness. She
was not strong enough yet to ask any questions ;
she put her hand now and then on Harry's arm
and patted it softly. She heard the story of how
he was found out without understanding it in the
least, and echoed feebly her husband's loud but

tremulous laugh at the name his son had taken.
Isaac Oliver  that's the finest joke I ever heard
in my life. Isaac  Oliver ! Dang it, but that is

the best joke " And he laughed till the

tears ran down his cheeks. The young people
both sat by nth the strangest sense of unreality.
To go away across half a world, and then come
back again to the same unchanging scene, even
to ameliorations of the past which bring out more
clearly the astounding difference between it and
them how strange it is ! In all Harry's knowledge
of his father, he had never been so fi-gently
or so amiable ; but this only made the gentleman-peasant,
the yeoman-horsedealer more extraordinary,
as a father, to his son. Liddy had a far
less shock to sustain in one sense, but a greater
in another; for she had come home  and here
was her natural place, love and duty and every
tradition binding her ; but, alas ! her heart so faraway.


The strange meal was still progressing, the
whole family lingering over it ; for the household
table was a kind of natural centre and place of
union ; when wheels were heard again, and a
carriage stopped at the door. " It wil be Joan,"
Mrs. Joscelyn said ; " she would not lose a

moment in coming ; and what will she say when
she sees  oh, Harry, my boy ! She has always
had a warm heart for you  the warmest heart for
you ; we'll say nothing about old times ; but her
and me  Run out and meet your sister, Liddy,
and say nothing, say nothing  let us see if she
will know him." Mrs. Joscelyn put her hand
upon his sleeve. "It's a pleasure to touch you 
I like to touch you in case my eyes should be deceiving
me. And did you ever think of your poor
mother all these years f

Liddy had run out  to meet her sister as she
thought  and her father, not unwilling now that
the meeting was over to leave his wife alone with
her son, followed her, with the intent of taking
another look, as he said to himself, of his pet, and
making sure that he had really got her back. But
Liddy, instead of running out to meet her sister,
stood arrested in the doorway, watching the disembarkation
from a rickety country coach of the
strangest party that ever produced itself in the
Fell-country. First came a little man with a
high hat, a huge cloak with a faded lining of blue,
which would have delighted a painter, flung over
his shoulder, and a huge comforter round his neck;
next a bundle of an old woman, wrapped in half-a-dozen

shawls, one over the other, who rolled out
of the quivering carriage, Hke something half
benumbed and half asleep ; lastly a figure which
sprang out as light as a bird, pushing aside both
the companions who held out anxious hands to
assist her, and flew along the little path between
the two grass plats. Liddy clasped her hands
together in wonder and dismay.

Mrs. Harry !" she cried, with consternation.
She was so much surprised that she made no
step to meet her; but stood transfixed, her face
pale with astonishment. Eita was all aglow with
pleasure, and excitement, and triumph. She flung
herself upon Lydia as if she had been her dearest
friend in the world.

' Look, I have done it !" she cried. *' I am
better than ever I was in my life. I am so happy.
I like the cold. I like the country ; I think it is
beautiful ! Call this England ? it is Paradise !
Oh, Liddy, Liddy, you dear Httle sister, I
shall be as fond of you as Harry is fonder, for
he has me first to think of. I owe all this to
you."

Mrs. Harry I'' Liddy repeated, with consternation.
" Father, this is Mrs. Hairy ; if you were
coming, why did you not come with us ?" She

could think of nothing that was kinder to
say.

But Rita was too much delighted with herself
to stand in need of words of kindness. She
walked up to Ralph Joscelyn, and stretched up to
him, offering her pretty glowing cheek to be
kissed.

How do you do, father ?" she said. " Harry
ought to present me to you, but I don't want any
introduction. You are Hke him ; our Httle boy is
called Ralph, after you. Harry will be dreadfully
angry when he sees me, and I dare not think what
papa will say ; but I am so happy to be in England
that I don't mind. Will you take me in, please, to
where my husband is ?" and with the air of a little
princess Rita took her father-in-law's arm. He
was a stately, handsome old man, with his white
hair. The eyes of the new-comer found no fault
in him. The roughness which wounded his
children was invisible to her. *' He is almost, as
handsome as papa," she said to herself.

Meanwhile Liddy, still more bewildered, stood
at the door, and watched the approach of the two
other persons, not glowing and happy like Rita, but
miserable, as unaccustomed travellers, half dead
after a succession of night journeys, cold, and sick,

and out of heart, could be. She could scarcely
recognise the spruce little Paolo, in the worn-out,
fagged traveller, shivering in his big cloak, and
trying in vain to satisfy the coachman with the
money which he did not understand.

Five shilling, that is six francs twenty-five,
six francs twenty-five, my good man  it is six
francs twenty-five, all the world over," he was
saying, placing a solid French five-franc piece,
with other moneys of the same coinage, in
the driver's hand, and scorning all remonstrances.
" No, no ; I am no foreigner  you
you will not cheat me. I am not von," cried Paolo,
betrayed by excitement into inaccuracies which
he had quite got the better of, " to be buried. I
am not von to pay too moche. I am English as

you''

As for old Benedetta, who was the other companion
of Rita's journey, she was prostrate with
cold and fatigue. She did nothing but weep and
groan as she sank upon the first seat in the hall.
Ah, Signorina ! oh, Signorina ! Sono morton ! sono
morton !" she cried, while Paolo took off his hat, by
this time somewhat battered, and smiled a forlorn
smile, his teeth chattering as he spoke. "AU
things that have been spoken of the English

VOL. III. X

climate are below the truth," he said. " Miss
Joscelyn will forgive me, I have the cold just in
my bones; but Miss Joscelyn, and also, indeed,
Signorina Rita, one is bound to say it, they bloom.
Hke the rose'

Now, don't be angry," said Rita, walking her
father-ins lav in to the parlour door, which was
slightly open, and through which she saw the
glimmer of the fire, and the white cloth of the
breakfast-table, and appearing before her astonished
husband, like some mischievous spirit, in a glow of
happiness and delight, " don't be angry, Harry. I
am going to telegraph directly to papa. I am perfectly
well, and delighted with everything. I am
not cold a bit. I am not tired. England, I
always was sure of it, is just the place for me.
Present nie to your mother. Dear madam," she
cried, after little pause of contemplation, dropping
Joscelyn's arm, and darting forward, "I see you
are ill ; you are all trembling with the emotions
you have had this morning. And, I am sure, it is
quite natural ; you don't want me to make
them more. But kiss me once, please, for I
know I shall love you. I am your Harry's
wife."

"Rita!" cried Harry, finding room at last to

express his sentiments, " what, in the name of all
that is foolish, brings you here ?"

Thank you, dear mother," said Eita, in return
for the astonished kiss wh ici poor sirs. JoscehTi
had bestowed. She sat down by her without any
invitation, and took one of her hands and caressed
it between her ol. " I never had any mother,"
she said ; '' I do not know what it means ; nor did
I ever want one of my own, for papa has been
everything to me. But it is sweet to borrow
Harry's mother, and have her for mine, too ; not
borrow," she added, kissing Mrs. Joscehn's hand,
"you are mine because you are his, is it not so?
Harris do not look so like a bear, but come and
kiss me, too."

' Rita, your father will never forgive me," cried
Harry, obeying his vife with no bad grace, yet
incapable of withholding his lecture ; ' he will say
it was my fault. And how did you persuade him
to let you go ?"

He did not let me go. I said I was going to
the villa to the children. He will not find out till
Sunday, that is tomorrow, and he will have my
telegram first. There is no harm done. I believe,"
she added, tranquilly, " he will be as glad as anyone
to think I have taken it into my own hands.

X 2

And look, I am not cold. I liked the air above
everything. Poor Paolo and Benedetta chattered
with their teeth, but it was delightful to me.
My poor little mamma was a girl ; I am fullgrown,
strong ; and I adore England. It is beautiful.
I am enchanted with the Fells. The grey
is lovely ; it is your only colour. Harry, Harry,
you great bear, say you are glad to see me, or
your mother will think we are not fond of each
other : which is not true, dearest, dearest lady,"
said Rita, once more kissing Mrs. Joscelyn's
hand.

I am sure anybody would be fond of you,"
Mrs. Joscelyn said, gazing with wonder and awe 
but flattered, touched, astonished beyond measure 
at this beautiful young woman, so enthusiastic, so
self-possessed, so fluent, whom she had never
heard of before.

Oh, fond of her, what has that to do with it?"
cried Harry. " So you have brought Benedetta
and poor Paolo." he cried.

After this Paolo was brought in, and warmed
and fed ; but it took a long time to bring him
round. He had thought it a very fine thing to
come off to England for his holiday, romantically
following a beautiful yomig lady, helping another

to reunite herself to her husband ; but the journey
and the privations, want of sleep and over-fatigue,
and the wind of an English May, blowing at six
o'clock in the morning over the Fells, had
been too much for poor Paolo. He sounded his
friend a few days after, when he had partially
recovered his spirits, as to the custom in
English families when they married their
daughters.

For example," he said, " Amico, if it is not
impertinent. A young lady like Miss Joscelyn;
so beautiful, so charming. Wien your parents
make up their minds to marry her, they will of
course make it a condition that the 'husband being
so happy should live near ?"

"Certainly they would make the condition,"
said Harry, promptly. " Could anyone be so
cruel, do you think, Paolo, as to take away
her last prop from my mother ? They are everything
to each other, as you can see."

It is true," said Paolo, much crestfallen. And
next day he took a tearful leave, kissing Liddy's
hand with respectful deference. The unusual
salutation made her blush quite unnecessarily. It
was a resignation of all pretensions on Paolo's
part. He could have made, he said afterwards, as

great a sacrifice to his love as any man ; but to
have lived on what they called the Fells, was more
than it was possible to contemplate. But he was a
little consoled by a burst of bright weather in
London, and saw the Parks and the Row in all
their glory, and lost his heart to a great manj
other English young ladies before he carried it,
pieced up again so as to be serviceable for actual
living, but in a sadly battered and shattered condition,
back again to Leghorn ; where he was a
great authority upon everything English to the
end of his days.

Rita turned out to be right, as she so often was.
Her father, after the first shock, was glad beyond
measure that the venture had been made and
proved successful, and that the embargo was taken
off his native country, and he could permit 
return. The accumulations of Uncle Henry's
money was enough to make a pretty, old-fashioned
houseout of Birrenshead, where the Harry Joscelyns
settled down, Mr. Bonamy with them, though
without giving up the Italian villa and its associations.
Mr. Bonamy got a Cab. and many components
when he retired from the service, though
he had never been anything more than a Vice-consul.
As for Lydia and her concerns, it is

needless to say that they ended prosperously ; for

what was there that Lady Brotherton could refuse

to her only son ? and Sir John saw only through

her eyes. So this marriage was accomplished

also towards the autumn, before the year was out,

from the time of their first acquaintance. Harry

and his children were known to be coming home

by that time, as soon as the house was ready for

them, "Which was something for mother to look

forward to," Joan said. " A thing to look forward

to is almost better than a thing she's got, to mother,' '

according to that authority " She can't fret about

it till she has it." But nobody could be more

tender and sympathetic than Joan when Lydia

was married and went away, leaving a blank that

nothing could fill up. " It's hard to say what's

the good of us women," she said, " to rear children

and never have them but when they're babies, and

think all the world of them, and watch them go

away. Phil and me, we are best without any,

though that's a hard trial too. But, mother, don't

you make a fuss, poor dear. It's the way of the

world, and it's the course of nature, and there

isn't a word to say."

This was the case, and Mrs. Joscelyn felt it.
She clasped her hands as she had done so often.

and held them up to heaven in prayer that was
perpetual. That was all. She saw her children
now and then, and they were aU happy, and in no
need of her. What could any woman desire
more?

