CHAPTER I.

NO. 6 IN THE TERRACE.

A COUNTRY town, quiet, simple, and dull,

-*- chiefly of old construction, but with a

few new streets and scattered villas of modern

flimsiness, a river flowing through it, dulled

r and stilled with the frost; trees visible in every

4 direction, blocking up the horizon and making

a background, though only with a confused

anatomy of bare branches, to the red houses ;

not many people about the streets, and these
cold, subdued, only brightening a little with
VOL. I. B

the idea that if the frost " held" there might be
skating tomorrow. On one side the High Street
trended down a slight slope towards the river,
on the other ran vaguely away into a delta of
small streets, which in their turn led to the
common, on the edge of which lay the new
district of Farafield. All towns it is said have
a tendency to stray and expand themselves towards
the west, and this is what had happened
here. The little new streets, roads, crescents,
and places, all strayed towards the setting sun.
The best and biggest of these, and at the same
time the furthest off of all, was the Terrace, a
somewhat gloomy row of houses, facing towards
the common, and commanding across the strip of
garden which kept them in dignified seclusion
from the road, a full view of the broken expanse
of gorse and heather over which the sunsets
played, affording to these monotonous windows
a daily spectacle far more splendid than any
official pomp. There were but twelve of these
houses, ambitiously built to look like one great
"Elizabethan mansion." Except one or two

large, old-fashioned, substantial houses in the
Market Place, these were the largest and
most pretentious dwellings in the town: the
proud occupants considered the pile as a very
fine specimen of modern domestic architecture,
and its gentility was undoubted. It
was the landlord's desire that nobody who
worked for his or her living should enter these
sacred precincts. It is difficult to keep so noble
a resolution in a country where so many occupations
which are not conspicuous to the common
eye, live and grow ; but still it was an exalted
aim.

In this town there was a street, and in this
street there was a house, and in this house there
was a room  After this fairy-tale fashion we
may be permitted to begin this history. The
house which was called Xo. 6 in the Terrace,
was in no way remarkable externally among its
neighbours; but within the constitution of the
family was peculiar. The nominal master of
the house was a retired clerk of the highest
respectability, with his equally respectable wife.

B 2

But it was well known that this excellent couple
existed (in the Terrace) merely as ministers to
the comfort of an old man who inhabited the
better part of the house, and whose convenience
was paramount over all its other arrangements.
There was a link of relationship, it was understood,
between the Fords and old Mr. Trevor,
and though there was no great disparity of
social condition between them, yet there was
the great practical difference that old Trevor
was very rich, and the Fords had no more
than sufficient for their homely wants  wants
much more humble than those of the ordinary
residents in the Terrace, who were the elite of
the town. This gave a tone of respect to their
intercourse on one side, and a kind of superiority
on the other. The Fords were of the opinion
that old Mr. Trevor had greatly the best of the
bargain. He had none of the troubles of a
house upon his shoulders, and he had all
its advantages. The domestic arrangements
which cost Mrs. Ford so much thought, cost him
nothing but money ; he had no care, no annoyance

about anything, neither taxes to pay nor
servants to look after ; and everything went on like
clockwork; his tastes were considered in every
way, and all things made subservient to him.
When coals or meat rose in value, or when one of
the three servants (each more troublesome than
the other, as it is the nature of maids to be) was
disagreeable, what did it matter to old Mr.
Trevor? And when that question arose about
the Borough rate, what had he to say to it ! Nothing,
absolutely nothing ! all this daily burden
was on the shoulders of Richard Ford and Susan
his wife ; whereas Mr. Trevor had nothing to do
but to put his hand into his pocket, to some
people the easiest exercise! He had the best
of everything, the chief rooms, and the most
unwearied attendance ; and not only for him
but for his two children, who were a still more
anxious charge, as Mrs. Ford expressed it, was
every good thing provided. Sometimes the excellent
couple grumbled, and sometimes felt it
hard that being relations there should be so
much difference ; but on the whole both

parties were aware that their own comforts
profited by the conjunction, and the household
machinery worked smoothly, with as few jars
and as much harmony as is possible toman.


At the time this history begins Mr. Trevor
was seated in the drawing-room, the best room
in the house. The Fords occupied the front
parlour below, where the furniture was moderate
and homely ; but all the skill of the upholsterer
had been displayed above. The room had two
long windows looking out over the common, not
at this moment a very cheerful prospect. There
was nothing outside but mist and dampness,
made more dismal by incipient frost, and full of
the sentiment of cold, a chill that went to your
heart. The prospect inside was not much
adapted to warm or cheer in such circumstances.
The windows were cut down to the
floor, as is usual in suburban houses, and though
the draught had been shut out as much as possible
by list and stamped leather, and by the
large rugs of silky white fur which lay in front

of each window, yet there were still little impertinent
whiffs of air blowing about. And the
moral effect was still more chilly. It was not
an artistic room according to the fashion of the
present day, or one indeed in which any taste to
speak of had been shown. The walls were white
with gilded ornaments, the curtains w 7 ere blue,
the carpet showed large bouquets of flowers upon
a light ground. There were large prints, very
large, and not very interesting, royal marriages
and christening hanging, one in the centre of
each wall. Thus it will be seen there was
nothing to distinguish it from a hundred other
unremarkable and unattractive apartments of the
ordinary British kind. A large folding screen
was disposed round the door to keep out the
draught, and the folding doors which led into
Mr. Trevor's bedroom behind, were veiled
with curtains of the same blue as those of the
windows. The old man was seated by a large
fire in a comfortable easy-chair with a writing-table
within reach of his hand. Mr. Trevor was
not a man of imposing presence ; he was little

and very thin, wrapped in a dark coloured 
with a high collar in which he seemed
pilloried, and a brown wig which imparted a
very aged juvenility to his small and wrinkled
face. Grey hairs harmonize and soften wrinkles ;
but the smooth chin and bright brown locks of
this little old man gave him a somewhat elfish
appearance, something like that of an elderly bird.
He sat with a pen in his hand making notes upon
a large document opened out upon the writing-table,
and his action and a little unconscious
chirp to which he gave vent now and then,
increased his resemblance to an alert sparrow.
And indeed it might have been a claw which
Mr. Trevor was holding up with a quill in it,
and his little air of triumphant success and self-content,
his head held on one side, and the
dab he made from time to time upon his paper
gave him very much the air of a sparrow. He
had laid down his " Times" which hung in a much
crumpled condition, like a table-cover, over a
small round table on his other hand, in order
to make this sudden note whatever it might be,

and as he made it he chuckled. The paper on
which he wrote was large blue paper like that
employed by lawyers, and had an air of formality
and importance. It was smoothed out over a
big blotting-book, not long enough quite to contain
it, and had a dog's-ear at the lower corner,
which proved a frequent recurrence on the part of
the writer to this favourite manuscript. When
he had written all that occurred to him, Mr.
Trevor put down his pen and resumed the
' Times ;" but the interest of the previous occupation
carried the day even over that invaluable newspaper,
which is as good as a trade to idle persons.
He had not gone down a column before he
paused, rested his paper on his knee, and
chuckled again. Then he leant over the writing-table
and read the note he had made, which
was tolerably long ; then with his " Times" in
his hand, rose and went to the door, losing himself
behind the screen. There he stood for a
moment, wrapping his dressing-gown around his
thin legs with a shiver, and called for " Ford !
Ford !" Presently a reply came, muffled by the

distance, from the room below. "I've put in
another clause," the old man called over the
stair.

Ford below opened the door of his parlour to
listen.

"Bless me! have you indeed, Mr. Trevor?"
he replied, with less enthusiasm.

Come up, come up, and you shall hear it,"
said the other, fidgeting with excitement. Then
he returned to his easy-chair, laughing to himself
under his breath. He bent over the document
and read it again. " They'll keep her
straight, they'll keep her straight among them,"
he said to himself. " She'll be clever if she goes
wrong after all this," and then he sat down again,
chuckling and tucking the " Times" like a napkin
over his knees.

All this time he had not been alone ; but his
companion was not one who claimed much notice.
There was spread before the fire a large milky
white rug, like those that stopped the draught
from the windows ; and upon this, half buried in
the fur, lay a small boy in knickerbockers, absorbed

in a book. The child was between seven
and eight ; he was dressed in a blue velveteen
suit, somewhat shabby. He was small even for
his small age. His face was a little pale face,
with fair and rather lanky locks. Sometimes he
would lie on his back with his book supported
upon his chest sometimes the other way, with
the book on the rug, and his head a little raised,
leaning on his hands. This was his attitude
at present ; he took no notice of his father, nor
his father of him ; he was a kind of postscript to
old Mr. Trevor's life ; no one had expected him,
no one had wanted him ; when he chose to come
into the world it was at his own risk, so to
speak. He had been permitted to live, and had
been called John, a good, safe, serviceable name,
but no special encouragement of any other kind
had been given to him, to pursue the thankless
path of existence. Nevertheless, little Jock had
done so in a dogged sort of way. He had been
delicate, but he had always gone on all the same.
Lately he had found the best of all allies and
defenders in his sister, but no one else took much

notice of him, nor he of them ; and his father
and he paid no attention to each other. Mr.
Trevor took care not to stumble over him,
being thoroughly accustomed to his presence ;
and as for little Jock, he never stirred. He
was on the rug in the body, but in soul he was
in the forest of Ardennes, or tilting on the Spanish
roads with Don Quixote. It was wonderful,
some people thought, that such a baby should
read at all, or reading that he should have any
books above the level of those that are written
in three syllables. But the child had no baby
books, and therefore he took what he could get.
Are not the baby books a snare and delusion,
keeping children out of their inheritance % How
can they understand Shakespeare you will say %
and I suppose Jock did not understand ; yet that
great person pervaded the very air about this
little person, so that it glowed and shone. Only
his shoulders raised a little way out of the
white silky fluff of the rug, betrayed the immovable
creature, and his book was almost lost
altogether in it. There he lay, thinking nothing

of how his life was to run, or of the influences
which might be developing round him. There
was not a piece of furniture in the room which
counted for less with Mr. Trevor than little
Jock.

Ford was a long time coming ; he had some
business of his own in hand, which, though not
half so important, was on the whole more interesting
to him than Mr. Trevor's business ; and
then he had a little argumentation with Mrs.
Ford before he could get away.

"What is it now?" Mrs. Ford said fretfully,
"what does he make such a fuss about? Sure
there's nothing so very wonderful in making a
will. I'd say, 'I leave all I have to my two
children,' and there would be an end of it. He
makes as much of it as if it was a book he was
writing. Many a book has been written with
less fuss."

My dear," said Ford, " there are many people
who can write books and cannot make a
will ; indeed the most of them have no need to,
if all we hear is true. And you don't give a

a thought to the interests  I may say the colossal
interests  that are involved."

"Pooh !" said Mrs. Ford, " I think of our own
interests if you please, which are all I care for.
Is he going to leave us anything? that is what I
want to know."

I am sorry you are so mercenary, my
dear."

I am not mercenary, Mr. Ford ; but I like
to see an inch before me, and know what is to
become of me. He's failing fast, anyone can
see that ; and if we're left with the lease of a big
house on our hands  " This was the danger
that afflicted Mrs. Ford at all moments, and
robbed her of her peace.

Stuff !" Ford said. He knew a great
deal about the important literary composition
which the old gentleman was concocting ; but
he was not at liberty" to mention what he
knew. Sometimes it made him laugh secretly
within himself, to think how differently she would
talk if she too knew. But then that is the casein
most matters. He went upstairs at last

deliberately, counting (as it seemed) every step,
while Mr. Trevor sat impatient in his great
chair, full of the enthusiasm of his own work,
and thinking every minute an hour till he could
show his friend, who was entirely in his confidence,
who almost seemed like his collaborateur,
the last stroke he had made. It was the magnum
opus of Mr. Trevor's life, the work by which he
hoped to be remembered, to attain that immortality
in the recollection of other men which all
men desire. For a long time he had been working
at it, a little bit at a time as it occurred to
him. He was not like the thriftless literary
persons to whom Ford compared him, who write
whether they have anything to say or not,
whether the fountain is welling forth freely or
has to be pumped up drop by drop. Mr. Trevor
composed his great work under the most favourable
conditions. He had it by him constantly,
night and day, and when something occurred
to him, if it were in the middle of the night, he
would get up and wrap his dressing-gown round
his shrunken person and put it down. He did

not forget it either sleeping or waking. It was
a resource for his imagination, an occupation for
his life. Also it was likely to prove a considerable
source of occupation to others after his
death, if nobody stepped in to lick it into
shape.

When he; heard Ford's step on the stairs he
began to chuckle again, already enjoying the
surprise and admiration which he felt his last
new idea must call forth. Ford was a very
good literary confidant. He would find fault
with a trifle now and then, which made his general
approbation all the more valuable, as showing
that there was discrimination in it. Mr. Trevor
put away the " Times " from his knees, and drew
the blotting-book with its precious contents a little
nearer. He waited with as much impatience asa
lover would show for the appearance of his
love. And he had time to take off his spectacles,
clean them carefully, rubbing them with his
handkerchief, and put them on again with great
deliberation before Ford, after very carefully
and audibly closing the door behind him, appeared

at last on the inner side of the screen
which kept out the draught, that draught which
rushed up the narrow ravine of the staircase as
up an Alpine couloir white with snow.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER II.

OLD JOHN TREVOR.

JOHN TREVOR had been a schoolmaster for
the greater part of his life. How he acquired
so well sounding a name nobody knew.
He had no relations, he always said, in the male
line, and his friends on the mother's side were
people of undistinguished surnames. And for
the first fifty years of his life he had maintained
a very even tenor of existence, always respectable,
always a man who kept his engagements,
paid his way, gave his entire attention, as his
circulars said, to the pupils confided to his care;
but even in his schoolmaster's there was
nothing of a remarkable character. After passing
many obscure years as an usher he attained

to an academy of his own, in which a sound
religious and commercial education was ensured,
as the same circular informed the parents and
guardians of Farafield, by the employment of
most competent masters for all the branches
included in the course, and by his own unremitting
care. But often the masters at Mr.
Trevor's academy were represented solely by
himself, and the number of his pupils never
embarrassed or over weighted him. The good man,
however, worked his way all the same ; he kept
afloat, which so many find it impossible to do. If
the number of scholars diminished he lived harder,
when it increased he laid by a little. He was
never extravagant, never forgot that his occupation
was a precarious one, and thus turning out a
few creditable arithmeticians to fill up the places in
the little " offices " of Farafield, the solicitor's, the
auctioneer's, the big builder's, and even in the
better shops, where they were the best of
cashiers, never wrong in a total  he lived on
from year to year. His house was but a dingy
one, with a large room for his pupils, and two

C 2

upstairs, shabby enough, in which he lived ; but,
by dint of sheer continuance and respectability,
John Trevor, by the time he was fifty, was as
much respected in Farafield as a man leading
such a virtuous, colourless, joyless, unblamable
existence has a right to be.

But at fifty a curious circumstance happened.
John Trevor married. To say that he fell in
love would perhaps scarcely represent the case.
He had a friend who had been in India and allover
the world, and who came home to Fairfield
with a liver-complaint, and a great deal of
money, some people said. Trevor at first did
not believe very much in the money. " I have
enough to live upon," his friend said ; and what
more was necessary? No one knew very well
how the money had been made  though
that it was honestly acquired there was no
doubt. He had been a clerk in an office in Fairfield
first, then because of his good conduct,
which everybody had full faith in, and his
business qualities (at which everybody laughed),
he was sent to London by his employer, and
received into an office there, from which he was

sent to India, coming home with this fortune,
but with worn-out health, to his native place.
"Fortune? you can call it a fortune if you like.
It is enough to live on," John Trevor repeated,
that is all I know about it. To be sure that
is a fortune, for to have enough for your old
days, and not to be compelled to work, what
could a man desire more ! But poor Rainy will
not enjoy it long," his old schoolfellow added
regretfully. Rainy was older by five or six
years than John Trevor ; but fifty-six does not
seem old when one is drawing near that age, though
it is a respectable antiquity to youth. Rainy's
sister had been a hard-working woman too ; she
had been a governess, and then had kept a school ;
then looked after the children of a widowed
brother; and during her whole life had discharged
the duties of the supernumerary woman
in a large family, taking care of everybody who
wanted taking care of. When her brother returned
to Farafield she had come to him to be
his companion and nurse. He gave her a
very nice home, everybody said, with much

admiration . of the brother's kindness and the
sister's good luck. They lived in Swallow
Street, in one of the old houses, which were
warmer and better built than the new ones, and
kept two maids, and had everything comfortable,
if not handsome, about them. When poor Rainy
died, Miss Rainy had a great deal of business
to do which she did not at all understand. She
had to refer to John Trevor perpetually in the
first week or two, and she was not young any
longer, nor ambitious, the good soul, and nobody
had been so kind to her brother as John, and
they had known each other all their lives. It
came about thus quite naturally that they married.
To be sure there were a great many
people who said that Trevor married Miss Rainy
for her money, as if poor old John at fifty had
been able to have his choice of all the lovely
young maidens of the district. But this was
not the case ; neither was it for love they
married. They married for mutual support and
company, not a bad motive after all. If there
had been no money in the case, they would have

contented themselves in their loneliness ; but as
she had a house and an independence, and he an
occupation, they "felt justified," he said to all
inquirers, in taking a  step which otherwise they
might not have contemplated. The consequences
however were not at all such as they contemplated.
Mrs. Trevor began, too late, with the
energy of a workman who has no time to lose,
the hard trade of a mother. She had one baby
after another at headlong speed, losing them
almost as soon as they were born, and losing
her own health and tranquillity in the process.
For some half dozen years the poor soul was
either ill or in mourning. And at the end of
that period she died. Poor Trevor saved his
little Lucy out of the wreck, that was all ; there
were five or six little mounds in the churchyard
beside Mrs. Trevor's longer one, and so her kind
old-maidenly existence was over ; for before she
married she had been universally acknowledged,
even by her closest friends, to be an old maid.

It was not till Mrs. Trevor was dead that it
became fully known in Farafield that it was no

humble competency that had been left to herby
her brother, but " an immense fortune'
Neither she nor her husband had known it till
long after their marriage. Rainy had been a
very clever business-man, though his townsfolk
all laughed at the idea, and some of his speculations
which had been all but forgotten, turned
out at last to be real mines of gold. When it
was known what a large, what a fabulous fortune
it was, all Rainy' s kindred and connections were
roused as one man. They crowded round Trevor,
most of them demanding their share, almost all
of them fully believing that he had known from
the beginning how matters stood, and had married
(being so much in request, poor old John !)
solely on this inducement; but some of them on
the other hand, showed their admiration by
leaving their own little bits of fortune to Lucy,
already so liberally endowed. Both of these
effects were natural enough. Trevor held his
own bravely against them all. Rainy had left
his money to his sister ; he knew best who deserved
it ; and it was not for him (Trevor) to annul

or allow to be annulled his brother-in-law's
wishes, especially now that Lucilla Rainy (poor
thing !) had a child to inherit all that belonged
to her. He was not illiberal, however, though
he was unyielding on the point of law and his
child's rights, and between him and the town-clerk,
who was a person of great influence and
much trusted in by the surrounding population,
the crowd of discontented relations were silenced.
As for the others, those who insisted upon
leaving their money to Lucy on the old and
always popular principle, that to those that have
shall be given, Trevor allowed them to do w T hat
seemed to them good ; and by this treatment it
came to pass that the fortune of Lucy acquired
several additions. "Money draws money," the
proverb says. Thus this man of fifty-six, withall
the restrained and economical habits of a
life-time passed in laborious endeavours to make
the two ends meet, found himself at the latter
end of his life with a great fortune and a motherless
baby on his hands. The position in both
ways was very strange to him. He gave up the

school, generously bestowing the goodwill, the
furniture, and the remaining pupils on young
Philip Rainy, the son of a cousin of his wife.
He would not give away his child's money ; but
he hoped, he said, that he would always be ready
to serve an old friend with that which was his
own. And then he gave himself up to the charge
of Lucy's fortune. One thing that was to the
credit of John Trevor, all Farafield said, was
that he never gave himself any airs or committed
any extravagances. He lived on the
same income with which his wife and he had
begun life, before the great windfalls came which
made their little daughter one of the richest
heiresses in England. He might have bought
himself a great house, set up a carriage, tried
to make his way into society. But he did none
of these things. He lived on in the old way,
without fuss or show, nursed Lucy's fortune
and rolled it into ever-increasing bulk like a
snowball, and had Lucy nursed as best he might
with no woman to help him. How it was that
in this respectable and right-minded career there

should have occurred the interval of folly in
which little Jock came into the world, who can
tell ? The second Mrs. Trevor was a good woman
enough, and had acted for some years as his
housekeeper and the superintendant of Lucy's
health and comfort  a comely person too, which
perhaps had something to do with it. But nobody
ever dwelt upon this moment of aberration
in old Trevor's life, for his second wife died as
his first wife had done, and there would have
been an end of the incident but for little Jock.
And nobody made much account of him.

When the second Mrs. Trevor died, he gave
up housekeeping. Perhaps he was afraid of
other risks that might attend hin in the same
way. "When a man is a widower for the
second time it is impossible to say what Bluebeard
career he may not rush into. In this as
in so many other things, il ny a que le premier
pas qui route. After that there is no telling to
what lengths you may go. So Trevor wisely
withdrew from all hazards. He looked about
him carefully, and fixed upon Mrs. Ford, who

was a cousin of his first wife. Ford was just
then beginning to sigh and make comparisons
between his own lot and that of his employer,
who was his contemporary, and had just retired
with, if not a fortune, at least a competency.
Whereas I shall have to slave on to the end,"
Ford said. One evening, however, his wife
came out to meet him in high excitement to tell
him what had happened.

"He will buy the lease for us," she said,
and set us up, and then he will take our lodgings.
I never should have thought old Trevor
would be so liberal ; but I suppose it is for poor
Lucilla's sake."

And next day they went and inspected No. 6
in the Terrace. Mr. and Mrs. Ford felt that it
was a solemn moment in their career; they had
no children, and they liked to be comfortable,
but such a piece of grandeur as a house in the
Terrace had never come within the range of
their hopes ; and Mrs. Ford liked the idea of the
cook, and the housemaid, and the parlourmaid.
Thus the bargain was made; and though the

Fords had not found it quite so delightful as it
appeared at first, yet the experiment was on
the whole a successful one. The household goton
as well as it was possible for such a composite
household to do. Sometimes a maid
would be saucy, and give Mrs. Ford to understand
as she knew very well who was the real
master ; and sometimes Mr. Trevor would make
himself disagreeable and find fault with the eggs,
or complain of the tea. But barring these ruffling
of the rose leaves, all went very well with
the house. When she was not thinking of her
housekeeping, Mrs. Ford kept a convenient little
fund of misery on hand, which she could draw
upon at the shortest notice, as to the position
in which she and her husband would be left
when Mr. Trevor died. Mr. Trevor was now
seventy, so that the fear was not unnatural, and-she
was a woman full of anxieties who liked to
have one within reach. Ford was above all
this ; he knew that they were not to be left with
the lease of the house in the Terrace and nothing
more to trust to. For he had become Mr. Trevor's

confidant. It is not so touching a relationship
as that which exists at the theatre between
the first and second ladies, the heroine in white
satin and the confidant in muslin ; but it is
doubtful whether Tilburina ever made revelations
more exciting than those over which these
two old men wagged their beards or rather their
smooth old chins, well shaven every morning ;
for at their age and in their condition of life
beards were still unknown.

Mr. Trevor was sixty-five when the idea of
making his will occurred to him first. Not that
he had left Lucy's fortune in any doubt up to
that moment. A brief and concise little document
existed in his lawyer's hands, putting her
rights entirely beyond question ; but it was
years after the making of this first will that the
idea occurred to him of shaping out Lucy's life
for her, and settling the course of years after he
should have himself passed from the conduct of
affairs. He was a man who had lived a very
matter-of-fact life ; but John Trevor was
not a man without imagination. Even in

the days when he had least time for such
vanities, there had been gleams of fancy about
him, and he had always been fond of entering
into the circumstances of his pupils, and giving
them his advice. They all knew that to have
his advice asked was a thing that pleased him.
And the management of a great fortune
excites the mind and draws forth the imagination.
He had to throw himself into all
the combinations of speculative money-making,
the romance of shares and coupons, and had
acquired a sort of divination, a spirit of prophecy,
a power of seeing what was about to pay or not
to pay. Some men have this power by nature,
but few acquire it ; and no doubt it had lain
dormant in John Trevor all the years during
which, having no money to invest, he had not
cared to exercise his faculties as to the best investment.
When, however, he had made many
very successful coups, and eluded many stumbles,
and steered triumphantly through some
dangers, a sense of his own cleverness and power
stole into his heart. He felt that he was a man

with great powers of administration, and instincts
which it was a thousand pities not to make use
of; and it suddenly came into his mind one evening,
when he had just added several thousand
pounds to Lucy's fortune by a very successful
and clever operation, that he might exercise these
powers in a still more effectual way. Ah ! if
Lucy's fortune had been a poor little trumpery
bit of a fortune, not enough for the girl to live
on, it would not have increased like this, it would
never have doubled itself, as old Trevor's money
did ! Even Providence seemed in the compact, and
gave the advantage to the heiress, just as the richer
people of the Rainy kindred did, who gave her their
money because she had so much already. But this
is a digression. As Mr. Trevor thought over the
whole question  and naturally Lucy's fortune,
which was his chief occupation, was also the thing
that took up most of his thoughts  he could not
but feel a vivid regret that it would be impossible
to outlive his own ending, and see how the money
throve in Lucy's hands. This seems a whimsical regret,
but it is not an unnatural one. Could we only

Keep a share of what is going on, could we but be
sure of seeing our ideas carried out, and assisting
at our ow T n dying and buying, and all that would
follow after, death would be a much less dismal
matter. To be sure, in most cases the penalty of
this post-mortem dictatorship would be that .eve
should not see our ideas carried out at all. But
this was not what Mr. Trevor looked forward to.
He would have been quite content to give up his
share in the world, if he could only have kept an
eye on the course of events afterwards, and retained
some power of suggesting, at least, what
ought to be done. But even under the most
favourable view, the hereafter for which we hope,
was not likely, Mr. Trevor felt, to permit any
active intervention of the disembodied spirit in
the matter of stock or shares. And it was a
painful check to him to feel that in a few years,
at the most, Lucy's property and herself would
be deprived of the invaluable guidance which his
own experience and intelligence could give. It
was while this regret was heavy upon him that
the idea of making a will suddenly occurred to

VOL. I. D

him  not the ordinary sort of will, a thing which,
as already indicated, was made long ago, but a
potential and living instrument, by which out of
his grave he would still be able to look after the
affairs which had cost him so much trouble, and
which had so prospered in his hands. The idea
stirred him with the liveliest thrill of pleasure. He
began the document the very next day, after laying
in a stock of paper, large blue folio, lined and
crackling, that the very outward form might be
absolutely correct. And it was a very remarkable
document ; it was the romance, the poem of
John Trevor's life. Sitting by himself among
his coupons and account-books, he had evolved
out of his own consciousness, bit by bit, the ideal
of a millionaire nay of a female millionaire 
of an heiress, not in her usual aspect as the prey
of fortune-hunters, pursued for love, not of herself,
but of her money. The sentimental side of
the question did not touch old Trevor at all. He
thought of his daughter from a very different
point of view. If he ever reflected upon a
possible husband for her, it was with great

impatience and distaste of the idea. He would
rather, if he could, have settled for her that she
should never marry. He wanted her to be herself,
not anybody's wife. All his calculations
were for her as she was, Lucy Trevor, not for
Mrs. So-and-so. It seemed to him that the
woman who would take up his sketch of existence,
and carry it out. would be something much
more worth thinking of than a married lady of
the ordinary level. She would be a very important
person indeed, in her father's sketch of her,
making what he intended to be a very fine use of
her money, and living for that end like a princess.
He did not cut off auy portion of her duties,
because she was a woman ; indeed he thought no
more of that fact than in so far as it was this which
gave him his chief certainty of being able to
mould her, and make her life what he wished. He
would not, probably, have thought it worth his
while to take so much trouble had she been a
boy ; he would not have had the same faith in
her, nor the same feeling about her position. It
would have been more a matter of course, not so

D 2

interesting to the fancy. Perhaps a girl, in all
cases, answers the purpose of an ideal better thana
boy does. Old Trevor did not think much
about the question of sex, but instinctively felt
that the girl was what he wanted, and it would
be impossible to conceive an exercise of the imagination
more exciting, more interesting. It
was as near like creating a human being as anything
could be. Of the character of Lucy  in the
flesh, a slim and quiet girl of sixteen  her father
knew not very much ; but the Lucy who, day by
day, developed more and more in the will became
a personage very distinct to him. The manner
in which she was to conduct herself in all the
difficulties she might meet, was the subject of his
continual thoughts : until at last it seemed to
the old man that he saw her as in a mirror moving
along through the difficulties and perplexities
of her life in which his own position would
enable him to accompany her and help her with
his advice rather than that he was actually inventing
the entire course of her experience for
her.

This was the subject upon which Ford was Mr.'
Trevor's confidant. He could not have lived all
alone in this imaginary world ; he had to consult
some one, to tell some one of all the developments
of his imagination as he traced his heiress
through her life. And Ford, you may be sure,
liked to know every particular, and was pleased
to have a hand in the guidance of so rich a person.
and to help to decide how so much money was to
be spent. It made him feel as if he were rich
himself. He made a very judicious confidant.
He agreed in all Mr. Trevor's ideas in the greater
matters, and differed in trifles, just enough to
show the independence-of his judgment ; and as
it happened, there was something particularly
interesting to Ford in the chapter of Lucy's
future life at which they had now arrived.

CHAPTER III.

THE WILL.

T THINK I have got it now, Ford, I think I
-1- have got it now," the old man said, rubbing
his hands. " But it has given me a great deal of
trouble. Get yourself a chair, and sit down. I
want you to hear how Fve put it. I think,
though 1 don't want to be conceited, that this
time I have hit upon the. very thing. Sit down,
Ford, and give me your advice."

Ford found himself a chair, and put it in front
of the fire. His feet were close to little Jock on
the hearth-rug, but neither did he pay the least
attention to little Jock, any more than if he had
been a little dog half buried in the fur. The

child moved now and then, as his position became
fatiguing. He changed now an elbow, now the
hand with which he held his book, and sometimes
fluttered the pages as he turned them ; but these
little movements were like the falling of the ashes
from the grate, or the little flickers of the
flames, and no one took any notice. Jock kept
on reading his Shakespeare, wholly absorbed in
it : yet as in a dream heard them talking, and
remembered afterwards, as children do, what they
had said.

Listen !" said Mr. Trevor. He was so eager
to read that he had taken his MS. into his
hands before his confidant was ready to hear, and
waited, clearing his throat while Ford took his
seat. Then without a pause, raising his hand to
command attention, he began :

In respect to the future residence of my
daughter Lucy, up to the moment of her coming of
age, I desire that her time should be divided between
two homes which I have selected for her. It is
my wish that she should pass the first six
months of every year in the house and under

the care of Lad 7 Randolph, Park Street,
London ."

Here Ford interrupted with an exclamation of
astonishment. " Lady Randolph !" he said.

Trevor paused, and uttered his usual chuckle,
but with a still livelier note of pleasure in it.
Ah !" he said. " Lady Randolph, that surprises
you, Ford. We haven't many titles among us,
have we ? but she's a relation of poor Lucilla's
all the same ; or at least she says so," he added
with another chuckle. " There is nothing like
money for opening people's eyes."

A relation of Lucilla's !" Ford's amazement
was not more genuine than the impression of
awe made upon him by the name. "I never
knew the Rainy s had any rich relations. I
suppose you mean Sir Thomas Randolph
at the Hall, the lord of the manor, he
that was Member for the county when I first
came here the present Sir Thomas's uncle 
the "

That will do," said the old man. " It's not
Sir Thomas, but it's his wife, or his widow, to

be exact. She says she is a relation  no, a connection
of Lucilla's  and she ought to know best.
She has made me an offer to take charge of
Lucy, and introduce her, as she calls it. I've
been of use to my Lady Randolph in the way
of business, and she wants to be of use to me.
I don't ask, for my. part, if it's altogether disinterested.
It appears there was a Randolph that
married beneath him ; I can't tell you how long
ago. My Lady," said old Trevor dryly, " would
not break her heart, perhaps, if another Randolph
married beneath him, and into the same family
too."

But," said Ford, " that would be no reason
for putting Lucy in her hands  a poor lamb in
the way of the wolf."

One wolf is not a bad thing to keep off
others ; besides, my good fellow, I've taken
every precaution. Wait till you see," and he
resumed his manuscript, with again a little preparatory
clearing of his throat.

"The latter part of the year it is my wish
that Lucy should spend in the house which has

already been her home for some years, under the
charge of her other relations, Richard Ford and
Susan, his wife, who have been her fast friends
since ever she can recollect, and to whom for
this purpose I hereby give and bequeath the said
house, No. 6 in the Terrace, in the parish of
Farafield, in the hundred of "

Stop a bit !" said Ford feebly ; he was overcome
by his feelings. " ' Her fast friends,' " he
repeated, "that's just what we are. We've loved
her like our own, that's what we've always done,
Susan and me. And as for Susan, many's the
time she has said, ' Supposing anything was to
happen, or any change to occur, what should
we do without Lucy % It would be like losing
a child of our own.' "

Then you approve !" Trevor said. He liked
to receive the full expression of the gratitude
which was his due.

Approve !" said Ford. When a man without
any natural dignity to speak of, is moved
tearfully, the effect is sometimes less pathetic
than ludicrous; the good man did all but cry.

It isn't the property, Mr. Trevor, it's the trust,"
he said, with a restrained sob. " But one thing
I'll promise, it shan't be a trust betrayed. We'll
watch over her night and day. There shall
be no wolf come near her while she's with Susan
and me."

In moderation ! in moderation !" said the
old man, waving his hand. " I don't want her
to be watched night and day ; something must
be left to Lucy herself."

Ah !" said Ford, drawing a long breath. He
had the air of a man who was ready to patrol
under his ward's window with a pair of pistols.
Lucy has a great deal of sense, but to expose
a girl to the wiles of a set of fortune-hunters
is what I would never do  and with that
worldly-minded old woman. Ah ! Mr. Trevor,
you're too kind, you're too kind. Lady Randolph
is not one that would step out of her own
sphere for nothing. It isn't any desire she has
to be kind to you."

Her own sphere," said said Mr. Trevor.
Money levels all spheres. And Lucy is an

heiress, which makes her equal to a prince of
the blood. But," he added with a chuckle, snapping
his fingers, " that for the fortune-hunters !
I've put bolt and bar between them and their
prey. It's all done in black and white, and
I don't know who can go against it. Listen,
Ford.

"It is further my wish, and I hereby stipulate
that my said daughter, Lucy, shall contract
no marriage up to the age hereinafter mentioned
without the consent of the following parties,
who will consider themselves as a sort of committee
for the disposal of her hand, and whom
I hereby appoint and constitute her guardians,
so far as this subject is concerned ; it being
fully understood that this appointment does not
confer any power or authority over her pecuniary
concerns. The committee which I thus charge
with the arrangement of her marriage is to
consist of the three persons above mentioned,
to wit, Dame Elena Randolph, Richard Ford,
and Susan Ford, his wife, with the following
assessors added :  Robert Rushton, Esq., town-clerk

of Farafield, my old friend ; the Rev. William
Williamson, of the Congregational Chapel, my
pastor ; and Mrs. Maria Stone, schoolmistress, of
the same place *

"But, Mr. Trevor!" Ford ejaculated with a
gasp. The paragraph he had just listened to
took away his breath.

Well ? Out with your objections ; let us
hear them," said old Trevor, turning upon him,
brisk, and lively, and ready for war.

Objections ! yes, I cannot deny it, I
have objections," said Ford hesitating. "Mr.
Trevor, you know better than I do, you that
have had such quantities of money passing
through your hands ; but "

"Out with it," said Trevor; he rubbed his
hands. It was an amusement the more to him
to have his arrangements questioned.

You can't have taken everything into consideration.
Six people  six, all so different. If
she has to get all their consents, she will never
marry at all."

And no great harm done either," said old

Trevor briefly, " if that is all. Why should she
marry? A woman who is poor, who wants
somebody to work for her, that is comprehensible
; but a woman with a lot of money, there
is no reason why she shouldn't stay as she is.
What should she get married for ?"

Ford scratched his head ; he did not quite
make it out. This was a challenge to all his
convictions. It touched, he felt, the very
first prerogative of man. Where were all true
foundations of primal supremacy and authority to
go to, if it were once set up as a rule that
marriage was no longer necessary to womankind?


"It's always a good thing for a woman to
marry," he said hoarsely. Many a radical
opinion he had heard from his lodger, but never
anything so sweeping as this.

Ah ! you think so," said old Trevor. " There
was poor Lucilla, to go no further. She
might have been alive yet, and enjoying
her good fortune, if she had not married
me."

This disturbed still more the man of orthodox
ideas; he could do nothing but stare at the
old revolutionary. What might he not say
next?

I suppose," he said, after a while, " poor
Lucilla would never have hesitated ; she was a
woman who never considered her own comfort,
in comparison with doing her duty."

Her duty, poor soul ! how was it her duty to
marry me? Poor thing, I've always been very
sorry for her," said Trevor, " Women have hard
times in this world. But a girl with a great
fortune, she may be kept out of it." Here he
paused, while his companion sat opposite to him,
his very mouth open with amazement. It was indeed
more than amazement, it was consternation
which filled the honest mind of Richard Ford.
He did not know what to think of this ; was ita
new phase of Radicalism worse than any that
had gone before? He would have said it was
Popery if he had not known how far from any
ideas of that description his old friend was.
While he sat thus half stupefied with astonishment,

old Trevor took up his pen again hastily.
Now I think of it," he said, " Lucy belongs to
the country, I don't hold much with the Church,
but the Church should have a hand in it. I'll
add the Rector to the committee. That will be
only a proper respect.

The Rector !" said Ford, pale with wonder,
and Mr. Williamson at the chapel, and Mr.
Rushton, and Mrs. Stone, and me ! "

You forget Lady Randolph, " said old Trevor
with a chuckle, " that's exactly as it ought to be,
all classes represented, the right thing for a girl in
Lucy's position. To tell the truth," he added,
laying down his pen, " I don't know that there
ever was a girl in Lucy's position before. It's a
very fine position, and I hope she's been brought
up to feel all the responsibilities. I don't want
to brag of myself; but given an unusual situation
like hers, and I think I've hit the right thing for
it. When you are born a great lady that's
different; but a girl with the greatest fortune
in England, proceeding out of the lower
classes  "

I don't see," said Ford, aggrieved, " that we
need call ourselves the lower classes ; the middle
that is about what it is  the middle class 
the strength of the country."

"Bosh!" said Trevor; "she will goto Lady
Randolph's, and there she will see fine people, and
no doubt she'll be courted. There is nobody like
them for knowing the value of money ; and then
she will come to you, Dick Ford, where she
will see nobody, or else a few young clerks and
that sort."

I assure you," said Ford solemnly, " I will
take care that she shall see no one here ;
not a man shall enter the house, not a creature
come near her, while she is under my
care."

That will be lively for Lucy," said the old
man, "you numscull ! if she never sees anyone
how is she to make a choice."

Mr. Trevor," said Ford with a voice so



solemn and serious that it trembled, " you would
not wish your heiress to make a choice among
the young clerks? Whom, you say," he added

VOL. I. E

after a moment in a tone of offence, " she will
meet here."

She is not my heiress, you stupid fellow.
She is Lucilla's heiress, poor Rainy's heiress ;
what was he but a young clerk ? Why shouldn't
she if she likes marry into her own class ? That's
your snobbishness, Ford. You will find nothing
of that in me. If she likes a man who is in
the same rank of life as Rainy was when he
began to make his fortune, or as I was (when
I was that age) why let her marry him in
heaven's name and be happy  that is," said
old Trevor chuckling, " if she can get her guardians
to consent."

Mr. Trevor," said Ford hurriedly, with the
tremulousness of real feeling, " I must protest,
I must really protest. I am very conscious of
the great kindness you are showing to us ; but I
cannot sit quiet and see poor Lucy doomed to
such a fate. She will never get all her guardians
to consent. Put it into one person's hands,
whom you please, but for goodness' sake don't
leave the poor thing to fight with half-a-dozen ;

the end will be that she will never be married at
all."

"And that won't kill her," said Trevor,
do you think I want her to marry ? Nota
bit, not a bit. ' She is better if she so
abide.' Don't you know who said that? And
I agree with St. Paul, whatever you may
do."

Now the idea of not agreeing with St. Paul
was terrible to Ford ; it scandalised him utterly :
for he was a Low Churchman, and much devoted
to the writer of the Epistles.

There never could be any question on that
point," he said, " if you ask me whether I believe
in my Bible, Mr. Trevor ! but I cannot
pretend that I understand that passage. There
is more in it, I make bold to say, than meets
the eye. There's a type in it, or a similitude.
I am not a learned man, I can't tell you what
it is in the original, but there's more in it than
we think."

Old Trevor laughed  he was quite as staunch
a believer as his friend : but being a Congregationalist,

he was naturally a little more at his

ease on such subjects than even the lowest of

Churchmen. He was not shocked by the idea

that it might be possible not to agree with St.

Paul, and he was not so sure of the hidden

meaning.

It is quite enough for me as it stands," he

said, " and as for Lucy's marriage  "

Here there was an interruption that startled
these old conspirators. Little Jocky, who had
been lying as still as a mouse at their feet, with
no movement except that of turning a leaf of
his book, now began to stir. They had forgotten
his very existence, as they often did.
He had not been paying much attention to them,
but probably he had heard other sounds more
interesting to him, which they on the other
hand had taken no notice of. At this stage he
suddenly jumped up on his feet like a little
acrobat, startling them greatly. He was not
at all unlike an acrobat with his long slim
pliable limbs, and his faded suit of blue velveteen,
a little short in the arms, and white in

the seams. He got up with a bound, like a
thing on springs, immediately under Mr. Ford's
nose, who was much discomfited by the sudden
movement. It was a thing that had happened
before, but Mr. Ford had confessed that it was
not a thing to which he could accustom himself.
He was not used to children, and he was
nervous ; little Jock's jump made him jump
too.

"What is it? What is the matter?" he
cried.

But just then the door opened softly behind
the screen, and a soft voice said, " I have
come home, papa, I have come to take Jock for
his walk. Do you want anything ?"

"Not that I know of, my dear, not that I
know of; except yourself, and I shall have you
by and bye' said the old man, his countenance
expanding. She was not visible behind the high
screen, but her voice seemed to throw a new
element, something of softness and comfort into
the air.

At tea, papa. Come, Jock," said the voice,

and the little fellow was gone almost before the
words were said. The two old men sat quite
silent, and listened to the steps going down the
stairs. It was not an unusual incident, but it is
scarcely possible not to feel an uneasy sensation
when you have been discussing, much more
deciding, the fate of another, and suddenly that
other looks in and interrupts your secret combinations
by the sound of an innocent and affectionate
voice. Such unconsciousness is more
trying to a conspirator than any suspicion
of his motives. Even when it is a private consultation
between a father and mother on the
expediency of sending a child to school, with
what compunctions the sudden appearance of
the unconscious victim overwhelms them! Old
Trevor himself was moved by it, though he was
not a likely subject for penitence.

She hasn't much notion what we're settling,"
he said. " Poor little Lucy, I wonder if it's a
good thing for a bit of a girl to have such a fate
before her. But it is a fine position a fine
position ; not many have such a chance, and I

hope I've bred her up to understand what it is."
"Poor child," Ford breathed, in a sigh
which was not unmingled with personal feeling,
for notwithstanding the substantial advantages
promised to him, and the gratifying character
of the trust conferred, there already began to
appear before the good man, not too confident in
his own firmness or force of character, a crowd
of difficulties to come. How would he be able
to resist if a fine lady like Lady Randolph took
him in hand ? And how would Susan stand out
against cajoling. He sighed, beginning to foresee
that it would not be unmixed happiness to
be Lucy's guardian even for six months in the
year. But Lucy's appearance, or rather Lucy's
voice, had disturbed the sitting effectually. Mr.
Trevor folded up his blue manuscript, and put
it back into the blotting-book, and he lifted the
Times " from the little table on which it had
been spread out, and once more arranged it on
his knees.

"We'll go into further detail," he said,
another time. I'll give you the help of all my

lights, Dick Ford. You'll want them to steer
your way clear, and you can tell Susan there
shan't be any want of money. That is what
she'll think of first."

I hope, Mr. Trevor, that you don't think
money is the only thing we think of, either
Susan or me."

It is a very important thing," said the old
man. " I have been poor, and now I am rich,
and it isn't a matter that will let itself be kept
in the background. But you shall have plenty
of money, tell Susan so, and for other things you
must do your best."

I hope we'll do that in any case," Ford said
devoutly, and he went downstairs with nervous
solemnity, holding his head very high. He was
very conscientious even in the smallest matters,
and it may be supposed that this tremendous
call upon him, as soon as he began to realise
it, went to the very depths of that conscience
which was alert and anxious in the minutest
affairs. Old Trevor watched him disappear behind
the screen, waited till the door had audibly

closed behind him, then with a chuckling laugh
resumed his newspaper.

I've given him something to think about," he
said, with a grin of mischievous satisfaction to
himself.

CHAPTER IV.

SISTER AND BROTHER.

FROM the two old men and their consultations
it was a relief, even in that chilly
and dismal day, to get outside into the free air,
though it was heavy with the chill of moisture
turning into frost. It was not a cheerful world
outside. The sky was the colour of lead, and
hung low in one uniform tint of dulness over
the wet world, with all its wetness just on the
point of congealing. The common stretched out
its low green broken lines and brown divisions
of path to touch the limited horizon. Mrs.
Stone's school, the big white house which stood
on the north side, had a sort of halo of mist hanging

round it, and everything that moved moved
drearily, as unable to contend again the depression
in the air. But little Jock Trevor was
impervious to that depression ; it was the moment
of all the twenty-four hours in which he was
happy. Though he had lain as still on the rug
as if there was no quicksilver at all in his little
veins, he could scarcely stand quietly now to have
his little greatcoat put on, which his sister did
with great care. She was seventeen, a staid
little person, with much composure of manners,
dressed in a grey walking-dress, trimmed with
grey fur, very neat, comfortable., and sensible,
but not quite becoming to Lucy, who was of
that kind of fair complexion which tends towards
greyness ; fair hair, with no colour in it,
and a face more pale than rosy. Ill-natured
people said of her that she was all the
same colour, hair, cheeks, and eyes which was
not true, and yet so far true as to make the
grey dress the least favourable envelope that
could have been chosen. There was no irregularity
of any kind about her appearance ; all

was exact, the very impersonation of neatness;
a ribbon awry, an irregularity of line anywhere,
would have been a relief, but no such relief was
afforded to the spectator. Whoever might be
found fault with for untidiness in Mrs. Stone*
establishment, it never was Lucy ; her collars
were always spotless ; her ribbons always neatly
tied ; her dress, the very perfection of good
order and completeness. She put on her
brother's little coat, and buttoned it to the last
button, though he was dancing all the time with
impatience ; then enveloped his throat with a
warm woollen scarf, and tucked in the ends.
Now your gloves, Jocky," she said, and she
would not move till he had dragged these
articles on, and had them buttoned in their turn.
What does it matter if you are two minutes
earlier or later," she said, " you silly little Jock ;
far better to have them buttoned before you
go out than to struggle with them all the way.
Now have you got your handkerchief, and has
your hat been brushed properly? Well," Lucy
added, surveying him with mingled satisfaction

in the result and reluctance to allow it to be
complete, " now we may go."

If she had not held him by the hand, there is
no telling what caracoling Jock might have
burst into by way of exhausting the first outburst
of exhilaration. The contact with the
fresh air, though it was not anything very lively
in the way of air, moved all the childhood in
his veins. He strained Lucy's arm, as a hound
strains at a leash, jumping about her as they
went on. Almost her staid steps were beguiled
out of their usual soft maidenly measure by the
gambols of the little fellow.

Let's have a run to the gate," he said. " Oh,
Lucy, come, run me to the gate," and he
dragged at her hand to get loose from its
hold. But, when he escaped, Jock did not care
to run alone. He came back to her, out of
breath.

I wish I could have a real run just once,"
he said with a sigh ; then brightening up, " ora
wrestling like Shakespeare  I'll tell you who
I'd like to be, Lucy, I'd like to be Orlando

when he had just killed that big bully of a
man "

Jock ! you wouldn't like to kill anyone, I
hope."

"Oh, shouldn't I!" cried the boy; "just to
see him go down, and turn over on his face, and
clench his hands. Do they always do that, I
wonder ? You see them in the pictures all with
their fists clenched, clawing at the ground.
Well," he added with magnanimity, " he needn't
quite die, you know; I'd like him only to be
badly hurt, as bad as if he were killed, and
then to get better. I daresay," said the child,
Charles got better, you know, after Orlando
threw him. It isn't said that he was regularly
killed."

"Is it a pretty story you've been reading,
dear?" said Lucy sweetly, altogether ignorant
of Orlando. And she was not ashamed of her
ignorance, nor did Jock know that she had any
reason to be ashamed.

"That's the best bit," he said impartially.
"The rest is mostly about girls. It was the

Duke's wrestler, you know, a big beast like 
oh, I don't know anybody so big a drayman,"
said Jock, as a big waggon lumbered by, laden
with barrels, with one of those huge specimens
of humanity (and beer) moving along like a
clumsy tower by its side. " Like him ; and
Orlando was quite young, you know, not so very
big  like me, when I am grown up."

You don't know what you will be when you
are grown up, you silly little boy. Perhaps you
will never grow up at all," said Lucy, somewhat
against her conscience improving the
occasion.

Jock stood for a moment with wide open eyes.
Then resumed.

u I shan't be big or fat, like that fellow.
When I am about seventeen, or perhaps twenty-two,
and never taught to box or anything. I
would have gone in at him," cried Jack, throwing
out his poor arm, with a very tightly-clenched
woollen glove at the end of it, " just
like Orlando, just like this; and down he'd go
like, like " But imagination did not serve

him in this particular. " Like Charles did," he
concluded, with a dropping of his voice, which
betrayed a consciousness of the failure, not in
grammar, but in force of metaphor. Jock's
experience did not furnish any parallel incident.


"You must never fight when you grow up,"
said Lucy. " Gentlemen never do ; except when
they are soldiers, and have to go and fight for the
Queen."

"Does the Queen want to be sighted for?" said
Jock. "If any fellow was to bully her or hither
"

Oh !" cried Lucy horrified, " nobody would
do that; but people sometimes go against the
country, Jock, and then the people that are
fighting for England are said to be fighting for
the Queen."

Jock's mind, however, went astray in the
midst of this discourse. There passed the pair
in the road a very captivating little figure  a
small boy, much smaller even than Jock, with long
fair locks streaming down his shoulders, in the

most coquettish of dresses, mounted upon a
beautiful cream-coloured pony, as tiny as its
rider. What child could pass this little equestrian
and not gaze after him ? The children
sighed out of admiration and envy when they
saw him, for he was a very well-known figure
about Farafield ; but the elders shook their heads
and said, " Poor child F Why should the old
people say, " Poor child F and the young ones
regard him with such admiring eyes? It was
little Gerald Rid out, the son of the Circus proprietor.
Nobody was better known. As he rode
along, the most daring little rider, on his pretty
little Arab, which was as pretty as himself, with
his long flowing curls waving, there could have
been no such attractive advertisement. The
Circus travelled for a great part of the year, but
its home was in Farafield, and everybody knew
little Gerald. Jock fixed his glistening eyes
upon him from the moment of his appearance 
eyes that shone with pleasure and sympathy,
and that wistful longing to be as beautiful and
happy, which is not envy. There was nothing of
VOL. I. f

the more hateful sentiment in little Jock's heart,
but because he admired he would have liked to
resemble, had that been within his power. He
followed the child with his eyes as long as he
was visible. Then he asked : " Do people who
are rich have ponies, Lucy ?" with much gravity
and earnestness.

Very often, dear, and horses too ; but
that poor little fellow is not rich, you
know."

I should like to be him," said Jock.

A little circus-boy ? to ride upon the stage,
and have all the most horrid people staring at
you

And jump through the hoop, and gallop,
gallop, and have a pony like that all to myself.
Ah h!" Jock cried with a long-drawn
breath.

Would you like a pony so very much,
Jocky? Then some day you shall have one,"
said his sister in her tranquil voice. " I will buy
you one when I am i*ich."

"Are you soon going to be rich?" said the

little boy doubtfully. Like wiser people, he
preferred the smallest bird in the hand to a
whole aviary in the dim and doubtful distance.
But Lucy had not a very lively sense of
humour. She knew the circumstances better
than he did, and said, " Hush ! hush !" with a
little awe.

Not for a very long time, I hope," she said.

Her little brother looked at her with wondering
eyes ; but this mystery was too deep for him
to solve. He had no insight into those deep
matters which occupied his father's time, nor
had he the least notion that Lucy's wealth
depended upon that father's death, though it had
all been discussed with so much detail day by
day over his dreaming head.

"When you are rich, shall I be rich too,
Lucy ?" he said.

"I am afraid not, Jock ; but if I am rich, it
will not matter; you shall have whatever you
please. Won't that do just as well?

Jock paused and thought.

Why shouldn't I be rich too ?" he remarked.

F 2

It was not said as a question ; it was an observation.
The fact did not trouble him, but enpassant
he noticed it as a thing which might
perhaps want explaining. It was not of half
so much importance, however, as the next thing
that came into his head.

I say, Lucy, do you think that boy on the
pony has to go to school ? What do you think
he can be learning at school ? I should like to
go there too."

When you go, it shall be to a much nicer
place," she said with energy, " There is one
thing I should like to be rich for, and that is for
you, little Jock. You don't know anything at
all yet. You ought to be learning Greek, and
Latin, and mathematics, and a great many
other things. It makes me quite unhappy
when I think of it. I go to school, but it does
not matter for me ; and you are living all your
time, not learning anything, reading nonsense
on the hearth-rug. I could cry when I think
ol it," Lucy said. She said it very quietly, but
this was vehemence in her.

Jock looked up at her with wondering eyes ;
for his own part he had no enthusiasm for study,
nor except for the pleasure of being with the
Circus boy, whom he vaguely apprehended as
caracoling about the very vague place which his
imagination conceived of as w school," on his
pretty pony, had he any desire to be sent there :
but it did not occur to him to enter into any
controversy on the subject.

"Are you going up-town, Lucy?" he asked,
u have you got to go to shops again ? I wish you
would buy all your ribbons at one time, and net
be always, always buying more. Aunty Ford
when she goes out goes to shops too, and you
have to stand and stare about, and there's
nothing to look at, and nothing to do."

What would you like to do, Jock T

Oh, I don't know nothing," said the boy :
"if I had a pony I'd get up on its back and
ride off a hundred miles before I stopped."

The horse couldn't go a hundred miles, nor
you either, dear."

Oh yes, I could, or ten at least, and if I

met anyone on the road I'd run races with him ;
and I'd call the horse Black Bess, or else Kosy-
nant, or else Chiron ; but Chiron wasn't only a
horse you know, he was a horse-man."

Well, dear," said Lucy calmly, " I wish you
were a horseman too, if you would like it so
very much."

"You don't understand," cried the child,
you don't understand ! I couldn't be like
Chiron ; he had four legs, he was a man-horse.
He brought up a little boy once, lots of little
boys, and taught them. I say, Lucy, if Chiron
was living now I should like to go to school to
him."

You are a silly little boy," said Lucy, u whoever
heard of a schoolmaster that had four legs ?
I wonder papa lets you read so many silly
books."

They are not silly books at all, it is only
because you don't know," said Jock, reddening.
Suppose we were cast on a desert island, what
would you do ? You don't know any stories to
tell round the fire ; but I know heaps of stories,

I know more stories than anyone. Aunty
Ford is pretty good," the little fellow went on
reflectively, "she knows some; and she likes me
to tell her out of Shakespeare, and about the
Three Calendars, and the Genii in the Bottle.
and that improves her mind; but if you were
in a desert island what should you do? You
don't know one story to tell."

I should cook your suppers, and mend your
clothes, and make the fire."

"Ah!" said the boy with a little contempt :
bread and milk would do, you know, or when
we shot a deer we'd just put him before the fire
and roast him. We shouldn't want much cooking;
and the skin would do for clothes."

You would not be at all comfortable like
that," said Lucy, gravely shocked by the savagery
of the idea, " even Robinson Crusoe had to sew
the skins together and make them into a coat;
and how could you have milk," she added,
without some one to milk the cow ?"

I will tell you something that is very
strange," said Jock, "Aunty Ford never read

Robinson Crusoe; but she knows Christian
off by heart, and all about Mary and Christiana
and the children. And she knows the history
of Joseph, and David, and Goliath ; so you cannot
say she is quite ignorant; and she makes
me tell her quantities of things."

"You should not mix up your stories," said
Lucy, " the Bible is not like other books. About
Joseph and David and those other  " (Lucy had
almost said gentlemen, which seemed the most
respectful expression ; but she paused, reflecting
with a little horror that this was too modern
and common a title for Bible personages.)
They are for Sunday," she went on, more
severely, to hide her own confusion, " they are
not like Robinson Crusoe or the Genii in the
Bottle ; you ought not to mix them all
up."

"It is Christian that is the most Sunday,"
said Jock, " she explains it to me, and all what
it means, about the House Beautiful and the
ladies that lived there. There is a Punch, Lucy !
and there's Cousin Philip ; never mind him, but

run, run, and let us have a good look at the
Punch."

(i I mustn't run," said Lucy holding him back,
and I cannot stand and look at Punch. If Mrs.
Stone were to see me, she never would let me
come out with you any more."

Oh, run, run !" cried the little boy, straining
at her hand like a hound in a leash. He had
dragged her half across the street when Cousin
Philip came up. This was the only other relative
with whom Mr. Trevor had kept up any
intercourse. He was the young man to whom
the old schoolmaster had made over his school,
and he too, like Lucy, was taking advantage
of the half holiday. In Farafield, where young
men were scarce, Philip Rainy had already made
what his friends called a very good impression.
He was not it was true (to his eternal confusion
and regret) a University man ; but neither was
he a certificated schoolmaster. He had greatly
raised the numbers of old John Trevor's school,
and he occupied a kind of debateable position
on the borders of gentility, partly because of his

connection with the enriched family perhaps,
but partly because his appearance and manners
were good, and his aspirations were lofty from
a social point of view. He had begun with a
determination to resist steadily all claims upon
him from below, and to assert courageously a
right to stand upon the dais of Farafield society ;
and though there may be many discouragements
in the path of a young man thus situated, it is
astonishing how soon a steady resolution of this
kind begins to tell. He had been five years in
old John Trevor's school, and already many
people accredited him with a Bea. to his name.
Philip told no fibs on that or any subject that
concerned his position. " When it was necessary,"
as he said, he was perfectly frank on the
subject ; but there are so few occasions on which it
is necessary to be explanatory, a modest man does
not thrust himself before the notice of the world ;
and he was making his way  he was making an
impression. Though he had been brought up a
Dissenter like his uncle, he had soon seen the
entire incompatibility of Sectarianism with

society, and he had now the gratification of hearing
himself described as a sound if moderate Churchman.
And he was now permanently upon the
list of men who were asked to the dinner parties
at the Rectory, when single men were wanted
to balance a superabundance of ladies, an emergency
continually recurring in a country town.
This of itself speaks volumes. Philip Rainy
was making his way.

He was a slim and fair young man, bearing
a family resemblance to his cousin Lucy ; and
he had always been very "nice" to Lucy and
to Jock. He came up to them now to solve
all their difficulties, taking Jock's eager hand
out of his sister's, and arresting their vehement
career.

Stop here, and I'll put you on my shoulder,
Jock ; you'll see a great deal better than among
the crowd, such a little fellow as you are ; and
Lucy will talk to me."

They made a very pretty group, as they stood
thus at a respectful distance from Punch and
his noisy audience, Jock mounted on his cousin's

shoulder clapping his hands and crowing with
laughter, while Lucy stood pleased and smiling
talking to Philip, who was always so "nice."
The passers-by looked at them with an interest
which was inevitable in the circumstances.
Wherever Lucy went, people looked at her and
pointed her out as the heiress, and naturally
the young man who was her relation was the
subject of many guesses and speculations. To
see them standing together was like the suggestion
of a romance to all Farafield. Were
they in love with each other 1 Would she marry
him % To suppose that Philip, having thus the
ball at his foot, should not be " after " the heiress,
passed all belief.

But the talk that passed between them, and
which suggested so many things to the lookers-on,
was of the most placid kind.

How is my uncle V Philip asked. Old John
Trevor was not his uncle, but the difference
between age and youth made the cousinship
resolvable into a more filial bond, and it sounded
much nearer, which pleased the young man.

May I come and see him one of these evenings,
Lucy ? I am dining out to-day and tomorrow ;
but Friday perhaps  "

How many people you must know !" said
Lucy, half admiring, half amused; for young
persons at school have a very keen eye for
everything that looks like " showing off."

Yes, I know a good many people  thanks
chiefly to you and my uncle."

To me ? I don't know anybody," said
Lucy.

But they know you ; and to be cousin to a
great heiress is a feather in my cap."

Lucy only smiled; she was neither pleased
nor annoyed by the reference, her fortune was
so familiar a subject to her. She said, " Pctpa
will be glad to see you. But I must not stand
here in the street, Mrs. Stone will be angry,
and I think Jock must have seen enough."

"Don't knock my hat off, Jock; have you
seen enough ? I will walk with you to the
Terrace," said Philip, and the little family
group as they went along the street attracted

a great deal of interest. What more natural
than that Philip should be " nice " to his young
cousins, and turn with them when he met them
on a half holiday ? and it is so good to be seen
to have relations who are heiresses for a young
man who is making his way.

CHAPTER V.

AFTERNOON TALK.

rPHE children, as they were called in the
-*- Terrace, came home just in time for tea.
Mr. Trevor had changed the course of his
existence for some time past. He who all his
life had dined at two, and had tea at six, and
a little something" in the shape of supper before
he went to bed, had entirely revolutionized
his own existence by the troublesome invention
of " late dinner," which Mrs. Ford thought was
the suggestion of the Evil One himself. His
reason for it was the same as that of many other
changes which he had made at some cost to his
own comfort, but he did not explain to anyone

what this meant,  at least, if he did explain it,
it was to Lucy, and Lucy was the most discreet
of confidants. When she came in with her
little brother, the Fords were seating themselves
at the table in their parlour, on which was the
tray and the tea-things, and a large plate of
substantial bread and butter. Here Jock took
his place with the old people, while Lucy went
upstairs. She would have liked the bread and
butter too, but her father liked her to spend this
hour with him, and he despised the modern invention
of five o'clock tea, understanding that
meal only, as the Fords did, who made themselves
thoroughly comfortable, and had muffins
sometimes, and a variety of pleasing adjuncts.
Mr. Trevor was still sitting between the fire and
the window when Lucy went upstairs. She had
taken off her hat and out-door jacket, and went
in to her father a spruce, little, grey maiden,
with hair as smooth, and everything about her
as neat as if she had just come out of a bandbox.
In Mr. Trevor's rank of life, there is no personal
virtue in a woman that tells like neatness. He

looked at her with eyes full of fond satisfaction
and pleasure. He had put away the " Times"
from his knees, and now had a book, having
finished his paper, which lasted him till about
four o'clock, and then went downstairs to Mr.
Ford. The books Mr. Trevor read were chiefly
travels. He did not think novels were improving
to the mind ; and as for history and solid information
at his age, what was the use of them ? they
could serve very little purpose in his case ; though
Lucy ought to read everything that was instructive.
He put down his book open, on its face,
on his knee when his daughter came in. His
eyes dwelt upon her with genuine pleasure and
pride as she took the chair in which Ford had
been sitting. She had some knitting in her hand,
which she began to work at placidly without
looking at it. Lucy with her blue eyes, her
fair, smooth hair, and her equally smooth grey
dress without a crease in it, looked the very impersonation
of good order and calm. She looked
at her father tranquilly with a pleasant smile.
She was no chattering girl with a necessity
VOL. i. G

of talk upon her. Even among the other girls
at Mrs. Stone's, Lucy was never, as Mrs. Ford
said, " one to talk." She waited for what should
be said to her.

Well !" said her father rubbing his hands,
and where have you been, Lucy, to-day."

Up into the High Street, papa."

I think you are fond of the High Street,
Lucy."

I don't know. The Common is very wet
and Jock will run and jump. I don't like it in
this weather. The High Street is dry and clean
at least, it is dry and clean in front of radcliffe's
shop."

And there are all the pretty things in the
windows."

I don't look at the things in the windows 
what is the good 1 You would let me buy them
all if I wanted them," said Lucy quietly.

Every one !" said old Trevor with a chuckle.
Every one ! you might have a new dress everyday
of the year, if you liked !"

Lucy smiled, she went on with her knitting.

This delightful possibility did not seem to affect
her much  perhaps, because it was a possibility.


We met the little Circus boy on his pony."
she said. " Jock thinks so much of him. Papa,
you always let me have everything I want 
might I have a pony for Jock. It would make
him so happy."

u No," said old Trevor, succinctly. " For
yourself as many as you like ; but that sort of
thing is not for the child. No, nothing of the
sort."

Why ?" she said ; with something which in
Lucy was impatience and vexation. It was too
slight a ruffling of the calm surface to have told
at all in anyone else.

Because, my dear, Jock must not have
anything that is above his own rank in life.
What should he do with a pony ? He is not a
gentleman's son to be bred up with foolish notions.
It would be all the worse for him to find
out the difference afterwards."

But he is my brother," Lucy said, " and

G 2

your son, papa. If he is not a gentleman's son,
neither am I  How is he different from me ?
And do you think I can make such a difference
when  when I am grown up  "

You mean when I am dead ? Say it out ;
isn't that what I'm always thinking of? The
little boy, my dear," said old Trevor gravely,
yet with his familiar chuckle breaking in, " is
a mistake. He didn't ought to have been at all,
Lucy. Now he's here we can't help it  we've
got to put up with it ; and we must make the best
of him. We can't send him out of the world
because it was a mistake his coming into it ; but
he must keep to his own rank in life."

But, papa ! if you would think a little 
why should there be such a difference. I so
rich  and if he is to have nothing  "

He will be as well off as he has any right
to be," said old Trevor. " I've laid by a little.
Dtfn't trouble yourself about Jock. What have
you been doing to-day f That is the thing of the
greatest importance. I want to know all my
little lady is about."

We had our French lesson," said Lucy, a
little disturbed under her smooth surface ; but
the disturbance was so little that her father
never found it out, " and  all the rest just as
usual, papa."

And can you understand what Mounsheer
says ? Can you talk to him % I used to know
a few words myself  but never to talk it," said
the old man. His acuteness seemed to have
deserted him, and turned into the most innocent
simplicity  a little glow came upon his face.
He was almost childishly excited on this point.
A few words were enough for me  what did I
want with French? though things are altered
now; and it's taught, I'm told, in every commercial
academy, and the classics neglected 
that wasn't the way in my time. If a boy learnt
anything besides reading and writing, it was Latin
and I was considered very successful with my
Latin."

That is another thing, papa," said Lucy ;
don't you think Jock should go to school V

Old Trevor's face extended slightly. " Have

you nothing to say to me, Lucy, but about
Jock?"

Oh yes ! a great deal," said the girl. She
did not lose a single change in his face, though
she kept on steadily with her knitting, and she
saw it was not safe to go farther. She changed
the subject at once. " Monsieur says I get on
very well," she said ; *' but not so well as Katie
Russell. She is first in almost everything.
She is so clever. You should hear her chatter
French  as fast ! It is like the birds in the trees,
as pretty to listen to and just as little sense
that you can make out."

Yes, yes, yes !" said the old man with a
little impatience. " There is no occasion for
you to learn like that, Lucy. She has to make
her living by it, that girl. I wonder now, you
that are in so very different a position, why it's
always this Russell girl you talk about, and
never any of the real ladies, the Honourable
Miss Barrington and Lady  what do you call
her ? and the better sort. It was for them I sent

you to Mrs. Stone's school, Lucy," he said with
a tone of reproach.

Yes, papa. I like them very well they are
just like me. They do as little work as they can,
and get off everything they can. We had a
famous ride  but that was yesterday. I told
you about it. Lily Barrington's horse ran away,
or we thought it ran away ; and mine set off at
such a pace! I was dreadfully frightened, but
Lily liked it. She had done it on purpose,
fancy ! and thinks there is nothing in the world
so delightful as a gallop."

And you call her Lily," said Mr. Trevor,
with a glow of pleasure, " that's right, my dear.
That's what I like to hear. Not that I want you
to neglect the others, Lucy ; but you can always
get a hold on the poor; no fear of them; I
want you to secure the great ones too. I want
you to know all sorts. You ought to with your
prospects. I was saying to Ford to-day, a girl
with your prospects belongs to England. The
country has an interest in you, Lucy. You
ought to know all sorts, rich and poor. That is

just what I have been settling," he said, laying
his hand on the blotting book now closed, in
which his papers were.

Lucy gave him a little smile, nodding her
head. She was evidently quite in the secret of
the document there. But she did not stop her
knitting, nor was she so much interested in
that future which he was settling for her so carefully,
as to ask any questions. Her little nod,
her smile, which had a kind of indulgence in it,
as for the vagaries of a child, her soft calm
and indifference bore the strangest contrast to
his absorption in all that concerned her. Perhaps
the girl did not realise how entirely her
future was being mapped out ; perhaps she did
not realise that future at all. There was a touch
of the gentlest youthful contempt for that foolish
wisdom of our fathers to which we are all instinctively
superior in our youth in her perfect
composure. It amused him  though it was so
odd that a man should be amused in such a
way ! and it did not matter any farther to
her.

u Mrs. Stone sent her kind regards, papa, and
she will gladly come over and take a cup of tea
any time you like, 3 '

"Oh! she'll come, will she? I want to tell
her of something I've put in the will," said old
Mr. Trevor.

This roused Lucy from her composure. She
looked at him with a half-startled glance.

You will tell her: of that paper?"

Well, not much about it, only something
that regards herself. You will be much sought
after when I am gone. All sorts of people will
be after you for your money; and I want to
protect you, Lucy. It's my business to protect
you; besides, as I tell you, you're too important
to have just a couple of guardians like a
little girl with ten thousand pounds. You belong
to the country, my dear. A fortune like yours,"
said the old man, now launched upon his favourite
subject, " is a thing by itself; and I want to
protect you, my dear."

This time Lucy, instead of the smile, breathed
a little sigh. It was a sigh of impatience, very

momentary, very slight. This was the doctrine
in which she had been brought up, and she
would as soon have thought of throwing doubt
upon the ten commandments as of denying that
her own position made her of almost national
importance. She was aware of all that ; it was
merely the re-iteration of it which moved her to
the faintest amount of impatience ; but this she
very soon repressed.

Is Mrs. Stone to protect me ?" she said.

She is to be one of them, my dear. You
know I don't wish to do anything in secret,
Lucy. I wish you to know all my arrangements.
If you came to think afterwards that your father
had taken you by surprise, I  should not like
it ; and now I have got as far as where you
ought to live  listen, Lucy," said the old man.
The big document in the writing case was evidently
his one idea. His face brightened as he
took it up and spread out the large leaves. As
for Lucy, she sighed again very softly. How
the will wearied her! but she was heroic, or
stoical. She made no sort of stand against it ;

and after that one soft little protest of nature,
went on with her knitting, and listened with
great tranquillity. Her father read the paragraphs
that he had been consulting Ford about,
one by one ; and Lucy listened as if he had been
reading a newspaper. It awoke no warmer
interest in her mind. She had heard so much
of it that it did not affect her in any practical
way; it seemed a harmless amusement for her
father, and nothing more.

Do you think you shall like going to Lady
Randolph, Lucy?"

How can I tell, papa ? I don't know Lady
Randolph," Lucy said.

"No : but that's high life, my dear ; and here's
humble life, Lucy. I want you to know both;
and as for your marriage, you know  "

You do not want me to marry," said the
sensible girl, " and I don't think I wish it either,
papa. But, if I ever did, it would not be nice
to have to go and ask all these people ; and they
never would agree. We might be quite sure of
that."

Then you think I have been hard upon you ?
Always speak to me quite openly, Lucy. I
don't want to be hard upon you, my child, quite
the other way."

Oh, it does not matter at all," said Lucy
cheerfully, plying her knitting needles, " I don't
think it is the least likely that I shall ever want
to marry ; as you have always told me, I shall
have plenty to do : and there will be Jock," she
added after a momentary pause.

"You have a great many prejudices about
Jock," her father said testily, " what difference
can he make ? He has not so very much to do
with you, and he will be in quite a different
sphere."

Do you want me to have nobody belonging
to me f Lucy cried with a sudden vivacity not
without indignation in it : then subdued herself
as suddenly. " It doesn't at all matter," she
said.

And you remember," said her father almost
humbly, " this is only till you are five-and-twenty.
It is not for all eternity ; you will have

plenty of time to marry, or do whatever you
please, after that."

Lucy nodded and smiled once more, " I don't
think I shall want to marry," she said ;
but while she spoke she was making a quiet
calculation of quite a different character.
Jock is eight and I am seventeen," she was
saying within herself, " how old will Jock be
w r hen I am twenty-five?" It does not seem a
difficult question ; but she was not great in
arithmetic, and it took her a moment or two to
make it out. When she had succeeded her face
brightened up, " Still young enough to be
educated," she added always within herself,
and this quite restored her patience and her
cheerfulness.

"It will be very funny," she said, "to seethe
Rector and Mr. Williamson consulting together.
I wonder how they will begin : I am
sure Mr. Williamson will put on coloured
clothes to show how independent he is ; and the
Doctor the Doctor will smile and rub his
hands."

"You forget," said old Trevor with a slight
sharpness of tone, though he laughed, "that
such things have been as that 1 should outlive
the Doctor. He's younger than I am, to be sure,
but I would not have ycu to calculate on my
death before the Doctor. It might be quite a
different Rector. It might be a young man that
would, perhaps, put in claims to the heiress
himself. But I'll give you one piece of advice,
Lucy, beforehand. Never marry a parson.
They're always in the way. Other kinds of men
have their occupations ; but a parson with a rich
wife is always lounging about. Your mother
used to say so; and she was a very sensible
woman. She had an offer from one of the chapel
ministers when she was young; but she would
have nothing to say to him. A man in slippers,
always in-doors, was what she never could
abide."

I don't think the Rector would be like that,
papa," said Lucy, " he doesn't look as if he ever
wore slippers at all"
Well, perhaps it is the other kind I am

thinking of," said Mr. Trevor, who had not
much acquaintance with the class which he called
Church parsons." though his liberality of mind
was such that he had brought up Lucy partially,
at least, as a Church-woman. His
conduct, in this respect, was much the same as
it was in reference to the distinctions of society.
He wanted her to have her share in all  to be
familiar alike with poverty and riches, and asa
kind of moral consequence with Church and
Chapel too.

It was almost a disappointment to the old
man that Lucy let the subject drop, and showed
no farther interest in it. He was a great deal
more excited about her future life than she was.
Lucy's life was, indeed, to her father, at once,
his great object and his pet plaything. It was
his determination that it should be such a life
as no one had ever lived before ; a perfection of
beneficence, wisdom, well-doing, and general
superiority. He wanted to guard her against
all perils, to hedge her round from every enemy.
Unfortunately, he knew very little of the world

the dangers of which he was so intent on avoiding ;
but he was quite unaware of his own ignorance.
He foresaw the well-known danger of fortune-hunters
; but he did not perceive the impossibilities
of the arrangement by which he had, he
flattered himself, so carefully and cleverly
guarded against them. In this respect, Lucy
had more insight than her father, in her gentle
indifference. Her life was not a matter of theory
to Lucy. It was not a thing at all to be moulded
and formed by anyone ; it was to-day and tomorrow.
She listened to, without being affected
by, all her father's plans for her. They seemed
a dream a story to her; the future to which
they referred was quite unreal in her eyes.

We met Philip, papa," she said, after a
pause, with her usual tranquillity. " He is
always very nice to Jock. He put him upon his
shoulder to see the 'Punch.' And he says he
is coming to see you."

You met Philip," said the old man. " And
he is coming to see me ? Well, let him come,
Lucy. He is a rising man, and a fine gentleman

too fine for a homely old man like me.
But we are not afraid of Philip. Let him come :
and let us hope he will find his match when he
comes here."

You do not like Philip, papa? I think he
is the only person you are not quite just to.
What has he done ? He is always very nice to
Jock, and  " Lucy added hastily in a tone of
conciliation, " to me too."

Done V said the old man with a snarl in
place of his usual chuckle. " He has done nothing
but what is virtuous. He has doubled the
school, and he sets up for being a gentleman.
Don't you know that I have the highest opinion
of Philip ? I always say so ; the best of young
men  and he calls me uncle, though he is only
my wife's distant cousin, which is very condescending
of him. Not to approve of Philip
would be to show myself a prejudiced old fool
and  " Mr. Trevor added after a pause, showing
his old teeth in yellow ferocity, not unmixed
with humour, " that is exactly what I am."
Lucy looked at him with her peaceful blue eyes.

VOL. I. H

She shook her head in mild disapproval. " He
is very nice to Jock and to me too," she repeated
softly. But she made no further defence
of her cousin. This was all she said.

CHAPTER VI.

PHILIP.

PHILIP RAINY was, as his relation had been
obliged to avow, an excellent young man ;
there was nothing to be found fault with in his
moral character, and everything to be applauded
in his manners and habits. He had acquired
his education in the most laborious way, at the
cheapest possible rate, and he had used it, since
he was in a condition to do so, in the most
admirable manner. He was intelligent and
amiable as well as prudent and ambitious, and
though he meant to establish a reputation for
himself, and a position among those who were
considered best in Farafield, yet he never forgot

H 2

his family, whom he had left behind ; nor, though
he did not think it necessary to brag that he had
begun the world in the lowliest way, did he ever,
when it was called for, shrink from an avowal
of his origin, humble as that was. Why old
Mr. Trevor should dislike him it would be
difficult to say, or rather, though it might be
easy enough to divine the causes, it would be
almost impossible to offer any justification of
them. Old Trevor disliked the young man
because he was so altogether unexceptionable
a young man. Every inducement that could
have led an old man to patronize and encouragea
young one existed here, and yet these very
reasons why he should like Philip made his old
relation dislike him. He was too good, and,
alas, too successful. He had doubled the school
in Kent's Lane, which the old gentleman, distracted
by other occupations, had brought down
very low indeed, and this was something which
it was rather hard to forgive, though it was
worthy of nothing but praise. And he was
Lucy's cousin, on the side of the house from

which the fortune came, and perfectly suitable
to Lucy in point of age, and in almost every
way. How much trouble it would have avoided,
how much ease and security it would have given,
if Philip had been placed in Lucy's way and an
attachment encouraged between them ! It would
have been the most natural thing in the world ;
it would have restored the fortune to the name,
it would have enriched the family of the original
possessor, it would have saved all the trouble of
the will which old Trevor was elaborating with
so much care. Therefore it was that old Trevor
detested Philip Rainy, or, at least, was so near
detesting him that only Christian principle prevented
that climax of feeling. As it was, with
a distinct effort because the sentiment was wrong,
the old man restrained his conscious dislike of
the young one within the bounds of what he
considered permissible hostility. But all he
could do, could not entirely control that fierce
impulse of repugnance. He could not keep his
voice from altering, his expression from changing,
when Philip Rainy's name was mentioned.

Perhaps, at the bottom of all his anxiety about
Lucy's fortune, and his desire to shape and control
her actions, was an underlying dread that
Lucy's fate might be lying quite near, and might
be decided at any moment before ever his precautions
could come into effect.

Philip himself had no conception how far the
dislike of his uncle as he called old Trevor,
without being in the least aware that this of itself
was an offence  went. He did not even
know that it was only to himself that the old
man was so systematically ill-tempered. It was
seldom he saw old Trevor in the society of other
people, and he took it for granted, with much
composure, that the sharpness of his jibes and
the keenness of his criticisms were natural, and
employed against the world in general as well as
against himself. Being a young man determined
to rise in the world, it was not to be supposed
that he had not taken the whole question of his
family connections into earnest consideration, or
that he was entirely unmoved by the consciousness
that within his reach, and accessible to him

in many ways not possible for other men, was
one of the greatest prizes imaginable, an heiress,
whose soft little hand could raise him at once
above all the chance of good or evil fortune, and
confer upon him a position far beyond anything
that was within his possibilities in any other
way. On this latter point, however, he was not
at all clear ; for Philip was young, and had not
learned to know these inexorable limits which
hem in possibility. He thought he could do a
great many things by his unaided powers, which
he would have easily seen to be impossible for
anyone else. He believed in occasions arising
which would give scope to his talents, and show
the world what manner of man it was which the
irony of fate confined to the humble occupation
of a schoolmaster in a little country town ; and
he entertained no doubt that when the occasion
came he would show himself worthy of it.
Therefore he was not sure that Lucy's fortune
could do much more for him than he could do for
himself; but he was too sensible to ignore the
difference it would make in his start, the great

assistance it would be in his career. It would
give him an advantage of ten years, he said to
himself, in the musings of that self-confidence
which was so determined and arrogant, yet so
simple ; a difference of ten years  that stands
for a great deal in a man's life. To attain that
at thirty which in ordinary circumstances you
would only attain at forty, is an advantage
which is worthy many sacrifices ; but yet, at the
same time, if you are sure of attaining at forty,
or by good luck at thirty-nine, the good fortune
on which your mind is set, it is not perhaps
worth your while to make a very serious sacrifice
of your self-esteem or pride merely for the sake
of saving these ten years. This was why Philip
maintained with ease so dignified and worthy a
position in respect to his heiress-cousin. She
would make a difference of ten years but that
was all ; and besides being a young man determined
to get on in the world, he was a young
man who gave himself credit for fine feelings,
and independence of mind, and generosity of
sentiment. He could not, at this early stage

of his existence, have come to a mercenary
decision, and made up his mind to marry for
money. He did not see any necessity for it ; he
felt quite able to encounter fate in his own person
; therefore, though he did not refuse to
acknowledge that it would be a very good thing
to marry an heiress, and very pleasant if the
woman with whom he fell in love should belong
to that class, he had not proposed to himself the
idea either of trying to fall in love with Lucy,
or attempting to secure her affections to himself.
The idea of her hovered before his mind asa
possibility  but there were many other
possibilities hovering before Philip, and some
more enticing, more attractive, than any heiress.
Therefore he did not spoil his own prospects by
perpetual visits, or by paying her anything that
could be called " attention" in the phraseology
of the drawing-room. His relations with her
were no more than cousinly ; he was very " nice ;"
but then he was even more " nice" to little Jock,
who was not his relation at all, than to Lucy.
It was part of his admirable character that he

was fond of children, and always good to them,
so that no suspicion could possibly attach to the
very moderate amount of intercourse which was
conducted on so reasonable a footing. But the
more it was reasonable, the more it was cousinly,
the more did old Trevor dislike his child's
relation ; he had not the slightest ground for
fault-finding, therefore his secret wrath was
nursed in secret, and grew and increased. It
was all he could do to receive Philip with civility
when he came. He came in after dinner in a
costume carefully adapted to please, or at least
to disarm all objections, a compromise between
morning and evening dress ; and he made
judicious inquiries after the old man's health,
not too much, as if there was anything special in
his solicitude, but as much as mingled politeness
and family affection required.

I hope you are standing the cold pretty well,
Sir," he said ; " spring is always so trying. I
can bear the winter better myself; at all events,
one does not expect anything better in
December, and one makes up one's mind to it."

At your age," said old Trevor, " it was all
the same to me, December or July ; I liked the
one as much as the other. But I think we
might find something better to talk of than the
weather ; every idiot does that."

That is true," said the young man, " it is
always the first topic among English people.
With our uncertain climate "

I never was out of England, for my part,"
the old man interrupted him sharply. " English
climate is the only climate I know anything
about. I don't pretend to be superior to it,
like you folks that talk of Italy and so forth.
What have I got to do with Italy ? It may be
warmer, but warm weather never agreed with
me."

I have never been out of England either,"
said the young man, with that persistence in the
soft word that turns away wrath, which is of all
things in the world the most provoking to irritable
people ; and then he changed the subject
gently, but not to his own advantage. " I
thought you would like to hear, Uncle, how

well everything is going on in Kent's Lane. I
am thinking of an assistant, the boys are getting
beyond my management ; indeed, if things goon
as they are doing, I shall soon have enough
to do managing, without teaching at all. I have
heard of a very nice fellow, a University man.
Don't you think that on the whole that would bean
advantage? people think so much more,
nowadays,  for the mere teaching, you know,
only for the teaching of a man with a degree."

A man with a fiddlestick !" said old Trevor.
The question is, are you going into competition
with Eton and Harrow, Mr. Philip Rainy, or
are you the master of a Commercial Academy ?
that's the question. The man that founded that
establishment hadn't got a degree, no, nor
wouldn't have accepted one if they had gone on
their knees to him. He knew his place, and the
sort of thing that was expected from him. Oh,
surely, get your man with a degree ! or go and
buy a degree for yourself (it's a matter of fees
more than anything else, I have always heard,)
and starve when you have got it. But I'd like

you to hand over Kent's Lane first to somebody
that will carry it on as it used to be."

"I beg your pardon with all my heart,
Uncle," cried the young man. " I have not the
least intention of abandoning Kent's Lane. It's
my sheet-anchor, all I have in the world : and I
would not alter the character you stamped upon
it for any inducement. The only thing is, that
so much more attention is paid to the classics
nowadays "

Curse nowadays, Sir !" cried old Trevor, his
countenance glowing with anger. Then he
pulled himself up, and recollected that such
language was far from becoming to his age and
dignity, not to speak of his Christian principles.
"I shouldn't have said that," he added in a
subdued tone ; " I don't want to curse anything.
Still I don't know what the times are coming to
with all these absurd novelties. The classics
(he had been boasting of his Latin an hour before)
for a set of shop-keepers' sons that want to
know how to add up their fathers' books ! It's
folly and nonsense, that's what it is. Even if

you could do it, what's the advantage of snipping
all classes out on the same pattern ? It's a
great deal better to have a little difference.
Women, too  you'd clip them all out like images
in paper, the same shape as men. It's a pity,"
he added grimly, " that your classics and your
degrees don't do more for those that have got
them. Many an Mea. I've seen in my time tacked
to the names of the biggest fools I've ever
known."

"Still it is not necessary to be a big fool,
Sir, because you are an M.A.," said Philip,
always mildly, but with a sigh. " It is a great
advantage to a man : I wish I had it. I know
what you will say, better men than I have not
had it; but just because I am not a better
man  "

For the first time old Trevor broke into his
habitual chuckle. " Give him some tea, Lucy,"
he said. " I suppose you're one of the fashionable
kind and have your dinner when I used to
have my supper. That's not the way to thrive,
my lad."

What does it matter whether you call it
dinner or supper. Sir V 9 said Philip, " and pardon
me, don't you do the same"

It makes a deal of difference," said the old
man. " Parents like to hear that you have your
tea at six o'clock, and your supper at nine, like,
themselves. They don't like you to give yourself
airs, as if you were better than they are. You're
a clever fellow, Philip Rainy, and you think
you are getting on like a house on fire. But
you're a fool all the same."

Papa, I wish you would not be so uncivil,"
said Lucy, who had as yet taken no part in their
talk.

"I tell you he's a fool all the same. I kept
Kent's Lane a-going for thirty years, and I
ought to know. I've taught the best men in the
town. Oxford fellows, and Cambridge fellows,
and all sorts, have come to me for their mathematics,
though I never had a degree ; and I ate
my dinner at two and my tea at six as regular
as clock-work all the time. That's the way todo,
if you mean to keep it up all your life, and

lay by a little money, and leave the place to your
son after you. If Jock had been older that's
what I should have made him do ; that is the
way to succeed in Kent's Lane."

There was a little pause after this, for Philip
was a little angry too, and had not command for
the moment of that soft word of which he made so
determined a use ; and at the same time he was
resolved not to quarrel with Lucy's father. He
said, after a while, in as easy a tone as he could
assume,

I wish you would let me have Jock. He is
old enough for school now, and whatever you
want to do with him I could always begin his
education ; of course, you will give him every
advantage "

"I will give him as good as I had myself,
Philip, and as you had. Do you think I am
going to take Lucy's money for that child ? Nota
penny ! He shall be bred up according to his
own rank in life ; and by the time he's a man,
you'll have grown too grand for the old place,
and you can hand it over to him."

Philip opened his eyes in spite of himself.


"Then Lucy will be a great lady." he said,
half laughing, "and her brother a little schoolmaster
in Kent's Lane."

Lucy, who was standing behind her father at
the moment, began to make the most energetic
signs of dissent. She made her mouth into a
puckered circle of inarticulate " No-o-s," and
shook her head with vehement contradiction.
Just below, and all unconscious of this pantomime,
the old man grinned upon his visitor,
delighted with the opportunity at once of declaring
his intentions and of inflicting a salutary
snub.

u That is exactly what I intend," he said,
you have hit it. Even if it hadn't been just,
it would have been a fine thing to do as an
example ; but it is just as well. Is a fine lady
any better than a poor schoolmaster ? not a bit !
each one in the rank of life that is appointed,
and one as good as another : that's always been
my principle. I wouldn't have stepped out of

VOL. I. I

my rank of life, or the habits of my rank of
life, not if you had given me thousands for it ;
not, I promise you," cried old Trevor, with a
snarl, "for the sake of being asked to dinner
here and there, as some folks are ; but being in
my own rank of life I thought myself as good
as the King : and that's why Lucy shall be a
great lady and her brother a little schoolmaster,
whether or not he's in Kent's Lane."

But he shall not be so, papa, if I can help
it," Lucy said.

You won't be able to help it, my pet," said
her father, relapsing into a chuckle, "not you,
nor anyone else ; that's one thing of which I can
make sure."

The two young people looked at each other
over his old head. They made no telegraphic
signs this time. Philip was for the moment
overawed by the old man's determination, while
Lucy, the most dutiful of daughters, was mute
in a womanly confidence of somehow or other
finding a way to balk him. She had not in
the least realized how her life was to be bound

and limited by the imperious will of the father
who grudged her nothing ; but Lucy accepted it
all quite tranquilly, whatever it might be except
this. When she went with her cousin to the
door, she confided to him the one exception to
her purposes of obedience.

"Papa does not think what he is saying; I
never believe him when he talks like that. I to
be rich and Jock poor ! He only says it for fun,
Philip, don't you think ?"

It does not look much like fun," Philip said,
with a rueful shake of his head.

Well ! but old people  old people are very
strange ; they think a thing is a joke that does
not seem to us at all like a joke. I will
do all that papa wishes, but not about Jock."

"And I hope you won't let him persuade you
to think," said Philip, lingering with her hand
in his to say good night, " that I am neglecting
my work, or giving myself airs, or "

"Oh, that is only his fun," said Lucy, nodding
her head to him with a pleasant smile as he
went out into the night.

I 2

She was not pretty, he thought, as he walked
away, but her face was very soft, and round,
and pleasant; her blue eyes very steady and
peaceful, with a calmness in them which, in its
way, represented power. Philip, who was,
though so steady, somewhat excitable, and apt
to be fretted and worried, felt that the repose in
her was consolatory and soothing. She would
be good to come home to after a man had been
baited and bullied in the world. He had thought
her an insignificant little girl, but to-night he
was not so sure that she was insignificant ; and
Philip did not know anything at all about the
will and its iron rod.

CHAPTER VII.

THE WHITE HOUSE.

THE life of Lucy Trevor, at this period, was
divided between two worlds, very dissimilar
in constitution. The odd household over which
her father's will and pleasure was paramount,
though exercised through the medium of Mrs.
Ford, and in which so many out of the way
subjects were continually being discussed, all
with some personal reference to the old man and
his experiences and crotchety principles of action,
occupied one part of her time and thoughts ; but
the rest of her belonged to another sphere  to
the orderly circle of studies and amusements of
which the central figure was Mrs. Stone, and

the scene the White House, a large irregular
low building on the edge of the Common, which
was within sight of Mr. Trevor's windows in the
Terrace, and had appeared, through all the mist
and fog of those wintry days, with a kind of
halo round its whiteness like that of a rainy and
melancholy old moon, tumbled from its high
place to the low levels of a damp and flat country.
Mrs. Stone's was known far and wide as
the best school for a hundred miles round, the
best as far as education was concerned, and
also the most exclusive and aristocratic. Lucy
Trevor was the only girl in Farafield who was
received as a day pupil. Efforts had been made
by people of the highest local standing to procure
the admission of other girls of well-known
families in the town, but in vain. And why Mrs.
Stone had taken Lucy, who was nobody, who was
only old John Trevor's daughter, was a mystery
to her best friends. She had offended a great
many of the townspeople, but she had flattered
the local aristocracy, the county people, by her
exclusiveness ; and she offended both by the

sudden relaxation of her rule on behalf of Lucy.
The Rector's daughter would have been a thousand
times more eligible, or even Emmy Rushton,
whose mother had knocked at those jealous doors
in vain for years together ; and why should she
have taken Lucy Trevor, old John's daughter,
who was nobody, who had not the faintest pretension
to gentility? Lady Langton drove in,
as a kind of lofty deputation and representative
of the other parents who had daughters at
Mrs. Stone's school, to remonstrate with her,
and procure the expulsion of the intruder : but
Mrs. Stone was equal to the occasion. She did
not hesitate to say to the Countess : " Your
ladyship is at liberty to remove Lady Maud
whenever you please. I dispense with the three
months' notice."

It was this speech which established Mrs.
Stone's position far more than her excellence in
professional ways. A woman who dared to look
a Countess in the face, and make such a suggestion,
was too wonderful a person to be contemplated
save with respect and awe. Lady

Langton herself withdrew, abashed and confounded,
protesting that to take Maud away was
the last idea in her mind. And Mrs. Stone's
empire was thus established. The incident made
a great impression on the county generally.
And it nearly threw into a nervous fever the
other mistress, conjointly with Mrs. Stone, of the
White House, her sister Miss Southwood (called,
as a matter of course, Southernwood by the
girls), who stood by aghast, and heard her say :
fc ' I dispense with the three months' notice ;" and
expected nothing less than that the sky should
fall, and the walls crumble in round them.
Miss Southwood liked to think afterwards that
it was her own deprecating glances, her look
of horror and dismay, and, above all, the
cup of exquisite tea which she offered Lady
Langton as she waited for her carriage which
put everything straight; but all her civilities
would never have established that moral ascendency
which her sister's uncompromising defiance
secured.

Miss Southwood was the elder of the two.

She was forty-five or thereabouts, and she was
old-fashioned. Whether it was by calculation,
to make a claim of originality for herself, such
as it was, or simply because she thought that
style becoming to her, nobody knew; but she
dressed in the fashions which had been current
in her youth, and never changed. She wore her
hair in a knot fastened by a high comb behind,
and with little ringlets drooping on either cheek ;
and, amid the long and sweeping garments of
the present era, wore a full plain skirt which
did not touch the ground, and gigot sleeves. In
this dress she went about the house softly and
briskly, without the whisking and rustling of
people in long trains. She was a very mild
person in comparison with her high-spirited and
despotic sister ; but yet was gifted with a gentle
obstinacy, and seldom permitted any argument
to beguile her from her own way. She had,
nominally, the same power in the house as Mrs.
Stone, and it was partly her money which was
put in peril by her sister's audacity ; but the
elder had always been faithful to the younger,

and though she might grumble, never failed to
make common cause with her, even in her most
heroic measures. As for Lucy Trevor, though
she shook her head, she submitted, feeling that
to suffer on behalf of an heiress was a pain from
which the worst sting was taken out ; for it was
not to be supposed that a girl so rich could allow
her schoolmistress to come to harm on her
account. Mrs. Stone was far more imposing in
appearance. She was full five years younger,
and she was not old-fashioned. She was tall,
with a commanding figure, and her dresses were
handsome as herself, made by an artiste in town,
not by the bungling hands of the trade in Fairfield,
of rich texture, and the most fashionable
cut. She was a woman of speculative and theoretical
mind, believing strongly in <; influence,"
and very anxious to exercise it when an opportunity
occurred. She had her ideas, as Mr.
Trevor had, of what might be made of an
heiress ; and it seemed to Mrs. Stone that there
was no class in the world upon which " influence"
might tell more, or be more beneficially exercised.

Her ideas on this subject laid her open
to various injurious suppositions. Thus, when
she took Lady Maud Language into her bosom,
as it were  moved by a brilliant hope of influence
to be exercised on society itself by means of
a very pretty and popular young woman of
fashion  vulgar bystanders accused Mrs. Stone
of tuft-hunting, and of paying special honour
to the girl who was the daughter of an Earl,
out of mere love of a title, an altogether unworthy
representation of her real motive. And
her sudden stand on behalf of Lucy took the
world by surprise. They could not fathom her
meaning : that she should have defied the Countess,
whom up to this time she had been supposed
to worship with a servile adulation, on
account of a little bit of a girl of no particular
importance was incomprehensible. It was known
in Farafield that Lucy had a fortune, but it was
not known how great that fortune was, and
after much groping among the motives possible
to Mrs. Stone in the circumstances, the country-town
gossips had come to the conclusion

that she aspired to a marriage with old John
Trevor, and an appropriation to herself of all
his wealth. This supplied a sufficient reason
even for a breach with the Countess. To be
asked to Language, which was the finest thing
that could happen to her in connection with
Lady Maud, was, though gratifying, not to be
compared with the possibility of manning a
rich man in her own person, and becoming one
of the chief ladies of Farafield. This was how
it was accounted for by that chorus of spectators
who call themselves society, and Miss South-wood
herself entertained, against her will, the
same opinion. This suggestion seemed to make
everything clear.

A few days after that on which Mr. Trevor
read to Ford the last paragraph which he had
added to his will, Lucy tapped at the door of
Mrs. Stone's private parlour with her father's
message. The ladies were seated together in
their private sanctuary, resting from their
labours. It was a seclusion never invaded by
the pupils except on account of some important

commission from a parent, or to ask advice,
or by order of its sovereigns. Lucy came in
with the little old-fashioned curtsey which
Mrs. Stone insisted upon, and made her request.


If you would come to tea tomorrow night.
Papa is very sorry, but he bids me say he
thinks you know that he cannot come to
you."

How is Mr. Trevor, Lucy !"

Miss Southwood, who was looking at her
sister anxiously, thought she asked this question
by way of gaining time. Could he have sent
for her in order to propose to her, the anxious
sister thought. What a very curious way of
proceeding ! but a rich old man, with one foot
in the grave, could not be expected to act like
other men.

He is just as he always is : very busy,
always writing; but he cannot go out, and if
you would be so kind "

Oh, yes, I will be so kind," said Mrs. Stone,
with a smile ; " it is not the first time, Lucy.

Is he going to complain of yon, or to tell me of
something he wants for yon ?"

"I think," said Lucy, "it is about the
will."

Dear me !" Miss Southwood cried. " What
can you have to do, Maria, with Mr. Trevor's
will r

Mrs. Stone smiled again.

He goes on with it, then, as much as ever?"
she said.

Oh, yes, almost more than ever; it gives him
a great deal of occupation," said Lucy, with a
grave face. There were some things that she
had it in her heart to say on this subject ; she
looked at the schoolmistress anxiously, not knowing
if she might trust her, and then was silent,
fearing to open her mind to anyone on the subject
of Jock.

Poor child ! he is putting a great burden
upon you at your age; the management of a
fortune is too much for a girl ; but, Lucy, you
will always know where to find advice and help
so far as I can give it. You must never hesitate

to come to me, whatever happens," Mrs. Stone
said.

Thank you," said Lucy, in her tranquil
way. She had read something in the
schoolmistress's face, she could not have told
what, which sealed her lips in respect to
Jock.

Dear me !" cried Miss Southwood again.
you are both very mysterious ; I should think
nothing was easier than to manage a fortune.
It is when one has no fortune that life
is difficult to manage," she said with a sigh.

The wonder is," said Mrs. Stone, calmly
ignoring her sister's interruption, "that your
father does not carry out some of his own views,
Lucy, instead of leaving everything to you. It
would be in your favour if he would take a
larger house, and get together an establishment
more befitting your prospects ; I think I shall
suggest this to him. He has always been very
civil in listening to my suggestions. A proper
establishment, all set in order in his lifetime,
would be a great matter for you." '

"But, Maria, Maria!" cried Miss South-wood,
" think, for Heaven's sake ! what
you are doing ; think what people will say.
That you should suggest such a thing would
never do."

Mrs. Stone turned round and looked at her
with scathing indifference.

What do people say V she asked, and went
on without waiting for an answer. " You ought
to be living as becomes your future position,"
she said ; " the associations you will form at
present, and the habits you are acquiring, cannot
be good for you. Thank heaven you are
here, my dear child, in a place which, however
homely, is intended as a place of training for
girls who have to occupy high positions."

I don't think it will matter for me," said
Lucy ; " I shall never be a great lady, I shall
only be rich. No one will expect so very much
from me."

They will expect a great deal, and I hope
my pupil will do me credit," said Mrs. Stone ;
and she rose up and kissed Lucy with a little

enthusiasm. " I agree with your father, I think
there is a great deal in you, Lucy ; but I don't
agree with him as to the best means of bringing
it out. He thinks that you should be plunged
into life all of a sadden, and a great call made
upon you ; but I believe in education ; we shall
soon see who is right."

Oh, 1 hope not," cried Lucy, " I hope not ;
for before you can know anything about it papa
will have to be "

Not if he takes my way, Lucy ; he ought
to take Holm wood, that pretty house near Sir
Thomas Randolph's, and give you a beginning ;
and I think he ought to do some of the things
in his will which he is talking of leaving upon
you ; I will speak to him tomorrow night. Yes,
you can say I will come ; but do not think
too much of these serious matters ; go and
amuse yourself with your companions, my
dear."

"Maria," said Miss Southwood, when the
door closed, " you think yourself a great deal
wiser than I am, but you must hear what I
vol. I. K

have to say. If you go and advise that old man
to take Wormwood and set up an establishment,
there will be but one thing that anybody can
think. If you care anything for the opinion of
the world, or for my opinion, for heaven's sake
don't do it, don't do it ! a woman in your position
has need to be so careful. Of course, it
stands to reason that is what everybody will
think."

What is what everybody ? Your style

in conversation is very careless," said Mrs. Stone,
with great indifference. But her counsellor
would not be put down.

I will tell you exactly what will be thought,"
she said, solemnly. " What is the common talk
already ? that you mean to marry that old man.
Why did you take up the girl, risking your whole
connection ? You that have always been so
exclusive  a girl of no family at all ! you must
have had a motive, no one ever acts without a
motive ; and, perhaps if he is very rich, and you

could be sure of carrying it out But how

do we know that he is really very rich? and

most likely you will not be able to carry it out :
and at your age to risk your reputation oh, I
don't mean in any wrong way  but to risk your
character for sense and good taste, and all that !
Consider for one moment, consider, Maria,
what the ' parents' w r ould say, what the parents
would have a right to say !"

If you think that I am to be kept in order
by a threat of what 'parents' will think!" said
Mrs. Stone. " Do you suppose I will ever give
in to parents? why, it would be our destruction.
But make your mind easy, I don't mean to marry
old Trevor, and he does not mean to ask me.
Listen ! you don't know what you are talking
about. That girl whom you think nothing of,
that girl you are always taunting me about : and
she is a very nice girl, as simple as a daisy and

as true Listen, Ellen ! she will be the

Greatest Heiress in England one of these
days."

Miss Southwood stood and listened with all
her soul, her eyes and her mouth opening wider
and wider, her imagination set suddenly on fire,

K 2

for she had an imagination, and that of a most
practical kind. The greatness of Lucy's fortune
had never been so plainly set before her. She was
so much taken by surprise that she spoke with a
gasp, as if all her breath and energy were thrown
into the question.

And what do you mean to do f
I mean to manage her, if I can, for her
own good, and for the good of her fellow-creatures,"
cried Mrs. Stone, excited too.
Power, that is what I have always wanted. I
know I can use it well, and Lucy is a good girl,
good to the bottom of her heart. She will want
to do good with her money : and money, money

is power."

Miss Southwood listened, but she did not

share her sister's enthusiasm. Her countenance

tell into shades of disapproval and impatience.

She shook her head.

You were always so high-flown," she said.

I never saw anything come of these heiresses.

Manage her ! you ought to know by this time

girls are not such easy things to manage. But

there is a much better thing you can do, marry
her ! and that will be good for her and us.

Mrs. Stone looked at her sister with a smile
which was somewhat supercilious.

<; That is, of course, your first idea ; and how,
if I may ask, would such an expedient be good
for us? if I thought of good for us  which is a
thing that never entered my thoughts "'

"Because you have no family affection, Maria.
I have always said it of you. You think
of the girl more than of your own relations.
How is it possible," asked Miss Southwood
severely, " that you could have any hand in the
disposal of an heiress and not think of
Frank?"

CHAPTER VIII.

EXPLANATIONS.

T Icy went home a little impressed by what
" Mrs. Stone had said. It had never occurred
to her before to think of anything but her father's
will and pleasure in the matter, or to suppose
that she had anything to do but to acquiesce in
his arrangements ; but when the idea was put
into her head, it commended itself to her reasonable
mind. If he were, at least, to begin to do
some of the things which he had by his will
commanded her to do, what an ease and comfort
it would be ! and she could not but think that it
would be a relief to himself, as well as for her,
could he be made, as Mrs. Stone suggested, to

see it in this way. In the first place, it would
obviate on his part all necessity for dying,
which, at present, was the initial requirement,
the one thing needful, before any of his regulations
could be carried out. Why should he die !
She could not but perceive, as she thought over
the whole subject dispassionately, according to
her nature, that from his own point of view it
would be a mistake if his life were prolonged.
The whole scheme was based upon his death.
So long as he did not die it was a mere imagination.
And why should this be? far better to
get over this fundamental necessity by changing
the construction of his plan altogether, and
begin to carry out his wishes himself.
When they were sitting together in the afternoon,
which was wet and dull, the idea took a
stronger hold upon her, and it was when Mr.
Trevor was actually writing down something
new that had occurred to him, that her thoughts
came the length of speech. She looked up from
her knitting, and he stopped, with the pen
in his hand, and, looking round upon her,

listened with a smile to what Lucy might have to
say.

"Why should you take all this trouble,
papa ?" she said suddenly. " I have been thinking;
and this is what I feel sure of, that it
should all be altered. You are not ill, or likely
to die. Instead of writing out all these orders
for me, would it not be much better if you
would put that paper aside and do the
things you have put into it yourself?"

He looked at her over the top of his spectacles
with an air of consternation.

Do the things myself! what things?" he
said, then paused and pushed his spectacles upon
his forehead, and gazed at her almost fiercely
with his small keen eyes. "That paper!" he
repeated, " do you mean the will, my will,
Lucy ?" The tone in which he spoke was as if
it had been the British Constitution which Lucy
proposed to set aside.

Yes," she said. " You see, papa, I shall be
very young, I shall not have very much
sense."

You have a great deal of sense, Lucy," he
said, mollified, " far more than most girls. Providence
has made you for the work you have got
to do."

"But, papa," she said, "I shall be very
young ; it will be very hard upon me to decide
what is to be done with all that money, and to
give and not to give. It will be very hard.
How should I know which are the right people ?
I should either want to give to everybody or to
nobody 7 . I should throw it away, or I should
be too frightened to make any use of it at
all."

"That will be impossible," said old Trevor,
with a nod of satisfaction ; " I have taken precautions
about that."

Then I should give foolishly, papa."

Very likely, my dear, very likely ; everyone
has to pay for his own experience. It is a very
dear commodity, Lucy ; I can't give you mine,
you must get it for yourself, and it has always,
always to be paid for. There is no question
about that."

"But, papa, would it not be a great deal
better  you who have this experience, who have
paid for it and got it instead of living quietly
here as if you were nobody, to do it all yourself?"


The old man laughed.

"There, you have hit it, Lucy," he said,
there, you have hit it, my dear. I live quietly,
as if I were nobody and I am nobody  that is
exactly the state of affairs."

But  " she cried, with great surprise and
indignation, "if you mean nobody in family,
then neither am I ; but. the money, the money
is all yours to do with it whatever you
please."

Once more he laughed, and chuckled, and lost
his breath, and coughed before he could recover it
again ; and whether it was the laughing, or the
coughing, or something else, Lucy could not tell,
but the water stood in his eyes.

You are mistaken, Lucy, you are mistaken,"
he said. " You must understand the truth, my
dear; neither am I anyone to speak of, nor is

the money mine. I have made a little in my
life  oh, very little  a poor schoolmaster's earnings,
what are they 1 nothing to make a fuss
about. I've put my little savings away for
Jock, you know that. A few thousand pounds,
just as much as will give him a start
in the world, if it is well taken care
of."

"Papa, you ought to give Jock the half,"
said Lucy, reproachfully, " it is not fair that he
should have nothing, and that all should come tome."


Listen to her !" said the old man, " first telling
me to spend it myself, and then to give
half to the boy. Nothing of the sort, Lucy ;
I know what justice is, and I mean to do it.
Do you think I could take poor Lucilla's money
to make that brat a gentleman ? Why, it's a
kind of insult to her, poor thing, that he's thereat
all. I don't say a word against his mother,
Lucy, but I always felt I never ought to have
married her. I was not like a young man,
I was middle-aged even before I married poor

Lucilla, and I had no business to have the other ;
it was a mistake, it was an affront to your poor
mother. People say that you show how happy
you've been with the first when you get a
second, but I don't go in with that. When I
think of facing these two women and not
knowing which I belong to, I  I don't like it,
Lucy. Lucilla was always very considerate,
and made great allowances, but there are things
a woman can't be expected to put up with, and I
don't like the thought."

The humour and half-ludicrous pathos of this
explanation, which was made between a laugh
and a sob, was lost upon Lucy, who was altogether
taken by surprise, and whose sense of
humour was but little developed. She gazed at
him with her eyes a little more widely opened
than usual, not knowing what to say. Had she
been a more experienced person, no doubt she
would have consoled him with the reflection that
husbands and wives, as we are told, do not
stand exactly on the same footing in the next
world. But she did not feel capable of saying

anything in opposition to this matter-oi-fact
compunction ; it has much in it which commends
itself to the unsophisticated. She only gazed
at her father, seeing difficulties in the way of
his exit from the world which she had never
thought of before.

But that is neither here nor there," he said,
with his usual chuckle much subdued. " It is
only to explain to you why I won't give anything
but my own savings to Jock. I have often told
you so before  but now you know the reason
why."

Lucy was silent for a time, pondering over all
this  then she said in the same serious tone.
But, papa, I don't see that what you have
said is any answer to my question. I want
to know why you should live here so quietly
and save, and leave everything to me to do 
when it would be so much better to do it yourself."


Some one has put this into your head."

No  only something set me thinking  why
shouldn't you, papa? take a great house instead

of this ; and have carriages and servants, and
do all these things  giving and endowing, and
building and setting up, that you want me to
do-the

old man laughed with less complication
of sentiment than before. " I should make a
fine country gentleman," he said, " to sit down
and hob and nob with the Earl and Lord Barrington,
and Sir John and Sir Thomas. What
should I do with grand carriages, that never go
outside these four walls or with men-servants
when I can't bear the sight of 'em. No, no!
and I shouldn't like it, neither. I can put it
all down on paper for you ; but I shouldn't like
to do it myself. I like to stick to the money,
Lucy. I like to lay it up, and see it grow 
that's my pleasure in life. It makes me happy
when the stocks go up. Interest and compound
interest, that's what pleases me."

But, papa," said Lucy, astonished, " that is
all quite different," she nodded her head towards
the will always lying in the blotting-case within
reach of his hand. " There it is all spending

and giving ; over and over again you say there
is to be no hoarding up, no putting by."

Ah !" said old Trevor, rubbing his hands
with enjoyment, " that is for you ! that is a
different thing altogether. When I've had my
own way all my life, down to the last moment,
why, then you shall have yours."

How can you call it mine V 9 she said, " I
don't think I want to have my own way  except
in some things. I am very willing to do what
you tell me, papa ; but it will not be my will 
it will be your will. Why then shouldn't you
do it yourself, and have the pleasure of it, and
not leave it to me V

The pleasure of it !" he said. And then
paused and cleared his voice, and drew his chair
nearer to hers. " Look here, Lucy," he said,
you have heard something about your mother 
not very much ; but still you have heard something.
She was a good woman, a very good
woman. She was not of my kind. In the way
of money, she let me manage  she never interfered.
But still she was not of my kind. She

was a woman that had little but trouble in this
world, Lucy. She was what people call an old
maid when we married. We were both old
maids for that matter," he added, with his usual
chuckle, " and she had always had a hard life.
She was the old maid of the family ; when anything
was wrong, she was the one that was sent
for. She was the one that nursed them all when
they were ill. Father and mother  she closed
both their eyes. She never had time to think
what was going to become of her. When she
came back to Farafield to live with poor Robert,
nobody knew he was rich. It was the old story
over again. She thought she was coming only
to nurse him, and slave for him till he died.
Your mother was a good woman  a very good
woman, Lucy  "

His voice was a little thick, and the tears
sprang into Lucy's eyes.

Oh ! thank you, papa ; thank you for telling
me," she said.

That she was," he went on after a little
pause, " the best of women. And after we were

married she had just as hard a life as ever. She
was never well ; and all your little brothers and
sisters came  and went again. That's very hard
upon a woman, Lucy. A baby  who cares much
about a baby ? it does not seem anything to
make a fuss about. There's too many of them
in the world ; but to have them, and to lose
them, is terrible work for a woman. "We didn't
know about the money at first ; and what's
money when things are going to the bad in that
way? She never got what you may call the
good of it. She was one of your giving people.
Her hand was never out of her pocket as long as
she had a penny in it ; but she never rightly
got the good of the money. In the first
place, we didn't know about it : and in
the second place, why, you know there was
me."

You ?" Lucy looked at him with a question
in her eyes.

Yes," said old Trevor with a comical look
of half real, half simulated penitence. " I
wanted to tell you all this some time, to show

VOL. I. L

you your duty there was me, Lucy. I told you
I was fond of money; and more still, when I
wasn't used to it. I clutched it all, and wanted
more ; and she left it all to me, poor dear. She
never even knew how much it was  she let me
do whatever I pleased. I didn't even always
let her have what she wanted for her poor folks,
Lucy," he added ruefully, shaking his head ; but
there was something about the corner of his
mouth which was not repentance. " I was a
beast to ber  that's just what T was ; but, poor
thing, she never knew  She thought to the
last we couldn't afford any more. She left all
the money matters to me."

She ought to have had her money for the
poor, papa."

Yes, indeed ; don't I say so ?" a half chuckle
of triumph in his own successful craftiness,
mingled with the subdued tone appropriate to
this confession. " And since she's been dead," he
added with a touch of complacency, " I've behaved
badly by poor Lucilla. I acknowledge
that I have behaved badly ; and that is just

why I am determined she shall have her
revenge  "

Her revenge !" Lucy looked at him
aghast.

Yes, her revenge ; you, Lucy, a girl that
shall be brought up a lady, that shall have
everything of the best ; that shall do as she
pleases, and give with both hands. Ah,
Lucilla, poor thing, would have liked that ; she
would have ruined me with giving," he cried
with a momentary tone of complaint, " but you,
Lucy, you won't be able to ruin yourself. You
will always have plenty, you will be able to cut
and come again as people say ; isn't that what
I have bred you up for since you were a baby ?
No, no, it isn't I that could do it (and I wouldn't
if I could) nor Jock that shall have a penny.
It is you that shall be the greatest heiress in
England, and do the most for the poor, as
Lucilla would have done. Please God she shall
have her revenge."

These strange words, which, though they were
mixed with so quaint an admixture of comic self

2

consciousness, had yet passion in them, and an odd
kind of idealism and romance, passed over the
placid head of Lucy without exciting any
feeling but surprise. She was very much
astonished. It was impossible to her to understand
the vehemence of feeling, generous in its
way, though chequered with so much that was
not generous, in her father's tone, and she was
totally at a loss how to reply. They were alone,
and when they were alone the conversation
almost always turned on the will, which was
not an enlivening subject to Lucy. Certainly
the diversion she had made of their mutual
thoughts from their ordinary channel had been
more amusing ; but it had been perplexing too.
A little tea-table was set out in the middle of
the room, the " massive " silver tea-service which
had been one of the few gratifications got by
Lucy's mother out of her fortune, shining upon
it, in full display for the benefit of Mrs. Stone,
who was expected. Mr. Trevor was in a garrulous
mood ; he had prepared himself to talk while
he waited for his visitor, and Lucy's questions

had been all that were wanted to loosen the
flood-gates. While she sat opposite to him,
wondering, pondering, occasionally looking np
at him over her knitting, taking into her mind
as best she could the information she had got,
but not knowing what to say, he proceeded as if
unable to stop himself, with a little gesture of
excitement, his hand sawing the air.

u Xo, she never had much comfort in her life
hard work, sick-nursing and trouble, one
dying after another, poor Lucilla; but all she
didn't have, her girl shall have. She was a
governess one while. Always be kind to governesses,
Lucy, wherever you see them. Your
mother was a real good woman. She would
have honoured any station ; she had the most
unbounded confidence in me, she never asked
a word of explanation."

Papa," said Lucy, glad, in the disturbance
of her mind, for any interruption, "1 think I
hear Mrs. Stone."

Then go down and meet her," said old Trevor,
but he went on with his recapitulation of his

wife's virtues. " Never asked a question, was
always satisfied whatever I said to her  "

Lucy heard his voice as she went downstairs.
She was still wondering, not knowing
what to make of it, but self-possessed in
that calm of youth which nothing disturbs. It
was odd that her father should speak so. He
had never been so confidential, or talked of himself
so much before ; altogether it was strange,
tempting her half to laugh, half to cry ; but
that was all. She went down quite composedly
to meet Mrs. Stone, who was untying her white
Shetland shawl from her head in the hall. Lucy
saw that Mrs. Ford was peeping from the parlour
door at the visitor, with something like a scowl
upon her face. Mrs. Ford distrusted and feared
the schoolmistress; she thought her capable of
marrying old Trevor, notwithstanding his years, *
and of dissipating Lucy's fortune, and perhaps
raising up rivals to little Jock in his sister's
affections ; for Lucy's affections were all he had
to look to, Mrs. Ford was aware, and she thought
it was a wicked shame.

I hope you are better than when I saw you
last," Mrs. Stone said, casting a quick glance
around her. She knew everything very well by
sight in Mr. Trevor's not very comfortable room,
the white silky mats, the blue curtains, the
little table groaning under that tea-service,
which was easy to see weighed as many ounces
as a tea-service could be made to weigh. How
much more comfortable, she could not but think,
the rich old man might have been made ; but
then he did not know any better, and Lucy did
not know any better ; they were used to it :
they liked this as well as the best. What a
blessing for Lucy that as long as she was young
enough to be trained she had fallen into good
hands ! Mrs. Stone took the big easy chair which
Lucy rolled forward to the other side of the fire,
and sat down after that greeting. She saw more
clearly than Lucy did the excitement in old Mr.
Trevor's eyes. What was it? An additional
glass of wine after dinner, Mrs. Stone thought,
a very small matter would be enough to upset an
old man sedentary and crippled as old Trevor was.

"Never was better in my life," he said ; " that
is I am getting old, and my legs are not good
for much, as you know, ma'am ; but thank God
I have plenty to keep my mind occupied and
interested, and that is the great thing, that is
the great thing  at my age."

"Always thinking about Lucy," Mrs. Stone
said.

"Yes, always about Lucy. She is worth it,
ma'am : a girl with her prospects is something
worth thinking about. She has all the world
before her, she has the ball at her foot."

"Ah, Mr. Trevor, that is what we always
think when we are young ; everything that is
good is going to happen to us, and nothing
that is evil. We think we can choose for ourselves,
and make our lives for ourselves."

And so she shall," said old Trevor, " ay,
that she shall. I beg your pardon, ma'am, but
when I speak of Lucy it isn't merely as a little
bit of a girl with her life before her. I think
of the place she is to take, and the power she
will have in her hands."

u You mean her fortune, Mr. Trevor. Dear
child, give me a cup of tea. You think it is
not a bad thing to talk so much to her about
her fortune V 9

"No, ma'am," said the old man, "on the
contrary, the very best thing possible. It would
be too great a weight for anyone not used toit.
You know it fills my mind night and day.
I've got to prepare her for it, and put all
straight for her as far as I can. There is many
a great person that has not the weight on her
shoulders that little thing will have, and that
is why I sent for you."

Asked me to come and take tea," said Mrs.
Stone, smiling. "No sugar, my dear. Yes,
no doubt we have to train her for her future
responsibilities. I do it by trying to make hera
good girl, Mr. Trevor, and I think I have
succeeded," the lady added, putting her hand
affectionately on the girl's shoulder. Lucy,
standing between the two, with the cup of tea
in one hand and a plateful of cake in the other,
looked as completely unexcited by all this talk

about her, and as unlike a personage of vast
importance, as personages of importance often
contrive to do.

She is a good girl by nature," said her
father, somewhat sharply. " I want to tell,
Ma'am, of a trust I have appointed you to in
my will  along with others," he added hastily,
"along with others. I have arranged that incase
of Lucy's marriage "

Had not you better step downstairs a little,
my dear, and just see whether Jane is
waiting in the hall f ' Mrs. Stone said hurriedly.
Perhaps Mrs. Ford would allow her, as it is so
cold, to go downstairs."

You need not send her away," said old
Trevor, grimly, " she knows all about it. I
don't want her to be taken by surprise when I
die. I want her to know all that is in store for
her."

But about her marriage, my dear Mr. Trevor ;
at seventeen these ideas come too quickly of
themselves."

I tell you, Ma'am, Lucy is not like common

girls," he said testily ; " when a woman's in a
great position, she has to learn many things
that otherwise might be kept from her. What
had the Queen to do, I would like to know?
Settle all her marriage herself, whatever anyone
might think."

Poor young lady ! I used to hear my mother
say that her heart bled for her. But you don't
compare our Lucy with Her Majesty, Mr. Trevor ?
Dear Lucy ! though she were the richest girl in
England, it would still be a little different from
the Queen."

"Madam," said old Trevor, solemnly, ' ; sofar
as I am aware she will be the richest girl in
England, and therefore surrounded by dangers ;
so I've devised a scheme for her safety, and I
have put you on the committee. If you will
wait a moment till I have got my spectacles I
will read it all out to you here."

Mrs. Stone was the third person to whom that
wonderful paragraph had been read. She listened
with surprise, gradually rising into consternation.
When she saw, with the corner of her

eye, Lucy coming softly from behind the
shelter of the screen, she made an imperative
gesture, without looking round, to send her
away. The girl obeyed with a smile. Why
should she be sent away ? she had already heard
it all.

She went outside and sat down upon
the stair to wait. The draught that swept up
the well of the staircase did not affect Lucy ;
her blood, though it flowed so tranquilly through
her veins, was young and kept her warm. She
had given up easily the attempt she had made
to influence her father, and now she half
laughed to herself at the fuss they all made
about herself. What were they making such a
fuss about? The importance her father attached
to all her future proceedings, was to Lucy just
about as sensible as Mrs. Stone's precautions
for preventing her hearing something she knew
perfectly ; but she could afford to smile at
both.

What did it matter? Lucy felt that everything

would go on all the same, that to-day
would be as yesterday, and life quite a
simple, easy business, whatever they might
say.

CHAPTER IX.
a great Temptation.

Ille important communication made to herby
Mr. Trevor made a great impression
upon the mind of Mrs. Stone, but it was an
impression of a confusing kind, disturbing all
her previous plans and thoughts. It had been
her intention, ever since Lucy was placed in
her care, to take a decided part in the shaping
of the girl's life. Her imagination had been
roused by the situation altogether  a young
creature, simple, pliable, and unformed, with
no relations who had any real right to guide
her, and with a great fortune  what might
not be made of such a charge ! It was not

with any covetous inclination to employ her
pupil's wealth to her own advantage that Mrs.
Stone had determined by every means in her
power to acquire an influence over Lucy. She
was much too high-minded, too proud, for anything
of the sort. No doubt there was an
alloy, if not of selfishness, at least of self-regard,
in her higher motive, but the worst she
would have done would have been to carry out
some pet projects of her own by Lucy's help,
not to enrich herself. She thought (perhaps),
or rather without thinking was aware, that her
own importance would be increased by her influence
over the heiress; but nothing in the
shape of personal aggrandizement was present
to her thoughts, even by inference. Mr. Trevor's
communication however disturbed her mind in
the most uncomfortable way. When you are
contemplating a vague influence of a general
kind, to be gradually and with trouble acquired,
it is demoralizing to have a definite power
suddenly thrust into your hands ; and it is
hardly possible to refrain from exercising that

power, were it but for the sake of the novelty
and unexpected character of it, en attendant the
larger influence to be acquired hereafter. As
Mrs. Stone sat in front of Mr. Trevor's fire
listening to him, with a ringing in her ears of
sudden excitement, holding her cup of tea in
her hand, with external calm, yet feeling every
pulse flutter, there suddenly appeared before
her bewildered eyes, not written on the wall
like Belshazzar's warning, but hanging in the
air without any material support, like an illuminated
scroll, in big luminous letters, the name
which her sister had suggested : the name
of Frank  F RAN K but bigger, a great dear
bigger, than any capitals, dazzling her eyes
with the glow in them. Her first feeling was
alarm and a kind of horror. It was all she
could do to restrain the outcry that rose to her
lips. She started so that she spilled her tea, which
was hot, so that she started still more ; but upon
this little accident she put the best face possible.
"It is nothing, my love, nothing," she said,
when Lucy hastened to her rescue ; " only a

little awkwardness on my part, and ray old
black silk won't hurt." She looked up with a
smile in Lucy's face, when lo ! the appearance
sailed into the air over Lucy's head, and hung
there magically, almost touching the girl's fair
hair. " How awkward I am," Mrs. Stone cried,
looking quite pale and spilling more tea. She
thought it was something diabolical, a piece of
witchcraft; but it cannot be supposed that it
was an easy matter to drive it out of her
thoughts. She scarcely knew what happened
afterwards, till she had bidden the Trevor
good night and found herself in the muddy
bit of road which led to the White House, and
got rid, in the darkness, of that startling legend.
Was it diabolical, or was it a suggestion from
heaven ? Perhaps it would have been more
near the mark if she had remembered that it
was a suggestion from Miss Southwood, which
she had crushed with infinite scorn when it was
made ; but Mrs. Stone did not, or would not,
remember this. The night was damp and foggy,
and the lights of her own house appeared to her

VOL. I. M

all blurred and hazy, with prismatic haloes
round them, like so many sickly moons, and the
intermediate bit of road was fitfully lighted by
the lantern carried by her maid, which shone in
the dark puddles and glistening wet herbage.
But Mrs. Stone was scarcely conscious where
she was. as she picked her way lightly from
one bit of solid path to another; her mind was
so full that she might have been in Regent
Street, or on a Swiss mountain. Frank ! was
it a diabolical suggestion, or a revelation from
heaven ?

All was quiet in the White House when its
mistress got in. It was ten o'clock, and the
doves were in their nests, which, to be sure, is
but an ornamental way of saying that all the
girls had gone to bed. The light burned low in
the hall, as it burned all night, for Miss South-wood
thought light was " a protection" to a
lonely house ; and the open door of the drawing-room,
in which it was the custom of the ladies
to sit with their pupils after tea, showing something
of the disorderly look of a room deserted

for the night, notwithstanding the tidiness with
which all the little work-baskets were put out of
the way. Beside that open door, however, was
another still shining with firelight and lamplight,
where a little supper-tray had just been
placed on the table, and a pretty silver cover
and crystal decanter, not to speak of a delicate
fragrance of cooking, showed that the mistress
of the house was pleasantly provided for. No
mystery was made of this little supper, which
everybody knew was Mrs. Stone's favourite
meal ; but all the girls had a curiosity about it,
and the governesses felt themselves injured that
they were not privileged to share its delights.
Mrs. Stone, however, stoutly defended her
privacy at this hour of repose. She sat
down with a sigh of relief, opposite to her
sister, who presided at the little white-covered
table.

You are tired," said Miss Southwood,
sympathetically, " and that girl has forgotten as
usual to put the claret to the fire. But this
bird is very well cooked, and the bread-crumbs

M 2

are brown and crisp, just as you like them.
Why was it he sent for you ? something quite
trifling, I suppose. I wonder how parents
can reconcile themselves to the trouble they
give."

"It was not a trifle, it was about Lucy's
marriage," said the other, " or rather about preventing
Lucy's marriage, I think. I am to have
a finger in the pie."

You! Old Mr. Trevor is very queer, I
know ; is he going to take up that odious French
system, and arrange it without any reference to
the girl ? But surely, Maria, you would
never countenance an iniquity like that?"

Iniquity ! are you sure it is an iniquity ?
In some points of view I approve of it greatly.
Do you think I could not choose better husbands
for the girls than they will ever choose for themselves
? How is a girl to exercise any judgment
in the matter? She takes the first man that
comes, perhaps, or the first fool she thinks
nice-looking, and what is there sacred in
that?"

I thought you were always the one to stand
up for love," said Miss Southwood. " I never
pretend to know anything about it myself."


Oh, when there is love" said Mrs. Stone,
that is another thing. But what do they know
about love ? It is fancy, it is not love ; how
should they know ?"

I am sure / can't tell," answered the unmarried
sister, very demurely, " don't ask me to
give any opinion ; you are the one that ought to
know; and I have always heard you say, and
understood you to uphold "

Yes, yes, yes !" cried the other, impatiently ;
when a thing has been said once, one is held
to it for ever, in this unintelligent way. You
never consider how unlike one case is to
another, or take the circumstances into account.
Besides, all I said referred to a sentiment already
formed. I would never tear two young people
asunder that were fond of each other, because
one was rich and the other poor ; that js a
thing I could never be guilty of. But this is a

very different matter. To take care that a girl
like Lucy Trevor does not make a foolish choice,
or even," said Mrs. Stone, with a certain
solemnity and deliberateness of utterance, "to
direct her thoughts to some one eminently suitable"


Miss Southwood looked at her with eager
eyes. After the manner in which her suggestion
had been received at their former interview,
she did not venture to repeat it ; but she
knew by experience that a suggestion is sometimes
very badly received to-day, and accepted
as a matter of course, or even energetically acted
upon, tomorrow ; so she said nothing, but with
eager, though concealed, scrutiny, watched her
sister's looks. Finding, however, that Mrs.
Stone said nothing more, but pensively eat her
chicken, she resumed after a while her inquiries.


I suppose Mr. Trevor has been consulting
you," she said, " and I am sure it was the very
best thing he could do. But, after all, Lucy is
only seventeen, poor little thing ! and a good

girl, with no nonsense about her. Does he
want to marry her off so young, the poor

child r

I think," said Mrs. Stone, reflectively, turning
her chair to the fire, " he does not want her to
marry at all."

Oh !" cried Miss Southwood in dismay. She
had not married herself : she professed at once,
when the subject was mentioned, her entire
incompetence to give any opinion ; but the idea
that a girl's friends should wish her not to
marry filled her mind with an amazement
beyond words. The naivete of her conviction
on this point betrayed itself in her unfeigned
wonder. She could not believe it. " I suppose,"
she said, "that he wants to keep the
money in the family ; and that means that he
will marry her to her cousin, that young man,
that Mr. Rainy."

Her cousin ! you mean the certificated schoolmaster,
the Dissenter."

"Oh, he is not a Dissenter: we met him at

the Rectory ; he is a very rising young man, and
clever, and "

You may save yourself the trouble of
enumerating his good qualities. I can't tell how
you know them ; but Lucy shall never marry
the schoolmaster, I will refuse my consent."


You will refuse your consent ? and what will
that matter V ' Miss Southwood said.

Mrs. Stone made no particular answer. She
put her feet upon the comfortable velvet cushion
before the fire, and smiled. She did not care
to enter upon explanations, but she had made
up her mind. The fire was bright, the bird had
been good, and her modest glass of claret was
excellent. She was altogether in a balmy
humour, willing to enjoy the many comforts of
her life, and to feel benevolently towards her
neighbour.

I think you are right," she said, " and perhaps
I am prejudiced. He is a rising young
man. We have met him two or three times at
the Rectory, so he cannot be a Dissenter ; but

he is not a gentleman either. How should hebe,
being one of those Rainys? I shouldn't
wonder if it was to keep him out."

If what was to keep him out V

By the way," said Mrs. Stone, " I have a
letter to write. Don't let me keep you out of
bed, Ellen. I am very much behind in
family correspondence. Have any of the St.
Clairs ever been at the White House since we
came here ? I can't recollect."

Not one," said Miss Southwood, with a beating
heart. " Not one ! and I have often thought,
Maria, considering all things, and that they
have no father, poor things, and are not very
well off  and so nice, both sisters and brothers
"

One does not want so many arguments.
Frank may come and pay us a visit if he likes,"
said Mrs. Stone with much amiability. But it
was not till the morning, when she came down
first, as she always did, and put the letter,
which had been left on Mrs. Stone's private
writing-table, ready for the early post, in the

letter-bag, that Miss Southwood had the satisfaction
of seeing that it was addressed to the
favourite nephew, whose name she had not ventured
to pronounce for a second time. Mrs.
Stone had not been inattentive to the vision,
the intimation, whether from heaven or the other
place. He was to come and try his fortune in
those lists.

Miss Southwood went about her occupations
all day as if she trod on air; but she
kept her lips tightly shut, and never asked a
question. She was discretion itself. As for Mrs.
Stone, after she had done it, many doubts suggested
themselves. It was not for nothing, not
by mere vice of temperament that she obeyed
her own impulses so readily. Like all impulsive
people, she was subject to cold fits as well as
hot; but like many other impulsive people, she
had learned that it was her best policy to obey
the first imperious movement of nature. The
thing was done, at all events, before the struggle
of judgment began. And the answer she made

to her own objections was a mysterious one.
Why not I, as well as Lady Kandolph," was
what she said to herself.

CHAPTER X.

CHATTER.

"PvO you know," said Katie Russell, " there
J-J is a gentleman in the house ? None of

us have seen him ; but he came yesterday. He

is young, and tall, and nice-looking. He is their

nephew. Mademoiselle says it is quite improper.

Of course, she oughtn't to say so ; and the girls

don't know what to think: for you know it is

queer."

Why is it queer V said Lucy. " If he is

their nephew, he may surely come to see them.

If they had a son, he would live here."

I don't think so," said Katie promptly.

Oh no ! if they had a dozen sons, not while

the girls are here. It would never do. I have
been at other schools, and I know. I have spent
my life at schools, I think," the girl said with
an impatient shrug of her shoulders, " and I
know Mademoiselle is quite right, though she
oughtn't to say so. I wonder, Lucy, if I will
be as governess when I am old ? They almost
always are."

Lucy could not follow this quick digression.
She gazed at her friend with wondering eyes.
You always jump so," she said. " Which am
I to answer about the gentleman, or about  "

Oh ! never mind the gentleman. I only told
you  it can't matter very much to me," said
Katie. " It is for Maud and Lily, and girls of
that set that it is not right, or you  Is it true
that you are to have a great fortune, Lucy ? I
always wanted to ask you  but I did not
like"

Yes, I believe so," said Lucy quietly, " why
shouldn't you like ? Papa takes a great deal of
trouble about it ; but it does not matter so much
to me. One is just the same one's self, whether

one is rich or poor; it will give a great deal
of trouble. So I don't care for it for my
part."

Oh ! I should care for it," cried Katie. " I
should not mind the trouble. How delightful
it must be to be really, really rich! I should
give I should do  oh I don't know what I
shouldn't do! The use of being rich," Katie
added sententiously, " is that you can do as you
please  go where you please, be as kind to
everybody as you please ; help people, enjoy
yourself, buy everything you like, and yet
always have something. Oh !" she said, clasping
her hands, " to have to think and think
whether you can buy yourself a pair of gloves 
not to be able to get a cab when your mother
is tired ; and to grow old, and to grow governess
like Mademoiselle  "

Mademoiselle is very nice, Katie. Don't say
anything against her."

"/ say anything against her! I adore her!
but she is governess, how can she help it, poor
old darling ? Her mind is full of the girls' little

ways, and what they mean by this and by that,
Lucy," said the girl stopping short to give
greater emphasis to her words. u If we ever
see each other when I am an old governess like
Mademoiselle  be sure you remember fo tell me
when you see me worrying, that the girls mean
nothing by it nothing /" This is the 21st of
February. It is my birthday  I am nineteen.
Tell me to recollect that I said they meant
nothing  and that it's true."

Are you really nineteen to-day ?" said Lucy.
Older than I"

More than a year older. I wonder," said Katie
with that patronage and superiority which the poor
often show to the rich, " whether, when you are
fifty, you will know as much of the world as
I do now r

Lucy's companion was the governess-pupil, the
one among the band of girls whose society her father
had counselled her not to seek. Perhaps there was
something of the perversity of youth in the preference
which, notwithstanding this advice, Lucy
felt for the girl whose friendship old Mr. Trevor

had decided could be of no use whatever to her.
Lucy was not nearly so clever as Katie Russell,
who was already a great help in the school, and
earning the lessons which she shared with the
more advanced pupils. But Lucy was by no
means so sure of .her inferiority in point of experience
as her companion was. She knew, if
not the expedients of poverty, yet of economy
through Mrs. Ford's example, and she
knew many details of a lower level of existence,
lower than anything Katie was acquainted with ;
and even the shadow of her own future power
which had lain upon her from her childhood had
stood in the stead of knowledge to Lucy, teaching
her many things ; but she was a quiet person,
thinking much more than she spoke; and she
made no reply to this imputation of ignorance,
though she thought it a mistake. She replied
with a little closer pressure of her friend's arm.
Why are you so sure of being an old governess
? You will marry most likely the first of
all of us."

Oh ! no, no, don't you know there are a

million more women in England than men ? It
is in all the papers. Some of us will marry'
you, for instance ; but there must be a proportion
 say five out of twenty, that's not much."
said Katie, knitting her soft brows, " who never
will; and I shall be one of them. For fun," she
said, throwing gravity to the winds, " let us
guess who the other four will be."

Me," said Lucy with a gentle composure and
indifference alike to matrimony and to grammar.
I think that is what papa would like best  "

That is absurd," said Katie, " you ! you will
have a hundred proposals before you are out a
year. You will be the very first."

Put me down, however," Lucy repeated. " It
will be rather a good thing to be kept from getting
married, if it is as you say. It will help to
set the balance straight. There will be my
gentleman for one of you."

You do not mean that you are to be kept
from marrying," Katie cried aghast. This made
a still greater impression on her mind than it
had done on Miss Southwood's, and it suggested

VOL. I. n

to her a sudden chivalrous idea of rescue. Katie
too had a Frank, a cousin, between whom and
herself there had existed from the earliest times
a baby tenderness. If ever she was married,
Katie had tacitly concluded that he would bethe
gentleman." They might set up a school
together ; they might work together in various
ways. It was a vague probability, yet one in
which most of the light of Katie's future lay.
But suddenly it flashed upon her, all in a moment,
w 7 hat a chance, what an opening was this
for any man. Frank was poor; they were all
poor; but if he could be persuaded to step in
and save Lucy from the celibacy to which she
seemed to think herself condemned, Frank's
fortune would be made. It was the basest calculation
in the world ; and yet nothing could
have been more innocent  nay generous. It
blanched Katie's cheeks for the moment; but
filled her mind with a whirl of thoughts. What
a thing it would be for him and all the family !
If the dream should come to pass, Katie felt
that she herself might give in at once, and makeup

her mind to grow old and governess like
Mademoiselle ; but what did that matter, she
asked herself heroically. For a second, indeed,
she paused to think whether her brother, Bertie,
might not answer the purpose without costing
herself so much ; but anticipated sacrifice is
the purest delight of misery at nineteen, and
she rather preferred to think that this great
advantage to her cousin and her friend would be.
purchased at the cost of her happiness. And
Frank himself might not like the idea at first ;
her great consolation was that it was almost certain
Frank would not like it. But he must learn
to subdue his inclinations, she thought proudly
would not she do so for his sake? If other
people were content to make that sacrifice, why
should not he? And what a difference it would
make, if a stream of comfort  of money and all
that money can buy, ease of mind and freedom
from debt, and power to do what one would 
came suddenly pouring in to the family, setting
everything right that was wrong, and smoothing
away all difficulties ! To despise money is a

N 2

fine thing ; but how few can do it ! Katie did
not despise it all. She forgot her companion
while she walked on dreamily by her side, thinking
of her fortune. Mercenary little wretch the
moralist would say ; and yet she was not
mercenary at all.

The girls were walking across the Common
by themselves. It was part of Mrs. Stone's
enlightened system that she allowed them to do
so, in cases where the parents did not interfere.
And so far as these two were concerned, even
the consent of the parents was unnecessary ; for
was not Katie Russell, though only eighteen, a
governess in the bud? and, accordingly, quite
capable of acting as chaperon when necessary.
Poor little Katie ! this was one of the mild indignities
of her lot that she felt most. Her lot
was not at all a bad one at Mrs. Stone's, where
the head of the establishment backed her up
quietly as indeed the one of her inmates with
whom she was most in sympathy  and when the
girls were " nice." Girls are not all " nice," anymore
than are any other class of the community,

and Katie had known what it was to be snubbed
and scorned, and even insulted. But happily
this was not the fashion at the White House.
Still one mark of her inferior position remained
in the fact that Katie, though so young, and
one of the prettiest of the band, was, being
half a governess, qualified to accompany her
peers in the character of chaperon. It was not
quite clear that she might not be at that moment
taking care of Lucy, who was less than a year
her junior ; but happily this idea had not crossed
her mind. It was Sunday, which was a day of
great freedom at the White House  a day given
over (after due attention to all religious duties,
need it be said? for Mrs. Stone knew what was
expected of her, and you may be sure took all
her doves to church with the most undeviating
regularity) to confidences, to talks, to letter-writings.
Some of the girls were covering sheets
of note-paper with the most intimate revelations,
some were chattering in corners, some reading
story-books. Story-books are not necessarily
novels  Mrs. Stone made a clever distinction.

There was nothing in three volumes upon her
purified and dignified shelves ; but a book in one
volume had a very good chance of coming
within her tolerant reading of the word Story.
And some were out, perambulating about the
garden, where the first crocuses were beginning
to bloom, or crossing the Common by those devious
little paths half hidden in heather and all
kinds of wild plants which were bad for boots
and dresses but very pleasant otherwise. It
was along one of these that Lucy Trevor and her
companion were wandering. The mossy turf was
very green, betraying the moisture beneath ; and
the great bushes of heather, with all the withered
bloom stiffened upon them, stood up like
mimic forests from the treacherous grass. Wild
bushes of gorse, with here and there a solitary
speck of yellow, a premature bud upon them
interspersed their larger growth here and there.
The frost had all melted away. In the little
marshy pools, the water was clear and caught
glimpses of a sky faintly blue. One willow on
the very verge of the Common had hung

out its tassels, those prophecies of coming life.
There was a scent of Spring in the air. " In
the Spring a young man's fancy lightly turns to"
love, the poet says ; and so, perhaps, does a girl's.
But before either are warmly awakened to that
interest, Spring touches them thrilling with a profusion
of thought and planning and anticipation,
not so distinct as love The young creatures
feel the sap of life mounting within them. Ofttimes
they know nothing more, and have formed
no definite idea either of what they want, or
why ; but their minds are running over with a
flood of living. Their plans go lightly skimming
through the air, now poising a moment on a
branch, and again flashing widely on devious
wing to all the points of the compass like so
many birds. There was no immediate change
necessary in the placid course of their school-girl
existence; but they leapt forward to meet the
future with all the force of their energies. Yet,
perhaps, it was only one of them who did this.
Lucy was too calm in the certainty of the changes
that sooner or later would happen to her  changes

already mapped out and arranged for her,
as she was well aware to be able to give herself
up to these indefinite pleasures of imagination.
But Katie leaped at her future with the fervour of
a fresh imagination. She made up her mind to
sacrifice herself, and give Lucy her cousin in
less time than many would take to decide
whether they should give up a ribbon. She sank
into silence for a little time while she was pondering
it, but never from any indecision ; only
because in her rapid foresight of all that was
necessary, she did not quite see how the first
step the introduction of these tw r o to each other
was to be brought about.

Just then the girls became aware of two other
figures, bearing down upon them from the other
side of the Common two larger personages
making their slight youth look what it was,
something not much more than childish. There
was Mrs. Stone and the unknown gentleman who
had arrived at the White House, to the scandal
of the old governess, last night. When the girls
perceived this, they mutually gave each other's

arras a warning pressure. " Oh, look, here he
is!" said Katie, and, "Is that the gentleman?"
Lucy said. The encounter brought to the former
a quick flush of excitement. She wondered a
little, on her own account, who the gentleman
was ; for an apparition of such an unusual description
in a girl's school had naturally excited
all the inmates. A man under Mrs. Stone's
roof! Men were common enough things at
home, and aroused no feelings of curiosity or
alarm. But here it was quite different. Whence
came he, and what had he come for ? But besides
this, there was another source of interest in
Katie's thoughts. As she conceived her own plot,
a glimmering sense of the other came upon herby
instinct. Why had this wonderful occurrence,
this arrival of a gentleman, happened at Mrs.
Stone's? Mrs. Stone knew all about Lucy's fortune,
and the wicked scheme invented by her father
(of which Katie knew nothing except by lively
guesses) to keep her unmarried. And straightway
the gentleman had come ! She watched
him anxiously as he approached. He was like

Mrs. Stone, and he was not unlike the smiling
and gracious face in a hairdresser's window, complacent
in waxwork satisfaction. He was large,
tall, with fine black hair, whiskers and moustache,
and a good complexion. He had something
of that air of self-display  not vanity or
conceit, but simply expansion and spreading out
of himself which is characteristic of large men
used to the company of many women. Katie
pressed her friend's arm more and more closely
as they approached.

What do you think of him P she said. " I
wonder if they will speak to us. Will Mrs.
Stone introduce us ? If she does, T know what
I shall think."

What shall you think f said Lucy, across
whose mind no glimmering of the cause of this
unusual visit had flown. She watched him coming
very placidly. " Mrs. Stone will not stop. She
never does when she has any stranger with her.
Who is it, Katie % I never heard that they had
any brother."

"It is their nephew," Katie said, with something

of that knowledge which is what she herself
called governess, that minute acquaintance withall
details of a family which people in any kind
of dependence are so apt to attain. Mademoiselle
was her authority, Mademoiselle, who, though
she was " nice," had yet the foibles of her position,
and a certain jealous interest, not altogether
unkind, yet too curious to be entirely
benevolent, about all her employer's works and
ways. " He was brought up for the Church,
but he has not gone into the Church. Doesn't
he look like a parson ? When a man has been
brought up in that way, he never gets the better
of it. He always looks like a spoilt clergyman."


I don't think he looks like a clergyman at
all," said Lucy, " nor spoilt either."

Oh, you admire him ! I ought to have known
you are just the kind of girl to like a barber's
block man. Our Frank," said Katie, with some
vehemence, " is not so big  he has not half
such a shirt-front; but I am sure he has more
strength. You should see him throwing things.

He won two cups for that  and one for running,"
she added with a sigh. She already felt something
of the pang with which these cherished
cups would be put, with their owner, into
another's possession. In imagination, she had
sometimes seen them arranged on a humble sideboard
in a little house, with which she herself,
Katie, had the closest connection. But
that was the merest dream, and not to be considered
for a moment when the interest of the
one and the happiness of the other were concerned.


"Frank! who is Frank?" said Lucy, "you
never told me of him before."

Oh ! Frank is my cousin. There never was
any occasion," said Katie, with a slightly querulous
tone, which Lucy did not understand. She
looked with a little wonder at her friend, then
set down her perturbation to the score of Mrs.
Stone, who was now very near. The girls withdrew
from each other to make room, leaving the
narrow path clear between. Mrs. Stone answered
this courtesy by stepping forward in front

of the gentleman with a gracious smile upon
her face.

M Where are you going?" she said. " I think,
my dear children, it is going to rain. You must
soon turn back ; and the Common is very wet.
After you have got back and changed your boots
come to my room to tea." And then she passed
on with little amical nods and smiles. The
gentleman was not introduced to them, but he
took off his hat as he followed behind Mrs. Stone,
a courtesy which is always agreeable to girls
who have only lately ceased to be little girls,
and come within the range of dignified salutations.
Even Lucy's tranquil soul owned a faint
flutter of pleasure. It was a distinct honour too
to be asked to Mrs. Stone's room to tea, and to
know that they were to be introduced into the
society of the " gentleman" added a little additional
excitement. They walked only a very
little way further, mindful at once of the advice
and the invitation.

I wonder if any of the others will be there,"
said Katie. She was somewhat elated although

she was suspicious, and in a state of half resistance
to Mrs. Stone and the rival Frank, whose
rivalry the little schemer felt by instinct. As
for Lucy, the object of all this plotting, she
suspected nothing. She even felt a little guilty
in the pleasure to which she looked forward.
To be asked to Mrs. Stone's room to tea on
Sunday evening was a distinction of which all
the girls were proud. It was like an invitation
from the Queen, a command which was not to
be disregarded ; but yet she had a little uneasiness
in her mind, thinking of her little brother,
who would be disappointed. Even for Mrs.
Stone, the sovereign of this small world, she
did not like to break faith with little Jock.

CHAPTER XL

AX AFTERNOON TEA.

MRS. STONE'S room was fitted up iu the
latest, which I need not say is far from
being the newest fashion. It would indeed have
been an insult to her to say that anything in it
was new. Mr. Morris had only just begun to
reign over the homes of the aesthetic classes ;
but Mrs. Stone was well in advance of her age,
and her walls were covered with a very large
pattern of acanthus leaves in several shades of
green, with curtains as nearly as possible the
same in design and colour. She had a number
of plates hung about the walls instead of pictures,
and here and there gleaming shelves and little

cabinets full of china, which were a great relief
and comfort to the eye. Her chairs were Chippendale,
need it be said ? and held her visitors
upright in a dignified height and security. The
room had but one window, which was large, but
half filled with designs in glass, and half overshadowed
by a great lime-tree, which was delightful
in summer, but in February not so
delightful. The fire was at the end of the room,
and the room was somewhat dark, especially in
the afternoon. When the two girls went in,
several persons were dimly visible seated in those
large and solemn Chippendale chairs, with
hands reposing upon the arms of them, ranged
against the walls like Egyptian gods. The
colour of one of these figures, though faint in
the gloom, was that of Miss Southwood's grey
velveteen, her ordinary afternoon dress, and
therefore recognisable ; but the others in masculine
black clothes, with only a vague whiteness
for their faces, were mysterious as Isis and
Osiris ; and so was a lady with her veil over her
face, who sat at the other side of the fire-place,

with the air of a chairwoman at a meeting, high
and stately though she caught a little of the
pale afternoon daylight upon her, yet her dark
dress and sealskin coat and veil prevented any
distinctness of revelation. In this correct and
carefully arranged parlour there was one weak
point. A woman who is without caprice is
unworthy of being called a woman. Instead of
herself occupying a Chippendale chair, and
having her tea-tray placed upon the tall, slender-limbed
Queen Anne table, which stood in readiness
against the wall, Mrs. Stone chose to make
herself the one anachronism in the place. Her
chair was a low one in front of the fire ; her
tea-table was in proportion  a bit of debased
nineteenth century comfort in the midst of
the stately grace which she professed to think so
much more delightful. Why was this % It was
Mrs. Stone's pleasure, and there was no more to
be said. She, with her pretty white cap upon her
handsome head, seated at the feet of all her
silent guests in their high chairs, was not only
the central light in the picture, but a kind of
VOL. I.

humorous commentary upon it; but whether
this proceeded from any sense of the joke in her,
or was merely the expression of her own determination
to please herself, were it even in flat
rebellion to her own code, no one could tell.

"You are just in time," she said, "Lucy and
Katie, to give our friends some tea. Don't interfere,
Frank. I like girls to hand tea. It
comes within their province ; and it is a pretty
office, which they do far more prettily than you
can."

That I don't dispute for a moment," said a
large round manly baritone, enthroned on high in
one of the Chippendale chairs, " and I don't deny
that I like to be served by such hands when it is
permitted."

That is one of the popular fallacies about
women," said Mrs. Stone, " and involves the
whole question. Our weak surrender of our
rights for the pleasure of being waited upon in
public, was I suppose one of the consequences of
chivalry. According to my theory, it is the
business of women to serve. You shoot the

birds or kill the deer, Mr. Rushton, as you best
can, and we cook it and carve it, and serve it upto
you."

If this beatitude depends upon my ability to
kill the deer or shoot the birds, my dear lady !"
said another good-natured voice : which added
immediately, " Why, this is Lucy Trevor ! I am
very glad to see you. My dear, this is Lucy
Trevor. Since she has been at the White House
we have scarcely seen her. You girls are made
too happy when you get under the charge of Mrs.
Stone."

Is it you, Lucy V said the lady with the
veil ; " come and speak to me, dear. I think it
is a year since I have seen you. You have
grown up, quite grown up in the time. How
these young creatures change! A year does not
make much difference in us but this child has
shot up ! And Raymond you remember your
playfellow, Lucy  why, he is a man, as old as
his father, giving us advice, if you please ! It is
something wonderful. I catch myself laughing
out when I hear him discoursing about law.



Raymond giving his opinion, my little boy, my
baby ! And I daresay little Lucy has begun to
give her opinion too."

"Lucy is a very good girl," said Mrs. Stone,
she never takes anything upon her. Katie
now and then favours us with her ideas as to
how the world should be governed."

That is right," said Mr. Ashton, from the
darker side. " I like to know what the young
people think. It is they who will have it all in
their hands one day."

"But thank heaven they will have changed
their minds before that time."

This was from Miss South wood, who emphasised
her exclamation by getting up to sweep
off into the fire-place a few crumbs from her grey
velveteen gown.

Do you think it is a good thing they should
have changed their minds? It seems to me
rather a pity. That is why we never have
anything new. We all fall into the same jog-trot
about the same age."

The new is always to be avoided. Don't tell

me about jog-trot I wish I were half as sensible
as my mother."

Arid so do I, Ellen," said Mrs. Stone, taking
up the discussion in her own manner with that
soft little half blow to begin with. Nobody
could tell whether it was directed at her sister, or
was an echo of her wish, not even Lucy, who
knew her so well, and who stood between her
and Mrs. Rushton listening to their talk, but
without any impulse on her own part to rush
into it as Katie would have done. Katie in the
meantime had got out of that graver circle. She
had given the large baritone his cup of tea, and
now was holding the cake-basket while he
selected a piece. Katie was in the light, so much
light as there was. She was a fair-haired girl,
with just the touch of warmth and colour that
Lucy wanted a little gold in her hair, a deeper
blue in her eyes, a tinge of rose on her cheeks :
and she had a far warmer sense of fun than
Lucy, who would have carried the cake-basket
quite demurely without any smile.

I hope you will not think this is my fault,"

Mrs. Stone's nephew said in a low tone. " I am
bound to obey, as I suppose everyone is here;
otherwise I should not sit still and allow myself
to be served ; it is not my way, I assure you.
And I keep you standing so long. I cannot
make up my mind which piece to take. This
has the most plums, but that is the larger piece.
It always turns out so in this life ; I wonder if
you have found that out in your experience, or if
things are better managed here."

We are not supposed to have any experience
at school," said Katie demurely. It was pretty
to see her holding the cake-basket. And the rest
of the company was occupied with their own
conversation. Besides, how was he to know
which of them was the heiress %

We met you on the Common just now with
your friend. It is not a very amusing walk, but
it is better than going out in procession, I suppose.
Does my aunt make you do that? is it
part of a young lady's education, as cricket is of
a man's ?" -

Yes," said Katie. " We are trained to put

up with everything that is disagreeable, just as
boys are trained to everything that is pleasant."


Do you think cricket then so pleasant V

;i Not to me  but I suppose it is to boys ; and
boating and everything of the kind. On our
side we are taught quite differently. If there
is anything more tiresome than another, more
tedious, less likely to please us, that is what weare
made to do."

"My poor aunt! is she a tyrant then with her
pupils ? She is not a tyrant for her relations
: or at least a very charming, delightful
tyrant."

I did not mean Mrs. Stone ; she is very
kind  even to me : but I have been at other
schools. I suppose it is for our good," said Katie
with a sigh, " everything that is very disagreeable
is for our good ; though I wonder sometimes
why the boys should not have a little trial of the
same  for I suppose they too have got to put
up 'with things that are disagreeable in their
life."

We are supposed," said the baritone, who
was becoming quite visible to her, enthroned in
his Chippendale chair, " to have most of the
disagreeable of life, while you ladies ' who
dwell at home at ease ' "

Ah !" cried Katie, setting down the cake-basket,
"if you would but quote correctly. The
man who wrote the song knew a great deal better.
It is the gentlemen who live at home at ease.
To all you ladies now on land,' is what he says ;
he knew better. We don't go out to sea like
him, but we go through just as much on land,
you may be sure," cried the girl, with a sudden
flush coming over her face ; " it was not to us
he said, ' How little do you think upon the
dangers of the seas.' I have got a little
brother a sailor," she added half under her
breath.

I have evidently chosen my illustration
badly," said the other with prompt good-humour
and a sympathetic tone. "If you have a little
brother, I have a big one at sea, so here is something
to fraternize upon. Mine is the captain of

a big merchantman, an old salt, and does not
mind the dangers of the sea."

Ah, but mine is a little middy," said Katie,
with a smile in her eyes and a tear trembling
behind it, " he minds a great deal. He does not
like it at all. And mamma and I feel the
wind go through and through us whenever it
blows."

I see," said the gentleman, " these are the
disagreeable of life you speak of  imaginary.
Probably when he is in a gale you know nothing
about it, and the winds that make you tremble
have nothing to do with him ; but these are very
different, you must acknowledge, from real
troubles."

Katie did not condescend to answer this
speech. She gave him a look only, but that
spoke volumes. The superiority of experience in
it was beyond words. How could he know, a
man, well dressed, and well off apparently, with
a heavy gold chain to his watch, and handsome
studs, how could he know one tithe of the
troubles that had come her way in that poverty

which only those who know it can fathom? She
withdrew behind the tea-table, just as Mrs.
Stone called to her nephew,

Frank," she said. (so he is Frank too"
said Katie to herself.) "I have not presented
you to my young friends. Mr. Frank St. Clair,
Miss Russell (I see you have made acquaintance
already) ; and Miss Trevor. Lucy, do you remember
I once told you of a boy who was to me
what your little Jock is to you ? There he
stands," for Frank had risen to bow to his new
acquaintance, and stood with his back to the
window, shutting out what little light there
was.

You were a very young aunt, certainly," he
said, " but I refuse to believe that Miss Trevor
has anything to do with a second generation."


Youth does not matter in that respect," said
Mrs. Rushton. ** I was an aunt when I was
three. There are a great many younger aunts
than Lucy; but, as it happens, it is a little
brother we are thinking of. And apropos, my

dear, how is little Jock ? has he gone to school ?
it must be time he were at school."

When you are ready, Lucy," said Mr.
Rushton, " I am going with you to see your
father. Not to say a word against my good old
friend Trevor, he is full of whims. Now what is
his fancy about that child ? He will not
bring him up as you have been brought up,
Lucy."

"Because he has nothing to do with the
money," said Lucy simply. u Papa thinks that
a very good reason. I wish you would persuade
him, Mr. Rushton ; I can't."

"And he tells you so!" said Mrs. Rushton,
shaking her head, " he talks to you about your
money, Lucy V

Oh. yes ! a great deal," said Lucy. She
spoke with perfect calm and composure, and
they all looked at her with subdued admiration.
Six pair of eyes thus turned to her in the partial
gloom. An heiress ! and not ashamed of it,
nor excited by it  taking it so calmly. Sighs
that were all but prayers burst from, at least.

three bosoms. Oh, that she but knew my Raymond
! thought one ; and, if Frank will but play
his cards as he ought ! breathed another ; while
Mr. St. Clair himself said within himself robustly
and without any disguise  I wish I had it !
There was no sentiment in the latter aspiration.
Katie, for her part, looked across the tea-table
at her friend with one of her sudden blushes,
feeling her cheeks tingle. What were her feelings
in respect to Lucy? In her case, the
wonder and interest were dashed with contempt,
yet warmed by affection. Katie thought she
despised money  not the abuse of it, nor the
pride of it  but itself. Her soft little lip curled
(or, at least, she tried to make it curl) with
disdain at this meretricious advantage. She
had said a hundred times that Lucy would be a
very nice girl, the nicest girl in the school, if it
were not for that money. She looked at her
with a kind of angry love  half disposed to cry
out, in Lucy's defence, that she was far better
than her fortune ; and half to throw a gibe at
her because she was rich. If they had been

alone, she would have done the latter. As it
was, amid this party of people, with Mrs. Stone
close by, and Miss Southwood's little dark eyes
twinkling at her out of the shadows, Katie was
prudent and said nothing at all. As for Lucy,
she did not in the least perceive the covetousness,
which  in some instances, so mingled with other
feelings that its baseness was scarcely visible 
flamed in the eyes of the irreproachable people
who surrounded her. Mrs. Rushton was a kind,
good woman, who would not have harmed a fly.
Mrs. Stone was better even, she was high-minded,
generous in her way. And yet they both devoured
Lucy in their thoughts  gave her over
to the destroyer. How fortunate that she never
suspected them as she stood there tranquilly
between the two, acknowledging that she
knew a great deal about her money. Mrs.
Rushton was still shaking her head at that
avowal.

' My dear," she was saying, and with perfect
sincerity, " you must not let it turn your head.
Money can do a great deal, but there are many

things it cannot do. It cannot make you happy
or good."

Lucy is good in spite of it," Mrs. Stone said,
she too in all sincerity ; " and I don't think she
lets her mind dwell upon it. But it is a very
equivocal advantage for a girl," she added with
a sigh.

All this Frank St. Clair listened to with a
grin upon his good-looking countenance. What
humbugs ! he said to himself  not being capable
of understanding that these women were much
more interesting as well as more dangerous in
not being humbugs at all. He, for his part,
waited for an opportunity of making himself
agreeable to the little heiress in perfect good
faith  brutalement as the French say. He wanted
to please her frankly for her fortune's sake.
Not that he could have been unkind to her,
had he happened to strike her fancy, or would
waste her fortune, or do anything unbecoming
an honest Englishman. But an honest Englishman,
with a light purse, may surely look after a
girl with money without compromising his character.

When he asked her to marry him, he
would not let her see that her money had anything
to do with it. He would fall in love with
her as a matter of course. It is not difficult to
fall in love with a pretty young girl of seventeen.
Well, perhaps, not strictly pretty not nearly
so pretty, for example, as that little Poverty by
her side, the foil to her wealth ; but still very
presentable, and not unattractive in her own
simple person. Thus the cautious eyes that
surrounded Lucy, the hearts that beat with
eagerness to entrap and seize her, did not recognise
themselves as inflamed by evil passions.
They were aware, perhaps, that a little casuistry
would be necessary to make the outer world
aware of the innocence of their intentions, but
there was no aspect of the case in which they
could not prove that innocence to themselves.

When the hour of tea was over, Mr. Rushton
walked home with Lucy to see his old friend.
John Trevor was not Mr. Rushton's equal, nor did
he treat him as such. The old schoolmaster had
taught him arithmetic, that neglected branch of

education, thirty or forty years ago, before he went
to the public school, where it was not taught ; and
the prosperous lawyer, who was Town-clerk, and
one of the principal men in Farafield, had always
shown a great regard for his old master. " I
should never have known more than two times
two but for you, Trevor," he would say, patting
the old man on the shoulder, not very respectful,
yet with genuine kindness. He went into the
blue and white drawing-room, and seated himself
in front of the fire, and talked for an hour
to old Trevor, liberating Lucy, who hurried
away to Mrs. Ford's parlour, and with enviable
confidence in her digestion had another cup of
tea to please Jock, who had been watching for
her eagerly from the window. Then she was
made to sit down in a creaking basket-work
chair beside the fire and tell him stories. Mrs.
Ford's parlour was not aesthetic, like that of Mrs.
Stone ; but its horsehair and mahogany furniture
produced an effect not much unlike. Mrs.
Ford, in a black arm-chair, was elevated as high
above the heads of the younger people as if she

had been seated in a genuine Chippendale chair.
And she crossed her hands on her black silk apron,
and sitti ng back in the shadow, listened well pleased,
but half in a drowse of comfort to Lucy's stories.
She had a little rest in her own person when
Lucy stepped into the breach. Though Mrs.
Ford was not at all certain that Lucy's stories
were Sunday stories worthy of the name.

Old Trevor had the will spread out before
him when Mr. Rushton entered  not adding toit,
however, which he would have certainly disapproved
of as improper Sunday work  but
reading it over, sometimes aloud, sometimes
under his breath, sometimes with muttering of
criticism. He pushed it away as his visitor
entered, and rose tottering to welcome him.

Always going on with it, always going
on with it," the new-comer said, shaking his
hand.

"Yes, I always go on with it," cried old
Trevor with a chuckle, "It's my magnum opus,
Mr. Rushton. I add a bit most days, and on
Sunday I read over my handiwork, and study

vol. i. p

how I can mend it. I have put you in," he
added with a great many nods of his head.

"What, for a legacy, Trevor?" said Mr.
Rushton with an easy laugh.

"For a legacy if you like," said old Trevor,
"though I don't suppose a hundred pounds
would be much to 3 T ou. No, not for money ;
but for the care of my girl, who is money. Ford
downstairs is always dinning into my ears that
somebody will marry her for her fortune. I
hope Lucy has more sense ; but still, in case of
anything happening, I want her to have friends
to advise her."

Oh, I will advise her," said Mr. Rushton
lightly, "though I think perhaps my wife would
do it better. Fortune-hunters, yes, there are
always fortune-hunters after an heiress. Your
best plan would be to choose some one for her
yourself, and get her married off in your lifetime,
Trevor. Lucy is a good girl, and would content
herself with her father's choice."

Do you think so ?" said the old man with a
gleam of pleasure, " but no, no' he added, " I

am not in the same world that Lucy will be in.
I couldn't choose for her ; and besides she's only
seventeen, and I'm not long for this world."

Seventeen is not too young to be married :
and you're hale and hearty, my old friend," said
his visitor, once more slapping him on the
shoulder. This demonstration of friendliness
was almost too much for old Trevor, standing
up feebly on his trembling old legs in honour of
this distinguished acquaintance. He shook his
head, but the voice was shaken out of him, and
he was not capable of any further reply. When,
however, Mr. Rushton encountered Ford outside
at the gateway of the Terrace he took a much
less jovial tone. ;i I hope he has got everything
signed and sealed," he said, " and all his affairs
in order; these papers he is always pottering
over codicils I suppose you should get them
signed too and made an end of. He is not long
for this world, as he himself says."

I don't see much difference," said Ford with
that eagerness, half sorrow for the impending
event, half impatience to have it over, which

P 2

V even the most affectionate of friends often feel
in spite of themselves, in respect to a long
anticipated, often retarded ending. "But. then
I see him every day. Do you really think"

You should see that everything is settled
and in order," said the lawyer as he walked
away.

CHAPTER XII.

FATHER AND DAUGHTER.

A ND so Christopher went away to look

-* *- for the great strong man that King

Maximus was afraid of; but I forgot, his name was

not Christopher then, but only Offer, a heathen ;

you know what a heathen is, Jock"'

I should think I did know ; but go on, goon
with the story; I never read this in any
book."

Well ! Then Christopher wandered about
everywhere over all the country asking for the
strong man. He did not know whether it was
a giant like himself, or a King like Maximus,
or what it was ; but he went over the seas and

up among the hills and into all the towns, looking
for him."

That is far too like a fairy tale for a Sunday,"
said Mrs. Ford, sitting behind in her big armchair.
"My dear, if he had gone to the chief
people in the country, the mayors of the towns,
or the authorities, they would soon have told
him that is if he knew his name : and even ina
fairy tale few people are so stupid as to set
out in search of anyone without knowing his
name."

Mrs. Ford was a trifle, just a trifle jealous.
Lucy was not at all in the habit of interfering
with her prerogative; but she did not like it,
The " Pilgrim's Progress " she felt was much
better entertainment on a Sunday night for any
child.

Oh, but this was not a person that the mayors
and the magistrates knew. Listen, Jock, his
name was Satan now do you know who that
great strong man was ?"

I thought as much, and it's all an allegory,"
said Jock, who was blase, and tired of parables.

I like a story best when it doesn't mean anything;
but goon, Lucy, all the same."

I don't think it's an allegory. Katie Russell
read it out of a book about the Saints. I believe
it is a true story, only very, very long ago ;
many things happened long ago that don't happen
now. I don't suppose the Queen has a big
giant like Christopher in all her armies ; but
still there was once a Christopher, Jock."

Jock accepted the explanation with a little
wave of his hand. He was glad, very glad,
especially on Sunday, of anything new, but at
the same time he was critical, and at the first
suggestion of an allegory stood on his guard.

Well'' said Lucy, resuming, " when Christopher
had wandered about for a long time
he met with a band of knights and their servants,
travelling about as they used to do in those
days, and at their head there was one all in black
armour with a helmet covering his head and his
face."

You mean, I suppose," said Jock somewhat
cynically, " with his visor down."

I suppose so," said Lucy, a little confused,
but you know I am not so clever about these
things as you are. I am afraid you don't care
about my story, Jock."

Oh, yes, I care about it ; but unless there
were enemies about, and he was afraid, he never
would have had his visor down ; and if he were
afraid Christopher would have known he couldn't
be much ; but I like your story all the same,"
Jock added with great politeness ; and he liked
the role of critic, which was novel, too.

"He did not want to show his face," said Lucy
considerably cowed, " because if people had seen
him it would have been known what kind of a
being he was, and he looked a very great prince
with all his followers round him. So when
Christopher heard that this was Satan, he went
to him and offered his service ; and he was one
of his soldiers for a long time, I can't tell how
long ; but he did not like it at all, Jock, they
did so many cruel things. At last one day, one
very hot day in summer, they were all marching
along, and there were two roads to the place

where they were going ; one road led through a
wood, and that was a pleasant shady way. and
the other was the high road, which was dusty and
scorching and not a bit of shelter; and you may
suppose how astonished Christopher was when
the captain refused to go by the pleasant way,
though it was the shortest took

- What was that for ?" said Jock, excited
mildly by an incident which he had not foreseen.


He would not tell for a long time ; first he
said it was one thing and then another, but none
of these reasons was the true one. At last
Christopher so pressed and pressed that he got
into a passion and it all came out. 'You great
big blundering stupid giant,' he cried, ' don't you
know there is a cross in the wood?' But Christopher
did not know what the cross meant; and
then the black knight was obliged to tell him
that he dared not pass the cross  because of One,"
here Lucy's voice sank into reverential tones,
"who had been crucified upon it, and had won
the battle, and had made even that dreadful

black Spirit, that cruel Satan, tremble and fly."

Jock was impressed too. and there was a
little pause, and in the ruddy twilight round the
fire the two young creatures looked solemnly at
each other; and a faint sound, something between
a sigh and a sob, came from kind Mrs. Ford,
over their heads, who was much touched and
weeping-ripe at the turn, to her so unexpected,
which the story had taken.

And what did he do then ?" asked Jock, not
without awe.

Oh, Jock ! he dashed his great big fist in the
black captain's face and shouted out, ' I knew
you were a cow r ard, you are so cruel. The man
who hung upon the cross, he is my master. I
will go and seek him till I die.' "

Then there was another little pause  Lucy,
too, in the excitement of her story-telling, having
got a lump in her throat  and Mrs. Ford sobbed
once more for pleasure.

It is a beautiful story," she said ; " I am very
glad that the poor giant is going to be converted
at the last."

Ah, but now comes the difficult part," said
Jock, "how was he to find Him? It was only a
wooden image that was upon that cross ; he
might seek and seek, like the Knights in the
Morte d' Arthur,' but how was he to find Him !
that is what I want to know."

"Lucy, my dear, I think your papa wants
you," said Ford, coming in at this point, a little
more uneasy than usual, by dint of Mr. Rushton's
warning. " He is sitting all alone, and he
has just had his gas lighted." He came out to
the door of the parlour to wait for her, as she
rose and disengaged herself from her little
brother, who caught her dress to detain her.
Ford, at the door, put his hand on Lucy's arm.
Do you think he has been looking worse ? don't
let me frighten you, Lucy, but can you see any
appearance as if he were sinking ?"

Do you mean papa ? No," cried Lucy, with
a start of alarm. " Is he ill ? I will go to him
directly. What is the matter ?"

He had talked to her so much of his death
that the girl's heart leapt into the excited throbbing

which accompanies every great rallying of
the forces of nature. All her strength might
be required now, at once, without preparation.
Her throat grew dry, and the blood rushed to her
face.

Oh, I don't think there is anything more
than ordinary," said Ford; "but Mr. Rushton
thought him looking bad. He gave me a fright!
and then of course, my dear, at his time of
life"

Lucy drew her arm away, and went softly upstairs.
Many daughters before now have had
to smooth the way before a dying father, and
there was nothing required of her in this way
that was above her strength; but it was not
with her in other things as with others. She
was aware how great the change was which would
open upon her, the moment this aged life had
reached its term ; and all the strange unknown
conditions which would surround her. It was
not possible for Lucy to thrust away the thought,
and comfort herself with indefinite hopes. For
years her thoughts had been directed to the catastrophe

which was to be so momentous for her ;
she had never been allowed to ignore it. Her
heart still beat loudly at the thought of that
which might be coming now  which certainly
must come before long. Her father was the centre
of all her present living  beyond him lay the
unknown ; but when she went upstairs he was
sitting quite cheerfully, as he had been sitting
any time these ten years  almost since ever Lucy
could remember, in his arm-chair, neither paler
nor sadder, nor with any tragical symptoms in
him, looking over, with the same air of satisfaction,
the same large manuscripts in which, with
his own small neat handwriting, he had written
down his whole mind. He looked up as she
came in, and gave her his usual little nod of
welcome; and Lucy's heart immediately settled
down into its usual calm. She took her usual
seat beside him. All was as it had been for
years in the familiar room ; it was not, however,
the familiar room which took any character from
its inmates  or rather perhaps it embodied too
entirely the character of its old master, who

required nothing except his chirms-corner, and
had no eye or taste for those niceties which reign
in a lady's sitting-room, even when not a Queen
Anne parlour of the newest old-fashion, like that
of Mrs. Stone. Lucy had never been used to
anything else, yet it repressed all emotion in her
when she came into this un-emotional place.
Die ! why should anyone ever die ? Would not
to-day be as yesterday for ever, and every hour
the same ?

I have had Rushton here," said the old man ;
how fat that man is getting at his age ! I don't
suppose he is fifty yet. I am glad I am not
one of the fat kind, Lucy ; it must be such a
trouble. And to think I remember him a slim
boy, not much higher than you are. Hasn't he
got a son f

Yes, papa ; Raymond. I used to play with
him when I was little. He is quite grown up
now. Mrs. Rushton was telling me about
him-take

my advice, Lucy," said her father, interrupting
her ; "and don't, however it maybe

pressed upon you, marry a man out of Farafield.
Plenty will try for you  very likely Raymond
himself. I thought there was something in
Eushton's eye  it was that made me think of it.
Don't marry a man from here. There's nothing
but paltry sort of people here."

Yes, papa ;" said Lucy, calmly. She had
given a great many other promises on this
question of her marriage, with the same composure.
There was no excitement in her own mind
about the question. She did not care what
pledges she gave. Her father, who was not
without humour, perceived this, and fixed his
eyes upon her with his usual chuckle.

Yes, papa !" he said, mimicking her small

voice. " Anything for a quiet life ; you would

i

promise me not to marry the Mayor, or to marry
the Bishop, if I asked you, just in the same
tone."

"No, papa; I will promise not to marry anybody
you choose to mention ; but the other thing
would be more difficult. In the first place I don't
know the Bishop," she added, with a smile.

That is all very well," said the old man ;
but don't you know, Lucy, that in a year or
two your iniud may change on that subject?
You might fall in love, not with the Bishop, but
why not with Raymond Rushton, or any other
boy about the place 1 And this is what I want
to say to you, my dear. Don't ! That is to say,
keep them at a distance, Lucy. Don't let them
come near enough to get hold of you. Take my
word for it, though they may be nice enough in
their way, Farafield people are small. They are
petty people. They don't know the world ; and
you, with your fortune, my dear, you belong to-the
world, not to a little place like this."

But you have lived all your life in Fairfield
r

Oh yes ; that is quite true. And I am just
the same kind ; petty, that is the word, Lucy,
small. That is why I am living like this,
making no change till it all comes into your
hands. Living in a grand house, spending a
deal of money, would go against me I should
not like it. I should grudge every penny I

should say to myself, you old fool, John Trevor !
what do you mean by spending all this upon yourself?
I couldn't do it. Carriages and horses and
a number of servants would be the death of me'*
I don't think I shall like them any better,
papa ; and if it is waste for you, it would also be
waste for me."

Not at all, not at all," he said ; " you have
been brought up to it ; and it will be your duty.
for property has duties, Lucy. It is just as
necessary that you should spend a great deal on
your living, and keep up a great show, as it is
that you should give a great deal to the poor."

But why then, papa, if you think that, am I
to live here with the Fords, who do not understand
anything of the kind, half of the year."

"Aha, Lucy!" he said, "that is just my
principle, you know; that is what you don't
understand as yet. You are to live with Lady
Randolph and the Fords, six months each, for 
unless you can get them all to consent to let
you marry somebody before that time  as
long as you are a girl, my dear;  this is

VOL. I. Q

the very crown of my plan, Lucy, without which
the other would not be good for much," he said,
rubbing his hands with satisfaction, and pausing
to tantalize her. As it was Sunday, Lucy had
not her knitting, so that she had nothing to do
but to look at him, with perfect placid composure
as usual, showing no scrap of excitement.

Do you mean it is to be only for a time,
papa?"

For  seven years," he said ; " seven years
from the time of my death. It is to be hoped
that my death will not be very long of coming, or
you will be too old to enjoy your freedom. But
there is not much fear of that ; even if you were
thirty before it came, thirty is the finest time of
life. You know a great deal by that time ; you
are not so easily taken in, and you are still fresh
and in all your glory. Never mind if fools begin
to call you an old maid ; a woman is not an old
maid at thirty, she is at her best. She can pick
and choose, especially when she has a fortune
like yours. And by that time you will have got
out of the young set the ballroom set ; you will

have learned to know people of importance.
Yes," he said, chuckling ; " that is the crown of
my plan for you, Lucy for seven years you will
be under a little restraint ; Mrs. Ford on one
nant, Lady Randolph on the other, two people,
I flatter myself, just as unlike as can be; and all
the men that have a chance will be after you ; but
none of them will be able to marry you without
the consent, you know," he went on chuckling
once more, " of all these people ; which I confess,
Lucy, I take to be next to impossible. And then,
my dear  then : in seven years complete freedom
freedom to do whatever you like  to marry
whom you like  to be your own guardian your
own adviser. It is worth waiting for, Lucy 
well worth waiting for. What a prospect V cried
the old man, in an ecstacy ; " a well-trained
mind used to control, an inexhaustible fortune,
nothing to do but to pick and choose among the
best people, and still under thirty years of age !
By that time you will have learned to be content
with nothing less than the best."
Nothing could be more curious than the pleased

Q 2

excitement of the old man, looking forward to
this climax of mortal felicity which he had carefully
arranged for his child ; and the perfect calm
of the child herself, who neither realised nor
appreciated that blessedness. She said, after a
while, with a soft little sigh, which was half
weariness and half a sense of the dreariness of
the prospect,

I should think it would be very nice  for a
man, papa"

For a man ! nonsense, Lucy ; that is just an
old-fashioned notion. A woman who is thirty,
and has a great fortune, and is free to please herself,
is as good as any man."

This was not exactly Lucy's point of view, but
she had no gift for argument. She thought it
was time to take refuge in a little harmless
gossip, which was the only thing that now and
then gave her the possibility of an escape from
the will.

Mrs. Stone has a visitor," she said, " a gentleman
come to see her. Mademoiselle thinks it
very wrong to have a gentleman where there are

so many girls. He is Mrs. Stone's nephew ; his
name is Mr. Frank St. Clair. It is quite a pretty
name, isn't it, papa? and he is good-looking,
though Katie says it is the barber's block style.
How I know is, that Katie and I went to Mrs.
Stone's parlour to tea. She never asks more
than two girls on Sunday, and it shows she is
pleased with you when she asks you. We all
like to be asked to the parlour to tea."

"Ah!" said old Trevor. He laughed and
looked at Lucy with a great many nods of his
grey head. " Mrs. Stone is generally pleased
with you, eh, Lucy ? She is a sensible woman ;
she knows what's what, as well as anyone, I
know. And so she has had her nephew down
already. She is a clever woman, a prompt
woman. I have a great opinion of Mrs.
Stone."

Do you know him, then," said Lucy, with a
little surprise. " She said she was going to
bring him to call. She said she could not pretend
to entertain him at the White House, which,
is given up to education, and that it would be

nice for him to be able to come and talk to
you."

At this Mr. Trevor chuckled more and more ;
he rubbed his hands with glee.

She is quite capable of it," he cried, delighted,
"quite capable of it. She is a clever
woman, Lucy. I have always had a great admiration
for Mrs. Stone."

Capable of what ?" said Lucy, almost angry.
She, for her part, had a great admiration for
Mrs. Stone. She had a girl's belief in, and
loyalty to the elder woman, who yet was not
too old to be out of sympathy with girls. She
admired her mature beauty, her dress, everything
about her, and to hear Mrs. Stone laughed at
was painful to Lucy. It affected that esprit de
corps which is next to self-regard, or sometimes
even goes before it. She felt her own moral
standing involved when anyone questioned, or
seemed to question, the superiority of her leader.
It was almost the only occasion on which any
latent gleam of temper came to Lucy's mild
eyes.

Mr. Trevor laughed again.

You don't understand it, my dear," he said,
it's a joke between Mrs. Stone and me. She is
capable of making me a party to my own defeat,"
he said, with a new series of chuckles, " of
bringing me into the conspiracy against myself.
That's what I call clever, Lucy: Oh, she's a
very able woman ! but let us hope this time she
won't be so successful as she deserves. Forewarned
is fore-armed ; I know now what I've
got to look forward to, and I hope she won't
find me an easy prey, my dear, thanks to

you."

"I cannot in the least tell what you mean.
papa," said Lucy, with dignity, "and if it is
anything against Mrs. Stone, I don't want to
know; and hope she will be successful, whatever
she wishes to do though I don't know what
it is," the girl added, with a vehemence quite
unusual to her. It brought the colour to her
usually pale cheek. She got up from her chair
with angry haste. " I am going to get ready for
dinner," she said, " and if I have said anything

to set you against Mrs. Stone, T did not mean
it, and I am very sorry. It must be my fault,
for I am quite sure there is nothing wrong in anything
she wants to do."

It was as if Lucy flounced out of the room,
so different was it from her usual calm, though
even now her demeanour was quiet enough. But
her father was not much affected by the girl's
vehemence. He sat looking after her and
chuckled, watching her grey gown whisk  nay,
almost whisk  the word was too violent to be
employed to any movement of Lucy's ; round the
corner of the big screen, and thought to himself
how wise he had been, and how clever in
choosing an instructress for Lucy of whom she
thought so well. Mrs. Stone's design, which he
thought he had found out, amused and, indeed,
pleased him too. He liked to see that this fortune,
of which he thought so much, produced a
corresponding effect upon others, and, indeed,
would have been disappointed if there had been
nobody "after" it during his lifetime. This
was the first, and he chuckled over the advent

of the suitor, whom he determined to play and
amuse himself with. That Mrs. Stone should
have begun to scheme already did not displease,
rather flattered him, especially as it gave him
a fresh evidence of his own penetration in finding
her out, and confidence in his own power of
baffling her. Another man might have been
taken in, but not he. There he sat complacent,
while Lucy changed her grey gown for a blue
one.

All these habits and customs of a life
more refined than his own, the old man had done
his best to train his daughter into. For a time,
he had even gone so far as to put himself into
an evening coat for Lucy's sake, but increasing
weakness had persuaded him to give up that
penitential ceremony. Still he exacted, vigorously
and religiously, that she should dress for
dinner, and would indeed have made her comedown
with bare shoulders every evening to the
homely meal, but for the interference of Mrs.
Stone, who had declared it " old fashioned" with

life.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE LAST CLAUSE.

IT is not to be supposed that in the tete-tete
dinner that followed, Lucy was set
free from the interminable subject of that
fortune which occupied all her father's thoughts.
The idea of perfect freedom in seven years
had but newly dawned upon him though, as
soon as he had thought of it, he felt it to
be, as he had said, the natural crown of his
plan, and climax of his thoughts. Up to the
moment the great idea had dawned upon him,
there had been a little sense of imperfection
in his plans. They were elaborate preparations
for nothing. But now he had seized the end

to which all the preparations led. Neither the
Fords nor Lady Randolph could be expected to
live for ever in order to keep Lucy under
subjection, nor would she always be under the
superintendence of the matrimonial committee.
The absurdity became apparent to the framer
of the scheme just as he found the deliverance
from it. And now that the climax had been
attained, all the parts fell into due subordination.
Restraint until she had fully tried all the
preliminaries of life and learned to estimate the
worth of time; and then full freedom and the
control of herself and all that belonged to
her. It seemed to old Trevor, as he thought
it over, a beautiful scheme ; tomorrow he would
put fully on record these last stipulations,
and when that was done there would be no
more to do but to gather his garments round
him and go out of the way. It must not be
supposed, however, that any real idea of getting
out of the way was in the old man's mind.
He could not doubt that somehow he would
still be in the midst of it, though he professed

to be quite sure of dying and passing into another
life ; that was a matter of course  but when he
rubbed his hands with satisfaction over the
completeness of his plans, there was no feeling
in his mind that completeness involved
conclusion. On the contrary, he seemed to
see the prospect widening out before him. He
enjoyed in anticipation not only the admirable
wisdom of all his own stipulations, but even the
amusing complications to which they would
give birth ; and then with a thrill of pride and
satisfaction looked forward to the time of her
freedom and happy reign, and power of self-disposal,
nor ever once said to himself, u I
shall be out of it all  what will it be tome
r

However, Mr. Trevor's mind was so full of
this new idea that he could do nothing but
show, over and over again, how beautifully it
fitted in with every previous arrangement,
and how naturally everything led up to
this.

Of course," he said, " to keep you under

control all your days was what I never thought,
my dear. What I intended all along was to train
you to a right use of your liberty. Only when
you are able to bear the burden, Lucy when
you have seen a great many fancies drop off, and
a great deal that you have believed in fail you,
and when you have learned to know what is the
best."

Do you think that is so hard, papa ?" said Lucy
quietly, yet with a faint half-gleam of a smile.
No doubt it was natural that at his age he should
make " a fuss " about everything Lucy felt,
though she was so sensible that, of course, she
would choose nothing but the best.

Yes, it is very hard," said the old man, " one
tries a great many things before one comes to that.
"A good-looking fellow, perhaps, for a lover, or a
nice-mannered girl for a friend till you find out
that they are naught, neither one, nor the other,
and that you have got to begin again ; that's the
way of the world. Then perhaps you will
choose some others quite different, and they will
cheat you too. You get a little more and a little

more experience at every step, and then at the
end you will find somebody, as I found poor
Lucilla, that is really the best."

Lucy looked up at him aghast. The idea
made her tremble; first one bad and then
another, and at last a Lucilla who would die,
and be in her turn succeeded by another, who
was not the best. This gave the girl a shudder.

I would rather put up with the bad ones,"
she cried, " if I am fond of them, than go from
one to another ; it is horrible what you are
saying, papa'

Well, perhaps it is," said old Trevor, " life's
not so very beautiful, whatever you may think
just now; but what I am saying is right, that is
one thing I am certain of. You may content
3 r ourself with what's inferior if you like, Lucy ;
but you can't expect any encouragement from
me "

She looked at him with a little alarm in her
eyes. " It would be better to have nothing todo
with anybody, to live all alone by one's-self,
and never care for anybody " she cried.

Many people do that," said old Trevor, " but
I don't approve of it Lucy. Take example by me.
I had seen a many before I saw your mother,
but I never had got any satisfaction to my mind
till I met with Lucilla. I used to say to myself,
this one won't do, and that one won't do. You
see I kept my wits about me, and my head
clear. Now that's the plan you must go upon,
both with friends, and with a husband if you
marry. You don't need to marry unless you
like  I don't say one thing or the other you
are to please yourself. But don't take the first
that comes, don't take anyone till you've tried
him and tested him. And the same with your
friends  take 'em, and leave 'em, and choose
again till you have found the best."

It is horrible, papa !" cried Lucy almost with
tears.

Then, though she was not an imaginative girl,
there suddenly came across her mind the story
which she had been telling to little Jock. She
had denied stoutly that it was an allegory, as
Jock's more experienced imagination had at once

feared ; but there was something in the course of
this conversation which chimed in with it, which
brought it to her mind. Just so had the giant
in that story sought his strongest and greatest.
The end of the tale which she had not told to
Jock was very incomprehensible to Lucy herself.
She had not understood it when it was " read out
loud," but it did not trouble her mind much.
She thought it would do for a story to tell
Jock, that was all. Now she thought of it
again as she sat over the almonds and raisins
opposite to her father and listened to him, and
shrank from the map of life which he opened
out before her. His revelations went up to just
about the same point as the story she had told
to Jock. And after that came the incomprehensible
part, how to discern the best, how to get
to the acquaintance of the mysterious conqueror
of all. Jock had said that was the difficult
bit. In the story it was all a confusion to
Lucy, and she could not understand it at
all.

While she was thinking thus, her father was
VOL. I. R

talking on, but she had lost a good deal of what
he was saying when she suddenly came to herself
again, and began to hear him as if his voice
came out of a mist.

And when that has happened once or twice,"
old Trevor was saying. " You get sharp, oh, you
get sharp ! you are up to their devices  you
cannot be taken in any more."

You speak as if everybody tried to take you
in, papa."

Very near everybody," said old Trevor, grinning,
with a chuckle, " not all, I don't say all 
but very near ; and the hard thing is to find out
the ones that don't want to take you in. That
is a thing which you have to learn by experience,
Lucy. First you trust everybody  than you
trust nobody ; but after a while the sight comes
back to your eyes, and you know who to trust.
That is about the best lesson you can have in
this world. I was over fifty before I met with
your mother; that is to say, I had known her
when we were younger, but I had not given any
attention to her, not having learned then to discriminate.

We saw a deal of each other for two
years before we married  so you see I was a longtime
before I got hold of my best, and yet I
did get it at the end."

Lucy was disturbed out of her usual composure
by all this alarming and discouraging talk,
and she was slightly irritated, she could scarcely
have told why, by all she had heard about her
mother. She could not avoid a little retaliation.
" But afterwards," she said, " after when
poor mamma died  was that the best too ?"

He had been discoursing as from a pulpit upon
his own wisdom and success, and received this
thrust full in his face with astonishment that
was comic. After the first confusion of surprise,
old Trevor laughed and chuckled himself out of
breath. " You have me there," he said, " Lucy,
you have me there. I have not got a word to
say. We won't say anything on the subject
at all, my dear. I told you before that was a
mistake."

But he was half flattered, half amused by this
return blow. During the rest of the evening, he

R 2

would drop into ceaseless chuckles, recalling the
sudden boldness of the assault. A man of many
wives is always more flattered than disconcerted
by any allusion to his successes. It was a
mistake, but still he was not ashamed of his
achievement. When, however, he had taken
his glass of port, which had more effect upon
him than usual in his growing weakness, the
old man grew penitential. " It was a great
mistake," he said again, " and I can't help wondering,
now and then, how Lucilla will take it.
She was a very considerate person ; but there
are things that the best of women can't be expected
to put up with. I will confess to you,
Lucy, that it makes me a little uneasy sometimes.
Oh, yes ! it was a mistake."

Lucy had been quite re-assured when she had
joined her father in the afternoon after Ford's
warning, and had seen no difference in his looks;
but before the evening was over, a vague uneasiness
had crept over her. He talked more
than usual and sat longer than usual before he
could be persuaded to go to bed. And now and

then there was something disjointed in his talk.
He stopped short in the middle of a sentence,
and forgot to finish it. He introduced one subject
into the midst of another. He gave her the
same advice several times over. After a while she
ceased to notice what he was sa T ing altogether, out
of anxiety about him. He was not like himself;
but he would not allow her to leave him. He
was more intent on having her companionship
than she had ever known him. " Don't go
away," he said, when she did but stir in her
chair. As she sat and looked at him, having
no knitting (as it was Sunday), the spectacle
of the feeble old figure, garrulous, holding forth
from his chair, scarcely waiting for a reply,
struck the girl as if she had seen it for the first
tina. His old cheeks were suffused with a
feverish red, his eyes were gleaming, his head
had a tremble in it, his lean old hand, so often
used to emphasize what he said, shook when he
held it up. There are moments when the aspects
of a familiar figure change to us, when we see
it as strangers see it, but with a still keener

insight, perceiving, in a moment, the wreck
which we may have seen without seeing it, falling
into decay for years. This was the revelation
which all at once came upon Lucy. She had
seen nothing unusual about him a few hours ago
now, quite suddenly, she came to see him as
Mr. Rushton had seen him, as he appeared to
strangers ; but in a guise so much the more
alarming as it concerned her much more closely.
She held her breath as this revelation flashed
upon her, feeling as if she must cry out and call
for help, she who was so composed and unexcitable.
It seemed to Lucy, in her sudden alarm
and ignorance, that he might die before her
eyes.

This, of course, was an entirely false alarm.
Next morning he was exactly like himself again,
no special feebleness in his aspect, and much
energy in his mind. As soon as he got settled
in his chair, Mr. Trevor got his big manuscript
out, took a fresh pen which Ford had mended for
him, and began to w T work with great energy and
pleasure. Never had he more enjoyed his work ;

he was putting on the corner stone finishing the
fabric. It took hin all the morning to put everything
down as he had planned it. And it pleased
him so much that he smiled and chuckled to
himself as he wrote, and said special phrases over
and over under his breath. All the morning
through, he sat at his table working at it-while
little Jock occupied his habitual position
stretched out upon the white rug before the fire,
his shoulders raised a little, his head bent over
his book. Jock was too much absorbed to be
aware of anything that was going on. The book
he had lighted upon that day was Defoe's
History of the Plague," and the little fellow
was altogether given over to its weird fascinations.
It was more entrancing even than " Robinson
Crusoe." Thus the child and the old man
kept each other company for hours together ; the
one betraying his presence occasionally by a little
flicker of two small blue legs from the white rug,
and of the pages of his book, itself half buried
in the silky whiteness ; while the other chuckled
and muttered as he wrote, delighted with himself

and his latest conception. They were both
living by the imagination, though in phases so
different; the boy carried out of himself, lost
in the wonderful dream-history which was so
much more real than anything else around him :
the old man throwing himself forward into a
future he should never see, enacting a dream
life, which was to be when his should be ended
and over but which in its visionary distance
was also a thousand times more real than the
dull day to which it gave a fictitious charm.

When the clause was finished, Mr. Trevor
once more called up Ford, and made him acquainted
with his new conception. Ford studied
him attentively while he read it, but he also
listened with benevolent attention ; and he
gave his approval to the new plan. Seven years !
Ford was just about so much the junior of his
friend and patron. He said to himself, as he
listened, that by that time he would no longer
care to have the responsibility of superintending
Lucy's actions; and he graciously concurred in
the expediency of her liberation. " If she cannot

manage her own affairs at thirty or so, she
never will," he said, " and I think, Mr. Trevor,
that you're in the right."

If I go soon," said the old man, " she'll be
five-and-twenty, and no more ; and I think I'll
go soon ; but nobody can answer for a year or
two. Yes, I think it's a pretty will as it stands ;
I don't think, without any partiality, that you'll
find many like it. There's nothing that can happen
to her, so far as human insight goes, that
I have not foreseen and left directions for. I hope
I have not been insensible to my responsibilities,
Ford. I've tried to be father and mother both.
If you can point out anything that I've
neglected"

"Mr. Trevor," said the other; "you've thought
of a many more things than would ever have
come into my head. You've discharged your

duties nobly; and I and Susan will do our part.

You need not be afraid ; we'll take your example

for our guide, and we'll do our part."

Just so, just so," said the old man, not so

much interested. It was essential, no doubt,

that his will should be carried out ; but he did
not realize so clearly, and perhaps he did not
wish to realize, that he would himself have no
hand in carrying it out. When the question was
put as to how the Fords were to do their part, his
attention flagged. "You are not to be the first,
you know," he said, brusquely ; " there's my
Lady Randolph that comes first."

Here Ford began to shake his head. " If you
took my opinion, I'd say that was the one weak
point," he said ; " I make bold to say it, though
I know you will be offended, Mr. Trevor. That's
the weak point. It's well intended, very well
intended ; but that's the weak point."

You blockhead !" said the other ; but he
kept his temper. " You would keep her in Fara-
held all her life, I shouldn't wonder, and have
all the little cads in the place after her !
and never let her have a glimpse of the
world."

I don't know what you call the world," said
Ford. " Human nature is the same everywhere.
We are just the same lot wherever you take us 

and as for cads there's Sir Thomas . I

thank the Lord I don't know anybody in Fairfield
 nobody in my own class of life  that has
been so tiresome, that has been as wild  "

You let Sir Thomas alone," said old Trevor ;
he never was a cad."

Upon which Ford continued to shake his head.
It may be a word that I don't fathom," he said ;
I don't know one in Farafield that has given
as much trouble ; and he's always in want of
money; it's like putting the lamb into the
clutches of the wolf."

There are plenty of wolves," said the old
man. " That's my policy ; I set one to fight the
other, and I wish them joy of it. One here and
one there, that's better than a single candidate.
And while they're pulling each other to pieces,
my little lamb will get off scot-free."

Ford shook his head persistently, till it
seemed doubtful if it ever would recover its
steadiness. " If I were to speak my mind,"
he said ; " there's one that has a real claim  just
one. He's maybe too modest to speak for himself;

but there is one, if I were to speak my
mind  "

Then don't 1" said old Trevor, with a fiercer
gleam in his eyes ; " that's my advice to you,
Richard Ford. Don't ! I want to hear nothing
of your one that has a claim. Who has any
claim ? not a soul in the world ! Lucy's fortune
is her own  she's obliged to nobody for it. It
comes to her, not from me, that I should take
upon me to pick and choose. She does not get
a penny from me ; all I have I've given to the
other, and a very good nest egg too for his
position in life. But Lucy's fortune is none of
my making; Lucy is Lucilla's daughter."

"Susan's cousin!" said Ford, instinctively.
He regretted it the next moment ; but he could
not withhold this protest. To think that all the
money should be Lucilla's, and none of it come
to Susan, though she was Lucilla's cousin ! It
is hard, it must be allowed, to see fortunes come
so near, yet have no share in them. In the family ;
yet not yours, not the smallest bit yours, save
by grace and favour of a stranger, a man who

is your cousin's husband, indeed, but has no
claim otherwise to belong to the family. The
Fords were not at all ungrateful to old Trevor ;
but still there were moments when this struck
them in spite of themselves.

CHAPTER XIV.

A FALSE ALARM.

THE prophets of evil were not deceived ; when
a kind of general impression arises in
respect to an invalid that a crisis is approaching,
it almost always is justified by the event.
During that very night there was a sudden alarm ;
Mr. Trevor's bell rang loudly, awakening all the
house. Lucy flew from her room, hastily gathering
her dressing-gown round her, with her light
hair hanging about her shoulders, and Mrs. Ford
appeared in a night-cap, which was an indecorum
she recollected long afterwards. The maids
naturally, being less interested, were harder to
rouse, and it was Mr. Ford himself who issued

forth in the penetrating chill of the early morning,
still quite dark and silent, not a soul astir,
and buttoning himself into his warmest overcoat,
went out in the cold to seek a doctor, who, for
his part, was just as unwilling to be roused out
of his slumbers in the middle of the night. Jock,
roused by the sounds, sat up in his little bed,
with wide-awake eyes, hearing the bell still jar
and tinkle, and sounds of people running up and
downstairs, which half frightened, half re-assured
him. To hear other people moving about is
always a comfort to a child, and so was the
reflection of the lamp at the gateway of the
Terrace, which shone into his room and kept it
light. Jock sat up and gazed with big eyes,
and wondered, but was too much awed and
alarmed by the nocturnal disturbance to move ;
and, indeed, as it turned out after, there was
not much need for anyone to be disturbed. Old
Trevor's explanation was that he had woke up
with a loud singing in his ears, and sense of
giddiness, and he could not articulate at first,
when they rushed to his bedside, so that everybody

believed it to be a " stroke." But when the
doctor came he declared that, though the patient's
blood was running like a river in flood, yet
that there was nothing very particular the
matter, and that a day or two's quiet would
make him all right. Mrs. Ford, in her nightcap,
remained by the newly-lighted fire in Mr.
Trevor's room to take care of him ; but the rest
were all sent back to bed, and when the breakfast
hour arrived the patient pronounced himself
as well as ever. He got up at his usual hour,
and would not even allow that, as Mrs. Ford
suggested, he felt " shaky."

Not a bit shaky," he declared, putting out
one shrunken shank to show how steadily he
stood on the other ; " but I thought my time was
come," he said. "I'll allow I thought I had
reached it, after looking for it so long. It was
a queer feeling. I am just as well pleased to
put it off a bit, though it must come
soon."

That is true," Ford said, shaking his head ;
we must all die ; but the youngest may

go off before the oldest, as happens everyday."


These were the words that little Jock heard
as they came into the drawing-room, the old
man leaning on the arm of the other. Where
was the youngest to go off to ? He understood
vaguely, and a momentary thrill ran through his
little veins. Was it he that might " go" before
his father ! it was a thing which seemed to lie
between the eldest and the youngest. Jock's
mind was full of the plague and all its horrible
details, and the wonder and mystery of thus
going " off" chimed in with this gloomy yet
fascinating study ; the recollection of the bell tinkling
through the streets, the dead-cart stopping at
the door, scared yet excited him. But there was no
plague, no dead-cart, no tinkling bell at Farafield.
After a while the impression died out of the child's
mind, but scarcely so quickly as it did out of the
mind of his old father, who already chuckled to
himself over the fright he had given the house.
Mr. Trevor did justice to the people who surrounded
him.

VOL. i. s

When it really comes they will be sorry,"
he said ; " but it was a disappointment."

He liked to think he had disappointed them ;
even in getting better, a man cannot but feel
that his own superior sense and strength of
character have something to do with it. Another
man would not have rallied, would have been
capable of dying, perhaps, and cutting short all
the interest of his story ; but not John Trevor,
who knew better what he was about.

The night-alarm, however, soon became known
over Farafield, and many people had sufficient
interest in the old man and his daughter to
come, or send, and make inquiries. Among these
he had one visitor who amused and one who
angered him. The first was a stranger, who
sent up a card with the name of Mr. Frank St.
Clair, and a message from Mrs. Stone, who
begged to have the last news of the sufferer.
Show him up, show him up," old Trevor said,
his keen eyes twinkling with malice and humour ;
but when the large figure of the young barrister
(for that was Mr. Frank St. Clair's profession)

entered the room, the old man was impressed, in
spite of himself, by the solidity and imposing
proportions of Mrs. Stone's nephew and candidate
; there was an air of respectability about
him which compelled attention. He was handsome,
but he was also serious, and had that air
of a man who has given hostages to society T ,
which nothing confers so surely as this tendency
to a comfortable and respectable fulness of frame.
Old Trevor acknowledged to himself that this
was no young dandy, but a man, possibly, of
weight of character as well as person ; his very
tendency (to speak politely) to embonpoint conciliated
the old man. Schemers are seldom fat
Mr. Frank St. Clair looked respectable to the
tips of his well-brushed boots, and, as he looked
at him, old Trevor was mollified in spite of himself.


"Yes, I gave them a fright," he said. " I
thought myself that matters were coming to a
crisis; but it was a false alarm. You may tell
your aunt that I am as well as ever, and as clear in
my intellects as ever  such intellects as I haves

2

Nobody would doubt that, I think," said St.
Clair; and indeed Mr. Trevor flattered himself
that nobody could doubt it. He was as clearly
aware of the effect upon a stranger of his own
keen eyes and vivacious wide-awake aspect as anyone
could be.

There's no telling," said the old man ; " some
people think they can take me in  which is a
mistake, Mr. St. Clair a great mistake."

I should think so," said St. Clair, with easy
composure. "If you will let me, I will sit
down," he said; "if there is nothing to occupy
you for the moment, I wonder if you will let
me ask your advice about a little money I
have ?"

Again the malicious gleam awoke in old
Trevor's eyes, a mixture of suspicion, admiration,
and interest moved him. Every man who had
money interested him more or less; but if this
was a dodge on Mrs. Stone's part, the move was
one which might have filled any like-minded
artist with admiration. He chuckled as he invited
the confidence of his visitor  yet though he

thought he saw through the deceit, he respected
St. Clair all the same for having money to invent,
even if it were not his own, but lent to him for
the occasion; it threw a halo of interest round
him in old Trevor's eyes.

So that's the first of them," he said to himself,
when St. Clair took his departure ; " that's
number one of the pack. Women are quick
about it, they don't let the grass grow under
their feet. Rushton will keep quiet, he won't let
his lad show in my sight. But the women are
bold they're always bold. And I wonder who
my lady will bring forward?" The old man
laughed ; he was pleased by the thought of the
coming struggle. It did not give him any concern
that his young daughter should be left alone
in the midst of it, to be competed for by so many
hungry aspirants. " I'd like to be there to see the
wolves at it," he said aloud, with a grin on his
face.

At the sound of the voice over his head, little
Jock turned round upon his rug. Wolves were
in his way ; from Red Riding-hood upwards, he

knew a great deal about them ; he had heard
them in the forests pursuing the travellers, and
knew what the howl meant when it occurred ina
story in the midst of the black winter night.
He turned right round, with the " History of the
Plague " in his arms, and faced his father looking
upward from the rug. " What is it about
wolves?" said Jock.

No question could have surprised old Trevor
more ; he looked round him first in suspicion, to
see where the voice came from, then looked down
upon the child with a gape of wonder. " Eh !
do you know anything about wolves, my lad V '
he said.

Oh, a great deal !" said Jock, calmly ; " I
could tell you heaps of stories about them ; the
worst of all is that one about the woman and
her children. I told it to Lucy, and she would
not let me tell it out. Would you like me to tell
it to you V

Jock spoke to his father on very much the
footing of an equal. They did not as a rule take
much notice of each other ; but the curious way

in which they pursued their lives together had
given the old man and the little hoy a sort of
tacit fellowship, not at all like the usual relation
between father and child. Not once in two or
three months was there any conversation between
them, and this gave all the more importance to
their occasional intercourse. " There was once
a woman," said Jock, " travelling though a wild,
wild forest, and she had her three little children
with her  quite little, little things, littler than
me a great deal ; when all of a sudden she heard
pad, pad, something coming behind her ! It
wasn't quite night, but it was getting dark,
darker and darker every moment ; and the old
white horse got awfully frightened, and the
forest was miles and miles long. She knew she
couldn't come to a village, or a house, for ever so
long. And she heard them coming on faster and
faster; sniffing and panting, and all after her,
hundreds and hundreds of them; they're like
dogs you know," said Jock, parenthetically, looking
up from the rug, where he lay on his back,
with the " History of the Plague " laid open on

his breast; "they bark and they howl, just like
dogs, when you hear them far off in the woods ;
but when they're after you, they go straight
before them, like the wind blowing, and never
make any sound."

And what became of the woman and the
children ?" said old Trevor, partly amused,
partly impressed.

The white horse* galloped on and on," said
Jock, with the instinct of a story-teller; "and
the wolves came after pad, pad, all like one,
though there were hundreds and hundreds of
them, and the woman in the sleigh (did I tell
you it was a sleigh? but I don't know rightly
myself wdiat a sleigh is), got wild with fright,
and the three little things cried, and the trees
made a noise against the sky ; and the wood got
deeper and deeper, and the night darker and
darker; and then she heard them all panting
behind her, and their breath hot upon her, and

The poem of Ivan Ivanovitch had not been written in
those clays, and perhaps it might have been above Jock's understanding.


every moment she thought they would jump up
behind and crunch her with their teeth  "

Go on, child, go on ;" said old Trevor.
ik I think I've heard the story ; but I don't remember
how she got out of it."

k This is what Lucy will never listen to," said
Jock, solemnly ; " she says it can't be true ; she
says there never was a woman like that. She
says she'll beat me if I go on ; but it is the real
end to the story all the same. Well, you know,
the woman was wild ; she didn't know what she
was doing. Just when they were going to
crunch her with their teeth in her neck, she
turned round, and she took up one of the
children and flung it out into the middle of the
wolves ; and the little thing gave just one more
cry (he was crying, you know, before), and the
wolves caught him in their big teeth, and tore
him, one a piece here and another a piece there,
hundreds and hundreds of them ; and the old
white horse galloped on and on.

Well, but then that was only one," said Jock
resuming after a pause, "when they had eaten

that little thing all up, they were not half
satisfied, and they said to each other 'come on,
and two minutes after, what should the woman
hear, but the whole mob of them after her again,
and the sound of them panting and their breaths
on her neck. And she took hold of another little
child "

You needing tell me any more," said the old
man ; " where did you get these dreadful
stories ?  they turn one sick."

She threw them all out, the first, and the
second, and the third," cried the boy making haste
to complete his narrative, " and then she was saved
herself. Lucy never gets further than the first ; but
you've heard the second. And she says it can't be
true, but it is true," said Jock severely,
many people have told it. I've read another
story "

Hold your tongue, child," said the old
man.

Which Jock did at once. He was ready to
come forward, to recount his experience, or
instruct others by his large amount of miscellaneous

reading whenever it was necessary, but
he did not thrust his information upon unwilling
ears. He turned round again promptly, and,
laying his book down on the white rug,
supported himself on his elbows and resumed his
reading. Jock had a perfectly good conscience,
and could hear any number of parables (though
he was always suspicious of them) without turning
a hair.

But old Trevor was not equally innocent ; he
trembled a little within himself at that story of
remorseless self-preservation. The wolves were
the image he had himself used, and when he remembered
that he had looked forward to their
struggle with amusement, and indeed done his utmost
to draw them together, without much regard
for the lamb who was to escape as she could from
their clutches, a momentary tremor of conscience
came over him. But it did not last long ; impressions
of this kind seldom do ; and when he received
a second visit in the evening, this time from
Philip Rainy, who expressed much solicitude about
his health, old Trevor had ceased to feel any

compunctions about the fierce competition to
which he was going to expose his child. But he
was firmly determined that the first and most
natural competitor, the man who was of the
family, and had a sort of claim to everything that
belonged to the name, should not be, so to speak,
in the running at all.

I am very well," he said, " quite well, thank
you ; there is nothing the matter with me. If
people say to the contrary they're lying, or at the
best they're fools meddling in other folks'
affairs. It's nothing to anyone if I'm ill orwell."


"You must pardon me, uncle," said Philip,
but it is something to me."

The familiar grin came upon the old man's
face : but it was not accompanied with a chuckle
of not unkindly mirth, as it had been in the case
of Mrs. Stone's nephew, in whose favour there was
no such potent argument.

I don't know what it should be to you," he
said, " Mr. Philip Rainy : if you had been
waiting for my shoes I could have understood 

but you've got 'em, you've got 'em, more fool I ;
and if you think there is anything more coming
to you when I die, you're mistaken, that's all
I've got to say. My will's made  and there's
no legacies in it, not one. My money goes to
them that have a right to it. There's no fancy
items to satisfy those that have gone out of their
way, or thought they'd gone out of their way,
to flatter an old man. So that it's no good, no
possible good, to take that friendly interest in
me."

Lucy, who was sitting by when this was said,
started and got up from her knitting, and went
once more behind her father, where she stood
looking pitifully at Philip, clasping her hands
together, and imploring him with her eyes not to
be angry. That would have been inducement
enough to bear with the old man's brutal incivility,
if there had been nothing more. He
gave her a slight, almost imperceptible nod,
re-assuring her, and answered with a calmness
which did him infinite credit, and indeed cost him
a great effort.

I am sorry you think so badly of me," he
said, " but I will not defend myself. I am
waiting for no old shoes, heaven knows. I
should like to be of use to my relations  to you
or to Lucy. But, if you will not let me, I must put
up with it. And I will not stay longer now, since
you have so poor an opinion of me. Good night,
I am going away ; but I shall not cease to think
about you, though I do not see you. You have
been very kind to me, substantially kind," said
Philip, rising slowly with a lingering look at the
father and daughter, " I owe all that I am, and
something of what I may be to you, and I want
no more, Mr. Trevor, no legacies, nothing but a
way of showing my gratitude. If I am not to be
allowed to do this, why, I must submit. Goodnight."


There was a quaver of real feeling in the
young man's voice. It was true enough, and if
there was something more that was likewise true,
the suppressio veri is in some cases a very venial
fault. As for Lucy, what with sympathy and indignation
and shame for her father's conduct, she

was more tenderly inclined towards Philip than
she had ever been in her life. Thus opposition
usually works. She cast an indignant look at
her father, and a strenuous protest in the shape
of an exclamation : " Papa !" which spoke volumes;
and then in spite of his call to her to remain, she
followed Philip as he went downstairs, appealing
to him also, in a different way, with the tears in
her eyes.

You will not mind, Philip ; but please don't
stop coming or quarrel because he is cross. He
is ill, that ie the reason, he is not himself; but I
am sure you are too sensible to mind."

Philip shook his head with a smile. " I
fear I am not so sensible," he said, " I do mind ;
but, Lucy, if you will always speak to meas
kindly I shall not mind what anyone else may
say," he added with fervour. He had never gone
so far, or felt inclined to go so far before.

Lucy was surprised by this new tone, and
looked at him, not with alarm, but with a mild
astonishment. However, as it did not occur to
her that there could be any special meaning in

it, she gave him her hand kindly as usual,
nay, a little more kindly, in that her father had
used him so badly.

81 It does not matter very much about me,"
she said, " but I am very, very sorry papa has
been so  strange. It is only because he is ill,
very ill still. They all think he is better, but
I don't think so ; his hand is so hot and trembling,
and there is such a wild sort of brightness in
his eyes. I am not easy about him, but
very unhappy. I wish to-night was over,"
she said, the tears falling in a little shower from
her eyes.

Lucy ! let me stay ; will you let me stay ?
He need not know that I am here, but I could
sit up downstairs and be ready to run for the
doctor, or to do anything."

"It is very good of you, Philip; but how
would you be fit for your work if you sat up all
night? No, no, I cannot let you do that.
And perhaps it will not be so bad, perhaps I am
silly," said Lucy, with a dolorous attempt at a
smile.

"What does the doctor say?" Philip asked.

He was very sorry for her in all truth and
sincerity, besides having a sense that it would
be very good for him to be thus identified
with her, and show himself as her chief comforter
and support at this serious moment of her
life.

Mrs. Ford came out from her parlour as she
heard the conversation outside. She was Philip's
relation too, and she had decided that nothing

could be more suitable, if But like so many

other good women she could not let well alone,
and to Philip's great vexation here came
out, adding her portly presence to the
scene.

The doctor is quite satisfied," said Mrs.
Ford, " quite satisfied. He is going on as nicely
as possible ; you must help me to persuade Lucy,
Philip, that she must not sit up as she is talking
of doing. Why should she sit up? I shall
be there to do whatever is wanted, and to
call her if it should be necessary. At her

VOL. I T

age it is a killing thing to sit up all
night."

I have been begging her to let me stay and
watch instead," said Philip ; " a chair in your
parlour would be all I should want, and I should
be ready to run for the doctor."

Oh, no, no," Lucy said.

Mrs. Ford wavered for a moment, thinking
that a young man was much more fit for this
duty than her respectable husband, but finally
decided that it was not to be thought of, remembering
Mr. Trevor's dislike to Philip ; and
then the bell was heard to ring, and Lucy ran
upstairs anxiously. Mrs. Ford's parting words,
however, were very encouraging.

tb Don't you take any notice," she said, " but
come and see her, whether you see him or not.
He will go some day or other, that's certain, in
one of these fits."

Poor little Lucy !" Philip said.

Yes, it is true, it will be sad for her," said
Mrs. Ford, not half sure of what she was saying ;

but yet Lucy will have a great deal to be thankful
for, whatever happens," she added, as she
again bade him good-night.

T 2

THE SIGNING OF THE WILL.

A After this alarm, however, Mr. Trevor got
*-*- better, and there was an interval of calm.
Life resumed its usual routine, and all went on as
before. During this interval, Frank St. Clair
became Mr. Trevor's constant visitor. He saw
the old man almost every day, and there can
be no doubt that he entertained and amused him
much. Old Trevor even went so far as to talk
to him about the will, that all-important document,
which was the object of his existence 
not, indeed, of its actual composition, but of its
existence as a mysterious authority which was
to guide the steps of his successors for years.

They had a great many most interesting conversations
about wills. Frank was not a great
lawyer, but yet he could remember some cases
which had made a noise in their day, and some
which had kept families in great commotion and
trouble without making much noise in the world ;
and he took a somewhat malicious pleasure in
telling his new acquaintance alarming stories
of wills that had been lost, then found again to
the confusion of every rational arrangement ;
and of wills that had been suppressed, and of
some which no one had paid any attention to,
setting aside their stipulations entirely, almost
before the testator was cold in his grave. This
was very startling to old Trevor. He inquired
into it with a wonderful look of anxiety on his
face. There was one will, in particular, of
which his informant told him, with malicious
calm, in which there was question of a house
which the testator had built for his daughter,
and which he left to her under the condition
that it should never be let or sold, but remain
a home for her and her children for ever. What

had happened 1 the house had been let directly,
the daughter not finding it convenient to live
there ; and it was now about to be sold. Yes, the
will was perfectly sound, not contested by anyone;
had been proved in due form, and administered
to, and all formalities fulfilled  except
in this important particular of carrying it out.
Old Trevor's throat grew dry as he listened, the
colour went out of his face.

But but  but  " he said, " was it allowed
was it permitted ? Why wasn't it put a stop
to ? You must be making a mistake. Nobody
can go against a will. A will ! You forget what
you're saying  a will is part of the law."

"Who was to put a stop to if?" said St. Clair
calmly. " Who was to interfere ? There were
several brothers and sisters, and none of them
wanted the house to stand empty though the
father so willed it. Whose business was it to
stand up for the will? There was no one to
interfere."

That is the most wonderful thing I ever
heard in my life. The most wonderful thing !"

said the old man, stammering and stumbling.
I cannot understand it. A will  and they
paid no attention to it. I never heard of such a
thing in my life."

<; Oh ! I have heard of a great many such
things," said St. Clair, and he gave a little
sketch which, indeed, was interesting of careful
testaments set aside by the law, or made
null by some trifling omission, or solemnly
ignored by the very heirs they appointed. It
was a cruel joke. Poor old Trevor did not get
over it for a long time. He sat and thought of
it all the rest of the day. Who was to interfere?
who was to make sure that anybody
would do as he had ordained  would take upon
them the trouble of superintending all Lucy's
actions, and following out his code ? He had
Ford up when St. Clair left, and talked to him
long on the subject, not betraying his fears, but
cunningly endeavouring to pledge him, over andover,
to the carrying out of his views. " You
would not see my will neglected after I'm gone?
If the others should be careless, or refuse the

trouble, you'd always see justice done, Ford?
I am sure I can trust in you whatever happens,"
the old man said.

The best thing to do is to get the will signed,
and sealed and delivered," said Ford, " that is
the first way of making it sure. So long as you
are adding a little bit every day, you can never
be certain. Yes, yes ! you may trust in me,
Mr. Trevor. I would never dare to go against
a dead person's will. I'd expect to be haunted
every night of my life. You may trust in me ;
but I can't answer for others. I have charge of
half of the time, no more. I can't answer for
others ;  Lady Randolph will pay little attention
to me."

"Lady Randolph will pay attention to her own
interests," said the old man.

Ah ! that she will," cried Ford with energy.
There was much more meaning in the tone than
in the words ; and the inference was not agreeable
to old Trevor, who retired within himself,
and sat for the rest of the afternoon with a very
serious face ruminating how to invent safeguards

for the will, which, however, he would not sign,
as Ford suggested. " There's something more
I want to put in," the old man said pettishly.
I'll try to wind it all up tomorrow." But asa
matter of fact, he did not want to wind it all
up, or conclude the document. When he did so,
his occupation would be gone. It would be the
conclusion of all things. With a natural shrinking
he thrust this last action from him, notwithstanding
the composure with which he had
long regarded his own death as something
necessary to the fulfilment of his intentions. But
he did not feel disposed to put his final seal toit,
and dismiss himself out of the world with a
stroke of his pen. To-morrow was soon enough.
When Lucy returned from school, she found him
shivering by the fire. It was a cold day, but he
was chilled by more than the weather ; chilled in
his vivacious spirit, which had done more to
keep him warm than his good fire, or warmly
lined dressing-gown. " Xo, I am not ill," he
said, in answer to her inquiries, u not at all
poorly, only low, Lucy. If you and the rest

should throw me overboard after I am gone ! if
it should turn out that I have taken all this
trouble for nothing : thinking of you night and
day, and planning for your good and your
happiness. If it should be all for nothing,
Lucy !"

But how could that be." said Lucy with
her usual calm, " when you have been so particular
 when you have written it all down f

Yes, I have written it all down," he said,
and it can't come to nothing, if yon will bea
good girl, and take care that all your old
father's wishes are carried out."

"Papa, Ipromiseyou, all you have arranged about
me, and all your wishes for me, shall be carried
out," said Lucy with a very slight emphasis
upon the pronoun, which indicated a mental reservation
; but her father did not notice this.
His voice already enfeebled took a coaxing,
beseeching tone.

"I'll not fear anything, I'll try not to fear
anything, if you'll give me your promise. Give
me your promise, Lucy," he said, and Lucy

repeated with more effusion, when she saw the
feverish uneasiness in which he was, the promise
she had already made.

Except about Jock," she said within herself ;
but even if she had said it aloud her father's
thoughts were too much bent on the general
question to have remarked this. Ford, who was
very anxious too, beckoned to her from behind
the screen, and whispered, " Get him to sign it,
ask him to sign it !" with the most energetic
gesticulations; but how could Lucy press such
a request upon her father ? They were all anxious
in the house that evening, and Mrs. Ford sat up
all night, and her husband lay on the sofa in
his clothes, fearing a midnight summons ; but
it was not till the next evening that the blow
came. When their anxiety had been softened, and
their precautions forgotten, the loud jar and
tinkle of the bell once more woke little Jock in
his little bed, and Ford from his comfortable
slumbers ; and this time it was no false alarm.
Old Trevor was seized at last by the paralytic
attack which had been hovering over him for

some time. Ford going hastily for the doctor
caught a bronchitis which kept him in bed for a
week (just, his wife said, like a man when he
is most wanted), but the old man had his death-stroke.
The house changed all at once, as sudden
and dangerous illness always changes the abode it
dwells in. All thought, all consideration were
merged in the sick-room. For the first few days
not even the affairs which he had left unsettled
were thought of. The poor chilly blue and white
drawing-room in which he had spent his days?
stood vacant, colder and more commonplace than
ever, yet with a pathos in its nakedness. The
blotting-book, with the big blue folio projecting
on every side, still lay on the writing-table where
it had lain so long ; but nobody touched it except
the housemaid who dusted it daily, and was
often tempted to take the sheaf of untidy papers
to light her fire. What would it have mattered
if she had lighted her fire with them ? The work
upon which the old man had spent so much of
his fading life was of little importance now.
No one thought of it except Ford, who at the

worst of his bronchitis mourned over the uncompleted
document.

Will he ever come to himself, Doctor ? Will
he ever have the use of his faculties?" he
moaned ; but even this no one could tell.

The old man lay for more than a week in this
state of unconsciousness ; but after a time began
to give faint indications of returning intelligence.
He could not move nor speak, but his
eyes regained a gleam of meaning, and very
awful it was to see this re-awakening, and to
guess at the desires and feelings that awoke
dimly, coursing like lights and shadows, a
dumb language upon his countenance. One night
Lucy felt that his eyes were fixed upon her with
more meaning than before, and the three anxious
people gathered round the bed, questioning and
consulting each other. He was like a prisoner,
making faint half-distinguishable gestures beyond
the bars of his prison, questions on which
deliverance might depend, but which the
watchers could not understand. Presently the
efforts increased, the powerless ashy old hand

which lay on the coverlet, all the fingers in a
helpless heap together, began to flicker in vague
movement. Old Trevor's eyes had not been remarkable
for any force of expression, for nothing
indeed, save for the keenness of his seeing
when he was well. They had been small
and sharp, and of a reddish grey, with puckered
eyelids, making them smaller than they were by
nature. Now they seemed to stand out enlarged
and clear, and full of a spiritual force, which was
partly weakness and partly the feverish dumb
impotence of a desire to which he could not give
words. They all gathered closely round, as
anxious and not less helpless than he. Lucy
in her inexperience was driven desperate by this
crisis. She knelt down by the bedside, speaking
to him wildly, clasping her hands, and beseeching,
"What is it? What is it? Oh, papa, what
is it 1 Try and speak to me," she cried. This
hopeless kind of interrogation went on for sometime
without any result, and they had all subsided
again into the quietness of despair, when
Lucy was suddenly enlightened by a movement

of the old man's crumpled fingers, which he had
managed to curve as if holding a pen. " He
wants to write," she said, hurrying to find a
pencil and paper, but these were rejected by an
indignant gleam from the sufferer's eyes.

"It is pen and ink he wants," Lucy cried in
desperation, yet tidy still ; " dear papa, this will
be easier, and it will not make stains : not
that ! Oh, what is it, then, you want ? what is .
it he wants ? can no one guess what it
is?"

It is of no use," said Ford ; " he wants to
write, but he can't, that's the whole matter ; he
has something to tell us, but he can't. It's the
will, he has never signed the will. Doctor, is he
fit * would it be any good ?"

The doctor had just come in, and stood shaking
his head.

Let him try," he said ; " I suppose it can't
do any harm, at least."

They thought they saw a softening of satisfaction
in the patient's eyes, and Ford ran to get
the papers, while they all gathered round, more

like conspirators about to drag some forced concession
from the dying, than anxious attendants
seeking every means of satisfying a last desire.
Then the old man's lips began to move. To his
own consciousness he was evidently demanding
something, struggling, with his eyes almost
bursting from his head. They raised him up,
following the imperative demand made by his
face, and put the familiar document before him.
His eyes (they thought) brightened at the sight
of it ; something like a smile came upon his ashy
and somewhat contorted countenance. Though
he was supported like a log of wood by Ford and
Lucy, yet his skeleton figure, raised erect, took
an air of dominance and energy. He had reigned
in a fantastic visionary world where everything
was subject to his will w T hen he had composed
these papers, and something of the same sentiment
was in his aspect now. He clutched the
pen in that bundle of bony fingers, then gave
a glance of triumph round upon them all, and
dabbed down the pen upon the paper with that
skeleton hand.

What had he put there? a blot, nothing
more.

A perception that he had not succeeded, a
gleam of anguish went over his face ; and then
grasping the pen with increased energy in a
wildly renewed effort, he brought it down in a
sea of ink, with a helpless daub as unmeaning
as before. Then a groan came from his
shrivelled bosom ; he let the pen drop, and dropped
himself like a log of wood.

The doctor had been standing by all the time,
shaking his head ; he interfered now in a passionless
easy tone.

There is no harm done," he said ; " it could
not have stood had he succeeded ; nobody could
have said his mind was in a fit state. Don't
take it away, but wait and have patience. After
this he may mend, most likely he will
mend."

"Papa," cried Lucy, close to his ear, "do
you hear that? You are not to mind, you
will still be able to do it. Do you hear,
papa?"

vol. I. u

The old man made no response. Another
groan, the very utterance of despair, broke from
him. His eyes closed, his bony fingers fell on
the coverlet, a collection of contracted joints,
helpless as they had been before. He made a
half fling of intended movement, without strength
to carry his intention out. What he wanted
was evidently to turn his head from the light,
to turn the countenance to the wall ; what image
is there which speaks more eloquently of that
despair which is moral death*? The spectators
stood by mournfully, with but half a sense of
the full tragic meaning of the scene, yet vaguely
impressed by it, feeling something of the horrible
sense of failure, tragical, yet stupefying, which
invaded all the half-awakened faculties of the chief
sufferer. Even now they were but half aware of
it, Lucy looking on with infinite pity and awe,
struggling to assure the half-deafened ear that
it did not matter, that all would be well, while
the Fords, quickened by self-interest, realised
with a dull dismay the loss, the misfortune, which
would affect themselves. But the real tragedy

remained concentrated in that worn-out old
body and imprisoned soul. How much of his
life was in those elaborate plans and settlements !
and he had failed at the last moment to give
them the necessary warrant. The old man closed
his eyes, and, so far as his will went, flung himself
away from the light, turned his face to the
wall, yet could not do even that, in the prostration
of all his powers.

If he can sleep, he may wake himself ;" the
doctor said, doubtfully. It was just as likely he
might not wake at all. But the light was carefully
shaded, and the nurse, who had no anxiety
to disturb her, and the calm of professional
serenity to keep her composed, took the place of
the other watchers. The doctor, who was interested
in an unusual " case," and who was a
young man, as yet without much practice, offered
to Ford, who was excited and worn out, to
remain, that there might be help at hand, and a
professional guarantee in case of any new incident
; and this being settled, sent all the other
watchers to rest. Lucy, though she would fain

u 2

have stayed with her father, fell asleep, how
could she help it ? after so many broken nights,
the moment her young head touched the pillow.
The Fords were more wakeful, and retired, more
to consult together than to sleep, talking in
whispers, though nothing they could have said
on the upper floor could have reached the sickroom,
and full of alarm and trouble as to the
consequences of the failure. Mrs. Ford, for her
part, employed this moment of relief chiefly in
crying and mourning over " their luck," which
no doubt would be enough to secure that the old
man should die without signing the charter of
their privileges. But even the whispering and
weeping came to an end at last, and all was still
in the house, where the doctor occupied the forsaken
drawing-room, so bare and chilly, and the
nurse watched in the silent chamber, and old
Trevor lay between life and death.

The only one of the family who could not rest
was little Jock. Who does not remember that
sleeplessness of childhood which is more desolate
and more restless in its contradiction of nature,

and innocent vacancy, than even the maturer
misery of wakeful nights all rustling full of care
and thought ? Jock had been waked out of his
first sleep by the muffled coming and going, the
sound of subdued steps and whispering voices.
He had heard a great deal which " the family "
are never supposed to hear. He heard the
doctor's whispered conference with the Fords in
the passage. " I can say nothing with certainty,"
the doctor had said ; " if he can sleep he may be
himself in the morning, and able to attend to
his business." " Or he may pass away," Mr.
Ford had said ; " at the dawning. That is the
time when they get their release." Pass away !
Jock wondered, with a shiver, what it meant.
Visions flitted before his eyes of his father's
figure, like that of Time, which he had seen on
an old almanac, his grey locks flying behind
him, and a long staff in his hand. Where would
he go to in the dark, or at the dawning ? Jock
tried to turn his face to the wall, away from the
long mysterious window, which attracted his
gaze in spite of himself, and through which he

almost expected to see some weird passenger step
forth. His door was open, as he liked to have
it, and the faint light shining through it usually
afforded him a little consolation; but on this
particular night, , among its vague horrors, this
too became a dangerous opening, through which
some terrible figure might suddenly appear. He
was obliged to turn round again, to keep both
door and window within sight. And all kinds
of visions flitted before him. The noise of a
waggon far off on the road, across the Common,
suggested the dead-cart of the Plague, rolling
heavily, stopping here and there to take up its
horrible load. He seemed to hear the bell tinkle,
the heavy tramp of the attendants ; and at any
moment the child felt the door might be pushed
open, and some one come to take him away, and
toss him among all those confused limbs and
dead faces. Or was it his father whom they
would seize as he "passed away," with his grey
hair blown about by the winds? Then Jock's
imagination changed the theme, and he was in
the valley of death with Christian, hearing all

those horrible whispers on every side, and looking
into the mouth of Hell. He did everything
he could to get to sleep ; he counted, as far as
his knowledge of numbers would go, and said to
himself all the poetry he knew ; but all was of
no avail. When he began to see the walls of his
little room grow more distinct round him in a faint
blueness, Jock was not encouraged by the prospect
of daybreak. He thought of what Mr. Ford had
said, and of the people who were " released " at
the dawning, and he could not bear it any longer ;
he sprang from his bed, and rushed towards the
light in the passage, a light which was more
cheerful, more re-assuring, than the pale beginning
of the day. The door of his father's room
was ajar, and the light was burning within, and
a faint glimmer as of firelight. Jock crept in,
trembling and shivering, in his little white nightgown,
like an incarnation oi the white cold
tremulous infantile day.

Jock stole in very quietly, feeling protection
in the warmth and stillness ; he edged his way in
the shadow of the curtains, drawing instinctively

towards the fire ; but afraid of being seen and
turned out again. He was afraid, yet he was
very curious and anxious about the bed, in which
he knew his father was lying. The curtains at
the head were thrown back, twisted and pushed
out of the way to give more air; and there the
pale grey head of the old man revealed itself on
the pillow, lying motionless. Jock stopped short
with a sob in his throat, and terror, too intense
for expression, in his soul. His father had not
"passed away;" but whether he was alive or
dead, Jock could not tell. The nurse was dozing
in the stillness, in her chair by the fire. The
day was rising, penetrating, even here, between
the closed curtains, with that chill all-pervading
blueness; it was the moment when every watch
relaxes, when the strain is relieved, and weariness
makes itself felt. Not a sound was to be
heard, except now and then the ashes falling,
and the breathing of the strange woman in the
big chair, who was almost as alarming an object
to Jock, as his father. The child stood shivering,

his mouth half open to cry, the sob arrested
by pure terror, in his throat.

And whether it was that the sob escaped unawares,
or that some sense of the presence of
another living creature in the room, that subtle
consciousness with which the atmosphere seems
to penetrate itself, of a living and thinking soul
in it  reached the old man on the bed it is
impossible to say : but while Jock stood watching
his father suddenly opened his eyes, and turned,
ever so little, yet turned towards him. Jock was
not aware that the old man had been up to this
time unable to move, but his imagination was
excited, and the instantaneous revival into awful
life of the mute figure on the bed, produced the
strangest effect upon him. A wild scream burst
from his lips, he ran out to the stairs crying
wildly. " He has got his release," Jock cried }
not knowing what he said.

The cry woke the nurse, brought the young
doctor, drowsy and confused, from the next room,
and Lucy flying, all her fair locks about her
shoulders, downstairs. The Fords followed more

slowly, the very maids were roused. But the
release which the old man had got was not of
the kind anticipated by his companions. He was
liberated from the disease, which nobody had
hoped ; he had recovered his speech, though his
utterance was greatly changed and impeded ; and,
though one side remained powerless, he retained
the use of the other. He was even so much
himself as to chuckle feebly, but quietly, when the
doctor returned a few hours later, and pronounced
him to be almost miraculously better. "I'll
trouble you, Doctor, to witness it," the old man said,
babbling over the words, and looking with his
enlarged but dimmed eyes at the papers by his
bedside. " I've got something to add ; but I'll
not put off and cheat myself, not put off and
cheat myself again." This they thought was
what he said. And thus the will got signed at
last.

He lingered for some time after, continually
endeavouring to resume his old work, and now and
then becoming sufficiently articulate to give full
evidence of the perfect possession of his faculties.

But within a week a third seizure carried off the
old man without power of protest or remedy.
His unexpressed intentions died with him, but
the words " I've something to add," were the last
he said.

CHAPTER I.

THE READING OF THE WILL.

LITTLE Jock Trevor had never been a
favourite with his father; there had been
between them nothing of the caressing intercourse
which generally exists between a very old
father and a young child. He was not the pet
or plaything of the old man, who had remorselessly
sentenced him to as complete a separation
as was possible from his sister. But, nevertheless,
Jock had grown up literally at his father's
feet, and the world became suddenly very vacant
and strange to him when the familiar figure
VOL. n. B

was withdrawn. The little fellow did not
understand life without this central point of
stability and power in it ; he had been used to
the old man's presence, to the half-comprehended
talks which went on over his head, and to the
background of that mysterious aged life filled
with so many things beyond Jock's understanding,
which yet afforded depth and fulness to his
strange perceptions of the mysterious world.
He and his books had lain in the foreground ina
varying atmosphere of visions, but behind had
always been that pervading consciousness of
something more important, a dimly apprehended
world of fact. So it happened that of all the
household at the Terrace, it was little Jock who
felt his father's death the most deeply ; his
nerves had suffered from contact with that still
more mysterious dying, which he could not
understand. He could not get out of his childish
mind the impression made upon him by the
sudden opening, in the dreadful silence, of his
father's eyes. He who had spent all his life
alone, could be left alone no longer ; he followed

Lucy about wherever she went, holding tightly
by her hand. There was no one to interfere, or
to prevent the hitherto neglected child from becoming
the chief interest of the house. He felt
the loss far more, though it was to his immediate
advantage, than Lucy did, who cried a little
when she woke every morning at the recollection,
but put on her crape with a certain melancholy
pleasure in the completeness and '* depth" of
her mourning. sirs. Ford, though she cried too,
could not but admire and wonder at these black
dresses covered with crape, which she felt it
would have been a pleasure to old Mr. Trevor to
see, so " deep" were they, and showing so much
respect. It vas almost like widows' mourning,
she declared, deeper far than that which ordinary
mourners wore for a parent : but then, when you
considered what Lucy had lost  and gained !

But little Jock got no satisfaction out of his
hat-band; he found no comfort in anything but
Lucy's hand, which he clung to as his only
anchor. He went to the funeral holding fast by
her, half hidden in her dress. The bystanders

B 2

were deeply touched by the sight of the young
girl so composed and firm, and the poor little
boy with his scared eyes. Many an eye was
bent upon them, as they stood by the grave,
two creatures so close together that they looked
but one, yet, as all the spectators knew, so far
apart in reality, so unlike each other in their
prospects. Was it possible that she, a girl, was
to have everything and he nothing people asked
each other with indignation ? and notwithstanding
the fact that all Farafield knew it was
Lucilla Rainy's money which made Lucy Trevor
an heiress, still it would have shocked public
opinion less if the boy had inherited the larger
share, though he was, as old Trevor was so
feelingly aware, an insult to Lucilla Rainy.
So strong is prejudice that the moral sense of
the population would have felt it less had poor
Lucilla's money been appropriated to make an
eldest son" of her successor's child.

The funeral had attracted a great following.
The shop-keeping class, many of whom had received
their education at old John Trevor's

school, and the upper class, of whom several
had received lessons from him, and who were in
general powerfully moved by the acquisition into
their ranks of a new and unknown personage,
a great heiress, who henceforward, they made
no doubt, would take her fitting place among
them  filled the church and churchyard, and
looked on at the ceremony, if not with much
sympathy, yet with great interest. Almost everybody,
indeed, was there. A carriage from the
Hall followed the procession from the house, and
Lady Randolph herself arrived from the station
before the service in the church was over, and
followed to the grave, though no one had expected
such a compliment, carefully dressed in
black, and with a gauze veil which, Mrs. Ford
remarked, was almost as " deep" as crape. It
gave Lucy a certain satisfaction to see, though it
was through her tears, the crowds of people;
they were paying him due respect. In that, as
in everything, respect was his due, and he was
getting it in full measure. She felt that he himself
would have been pleased had he been there ;

and it was very difficult to believe that somehow
or other he was not there, seeing how
everything went on. He would have chuckled
over it had he seen it ; he would have felt the
compliment ; and Lucy felt it. When, however,
she saw how large a party accompanied her
home after all was over, and understood that she
was to go into the drawing-room and hear the
will read among all these people, Lucy could not
but feel that it was very " trying," as Mrs. Ford
said ; but yet she did it dutifully, as she was
told, not feeling that there was any choice left
her, or that she could refuse to do whatever
was thought necessary. Tt was difficult to disengage
herself from Jock, and persuade him that
it was best for him to lie down on the sofa
downstairs and allow himself to be read to. He
consented at last, and then Lucy felt that the
loss of his small hand clinging to hers took
away a great part of her strength ; but she was
not a girl who stopped to consider what she
could or could not do. She did what she was
told, always a more satisfactory rule.

There were a great many people in the room
when Lucy went in, leaning, much against her
will, on Mrs. Ford's arm. She was quite able to
walk by herself, and did not indeed like the
careful and somewhat fussy support which was
given her, but she put up with it, looking
straight before her, not to meet the compassion-acting
looks which Mrs. Ford thought it part of her
role to address to the orphan. " Yes, my darling,
it's a great trial for you," Mrs. Ford kept saying, " a
great trial, my love, but you will be supported if
you are brave ; and I am sure you will be brave,
my dearie-dear ;" now it was not Mrs. Ford's
custom to call Luc} her darling and her dearie-dear,
which confused the girl ; but all the same
she resigned herself. Some one rose when she
came in and enfolded her in a large embrace.
Floods of black silk, and waves of perfume, seemed
to pass over her head, and then she emerged,
catching her breath a little. This was Lady Randolph,
who was large, but handsome and comely,
and filled up a great part of what space there was to
spare. Seated at a little distance was Mrs. Stone

who showed her more delicate sense of Lucy's
trial," only by giving her a look in which pity was
tempered by encouragement, and a slight friendly
nod. Besides these ladies, whom she identified
at once, there seemed to Lucy to be a cloud of
men. All were silent, looking at her as she
came in : all were in black, black gloves making
themselves painfully apparent on the hands of
the ladies. It was before the time when black
paws became the fashion on all occasions. Even
Mr. Ford wore black gloves ; it was an important
part of the general " respect." After a while,
even the men became comprehensible to Lucy.
There was Mr. "Rushton, the town clerk, and Mr.
Chervil from London, and another lawyer with a
large blue bag, whom she did not know. Seated
near these gentlemen, with an amiable patronising
air which seemed to say " I am very glad to
countenance you, but what can / have to do
here?" was, to the surprise of most of the
company, the Rector, who had so placed himself
that, though he did not know what he was wanted
for, he had the look of being a kind of chairman

of the assembly;" while near the door, sitting on
the edge of his seat, holding his hat in one
hand, and brushing it carefully with the other,
was Mr. Williamson, the Dissenting Minister.
Mr. Williamson did not at all know how he was
to be received in this company. They were all
Church people," even the Fords, though they
had begun on other principles. And John
Trevor had just been buried, though he was a
staunch old Nonconformist, with the ceremonials
of the church. Mr. Williamson did not know
whether to be defiant or conciliatory. Sometimes
he smiled at his hat, smoothing it round and
round. The hat-band had been taken off, and
carefully folded by to take home to his wife;
in this point he had taken example by the
Rector, who was very well used to the sort of
thing, and did not like anything to be wasted.
Clergymen's wives are very well aware that
hat-bands are always made of the richest of
silk.

Mr. Rushton made a little explanation, informing
the company that their late worthy

friend had wished them all to hear at least one
part of his will, and to accept a trust which it
had been his great desire to confide to them : and
then the reading began. It is always a curious
ceremonial and often affords scope for the development
of strong emotions ; but in this case it
was not so. There was great curiosity on the
subject, but no anxiety. Once indeed, when the
testator requested each person present to accept
fifty pounds for a ring, a little involuntary liveliness,
a rustle of attention, ran through the room.
Though Lady Randolph, and Mrs. Stone, the
Rector and Mr. Williamson, had nothing in
common with each other, they exchanged an
Involuntary glance, and the corners of their
mouths rose perceptibly. Fifty pounds is not
much, but there are few people who would not be
pleased to have such a little present made to
them quite unexpectedly. Their mouths relaxed
a little, there was a softening of expression, and
it would be impossible to deny that Mr. Trevor
rose several degrees in their opinion. But
beyond this little wave of pleasurable sentiment

there was no emotion called for, except
surprise.

The will took a great deal of reading;
it was a very long document, or succession
of documents, for the verj enumeration of
the codicils took some time. These were all
read in a clear monotonous voice which brought
a softening haze of drowsiness on the assembly.
Perhaps no individual present fully realized all the
provisoes. Some of them were hid in technical
language, some confused by being mixed up with
long details of the money and property bequeathed.
The first and chief body of the will,
which bequeathed three thousand pounds in the
funds to the testator's son, and all the rest of his
property to his daughter, '' as the only heir and
descendant of her mother, my wife Lucilla Rainy
through whom the property came," was brief and
succinct enough. It had none of the rambling
elaboration of the later additions. When John
Trevor had executed it he had been still a strongman,
very energetic in the management of his
own affairs, but not dominated by any master

idea. It was plain justice, as he apprehended it,
but he had not begun to frame the theories which
filled his later days. As the will was read, the
door opened and Philip Rainy came into the
room. There was a slight general stir, a common
movement, very faint, but universal, in disapproval
of the entrance of any intruder. Everyone of
those people, with no right that they knew of to be
there, felt a thrill of indignation go over them at
the sight of a stranger. What business had he
to be present ? But after the stir there was an
equally general pause. Lady Randolph, the
only one who did not know Philip, looked
at the lawyers. But the lawyers made no
response. The voice of the reader went on again,
the hearers fell into their previous half drowse of
attention ; and the young man who had nothing
at all to do with it, but who was the nearest
relation of the orphans, stood in his black clothes
leaning against the door. And there was not
any drowse about Philip ; he listened, and he made
out every word.

When the codicils approached a conclusion,

the drowse disappeared from the company in
general. It began to introduce their own names,
which is a sure wa' of interesting people ; when
the clause was read which described the future
course of Lucy's life, how it was to be spent and
where, there was a little stir among those who
were immediately concerned. Lady Randolph
sat up more erect in her chair, and held her
head higher with a complacence and sense of importance
which it would have been impossible
to express more delicately ; the Fords, less well-bred,
looked at each other, and Mrs. Ford began
to cry. The spectators all listened keenly ; their
surprise and their curiosity rose to a higher heat.
Then came the appointment of the marriage committee,
at which the little thrill which had been
visible in the others communicated itself to all
the company. Each individual sat up, straightened
his or her back, holding up their several
heads, and listened with a sense of importance
and satisfaction, mingled with, in some of them,
a perception of the ludicrous side of the arrangement
; and after this there was little more.

During the whole of the proceedings Philip
Rainy, undisturbed and disturbing, stood up
leaning against the door. It was all new to him,
and much of it was far from agreeable ; but he
made no sign. He had no business to be there 
all these strangers, he could not but feel with a
little bitterness, had come by invitation and had
a right to the place they occupied ; but he had
nothing to do with it. Nevertheless it was something,
it was a tacit acknowledgment that he
had something to do with it that no one remonstrated
or took any notice of his presence.
And he took no notice, made no remark; but
listened with the keenest attention. Yes, there
was one on whom none of the provisions were
lost, who never felt drowsy, but listened with
his very ears tingling, and his mind concentrated
upon what he heard ; he missed nothing, the
technical wording did not confuse him, each new
particular stirred up his thoughts to a rapidity
and energy of action such as he had never before
been conscious of. He stood betraying nothing,
looking at all the complacent assembly, which

regarded him as an outsider; and as each new
detail was read, swiftly, silently, opposed to it
in his mind a system of counter-action. All
these people, with their little glow and sense of
satisfaction, were to him like so many lay-figures
round the table ; dream-people not worth taking
into consideration. But on the other side he
seemed to see old Trevor chuckling and waving
a visionary hand at him. " There is not a loophole
to let you in," the old ghost seemed to say ;
and Philip ground his teeth, and said within
him, " \\e shall see."

As for the members of the marriage committee,
those of them who were not previously aware of
the charge committed to them, were filled with
amaze, and showed it each in his or her own
way. Mrs. Stone and the Fords sat fast, with a .
half smile on their faces, by way of showing
that to them the idea was already familiar. But
Lady Randolph was considerably disturbed. She
pushed back her chair a little, and looked
round with a certain dismay, her eyes opening
wider, her lips parting, her breast heaving

with a half sigh, half sob of surprise. " All
these people !" she seemed to say, giving a
second critical look rou-d. The Rector was still
more surprised  if that were possible ; but he
took his surprise in a genial way. He began to
laugh gently, under his breath as it were. He
was not a relation, nor even a friend, and he
was not called upon to be very serious on the
death of old Trevor. He laughed ; but quietly
and decorously, only enough to express a certain
puzzled consternation and sense of absurdity,
yet consciousness that old Trevor had shown a
certain good sense in choosing himself. As for
Mr. Williamson, he was thunderstruck; he left
off smoothing his hat ; he too looked round him
bewildered, as if for instruction. How had his
name been placed on such a list ? and he ended
with a furtive glance at the Rector, who was the
member of the company who interested him most.
When the voice of the reader stopped there was
a curious momentary pause.

"This is a very astonishing arrangement,"
said the Rector, rubbing his hands ; " an extremely

strange arrangement. I don't see how
we are to carry it out. Don't you think there
is something a little odd  I mean, something
eccentric ? there always was a certain eccentricity,
eh ? don't you know 1 in the character"

"Our departed friend," said Mr. Williamson,
clearing his throat ; " had full possession of his
faculties. I saw him the day before his seizure ;
his intellects were as clear, I am ready to give
my testimony anywhere  as clear as yours, Sir,
or mine."

It was not very distinctly indicated to whom
this was addressed ; the Rector cast a slight
glance at the speaker, as though he might have
shrugged his shoulders ; but he was too polite
to do so. " But," he went on, as though he had
not been interrupted. " But  this is too extraordinary
; I scarcely knew Mr. Trevor ; why he
should make me one of the guardians of his
daughter in such an important matter I cannot
understand : and associate me with  " he paused
again, and then gave another glance round ; " so
many others  perhaps better qualified."
VOL. n. c

If Dr. Beresford means me  " Mr. Williamson
began with a flush on his face.

I mean no one in particular. I mean everybody
 I mean that the whole idea is preposterous
 why," said the Rector, bursting into
a little laugh, " it is like an old play ;
it's like an invention in a romance  it is
like"

Oh-h !" said Mrs. Ford, drawing in her
breath. She had not intended to speak in such
fine company ; but this was too much for her 
and it had always been believed by those who
knew her most intimately that she was still a
Dissenter in her heart. *' Oh-h !" she said, with
a little shudder. " When you consider that
poor Mr. Trevor was carried out of this house,
feet foremost, this very day and before the first
night that folks should laugh"

The Rector got very red. " I beg your pardon,"
he said sharply, not with an apologetic
voice. Mr. Williamson began once more to
smooth his hat. There was in him a suppressed
smile from the sole of his shoe to the top ot his

head : and the Rector was aware of it, but could
not take any notice, which discomposed that
dignified clergyman more than if it had been a
greater matter.

Mrs. Stone here interfered ; naturally her
sympathies were all with the Church ; but she
liked, at the same time, to show her superior
acquaintance with the testator's wishes. " If
you will allow me," she said, " I had the advantage
of hearing from poor Mr. Trevor himself
what he meant. He did not wish to deprive his
dear daughter of the advice of one who would
be her spiritual instructor. He was  not a
Churchman : but he was a man of great judgment.
He considered that the Rector had a right
to a voice in a matter so important. But," said
Mrs. Stone, suddenly, seeing Lady Randolph
eager to interfere, " perhaps this is scarcely a
moment to discuss the matter? x4nd in the
presence of"

Not at all the moment," said Lady Randolph,
rising up and shaking out her flowing
skirts. '' These gentlemen must all be aware

C 2

that Miss Trevor, in the meantime, is my first
thought. Our presence is no longer necessary
I believe. My dear ?" the great lady said, offering
her arm to Lucy, who was thankful to be
released. All the men stood up, the Rector still
red, and Mr. Williamson still smoothing his hat.
The departure of the ladies had the air of a
procession. Lucy was very timid and very sick
at heart, longing to escape, to rest, to cry, and
then to prepare herself quietly for whatever
change might be coming ; but she had no need
of Lady Randolph's arm. Even when the heart
is breaking, a mourner may be quite able to
walk; and Lucy was not heart-broken, only
longing to cry a little, and give vent to her natural
gentle sorrow for her poor old father. But
Lady Randolph drew the girl's hand within her
arm, and held it there with her other hand, and
whispered, " Lean upon me, my poor child."
Lucy did not lean, feeling no need of support,
but otherwise obeyed. Philip Rainy opened the
door for the darkly-clothed procession. He too
thought it right to assert himself. " I should like

to see yon, Luc}," he said, " afterwards"' taking
no notice of the great ladj " about Jock," The
name, the suggestion gave Lucy a shock of
awakening. She stopped short, to Lady Randolph's
surprise and alarm, and turned round
suddenly withdrawing her hand from the soft
constraint of that pressure upon it. They all
paused, looking at her, almost in as great surprise
as if something inanimate had detached
itself from the wall, and taken an independent
step.

Please, Mr. Rushton," Lucy said timidly, but
clearly, " there is one thing I want to say. I
will do everything everything that papa wishes :
but about Jock  "

About Jock ?" they all came a little nearer,
looking at her. Mrs. Stone put forth a hand to
pat the girl's shoulder soothingly, murmuring,
Yes, dear  yes, my love, another time," with
amiable moderation. But Lady Randolph would
not permit any interference. She took her
charge's hand again. " My dear," she said, " all
these arrangements can be settled afterwards by

your friends." Lady Randolph had no idea what
was meant by Jock.

But I must settle this first," Lucy said. She
was very pale, and very slight and girlish, looking
like a shadow in her black clothes : but there
was no mistaking her quiet determination. She
stood quite still, making no fuss, with her
eyes fixed upon the two lawyers. " I will
do everything," she repeated, " only not about
Jock."

That is what I am here for, Lucy," said
Philip Rainy. " I am your nearest relative. It
is I who ought to have the care of Jock."

At this point all turned their attention to Philip
with sudden intelligence in their faces, and some
with alarm. The nearest relative ! Lucy, however,
did nothing to confirm the position which Philip
felt it expedient thus strongly, and, at once, to
assert. She looked at him with a faint smile,
and shook her head.

He has nobody really belonging to him but
me. Mr. Rushton, please I will do everything
else but I cannot give up Jock."

We'll see about it. We'll see about it, Lucy,"
Mr. Rushton said.

And then Lady Randolph, a little impatient,
resumed her lead. " I cannot let you exert
yourself so much," she said with peremptory
tenderness. " I must take you away ; all this
will be settled quite comfortably ; but my first
thought is for you. I must not let you overexert
yourself. Lean upon me, my poor child !"

And thus, at last, the black-robed procession
filed away.

CHAPTER II.

GUARDIANS.

THE ladies went away, the men remained
behind : most of them took their seats again
with evident relief. However agreeable the two
halves of humanity may be to each other incertain
circumstances, it is a relief to both to
get rid of each other when there is business on
hand. The mutual contempt they have for each
other's modes of acting impedes hearty cooperation,
and the presence of one interferes
with the other's freedom. The men took their
seats and drew a long breath of relief, all but
Philip, the unauthorised member of the party,
who felt that with Lucy his only real right to
be here at all was gone.

"Well!" said the Rector, identifying that
sigh of relief into a kind of snort of satisfaction,
" now that we may speak freely, Rushton,
you don't expect that rubbish would bear the
brunt of an English court of law ? It is all
romancing ; the old fellow must have been laughing
at you in his sleeve. Seven trustees to
decide whom the girl is to marry I His mind
must have been gone : and you can't imagine fora
moment that this is a thing which can be carried
out."

I don't see why," said Mr. Rushton, calmly ;
"more absurd things have been carried out.
He wants his girl to be looked after. She will
have half the fortune-hunters in England after
her, like flies after a honey-pot."

All the men assembled looked at the town-clerk
; he was the only one among them who
could possibly have any interest in the question.
The Rector appreciated this fact with unusual
force ; he had daughters only, whereas Raymond
Rushton was a likely young fellow enough.
They were all somewhat suspicious of each

other, all except the personage who had read
the documents, and took no part in the matter,
and Mr. Chervil, a London attorney, with little
time to spare, and not much interest in anything
but the money, which was his trade.

Of course there will be fortune-hunters after
her. He ought," said the Rector, who was given
to laying down the law, " to have appointed a
couple of trustworthy guardians, as other people
do, and left it in their hands. Such an arrangement
as this, no one can help seeing, is positively
absurd."

Here Ford cleared his throat expressively,
with a sound which drew all eyes towards him.
But the good man, having thus protested inarticulately,
was shy, and shrank from speech.
He retreated a step or two with involuntary
precipitation. And the only defender old Trevor
found was in Mr. Williamson, who nevertheless had
no desire to pit himself against the Rector ; he
would have liked on the contrary to be liberal and
friendly, and to show himself superior to all
petty feeling ; but he could not help taking a

special interest in everything his clerical brother,
who did not admit his brotherhood, did or said.
Opposition or friendship, it might be either one
or the other, but indifference could not be between
them. Accordingly as soon as the Hector had
said anything, Mr. Williamson was instantly
moved to say the reverse.

We must not forget," he said, putting down
his hat on the floor, "that our late lamented
friend was carried out of this place only to-day.
To call his arrangements absurd, so soon, is
surely, if I may say so, not in good taste."

Oh, as for good taste !" cried the Rector,
imperatively, with a sneer upon his lips ; but he
stopped himself in time. He would not get into
any altercation, he said to himself; it was bad
enough to be confronted with Dissenters, to have
one of these fanatics actually sitting down with
him at the same table, but to suffer himself
to be led into a controversy ! " As for
that," he said, " my mind is easy
enough. But here is a very simple ques-shall

you serve, Doctor Beresford ? or do
you decline it?" Mr. Rushton said.

This was a question more simple still. The
Rector turned round and stared at the other with
a confused and bewildered countenance. This
was not at all what he meant. He paused for a
moment, and reflected before he made any
answer ; would he serve, or did he decline it ?
Very simple, but not so easy to answer ; would
he have a finger in the pie, or give it up altogether
? would he accept the mysterious position,
and keep the dear privilege of control,
and the power of saying who was not to marry
Lucy Trevor, though he cared little for Lucy
Trevor ? or would he show his sense of the folly
of the arrangement by rejecting any share in it?
It was, though so simple, a difficult question,
much more difficult than to set down the old
man, who was not a churchman, as a fool. It
did not please him however to accept the latter
alternative : he was a man who dearly liked to have
a finger in every pie.

Oh, ab ! indeed !  yes, to be sure. That is
how you put it," he said.

"Yes, that is the only way to put it," said
Mr. Rushton ; '* we can't compel anyone to
accept the charge, but we have a few names
behind with which to fill up, should anyone
object. My client was full of foresight," he
added, with a smile, " he was very long-headed,
wrong-headed too, if you like, sometimes, but
sharp as a needle. He thought his little girl a
great prize."

And so she will be," said the Rector, almost
with solemnity ; and he was silent for a moment,
as if in natural awe of Lucy's greatness ; but
within himself he was mentally vowing that, if
Rushton tried to run his boy for such large
stakes, he, the Rector, would take care that he
did not have it all his own way. Dr. Beresford,
though he was an excellent clergyman,
was not above the use of slang now and then,
nor was he too good for a resolution which had
a little of the vindictive in it. " Must we be
called together to be consulted ?" he said, with a

lauojh ; " there's something of the kind in an
old play. Will the candidate appear before us,
and state his qualifications." The Rector again
permitted himself to laugh, but nobody responded.
Mr. Rushton, though he condemned the will in
private, had sufficient professional feeling to
decline to join in any open ridicule of it, and Ford,
who felt himself in the dignified attitude of a
mourner, allowed nothing to disturb his seriousness.
Mr. Williamson was smoothing his hat
with disapproving gravities, polishing it heavily
round and round, as though he found some
carnal tendency in it which had to be repressed.


*' In my opinion there is nothing to laugh at,"
he said ; " it is a grave responsibility. The
choice of a God-fearing, Christian man to be the
guide of the young lady, under Providence, and
the trustee, as it were, of a great fortune  "

*' Oh, not so bad as that ; we have not got to
choose him, only to blackball him," said Mr.
Rushton ; " and if you think old Trevor intended
that any husband should be the trustee of his

daughter's fortune, that is a mistake I assure
you. She has more power in her hands than
ever a girl had  even now before she is of age,
she is allowed liberties  Ah !" Mr. Rushton
stopped short ; for Philip Rainy had stepped forward,
with the evident intention of saying something.
They all looked at Philip. He was well-known
to everyone present  regarded favourably
by the Rector, as one who had seen the evil of
his ways, and with a grudge b} Mr. Williamson
as a deserter from the Nonconformist cause, and
with careless friendliness by Mr. Rushton, as a
man who was only a rising man, and to whom
he was conscious of having himself given a helping
hand. To Ford, Philip was a member of the
family who rather set himself above the family,
and therefore was the object of certain restrained
grudges, but yet was a Rainy after all; thus
the feeling of the company, about him was
mingled. Nevertheless, when they suddenly
turned upon him, and recalled themselves to a
recollection of his presence and his position,
and all that was in his favour, and the indications

of nature, which pointed him out as so
likely a candidate, they all instinctively forestalled
the future, and on the spot blackball
Philip, who stood before them unconscious of
his fate.

I do not wish to intrude," he said ; " though
if anyone has a right to know about my cousins
I have. I am their nearest relation. I am  "
and here he put on a certain dignity, though the
Rainys were not a noble race  " I believe the
head of the family since my father's death. But
what I want to say is this ; if you, as his legal
guardians, do not object, I should like to take
charge of Jock."

(" Who is Jock ?" said the Rector, in an undertone.
There was no one to answer but Mr.
Williamson, who replied in the same tone, without
looking at him, " The little boy." It was the
first distinct communication that had passed
between them. Dr. Beresford looked at the
Nonconformist with a humph of half angry carelessness
and turned away ; but yet he could not
help it, he had distinctly realized the presence

of the Minister of Bethesda, which was a great
thorn in his side. On former occasions he had
said " I know nothing about that sort of people ;"
but that advantage was now taken from him.
He had become acquainted with the man, though
he was his natural enemy.

*' Take charge of Jock ?  with all my heart ;"
said the lawyer. " You could not do anything
that would please me more ; he has been one of
our difficulties. Look here, Chervil, here is the
very best thing that could happen. Mr. Rainy,
a relation, a  a gentleman in the scholastic profession
;" here he stopped, and made a little
grimace. " There will be a moderate allowance
for him," he continued, with a laugh ; *' all that
is easy enough : but there's his sister to be taken
into consideration, you know."

If I have your consent, I think I can manage
Lucy," said Philip, calmly. He spoke with
great distinctness, and he meant them all to
understand him. It was as if a thunderbolt had
been thrown in their midst : a young fellow like
this, nobody in particular, to call the heiress

VOL. n. D

Lucy! Mr. Rushton called her so himself, and
so did Ford, and the Minister ; but all at once
such familiarity had come to sound profane. It
was quite profane in young Rainy, a mere schoolmaster,
to speak so familiarly of that golden girl 
They all drew back with a distinct shiver. As
for the Rector, he again ventured on a little laugh.

You are a bold fellow, Rains " he said.
To talk of a young lady whom we all respect so
much, by her Christian name."

I have known her all ray life, doctor ; weare
cousins." There was no idea of this
great respect then. "I will speak to her at
once."

The way in which the matrimonial committee
drew in their breath, made a distinct sound in
the room. Speak to her, good heavens !  a
schoolmaster  a nobody! "You will remember,'
said Ford, with solemnity ; " that this is the day
of her father's funeral. To speak to her about
any such matters  "

What matters ?" Philip knew very well
what they meant ; but he liked to play upon

their apprehensions. " You may be sure," he said,
with malicious gravity ; " I shall say nothing
to distress her. She knows me, and I think she
has confidence in me."

And you forget," said Mr. Chervil, who was
cool, and had his wits about him, '' that it's
only about little Jock''

' To be sure, to be sure ; it is not about anything
very important," said the committee, in
full accord, "it's only about little Jock."

And then they all laughed, but not with a
very good grace. There was no fault at all to
be found with him, an honest, honourable rising
young man and the girl had no right to anything
better; but what was the use of appointing a
committee of seven to watch over this momentous
event, if Lucy's fortune was to fall like a ripe
apple from the tree into the mouth of Mr. Philip
Rainy ? The Rector who had thought the stipulations
so absurd, and had asked, almost with
indignation, whether anyone could ever hope to
carry them out, even he looked with indignation
at Philip. It was like cutting the ground from

D 2

under their feet, settling the whole business
before it had even begun. It was a thing not to
be tolerated at all. There was not a word more
said by anybody about the unnecessarily of
Mr. Trevor's precautions after this specimen, as
they all felt it, of the dangers that had to begone
through.

While this was going on upstairs, Lady Randolph
led Lucy into Mrs. Ford's sitting-room,
as if it had been her own," that excellent
woman said, though she was very willing on the
whole that her parlour should be made use of,
and indeed for long after took special care of
the chair upon which Lady Randolph had sat
down. Mrs. Ford and Mrs. Stone followed.
There was a pause after they had all seated
themselves, for these two other personages were
somewhat jealous in their eagerness to hear every
syllable that fell from Lady Randolph's lips, and
Lady Randolph studiously ignored them. It
was she who for the moment was mistress of
the situation ; she put Lucy tenderly upon the
sofa, and drew a chair close to it.

"You are doing too much," she said; 'rafter
all the excitement and the grief 30a want restor
we shall have you ill on our hands."

That is what I am always telling her, my
lady," said Mrs. Ford.

Mrs. Stone smiled. " Lucy will not get ill,"
she said, *' her strength is intact; I don't think
Lady Randolph need have any fear on that
account."

But Mrs. Stone's interference was not relished
by anyone. Lady Randolph glanced slightly
at her, but took no notice ; while Mrs. Ford was
somewhat irritated that Lucy should be thought
robust and able to bear a great sorrow without
suffering. They were all very anxious to persuade
the girl to " put up her feet," and take
care of herself.

"A change, an entire change is what you
want," Lady Randolph said, " and indeed I
think that is what we must do. It does not
matter if you are not prepared ; of course you
will want a great many things  but those
can be got better in London than anywhere

else, I should like you to come with me at
once."

Lucy, who had been half reclining on the sofa
cushions to please her new friend, here raised
herself with an energy which was not at all in
keeping with her supposed exhaustion. " At
once !" she said with alarm, not perceiving at
the moment that this was not complimentary to
Lady Randolph. When she perceived it, Lucy's
politeness was put to a severe test. She had a
little awe of her future guardian, and she was
very dutiful, more disposed by nature to do
what she was told than to rebel. She added
faintly a gentle remonstrance. ' I thought there
would have been a little time to get ready ; the
dressmaker has only sent a few of the things ;
and then," she said, as if the argument was
final, " we have had no time at all to get Jock's
things in order. I would have to wait for
Jock."

Jock !" said Lady Randolph with the greatest
surprise.

And then there was another pause. " I told

you, Lucy," said Mrs. Ford, "that her Ladyship
knew nothing about Jock, that she would
never hear of taking a little boy into her house.
A young lady is one thing, but a little boy  a
little boy is quite different ; I told you her Ladyship
would never hear of it." In the satisfaction
of having known it all the time, Mrs. Ford
almost forgot the inconveniences of the position.
Lucy sat bolt upright upon her sofa, disregarding
all the fictions about necessary rest, and looked
round upon them with a little spark in each of
her blue eyes.

My love," said Mrs. Stone in a low tone,
' you have always intended and wished to send
Jock to school, you must not forget that "

There was nothing hostile to the new reign in
these two women, at least not in this respect.
Their deprecation and soothing were quite
sincere. But Lady Randolph was a woman who
had all her wits about her. She watched every
indication of the thorny new ground which she
was treading with a watchful eye. And she saw
that Lucy's expression changed from that of quiet

gravity and sadness into an energy, which was
almost impassioned. The girl's hands caught at
each other, her lips quivered, every feature moved.

He is all I have," Lucy cried out suddenly,
everything I have ! and he is such a little, little
fellow ; oh, don't mind petting me, what do I care
for dresses or things ? but I want Jock ; oh let me
have Jock !'*

"Hush, hush, Lucy; hush, dear," whispered Mrs.
Stone, with sympathetic looks, and Mrs. Ford
put her handkerchief to her eyes, and vowed
sobbing that she would take every care of him.
They were both half frightened by the sudden
vehemence, which was so unlike Lucy. And at
this moment there was a knock at the door, and
Philip Rainy put in his head.

I beg your pardon," he said, " but may I
speak to Lucy for a moment? I thought you
would like to know that they have no objections,
Lucy  not the least objection. I am to have
Jock. I told Mr. Rushton that I felt sure you
would trust him to me."

Lucy felt that she had no longer any power of

speech. She put her hands together instinctively,
and gave Lady Randolph a piteous look ;
her heart swelled as if it would burst. Was it a
judgment upon her for not being heart-broken,
as perhaps she ought to have been, for the loss
of her father ? To have little Jock taken away
from her was like tearing a piece of herself
away.

But Lady Randolph had all her wits about
her. It was not likely, if the sight of this comely
young man who called the heiress Lucy, had
alarmed even the men upstairs, that a woman
would be less alive to the danger. She took
Lucy's hands into her own, and pressed them
kindly between hers.

I don't know this gentleman, my dear," she
said, *' and I don't doubt he is very kind ; but I
am sure it would be mistaken kindness to
separate these two poor children now. Just after
one great loss, she is not in a fit state to bear
another wrench. No. I don't know who Jock is,
and I have not much room in my little house : but
you shall have your Jock, my dear. I will not bethe

one to take him from you," Lady Randolph
said.

This was a thing which no one had so much
as thought of. They all gazed at her with
wonder and admiration, while Lucy in the sudden
relief fell a-crying, more subdued and broken
down than she had yet shown herself. While
the girl was being caressed and soothed, Mrs.
Stone went away, finding no room for her own
ministrations. She said, " That is a very clever
woman," to Philip Rainy at the door.

CHAPTER III.

THE NEW LIFE.

T Lady RANDOLPH made haste to strike
-L* while the iron was hot. She incas a clever
woniaD, conscious enough (though perhaps no
moore than other people) of her own interests,
and with schemes in her mind (as everybody
had) of other interests to be served through the
heiress, whom it had been one of the successes
of her later life to obtain the charge of; but,
having got this, she had no other intention than
to treat Lucy kindly, and to make her life, which
would add so many comforts to Lady Randolph's,
pleasant and happy to herself. The best way
to do this was to win the girl's heart. Lady

Randolph had not been seized with love at first
sight for her new charge ; but she was rather
prepossessed than otherwise by Lucy's appearance,
and she was anxious to get hold of her
and secure her affections with as little delay as
possible ; and when she informed Mrs. Ford, as
she sipped the cup of tea which that excellent
woman prepared for her, that she was going to
pass the night at the Hall, and that to return to
that scene of her happier life was always " a
trial" to her, she had already touched a chord of
sympathy in Lucy's heart.

What I should like," Lady Randolph said,
would be that you should come with me, my
dear. It would be a great matter for me. The
Hall belongs to Sir Thomas now, my nephew,
you know. He is very kind to me, and I look
upon him almost as a son, and his house is
always open to me ; but when you remember
that I was once mistress there, and spent a
happy life in it, and that now I am all alone,
meeting ghosts in every room "

Lucy's heart came to her eyes. It was all

true that Lady Randolph said, but perhaps no
such statement, made for the purpose of calling
forth sympathy, ever achieves its end without
leaving a certain sense of half-aroused shame
in the mind of the successful schemer. Lady
Randolph was touched by the warmth of feeling
in the girl's eyes, and she was half ashamed of
herself for the conscious exaggeration which
had called it forth. Mrs. Ford was very
sympathetic.

I have never been so bad as that," she said,
I have always had company ; I have never lost an
'husband, like you, my lady ; but I feel for your
ladyship all the same."

And I shrink from going back," said Lady
Randolph, "and going all alone. I think if
Lucy could come with me  it would be a great
thing for me ; and we should have time to make
acquaintance with each other ; and Mrs. Ford, I
am sure, would look after all the things, and
bring them and the little brother to meet us at
the station tomorrow. Will you begin our life

together by being kind to me, Lucy ?"' she said,
with a smile.

There were difficulties, great difficulties, to be
apprehended from Jock ; but Lucy could not refuse
such an appeal ; and this was how it happened,
that to the great surprise of Farafield, she was
seen in her little crape bonnet and veil (much too
old for her, Lady Randolph at once decided)
driving in the grey of the wintry afternoon
through the chilly streets  the day her father
was buried ! there were some people who thought
it very unfeeling. When it was mentioned at
dinner in the big house in the Market Place inhabited
by the town-clerk, Mrs. Rushton Alas
very much scandalised.

The very day of the funeral !" she cried ;
'' they might have let her keep quiet one day ;
for I don't blame the girl, how was she to know
any better 1 I always said it was a fatal thing
for Lucy when that old fool of a father chose a
fashionable fine lady for her guardian. Oh
done speak to me, I have no patience with him.
I think, from beginning to end, there never was

such a ridiculous will. If it had been me, I
should have take it into Court, I should have
had it broke  "

"You might have found it difficult to do that.
How would you have had it broke, I should like
to know ?" her husband said.

*' Ladies' law,' said Mr. Chervil, who was very
busy with his dinner, and did not care to waste
words.

"It is not my trade," said Mrs. Rushton,
that's your business. I can tell you I should
have done it had it been in my hands. But it's
not in my hands, a woman never has a chance.
You may talk of ladies' law ! but this I know,
that if we had the law to make it would not be
so silly. A woman would have known what was
for the girl's true advantage ; we would have said
to old Mr. Trevor, don't be such an old fool.
We should have told him boldly  such and such
a thing is not for your girl's advantage. Had
any of you men the courage to do that ? And
the result is, Lucy is in the hands of a fashionable
lady who can't live without excitement, and

takes her out to drive on the day of her father's
funeral. I never heard anything like it, for my
part."

This indignation, however, was scarcely called
for by the facts of the case ; and yet the event
was very important for Lucy. There was not
much excitement, from Mrs. Rushton's point of
view, in the afternoon drive along the wintry
roads to the Hall, which was nearly five miles
out of Farafield. The days were still short,
and the February afternoon was rainy and
gloomy, and the latter part of the way was between
two lines of bare and dusky hedgerows,
with here and there a spectral tree waving
darkly against the unseen sky; not a cheerful
moment, nor was the landscape cheerful ; an
expanse of damp and darkling fields, long lines
of vague road, no light anywhere, save the
glimpses of reflection in wet ditches or pools of
muddy water. Lady Randolph shivered, wrapping
herself close in her furs ; but for Lucy all
was full of intense sensation and consciousness,
which might be called excitement, though its

effect upon her was to make her quieter and more
outwardly serious than usual. From the moment
when she stepped into the carriage, Lucy felt
herself in a new world. The life she had been
used to lead wanted no comforts, so far as she
was aware, but the rooms at the Terrace had
possessed no charm, and the best vehicle with
which Lucy was acquainted was the shabby fly
of the neighbourhood, which lived at the livery-stables
round the corner, and served all the inhabitants
of the Terrace for all their expeditions.
Lucy felt the difference when she suddenly found
herself in the soft atmosphere of luxury which
surrounded her for the first time in Lady Randolph's
carriage, a little sphere by itself, a little
moving world of wealth and refinement, where
the very air was different from the muggy air of
the commonplace world ; and as they drove up
the fine avenue, with all its tall trees rustling
and waving against the faint greyness of the
sky, and saw the great outline of the Hall dimly
indicated by irregular specks of light, Lucy felt
as if she were in a dream, but a dream that was.
VOL. n. E *-

more real than any waking certainty. She followed
Lady Randolph into the great hall and up
the wide spacious staircase, with these mingled
sensations growing more and more strongly upon
her. It was a dream ; the noiseless servants, the
luxurious carpets in which her foot sank, the
great pictures, the space and largeness everywhere,
no single feature of the place escaped
her observation. It was a dream, yet it was
more real than all the circumstances of the past
existence, which now had become dreams and
shadows, things which were over. She stepped
not into a strange house only, but into a new
life, when she crossed the threshold. This was
the life her father had always told her of; he
had told her it would begin when he died, and
had prepared her to take her place in it, always
holding before her an ideal sketch of the position
which was to be hers ; and now it had come.
The very fact that her entrance into this new
world was made on his funeral day, gave to the
new life that aspect of springing out of the old
which he had always impressed upon her. She

had lost no time, not a day, and the transition
was natural, in being so sudden and so
strange.

The Hall was a beautiful old house, stately in
all its details, huge, and ample, and lofty. To
go into it was like walking into a picture. There
was a great mirror in the hall, which reflected
her slim figure in its new crape and blackness
stepping dubiously forward, making her think
for a moment that it was some one else she saw,
a girl with a pale face, strange to everything, who
did not know which way to turn. Lady Randolph
took her upstairs to a dim room, pervaded
by ruddy firelight, and with glimmering
candles lighted here and there, " You shall have
this little room to-night, for it is near mine,"
Lady Randolph said. Lucy thought it was nota
little, but a large room, bigger than any
bedroom in the Terrace, and more comfortable
than anything she had ever dreamt of. The badly -
built draughty rooms in the Terrace were not
half so warm as this soft silken cushioned nook.
Lucy lay down doubtfully on the sofa as her new

E 2

'

friend ordained, but her mind was far too active,
and her imagination too hazy, to permit her
perfect rest. Lady Randolph's maid, a soft-voiced,
noiseless person, came to her and brought
her tea, opening the little bag she had brought,
and arranging everything she wanted, as Lucy's
wants had never been provided for before. All
this had a bewildering, yet an awakening effect
upon her. She lay for a little while upon the
sofa warm and still, and cried a little, which
relieved the incipient headache over her heavy
eyes. Poor papa ! he was gone as he had always
planned and intended, and had left her to begin
this new life, which he had drawn out and
mapped before her feet. And how many things
he had left her to do, things which it overawed
her to think of. A flutter of anxiety woke in
her heart, even now, as she wondered how she
should ever be capable of doing them by herself
without guidance, so ignorant as she was and
inexperienced. But yet she would do them.
She would obey everything, she would follow all
his instructions, Lucy vowed to herself with a

thrill of resolution, and a dropping of tears,
which relieved, and at the same time exhausted
her. But the exhaustion was a kind of refreshment.
And after a while Lady Randolph came
back, after Lucy had bathed her eyes, and
smoothed back her fair hair, and took her downstairs.


''I am glad Tom is away," Lady Randolph
said, *' Ave will have it all to ourselves. Tomorrow
I will show you the house, and to-night
we shall have a little quiet chat, and make
friends."

She gave Lucy's hand a little pressure with
her arm, and led her out of one softly lighted
room into another, from the drawing-room to the
dining-room where they sat down in the midst of
the surrounding dimness at a shining table, all
white and bright, with flowers upon it, unknown
at this season in the Terrace. Lucy felt a thrill
of awe when the family butler, most respectable
of functionaries, put her chair close to the table
as she sat down. Once more she caught a
glimpse of herself in a mirror which reflected her

from head to foot, and wondered who it could
be sitting there gazing at her with that little pale
familiar face.

After the meal was over they went back to a
little inner drawing-room, to reach which they
had to go through a whole suite of half-lighted,
luxurious rooms, all softly warm with firelight.
This used to be my favourite room," Lady
Randolph said, sighing as she looked round.
It was called the little drawing-room, and
Lady Randolph spoke of it as a little nook ;
but it was bigger than the drawing-room at the
Terrace. Here the girl was set down in a comfortable
chair by the fire, and listened while
Lady Randolph told of her former life here, and
all she had done. " Tom is very kind," she
said, " but how can I come here without meeting
ghosts, the ghosts of all my happy days ?"

Lucy listened with that devout attention which
only youth so innocent and natural as hers can give
to the recollections of one who has "gone
through " these scenes of actual life which are all
mystery and wonder to itself. Lucy had no

ghosts in her meinoiy ; her father was not far
enough off from her, nor was her sense of loss
so strong as to make her feel that the world was
henceforward peopled with sad recollections ;
but there was enough enlightenment in the touch
of natural grief to make her understand. She
was glad to be allowed to listen quietly to
feel the ache in her heart softened and subdued,
and the lull of great exhaustion falling over her.
That ache of natural, not excessive sorrow, is
almost an additional luxury in such a case. It
justifies the languor and gives an ennobling
reason for it. And in a mind so young the very
existence of sorrow, the first touches of experience,
the sense of really experiencing in its
own person those emotions which it has heard of
all its life, which are the inspiration of all
tragedies, and the theme of all stories, carry
with them an exquisite consciousness which is near
enjoyment, though it is pain. Lucy was perhaps
in her own constitution too simply matter-of-fact
to feel all this  yet she did feel it vaguely. She
was no longer a schoolgirl insignificant and happy.

but a pale young woman in deep mourning who had
taken a first step into the experiences of life.
She leant back in her chair with that ache in her
heart which she was almost proud of, yet with a
sense of luxurious well-being round her, warmth,
softness, kindness  and her hand in Lady Randolph's
hand. Her shyness had melted away
under the kind looks of her new friend ; Lucy
was too composed to be very shy by nature, but
even the silence was not embarrassing to her,
which is the greatest test of all.

It was easy after that to go on to talk of
herself a little. Lady Randolph had become
honestly interested in her young companion ;
Lucy was in every way so much better than she
had expected. Even the hand which she had
taken into her own was, now she had time to
think of it, an agreeable surprise. Lucy's hand
was small and soft, and as prettily shaped as if
she had been born a princess. These indications
of race, which are so infallible in romance, do
not always hold in actual life. The old schoolmaster's
daughter had no beauty to speak of;

but her hand was as delicate as if the bluest
blood in the world ran in her veins. Lady
Randolph felt that Providence had been very
good to her in this respect, for, indeed, she could
not but feel that a large red coarse hand was
what might have been expected in the little
parvenue. But Lucy was not coarse in any particular
; she would never come to the pitch of refinement
which that princess reached, who felt a pea
through fifteen mattresses; but her quiet straightforwardness
could never be vulgar. This certainty
relieved her future chaperon from her worst fears.

My house is not like this," Lady Randolph
said ; " London houses are small ; but I try to
make it comfortable. I have partly arranged
your rooms for you ; but I have left you all the
finishing touches. It will amuse you to settle
your pretty things about you yourself."

"I have not any pretty things," said Lucy ;
I have nothing but  " Jock, she was going to
say ; but she was not sure of the prudence of
the speech, seeing Jock was her grand difficulty
in life.

Never mind," said Lady Randolph, " nothing
can be easier than to get them ; and you must
have a maid  unless indeed there is one that you
would like to bring with you, I should prefer a
new one, a stranger who would not make any
comparisons, who would easily fall into the ways
of my house."

I have no one," said Lucy, eagerly; "I have
never been accustomed to anything of the kind.
I never had a maid in my life."

Well, my dear, it has not been a very long
life. We must find you a nice maid. Of course
you will not go out this year ; but there will
be plenty of things to interest you. Are you
very fond of music ? or anything else ? you must
tell me what you like best."

I can play a little, Lady Randolph, not
anything to speak of;" said Lucy, with the
instinct of a school-girl. She did not even
think of music in any higher sense.

Then that is not your speciality; have you a
speciality, Lucy ? Perhaps it is Art T

I can draw a very little, Lady Randolph."

Lucy's questioner laughed. "Then I am ni
hopes," she said, " great hopes ! that you are a
real, honest, natural, ignorant girl, like what
we used to be. Don't say you are scientific,
Lucy ! I could not understand that."

I am very sorry," said Lucy, with confusion ;
"Mrs. Stone gave me every advantage, but I
never was quick at learning. I am not even a
great reader, Lady Randolph; I don't know
what you will think of me."

If that is all, Lucy, I think I can put up
even with that."

But Jock is !" cried Lucy, seizing the opportunity
with sudden temerity. " You would not
believe what he has read every kind of history
and poetry, though he is so little. And he has
never had any advantages. Papa always thought
me the most important, because of my money ;
but now," said Lucy, with a little excitement,
now ! It is the only thing in which I will ever go
against him  I told him so always, so I hope it is
not wicked to do it now what I want most is to
make something of Jock."

Now Lady Randolph was not interested in
Jock. Her warmth of sympathy was a little
chilled by this outburst, and the chill re-acted
upon her companion. " We shall have plenty of
time to talk of this," Lady Randolph said ;
it is getting late : and you have had a very
exhausting day. I think the first thing to be
done is to have a good night's rest."

Next day there was a great gathering at Fairfield
station, when the carriage from the Hall
drove up with Lady Randolph and her charge.
The Fords had arrived bringing Jock, a pallid
little figure all black, in unimaginable depths of
mourning, and with a most anxious little countenance
; for Jock had spent a miserable night, not
crying as is the case generally with children, but
framing a hundred terrors in his imagination, and
half believing that Lucy had been spirited away,
and would come back for him no more. The convulsive
clutch which he made at her hand, and
the sudden relaxation of all the lines of his eager
little face as he recovered his sheet-anchor, his
sole support and companion, went to Lucy's

heart. She was almost as glad to see him. It
was natural to feel him hanging upon her, trotting
in her very footsteps, not letting her go
for a moment. Philip Rainy was also there to
bid his cousin good-bye; and in the sight of
everybody, he took her by the arm and led her
apart, and had a few minutes earnest conversation
with Lucy. This talk was almost exclusively
about Jock, but it was looked upon with
great surprise and jealousy by several pairs of
eyes. For Mrs. Stone had also come to the
station to bid her pupil farewell, and she was
accompanied by her nephew, Mr. St. Clair, who
stood looking his handsomest, and holding his
head high over the group in the pleasant consciousness
of being much the tallest and most
imposing personage among them. There was
also a group of school-girls, under the charge of
Mademoiselle, all ready to bestow kisses and
good-wishes, and a few easy tears upon Lucy.
And Mr. Rushton had come to see his ward off,
with his wife and their son, Raymond, in
attendance. All the elder people looked on

Philip Rainy with suspicion ; but all the more
did he hold Lucy by the sleeve talking to her,
and keeping the rest of her friends waiting.
When she did get to the carriage at last, it was
through a tumult of leave-takings, which
made the very guards and porters tearful. Mrs.
Ford stood crying, saying, *' God bless you !"
at intervals ; and Mrs. Stone folded her pupil ina
close embrace. *' Remember, Lucy, that you
are coming back in six months, according to
your good father's will ; and I hope you will not
have forgotten your old friends," she said with
a mixture of affection and authority. Mr. St.
Clair stood with his hat off, smiling and bowing.
May I say good-bye too 1 And good luck !"
he said, enveloping Lucy's black glove in his
large soft white hand. He was the tallest and
the biggest there, and that always makes an
impression upon a girl's imagination. Then the
Rushtons came forward and took her into their
group. " I felt that I must come to give you
my very best wishes," Mrs. Rushton said, " and
here is Raymond, your old playfellow, who hopes

you remember him, Lucy. He only came home
last night, but he would come to see you off."
Then the girls all rushed at their comrade, whom
they all envied, though some of them where sorry
for her. " You will be sure to write," they
cried with one voice, and a succession of hugs.
** And, oh, Lucy !" cried Katie Russell, " please
go and see mamma !" It was with difficulty that
she was helped into the carriage after all these
encounters, a little dishevelled, smiling and
crying, and with Jock all hidden and wound up
in her skirts. But the person who extricated
her, and put her into the carriage was Philip,
who held steadily to his superior rights. He
was the last to touch her hand, and he said,
Remember !" as the train began to move, as
solemnly as did the solemn King on the scaffold.
This cost Philip more than one dinner-party,
and may almost be said to have damaged his
prospects at Farafield. " Did you ever see such
presumption," Mrs. Rushton said, " pushing in
before you, her guardian ?" And he was not
asked to the Rushtons for a long time after, not

till they were in absolute despair for a stray
man to fill a corner. It was like the dispersion
of a congregation from some special service to
see all the people streaming away. And Lucy
was the subject of a hundred fears and doubts.
They shook their heads over her, all but the
school-girls, who thought it would be too delightful
to be Lucy. It was thus that Lucy set
out upon the world.

CHAPTER IV.

rpHE past seemed entirely swept away and
- obliterated from Lucy, when she found
herself in Lady Randolph's London house, inhabiting
two rooms charmingly and daintily
furnished, with a deft and respectful maid belonging
to herself, at her special call, and
everything that it was desirable a young lady
of fortune should have. The allowance made
for her was very large, so her father had willed,
and her new guardian employed it liberally.
Needless to say that Lady Randolph was not
herself rich ; but she was not greedy or grasping.
She liked dearly the large additional income
VOL. n. P

she had to spend, but she had no wish to make
economies from it at Lucy's cost. Economies,
indeed, were not in Lady Randolph's way. She
liked a large liberal house. She liked the sense
of a full purse into which she could put her hand
without fear of the supply failing (who does
not?) She liked the power of moving about
as she pleased, of filling her house with visitors,
and making herself the cheerful beneficent centre
of a society not badly chosen. She was
most willing to give her charge " every advantage,"
and to spend the large income she brought
with her entirely upon the life which they were
to lead together. Old Trevor was shrewd; he
knew what he was doing and his choice carried
out his intentions fully. Lady Randolph was
pleased to have a great heiress to bring out, and
she was anxious to bring her out in the very best
way. Her object on her own side was, no doubt,
selfish  in so far that to live liberally was
pleasant to her ; and to spend largely a kind
of necessity of her nature. But all this largeness
and liberality, which were so pleasant to

herself, were exactly what was wanted, according
to her father's plan, for Lucy  to whore Lady
Randolph communicated the advantages procured
by her money with all the lavish provision for
her pleasure which a doting mother might have
made. In all this there was a fine high-spirited
honourableness about Lucy's new guardian. She
scorned to save a penny of the allowance. And
we are bound to add that this course of procedure
did not approve itself (what course ever
does?) to Lady Randolph's friends. While
Lucy was being established in those luxurious,
yet simple, rooms, which were good enough fora
princess, yet so little fine, that Lucy's simplicity
had not yet found out how delicate and costly
they were, Lady Randolph's small coterie of
advisers were censuring her warmly downstairs.
You ought to lay by half of it," old Lady
Betsinda Molyneux was saying at the very moment,
when Lucy, with tranquil pleasure, aided
by Jock in a state of half-resentful, half-happy
excitement, was putting a set of pretty books
into the low bookshelves that lined her little

F '2

sitting-room ; " You ought to lay by one half
of it. Good life ! a girl like that to get the
advantage of being in your house at all ! Instead
of petting her, and getting her everything that you
can think of, she ought to be too thankful if you
put her in the housemaid's closet. If you don't
show a little wisdom now, I will despair of you,
my dear," the old lady said. She was an old
lady of the first fashion ; but she was all the
same a very grimy old lady with a moustache,
and a complexion which suggested coal-dust
rather than poudre de riz. Her clothes would
have been worth a great deal to an antiquary,
notwithstanding that they were all shaped, more
or less, in accordance with the fashion ; but they
gave Lady Betsinda the air of an animated rag-bag
; and she wore a profusion of lace, clouds of
black upon her mantle, and ruffles of white about
her thin and dingy neck but it would have been
a misnomer, and also an insult, to call that lace
white. It was frankly dirty, and toned to an
indescribable colour by years and wear. She
was worth a small fortune where she stood withall

her old trumpery upon her ; and yet a clean
old woman in a white cap and apron would have
been a much fairer spectacle. Her rings flashed
as she moved her quick bony wrinkled hands,
which were of a colour as indescribable as her
lace. It would have been hard to have seen any
signs of noble race in Lady Betsinda's hands ;
and yet the queer old figure hung round with
festoons of lace, and clothed in old black satin
as thick as a modern party wall, could not have
been anything but that of a woman of rank. Her
garments smelt not of myrrh and frankincense, but
of camphor, in which they were always put
away to preserve them ; and the number of times
these garments had been through the hands of
Lady Betsinda's patient maid, and the number
of stitches that were required to keep them
always in order was more than anybody, except
the hard-worked official who had charge of the
old lady's wardrobe, could say.

"I think so too," said a small and delicate
person who was seated in a deep low chair upon the
other side of the fire. She was not old like Lady

Betsinda. She was a fragile, little, pale woman
approaching fifty, the wife of an eminent lawyer
and a little leader of society in her way. She
wrote a little, and drew a little, and sang a little,
and was a great patroness of artists, to whom, it
need not be said, Mrs. Berry-Montagu was very
superior, gracious to them as a queen to her
courtiers; while young painters, and young
writers, and young actors were very obsequious
to her, as to a woman who could, their elders
told them, "make their fortunes." And there
was more truth than usual in this, for though
Mrs. Berry-Montagu could not make anybody's
fortune, she could do something to mar it, and
very frequently exercised that less amiable
power, writing pretty little critiques which made
the young people wince, and damning their best
efforts with elegant depreciation. These were
two of the friends who took Lady Randolph's
moral character and social actions under their
control. Most women, especially those who are
widows, have a superintending tribunal of this
description, before which all their actions are

judged ; and nowhere does the true dignity of the
woman who is married come out with more
imposing force than in such circumstances.
Lady Betsinda was vehement ; she was old and
the daughter of a duke, and had a very good
right to say what she pleased, and keep the rest
of the world in order. But Mrs. Berry-Montagu
was, so to speak, two people. Her views were
enlarged, as everybody acknowledged tacitly by
her possession of that larger shadow of a
husband behind her  and she had a great unexpressed
contempt for .all women who were
without that dual dignity. A smile of the
softest disdain nay the word is too strong  and
so is derision ; also much too potent for the
delicate subdued amusement with which she contemplated
the doings of the femme sole of all
classes  hovered about her lips. This did not
spring from any special devotion on her part to
her husband, or faith in him, but only from her
consciousness of her own good fortune and
dignity, and the high position she occupied inconsequence
of his existence. We have given

too much space to the description of Lady
Randolph's privy council. Has not every solitary
woman in society a governing body which
is much the same?

I think so too," Mrs. Berry-Montagu said,
you ought really to think of yourself a little ;
self-renunciation is a beautiful virtue ; but then
we are not called upon to exercise it for everybody,
and a girl of this description is fair
game."

If I were a hunter," said Lady Kandolph.

Oh, my dear, don't tell me, you are all
hunters," said the little lady in serene superiority.
'what do you take her for? You are not one
of the silly women that want a girl to take about
with them, to be an excuse for going to parties ;
therefore you must have an object. *ow, of
course, we don't want to know, till you tell us,
what that object is ; but in the meantime you
ought, it is your duty, to derive a little advantage
on your side from what is so great an
advantage on hers."

That's speaking like a book," said Lady

Betsina, " but I like to be plain for my part ;
you ought to lay by half, my dear. You want
to go tj? Homburg when the season's over, that
stands to reason ; and when you come back you've
got dozens of visits to pay  the most expensive
thing in the world and after all this won't last
for ever ; there will come a time when she will
marry, or set up for herself; that's quite common
now-a-days : girls do it, and nobody thinks
any harm."

Oh, she will marry," said Mrs. Berry-montagu
with a significant smile.

"Most likely she'll marry; but not so sure
as it once was," said Lady Betsinda, nodding her
old head, " women's ways have changed ; I don't
say if it is better or worse, but they have
changed ; and anyhow it is your duty to look after
yourself. Now don't you think it her duty to
look after herself? Disinterestedness and so
forth, are all very fine. We know you're unselfish,
my dear."

Every woman is unselfish ; it is the appropriate
adjective," said Mrs. Berry-montagu,

*' but you must recollect that you have no one
to look after your interests, and that, however it
goes against you, you must take-yourself into
consideration."

Oh, this is all much too fine for me !'' cried
the culprit on her trial. " Rather congratulate
me on having been so lucky. I might have found
myself with a vulgar hoyden, or a little silly
parvenue on my hands and here is a quiet little
well-bred person, as composed, and with as
much good sense  I am afraid with more good
sense than I have myself."

"Yes, she will make her own out of you.
You are just a little simpleton, Mary Randolph,
though you're twice as big and half as old as me.
She'll turn you round her little finger. Isn't
your whole house turned upside down for her
and her belongings ? Why, there was a child
about ! a big pair of eyes, not much more ! are
you taking him parnassus le marches She is
capable of it," cried the old lady, shaking a
cloud of camphor out of her old satin skirts in
impatience, and appealing to her colleague.

Mrs. Berry-Montagu put some eau-de-cologne
on her handkerchief and applied it tenderly to
her nose.

You continue to use patchouli. I hoped it
had gone completely out of fashion," she
said.

"It isn't patchouli. I have my things carefully
looked after, that's why they last so well.
I have little bags of camphor in all ray dresses.
It is good for everything. Many people think it
is only moths that camphor is useful for, but it is
goodfor everything and a very wholesome scent.
I hate perfumes myself."

"Who is the little boys said Mrs. Berry-montagu,
with a languid smile.

Ah ! that is the sore point," said Lady Randolph.
" There is a little brother."

This was echoed by both the ladies in different
tones of amazement.

Then how is it that she has the money ?"
Lady Betsinda asked.

It came from Lucy's mother ; the boy had
nothing to do with it, he has not a penny. Poor

child ! I can see Lucy is disturbed about bim. He
has three thousand pounds, and nothing more."

"Dear Lady Kandolph, how good you are,"
said Mrs. Berry-Montagu, with gentle derision ;
what can you want with a child like this in
your house?"

'what can I do? Lucy would be wretched
without him ; he is the only tie she has, the
only duty. What am I to do ?"

Mrs. Berry-Montagu shook her head softly,
and smiled once more  smiled with the utmost
significance. " You must, indeed, see your way
very clearly," she said, with that gentle languor
which sat so well upon her ; " when you burden
yourself with the boy."

I don't know what you mean by seeing my
way;" Lady Randolph said, with some heat.
An uncomfortable flush came upon her face, and
something like consciousness to her manner.
"I had no alternative. Taking Luc}, I was
almost bound to take her brother too  when 1
found out her devotion to him."

"Ah you're too good, too good, my dear, you

don't think half enough of your own interests ;"
said Lady Betsinda. *' If the girl had come tome,
I'll tell you what I should have done. I'd
have been kind to her, but not too kind. I'd
have let her see clearly that little brothers are
sent to school. I'd have given her to understand
that I was doing her a great favour in having
her at all. She should not have wanted for anything
: I don't advise you or anybody to kill
the goose that lays the golden eggs ; but to
make her the chief interest, and everything to
give way to her, that's what I would never
do."

I am afraid I shall have to take my own way,
so far as that goes," said Lady Randolph, roused
to a little offence.

"Yes, dear, of course you will take your
own way, we all do," said Mrs. Berry-Montagu,
giving her friend a kiss before she went away,
and I don't doubt it will all come right in the
end."

The two visitors went out together, and they
stopped to talk for a moment before they parted

at the door of the little stuffy brougham, which
carried Lady Betsinda from one place to another.


I suppose she has something in her head f '
said the old lady. And, " Oh, who can doubt
it r said the other ; '' Sir Tom !"

Was it true ? Lady Randolph was very angry
and impatient as she turned from the door, after
the kiss which she had bestowed on each.
Women have to kiss, as men shake hands ; it
is the established formula of parting among
friends, not to be omitted, which would imply a
breach, because of a little momentary flash of
irritation. But the cause of her anger was not
so much what they had said to her as that
word of mutual confidence which she knew
would pass between them at the door ; was it
true ? If it had not been so, Lady Randolph
would not have divined it. She paced up and
down her pretty drawing-room, giving one glance
from the window to see, as she expected, the
one lady standing at the door of the little carriage,
while the wrinkled countenance of the

other bent out from within. She saw Lady
Betsinda give a great many nods of intelligence,
and her heart burned within her with momentary
fury. Often it happens that the worst of
the pang of being found out is the revelation
it makes to one's self. Lady Randolph meant
no harm ; not to introduce her nephew to Lucy
would have been, in the circumstances, a thing
impossible  and who could expect her to be
responsible for anything that might follow?
When an unmarried man meets a nice girl,
there is never any telling what may happen.
And Lucy was certainly a nice girl, notwithstanding
her ignorance and simplicity, and
her great fortune. To be sure, any connection
of this kind would be a mesalliance for Tom ;
but even these were common incidents, and took
place in the very highest circles. If this was
fortune-hunting, then fortune-hunting was simple
nature and no more. After a while the
irritation died away. She sat down again and
took up the book she had been reading when
that committee of direction came in, and began

their sitting upon her and her concerns. Lad 3
Randolph was about sixty, a large and ample
woman with no pretence at juvenility ; but her
eye was not dim, nor her natural force abated.
There was only a small proportion of grey 
just enough to give it an air of honest reality 
in her abundant hair. As she sat and read a
sentence or two, then paused and mused a little
with the book closed over her hand, she recovered
her composure. " What good will it dome
T she asked herself triumphantly. Had she
been seeking her own advantage her conduct
might have been subject to blame ; but she was
not seeking her own advantage. Should any
marriage come to pass, it would deprive her, atone
stroke, of all the comfort which Lucy's
allowance brought her. She would be giving
up, not gaining anything. When this thought
passed through her mind, it seemed a full answer
to all possible objections, and she resumed her
reading with the feeling that she had put every
caviller to silence, and nobly justified herself
to herself. What advantage would it be to me ?

the words twined themselves among those of
the book she was reading, and appeared on
every page more visible than the print. " What
good would it do to me? I should suffer by it,"
she said.

While Lady Randolph was thus employed
downstairs, Lucy and Jock were seated together
at the window of the pretty little sitting-room,
which had been so carefully prepared for the
girl's comfort and pleasure. It was high up, but
it had a pretty view over the gardens of the
neighbouring square, where soon the trees would
begin to bud and blossom, and where even now
the birds began to hold colloquies and prelude,
with little interrogative pipings and chirping,
till it should be time for better music  while in
front, though at some distance down, was the
cheerful London street, in which there was
always variety to eyes accustomed to the Terrace
at Farafield. They had not tired yet of its
sights and sounds, or found it noisy, as Lady
Randolph sometimes did. The house was situated
in one of the streets leading out of Grosvenor

VOL. n. G

Square, and all sorts of things went past, wheelbarrows
full of flowers, flowers in such quantities
as they had never seen in the country, tradespeople's
carts of every description, German bands,
all kinds of amusing things.

"Here is another organ," cried Jock, with
excitement ; and he added with a scream of delight,
" it's got a monkey ! and there is another
little boy on a pony," the child added with a
sigh, half of pleasure, half of envy. " What a
long, lovely tail it has got ! and here are two
carriages coming, and a big van with a great
picture outside. Did you think there were as
many things in London, Lucy ? There is something
passing every minute, and every day."

Oh, yes, I knew," said Lucy, with calm
superiority, from the other end of the room. "I
told you all about Madame Tussaud's, don't you
remember, before you went there? I read all
that book about London," she said, with modest
pride.

It isn't a book," said Jock, " it is only a
guide. What a funny thing it is that you can

read that, and you don't care for stories, or
histories either."

Then there was a little pause. The boy on
the pony cantered away, the big furniture van
with the landscape painted upon it lumbered
along so slowly that its interest was more than
exhausted, the carriages drew up at a house out
of sight. There was a momentary lull, and
Jock's interest flagged. He turned round, recalled
to himself by this recollection of his favourite
studies.

*' Am I always to live here ?" he asked, suddenly.


Now this was a question that had much
troubled Lucy's mind ; for, indeed, Jock had not
been expected, and his presence somewhat disturbed
the arrangements of Lady Randolph's
household  while, on the other hand, Lucy had
already given to her little brother the position
which every woman gives to some male creature,
and consulted his wishes with a servility which
sometimes was ludicrously inappropriate, as in
the present instance. She could not bring her

2

self to hurt Jock's feelings by suggesting that it
would be better for him to go to school, though
this conviction had been gaining upon her asher
own mind calmed, and the child himself recovered
his spirits and courage. Lucy's heart
began to beat a little faster when her little
autocrat broached the question. She came up to
him and began to stroke and smooth the limp
locks, which would not be picturesque whatever
was done to them.

That is what vexes me a little, Jock ; I
don't know. You ought to be getting on with
your education ; and Lady Randolph is very
kind ; but she did not know you were
coming"

"Nor me either," said Jock, regardless of
grammar. He had got over this painful uprooting
of his little life, but even at eight such
a disturbance of habits is not easily got over.
There was no white rug to lie down upon, no
old father always seated there to justify the
strange existence of the child, and Lady Randolph,
shocked by his indiscriminate reading,

nat provided him with good little-boy books,
which did not at all suit Jock. He mused a
little, gazing down into the street, and then
resumed. " Nor me either. I would like some
other place; I would like you and me to stay
always at home, as we used to do. I would
like "

Jock paused again, not very clear what it was
that he would like; and Lucy looked vaguely
over his head, waiting for the utterance of her
oracle. Poor little oracle, for whom there was
no certain and settled place ! She stroked his
hair softly, with infinite tenderness in her half-motherly,
half-childish soul, to make him amends
for this wrong which Providence had done him.
She did not know what to suggest, nor what
place to think of, but watched him to divine his
wishes, as if he had been double, and not half
her age.

*'I would like," said Jock, some gleam of
association recalling to him one fable among the
many that filled his memory, " to be a giantlike
that one you told me the story about ; you

never told me the end of that story, Lucy. I'd
like to be able to go where I liked, and travel
all over the world, and meet with black
knights, and dwarfs, and armies marching
"

There are no dwarfs nor giants nowadays,"
said Lucy, " but you will be able to go where
you like when you are a man."

It's so long to wait till you are a man," said
the child, peevishly. "I'd like you and me to
go away together and nobody'' to stop us. I'd
like to be cast away on a desert island," he cried,
with a sudden perception of paradise, " that's
what I should like best of all."

"But I don't think I should like it at
all."

There !" he cried, " that is always how it
is ; you and me never like the same things. I
suppose it is because you are a girl." This Jock
said more regretfully than contemptuously, for
he was very fond of his sister ; and then he
added, with a little sigh, not of sorrow, but of
resigned acceptance of a commonplace sort of

expedient, not absolutely good, but the best in
the circumstances, " I suppose you had better
send me to school."

CHAPTER V.

THE RUSSELL S.

rpHAT is just what I was thinking," Lady
-L Randolph said, " we can do two things,
Lucy, two benefits at once. I know just the
place for little Jock, since he wants to go to
school  with a poor lady whom you will like to
help  and," she added with a little softening of
compassion, " where you could go to see him
often ; and he could come" this addition was
less cordial. Lady Randolph was a woman too
easily led away by her feelings. She thought
of her committee, and restrained herself. "Katie
Russell must have told you about her mother.
She has taken a house at Hampstead, or one of

those places, and is trying to set np a little
school. We are all on the outlook for Indian
children, or, indeed, pupils of any kind. Jock
will be quite happy there. She will take an
interest in him as your brother. I have got her
address somewhere. Shall we go and look her
up to-day ?"

Lucy's eyes, before she replied, travelled
anxiously to Jock's face to read that little charts
varying sentiment, and take her guidance
from it. But Jock's face said nothing. He
could not any longer lie on the hearth-rug, but
he was doubled up in a corner by the fire, reading
as usual, one of the books with which
Lady Randolph had thought it proper to supply
him  a proper little story about little boys, supposed
to be adapted to the calibre of eight years
old. Perhaps it was more fit for him than the
History of the Plague,' but he did not like it
so well.

I think  that would be very nice, Lady
Randolph," said Lucy doubtfully.

Well, my dear, we can but go and see.

Jock is too young to judge for himself; but .he
can come too, and tell you how he likes it. Mrs.
Russell is very kind, I believe. She is, also,
rather feeble, and does not know quite so well
what she would be at as one could wish. She
is always changing her plans. It may help to
fix her if we take her a pupil. It is a great
blessing," Lady Randolph said with a sigh,
when people know their own mind especially
poor people who have to be helped by their
friends."

I wonder," said Lucy, " if it is more difficult
to be poor than to be rich."

Oh, there can be little doubt about that 
for women, at least. I am not in the least sorry
for the butchers and bakers  they have their
trade  or for our housemaids, which is the same
thing ; but you and I, Lucy. If anything were
to happen, if we were to lose all our money,
what should we do ?"

I should not be afraid," said Lucy quietly,
for you know I was born poor ; but to have
a great deal of money, and not know how to

employ it  that was always what papa said.
He gave me a great many directions ; but I
don't know if I understood them, and sometimes
I do not feel sure whether he understood.
Life is different here and at the Terrace, Lady
Randolph."

"Very different, my dear; but you need not
bewilder your poor little head Jest yet. You
will be older, you will have more experience
before you have any occasion to trouble yourself
about the employment of your money. I have
no doubt all the investments are excellent your
father had a good business head."

It was not about investments I was thinking,"
Lucy said. " I have no power over them."

Nor over anything else, fortunately, at your
present age," Lady Randolph said with a smile.
We may all be very thankful for that ; for I
fear, unless you are very unlike other girls, that
you would throw a good deal of it away."

Lucy did not smile, or take any notice of
this pleasantry. Her next remark was very
serious. " Don't you think," she said, " that it

is very wrong for me to be so rich, when others
are so poor ?"

A little Radical," cried Lady Randolph with
a laugh. " Why, Lucy, I never thought a proper
little woman like you would entertain such
revolutionary sentiments."

You see," said Lucy very gravely, " it is
upon me the burden falls ; every one feels most
what is most hard upon themselves."

Lady Randolph laughed again, but this time
with a puzzled air. " Hard upon you !" she
said. " My dear, half the girls in England 
and the men too  would give their heads to have
half so much reason to complain."

Men, perhaps, might understand better. Lady
Randolph; but it is altogether very strange.
Papa must have known a great deal better ; but
he did nothing himself. All that he wanted, sofar
as I can make out, was to make more and
more money ; and then left the use of it  the
spending of it  to a girl that knows nothing. I
never took much thought of this while he was
living, but T feel very bewildered now."

Wait a little," Lady Randolph said, " you
will find it very easy after a while ; and, when
you marry, your husband will give you a great
deal of assistance. In England you can never
be at a loss in spending the largest income ; and
the more you have, the more satisfactorily you
can spend it, the better return you have for
your money. It is among us poor people that
money is most unsatisfactory. It never brings
so much as it ought," she said with that air of
playfulness which, on such subjects, is the
usual disguise for the most serious feeling. Lucy
looked up at her with a gravity that disdained
all disguise.

But you do not mean to say, Lady Randolph,
that you are poor T

This question brought the colour to Lady
Randolph's face. " You are very downright,
my dear," she said, "but I will be honest too.
Yes, Lucy, I am poor. The allowance that is
made for you, is a great matter for me. Without
that I should not have dreamt  my dear, you
must not think I mean anything unkind  "

Oh, no ; you could not have cared for me
even had I been nicer than I am," said Lucy,
*' for you had never seen me. Then I am rather
glad it is so, Lady Randolph ; but you should
not give me so many things."

Lady Randolph laughed, but the moisture
came into her eyes. " Lucy, I begin to think
you are a darling," she said.

Do you ?" cried Lucy, with a warm flush
which gave her face a certain beauty for a moment.
" But I am afraid not," she said, shaking
her head. " Nobody ever said that. I am ,
glad  very glad that you think you will not mind
having me; and it is very very kind of you
to do so much for me. But I should be quite as
happy if you liked me, and did not buy so many
things for me. Is it vulgar to say it? 1
am almost afraid it is. I never had anything
half not a tenth part so nice at the Terrace as
you give me here."

You were a little school-girl then, and now
you are a young lady  a great heiress ; and
must begin to live as such people do."

Lucy shook her head again. " I am only
me," she said with a smile, " all the same."

Not quite the same ; but to leave these perplexing
subjects  what is to be done about your
own studies, Lucy ?"

Must I have studies ?" she asked with a tone
of melancholy ; then added sob missive. "Whatever
you think best, Lady Randolph."

My dear, you are far too good. I should
like you to have a little will of your own."

Oh, yes ! I have a will of my own. If you
please, I do not wish to have any more lessons.
I will read books; but they all said I never
would play very well, and I cannot draw at all.
I can speak French a little, but it is very bad,
and I have done about twenty German exercises,"
Lucy said with a shudder.

Poor child ! but I fear you must go on with
these dreadful experiences. Perhaps a good
German governess for a year  "

Lucy shuddered again. She thought of the
Fraulein at the White House, with an inward
prayer for deliverance. The Fraulein knew

everything, all her own business, and other
people's special branches, even better than her
own. Her very spectacles shone with knowledge.


"They cannot be all like each other," Lucy
said, "and I will do whatever you like, Lady
Kandolph."

There was never a girl so docile and obedient.
Lady Randolph almost regretted the absence of
all struggle, till her eyes fell upon little Jock
in the corner, holding his book somewhat languidly.
Jock did not care for this correct literature;
the last thing in the world that he had
any acquaintance with was the doings of children
at school.

Do you like your story-book, Jock ?"

No," said Jock, concisely.

He let it drop from his hand ; he did not even
feel very deeply desirous of knowing what was
the end.

I am sorry for that ; I hunted it up for you
out of my old nursery. Nobody had touched the
things for thirty years."

It is very pretty outside," Jock said, eyeing
the gilding, " but I don't care much about little
boys," he added, with dignity, "I don't know
what it means."

That is because you are so little, my
dear."

Oh, no, because I don't understand it. I
have read much nicer hooks ; the ' History of the
Plague,' that was what I liked best, better than
Robinson Crusoe,' as good as the ' Pilgrim's
Progress.' "

How old-fashioned the child is," Lady Randolph
said. '' Will you come with us to see the
school where Lucy wishes you to go ?"

Lucy did not wish it," said the boy, " it was
me. I told her. I will go  because I suppose it
is the right thing. You can't grow up to be a
giant, or even a common man, without going to
school. I do not like it at all, but it is the right
thing to do."

You are a wise little man," said Lady Randolph,
" and do you think you may perhaps grow
up a giant, Jock ?"

VOL. n. H

"Not in tallness," Jock said.

He looked at her with something like contempt,
and she was cowed in spite of herself. His very
reticence impressed her, for he relapsed into
silence, and gave no further explanation, not
caring even to describe in what, if not in tallness,
he expected to be a giant ; and the two sat and
looked at each other for a minute in silence.
They looked very unlikely antagonists, but it
was not the least important of the two who was
most nervous. Lady Randolph felt as if it were
she who was the inexperienced, the uninstructed
one. She did not like to venture out of her depth
again.

"Will you go and get your hat and come with
us ? You must be very kind to Lucy, and not
worry her. You know she does not want you to
leave her; but, also, you know, little Jock "

Lady Randolph looked at him with a little
alarm, feeling that his big eyes saw through and
through her, and not knowing what weird insight
might be in them, or what strange thing he might
say.

But Jock's answer was to get up, and put
away his book.

*' I am going," he said.

It was the old lady who was afraid of him.
She sat and watched him, and was glad when
he was gone. Lucy was comprehensible and
manageable, but the child dismayed and troubled
her. Poor little forlorn boy ! There was no
home for him anywhere, no one to care for him
but Luc} who no doubt would form, as people
say, " other ties."

It was a bright morning in March, the skies
full of the beauty of Spring, the air fresh with
showers, the sun shining; the buds were beginning
to swell on the trees, and primroses coming
out in the suburban gardens. Jock looked somewhat
forlorn, all by himself, in the front seat of
the carriage, buttoned closely into his greatcoat,
and looking smaller than ever as his delicate
little face looked out from the thick collar:
opposite to Lady Randolph's portly person, in
her great furred mantle, he looked like a little
waxen image ; and he sat very stiffly, trying to

H 2

draw up his thin little legs beneath him, but
now and then receiving a warning glance from
Lucy, who was extremely nervous about his
manners. They were both amused however by
the long drive across London, and up the hill towards
the northern suburbs. Lady Randolph
did not know the way. She took almost as
much interest as they did in the animated
streets.

'' Jock, little Jock, there is the heath. Do
you see the big furze bushes ?" she said. " How
strange to see a place so wild, yet so near
town !"

It is not so good as our common," Jock
said. Yet school took a more smiling aspect
after he had got a glimpse of the broken ground
and wild vegetation.

They drew up at last after a troublesome
search (for Lady Randolph's coachman would
not have betrayed any knowledge of that out
of the way locality for worlds, it was as much
as his reputation was worth), before a little new
house, with a bay-window, and a small square

patch ot green called a garden. Through the
bay-window there was a dim appearance visible
of some one seated at a table writing ; but when
the carriage stopped there was evidently a great
commotion in the house, and the dim figure
disappeared. Some one hastily opening an
upper window, a sound of bells rung, and of
noisy footsteps running up and down the stairs,
were all audible to the little party seated in the
carriage, who were amused by all this pantomime.


"She will have a headache," Lady Randolph
said, " as soon as she sees us."

Lucy, for her part, felt that to sit here at
her ease and witness the flutter in the house, of
excitement and expectation, was scarcely generous.
She was relieved when the door opened. It
wounded her to see the disdain of the footman,
the scorn with which he contemplated the house,
and the maid who came to the door ; all this penetrated
her mind with a curious sense of familiarity.
Mrs. Ford, too, would have been greatly excited
had a pair of prancing horses drawn up before her

door, and a great lady in furs and velvet been seen
about to enter ; and Lucy knew that she herself
would have rushed out of the parlour, had she
been sitting there, and would have been apt to
fly to an upstairs window and peep out upon the
unwonted visitor. She felt all this in the person
of the others, to whom she was coming in the
capacity of a great lady. She had never felt so
humble or so insignificant as when she stepped
out of the carriage, following Lady Kandolph.
Jock grasped at her hand as he jumped down.
He clung to it with both his without saying a
word. He did not feel at all sure that he was
not now, this very moment, to be consigned to
separation and banishment, and the new life of
school for which he had offered himself as a
victim. He contemplated that approaching fate
with courage, with wide open, unwinking eyes,
but all the same at the descent of Avernus, at
the mouth of the pit, so to speak, clung to his
only protector, his sole comforter. She stooped
down and kissed him hurriedly as they crossed
the little green.

"You shan't go if you do not like it,
Jock."

But I am going," said the child, with courage
that was heroic; though he clung to her hand
as if he never would let it go, all the
same.

Mrs. Russell was a pretty, faded woman, with
hair like Katie's, and the same blue eyes ; but
the mirth was out of them, and puckers of
anxiety had come instead. She had put up her
handkerchief to her forehead when Lucy entered
the room. She had a headache, as Lady Randolph
divined. There was a little flush of excitement
upon her cheeks. When Lucy was introduced
to her, she gave the girl a wistful look
first, then made an anxious inspection of her,
returning again and again, Lucy felt, to her
face. Was not there in that look the inevitable
contrast which it was so impossible to help
making 1

Is this," she said, " the young lady Katie
has written to me about?" she added, faltering,
after a moment, "the dear young friend who

has been so kind to her f and again she turned
a questioning, wistful look upon Lucy, whose
fate was so different.

Indeed," said Lucy, " I could not be kind, I
wish I could ; but I like Katie very dearly, Mrs.
Russell."

"Ah, my dear, if I may call you so," cried
the poor woman with the headache, " that is the
very sweetest thing you could say," but all the
same her eyes kept questioning. What had the
heiress come for? what had Lady Randolph
come for ? When visitors like these enter a very
poor house, should not some pearls and diamonds
fall from their lips, some little wells of
comforting wealth spring up beneath their
feet?

"How does the school go on?" said Lady
Randolph, " that is the cause of our visit really.
I heard of a little boy but how does it goon?
Did you settle about those Indian children
?"

Ah !" said Mrs. Russell, " there is nothing
so hard to get as Indian children ; they are the

prizes ; if one can but get a good connection in
that way, one's fortune is made ; but there are
so many that want them. It seems to me that
there is nothing in all the world but a crowd of
poor ladies fighting for pupils. It will be strange
to you, Miss Trevor, to hear anyone talk like
that," she added.

She could not help, it would seem, this reference
to Lucy ; a girl who was made of money,
who could support dozens of families and never
feel it. It was not that the poor lady wanted
her money, but she could not help feeling a
wistful wonder about her, a young creature
whose fate was so different ! When one is very
poor, it is so natural to admire wealth, and so
curious to see it, and watch its happy owners, if
only to note in what way they differ. Lucy did
not differ in any way, at which poor Mrs.
Russell admired and wondered all the more.

But you have some pupils f Lady Randolph
said.

"Yes, three in the house, and six who are
day-scholars. Bertie tells me it is not such a

bad beginning. I tried for little boys, because
there are so few, in comparison, that take little
boys ; and Bertie teaches them Latin."

I thought your son was to get a situation."


*' Yes, Indeed, but some one else got it instead ;
one can hardly grudge it, when one knows how
many poor young fellows there are with nothing.
He is writing," Mrs. Russell said, with some
pride.

Writing !" Lady Randolph echoed with dismay,
mingled with contempt. Their points of
view were very different. To the mother, fortune
seemed to be hovering, doubtful, yet very
possible, over the feather of her boy's pen ; to
the woman of the world, a little clerkship in an
office would have been much more satisfactory.
You should not encourage him in that ; I fear
it is not much better than idleness," Lady Randolph
said, shaking her head.

Idleness ! look at Mr. Trollope, and all those
gentlemen ; it is a isle profession ! a noble profession
!" said the poor lady, fervently ; but she

added with a sigh, " if he could only get an
opening, that is the hard thing. If he only
knew somebody! Bertie takes the Latin, and
Mary the English, and I superintend, and give
the music-lessons."

And you are getting on ?"

The poor woman looked the rich woman (as
she thought) in the face, with eyes that filled
with tears. She could not answer in words
before the strangers. She mutely and faintly
shook her head, with a pathetic attempt at a
smile.

Both Lucy and little Jock saw the silent communication,
and divined it, perhaps, better than
the elder lady. As for Luc}, her heart ached
with sympathy, and a flood of sudden resolutions,
intentions, took possession of her; but what
could she do ? She had to keep silent, holding
Jock's little hand fast, who stood by her
knee.

I thought you might perhaps have an opening
for  the little boy I heard of. He is a
delicate child, and peculiar; he would require

a great deal of special care. If you think jou
have time  "

Oh !" said Mrs. Russell, the pink flush
deepening on her cheeks ; " plenty of time ! And
I think I may say for myself that I am very
good with delicate children. I take an interest
in them. I you would like to see Bertie, perhaps,
about the Latin?" Mrs. Russell rang her
bell hastily. She was feverishly anxious to conclude
the bargain without loss of time. " Will
you tell Mr. Bertie I want him," she said, going
to the door, to anticipate the maid, who was not
too anxious to reply. "I am here, mother,"
they heard, in a youthful bass  at no great distance
 evidently the house was all in a stir of
expectation. Mrs. Russell came back with a
little nervous laugh. " Bertie will be here
directly," she said ; " I would ask you to step
into the schoolroom, and see them, but the truth
is they are all out for a walk. Mary has taken
them to the heath. It is so good for them  and
it was such a beautiful day  and my headache
was particularly bad. When my headache is

very bad, the voices of the children drive me
wild." Poor soul ! as soon as she had said this,
she perceived that it was a thing inexpedient to
say. But by this time the door had opened
again, and introduced a new figure. He came in
with his hands in his pockets, after the manner
of young men. He, too, was like Katie; but
his face was cloudy, not so open as hers, and
his features handsomer. He stood hesitating, his
eyes going from one to another ; to Lucy first 
was not that natural ? Then he straightened
himself out, and took a hand from one of his
pockets, and presented it to Lady Kandolph. He
was eager too, but with a suppressed bravado,
as if anxious to show that he did not mean
it, and was himself personally much at his
ease.

So this is Bertie !" said Lady Randolph .
What a long time it must be since I have seen
him ! Why, you are a man now ; and what a
comfort it must be to your mother to have you
with her !"

Mrs. Russell clasped her thin hands. ' Yes, it

is a comfort !" she said. '' What should I do if
Bertie were away ?"

Lucy was in the position of a spectator while
all this was going on, and, though she was not a
great observer, something jarred in this little
scene, she could not tell what. She surprised a
glance from the mother to the son, which did
not chime in with her words, and Bertie himself
did not respond with enthusiasm. " I don't
know if I am a comforts*' he said ; " but here I
I am anyhow  and very glad to see an old
friend."

I hear you are coming out as a literary
character, Bertie f

I am trying to write a little ; it seems the
best trade nowadays. I believe there are heaps of
money to be made by it," he said, with that air
of careless grandeur which is so delightful to
the unsophisticated imagination ; " and not much
trouble. The only thing is to get one's hand
in."

That is what I was telling Lady Randolph,"
said his mother, her thin hands clasping and

unclasping ; " to get an opening that is all you
want."

But you require to be very clever, Bertie," said
Lady Randolph, gravely disapproving, " to make
anything by writing. I have heard people say in
society"

"No," said the young roan, "not at all, it is
only a knack ; there is nothing that costs so little
trouble. You want training for every other profession,
but anybody can write. I think I know
what I am about."

Then there was a momentary silence. Mrs.
Russell looked at her son with wistful admiration,
not unmingled with a furtive and painful
doubt, while Lady Randolph contemplated him
with a severity which was resentful, as if poor
Bertie's pretensions did her, or anyone else, any
harm. This pause, which was somewhat embarrassing,
was broken by Jock, whose small
voice, suddenly uplifted, startled them all.

Is it stories he writes, Lucy ? I would like
to learn to write stories. I think I will stay
here," he said. But Jock was confused by the

attention attracted by his utterance, and the faces
of all those grown up people turned towards him.
I can't write at all yet," he said, growing very
red, planting himself firmly against Lucy, and
facing the company, half apologetic, half defiant.
Between pothooks and novels there is a difference
; but why should not the one branch of skill
be learned as well as the other 1 Jock knew no
reason why.

CHAPTER VI.

POWER.

THIS visit made a turning point in Lucy's
life. She returned home very thoughtful,
more serions than usual  a result which seemed
very easily comprehensible to her experienced
friend. To part with her little brother was
another trial for the girl ; what wonder that it
should bring back the grief that was still so fresh ?
Lucy said nothing about it ; which was quite
like her, for she was not a girl who made much
show of her feelings But it was not either her
past sorrow, or the present " trial" of parting
with Jock that moved Lucy something else
worked in her mind. The very sight of the poor
VOL. n. I

household with all its anxieties, the struggle for
existence which was going on, the hopes most
likely to produce nothing but disappointment,
struck a new chord in her. She was more familiar
with the level of common-place existence on
which they were struggling to hold their place,
than with the soft and costly completeness of
life on Lady Randolph's lines. The outside
aspect of the house had carried her back to the
Terrace ; the busied and somewhat agitated maid
who opened the door, unaccustomed to such fine
company, the flutter and flurry of expectation
throughout the house, no one knowing who it
was who had come, but all expecting some event
out of the way  had made Lucy smile with
sympathy, yet blush to think that such an insignificant
personage as herself was the-stranger
received with so much excitement. So far Lucy
knew and recognised the state of feeling in the
house ; but she had never known that struggle
of poverty which was everywhere visible, and it
went to her heart. This occupied all her thoughts
as she went back ; and when she got home she

disappeared into her own room for a long time,
somewhat to the surprise of Lady Randolph,
who, as so often happens, was specially disposed
for her young companion's society. Lucy sent
even Jock away. She dispatched him with
Elizabeth, her maid, to buy something he would
want before going to school ; and bringing her
little old-fashioned desk to her little sitting-room,
sat down with it before the fire. It was
a cold day, though bright, and Lucy thought,
with pain that was almost personal, of the
sputtering of the newly lighted fire in Mrs.
Russell's cold drawing-room, and of all the signs
of poverty about. Why should people be so
different ? She opened the desk, which was full
of little relics of her girlhood ; little rubbishy
drawings which the other girls, at Mrs. Stone's,
had done for her ; and even little French exercises
and virtuous essays of her own, all religiously
put away. The desk was a very common
little article, opening in two unequal divisions,
so as to form a blue velvet slope on vrbich to
write ; a thing much more adapted to be laid

I 2

out upon one of the little tables in the Terrace
drawing-room than to have a place here, where
everything was so much more refined.

But all Lucy's little secrets reposed under that
blue velvet ; and in a drawer which shut with a
spring, and was probably called secret, there
was a packet of much more importance than
Lucy's little souvenirs. She opened it with tremulous
care. It was a bundle of memoranda in
her father's hand-writing, done up with a bit of
string as was his way. He had tied them up
himself, directing her to read them over frequently.
Lucy had never touched the sacred packet up to
this moment ; her awe had been greater than her
curiosity. Indeed, there had been little ground for
curiosity, for she had heard him read, as they were
written, all these scraps which were the studies
for his great work of art, the will, into which old
Mr. Trevor had concentrated his mind, and the
meaning of his life. She had heard them, listening
very dutifully ; but yet it was as if she had
not heard at all, so lightly had they floated over
her so little had she thought of them, She

had been entirely acquainted with all his plans
for her, and all the serious occupations he had
planned out; but she had taken them calmly
for granted, as things not affecting her for the
moment. Now, however, quite suddenly, Lucy
realised that she was not a helpless person, but
powerful for aid and assistance to her fellow-creatures
even now, young as she was. She
gave but one glance, half smiling, to Maude
Langton's drawings, and Lily Barrington's pincushion,
and the pen-wiper made for her by
Katie Russell ; then took out her little bundle of
scrappy papers  the string of which she untied
carefully and with difficulty, with a reverent
thought of the old man whose withered fingers
had drawn it so tight. It was with some difficulty
that Lucy found, among the many memoranda
in her bands, the one she sought. They
were all embodied in the will. She found the
stipulations about her residence, half in high-life,
half in what Mr. Trevor called a middling way.
And about her marriage, an event so distant
and improbable, that Lucy smiled again in

maiden calm, wholly fancy free, as the word
met her eye. At last here it was. She shut the
others carefully into the desk, and began to read.
And it was so remarkable a document that it
will not be amiss if we give it here. This, as
we have said, was but the memorandum, the
rough draft, afterwards put into more formal
language, in the will itself.

The fortune which my daughter Lucy is to
inherit, having been made by her uncle James
Rainy, as may be said, out of nothing, that is
to say, without any but the smallest bit of money
to begin with, all by his own industry and 
very honestly made, though
perhaps not without being to the detriment here
and there of another person, not so clever as he
was it is my desire that his heiress should give
back a part of it to her fellow-creatures, from
whom it came. For, however honestly money is
made, it is quite clear, to anybody that will examine
the question, that if it is nothing more
than buying in the cheapest market and selling

in the dearest, it must always be taking something
off the comfort of other people. The best of
men can't do less than this ; and I am sure James
Rainy was one of the best of men. Bat as it
came out of nothing, and out of the pockets of
other people, I think it but right that James
Rainy's niece should give it hack. A part of it,
that is to say ; I wish it clearly to be understood
that the half of the Rainy property, whatever it
may amount to when I die and I hope I have
been able to add a little by great attention to
business, and giving up my whole thoughts to it 
is to be kept intact, and not to be touched in anyway,
making a very good fortune for Lucy and
her heirs for ever. Bat the other half she shall
be free to dispose of, giving it back to the community,
out of which it came. Foreigners are
not to be eligible, though part of it was no doubt
made out of foreigners ; but the kind that come
fluttering about rich folks in England, and carrying
off a great deal of our money, are not the
kind among whom James Rainy made his fortune
; and I say again foreigners are not to be

eligible. Most people would say that having a
great deal of money to give away, the thing todo
would be to establish hospitals, and give large
subscriptions ; but 1 don't believe in subscriptions
for my part. Besides that is the common
way. What I want Lucy to do, is to give the
money to individuals or families whom she comes
across, those that really want it. I wish her to
remember that I don't tell her to do this in order
to please herself, nor to make herself look like a
great personage, nor to get applause or even
gratitude. Applause she is not to get, since this
part of my will I require to be kept secret as far
as possible, and every gift to be kept an absolute
secret from all but my executors, and the receivers
of the bounty ; and gratitude she must not expect.
It is a poor thing to look for it, and I don't much
believe in it for my part. What she has to do is a
simple duty, having a great deal more money than
she can ever know what to do with. And she is
not to give little dribbles of money which encourage
pauperism ; but when she sees a necessity
to give enough, liberally, and without grudging.

If it's to a man to set him up in business, or help
him on in whatever his trade may be ; and if ita
woman, to give her an income that she can live
on, and bring up her children upon, with economy
and good management. I don't want anyone to
get damage by what she gives, as happens when
you give a ten pound note, or a fifty, or even a
hundred. Let her give them enough  she has
plenty to draw upon according to their position
and what they are used to ; capital that can be
of real use in business, or an income that can be
managed, and made the most of. It is giving
the money back to those from whom it came. I
also require that my daughter Lucy should be
left the fullest liberty of choice. She must
satisfy my executors that the case is a necessitous
one; but nothing more. She is not bound to
give guarantees of any kind, or a good character
even, or testimonials from other people. The
thing is to be between herself and those she gives
to. She will make many mistakes, but she is
very sensible, and she will learn in time.
I further stipulate that my said daughter Lucy

is to enter upon the possession of this right as
soon as I am dead, whether she is of age at that
period or not. I expect of her obedience to all
my rules for seven years, as far as regards herself;
but in this particular she is to be perfectly
free, and no one is to have any power of control
over her  neither her guardians, nor her husband
when she gets one. This is my last wish and
desire."

She had known vaguely that this was how it
was ; but when Lucy had heard the paper read
by her father's own lips, she had not paid very
much attention to it. It was so far away so
unlike anything that lay in her placid girlish life,
which, at that time, had no power whatever in
it, except to buy Jock a new book now and then
out of her pocket-money. Lucy fancied she
could see herself sitting quiet and unmoved over
her knitting, listening as a matter of duty, not
thinking much of what it was that papa wrote
down in these interminable papers. How placidly
she had taken it all! It had been nothing to

her ; thongs she had received from him a certain
gravity of reflection, and sense of the incumbrances
and responsibilities of her wealth, yet that
had come chiefly since his death, and she recalled
the easy calm of her own mind before that event
with sm-prise. Now as she read these words over
again, which had floated so calmly over her
before, a thrill of warm life and excitement ran
through her being. She had it in her power
to change all that, to make poor Mrs. Russell
comfortable, to lift her up above all necessity.
Was it possible ? Lucy's heart began to beat,
her mind trembled at the suggestion  it
made her head giddy. That nervous, tremulous
woman so full of self-betrayals, letting the
spectators see against her will how anxious she
was, how full of fear, even in professing herself
to be full of hope. Was it possible that a word
from Lucy would smooth away half of her incipient
wrinkles, correct the anxious lines round
the corners of her eyes, and calm her whole
agitated being ? Lucy felt her head go round
and round with that sense of delightful incomprehensible

power. She could do it, there was
no doubt or question ; and how willing she would
be to do it, how glad, how eager ! She put her
papers back again, with her whole frame tingling
and in commotion. A girl is seldom so excited,
except by something about a lover, some shadow
of the new life coming over her, some revelation
of the mysteries and sweetness to come ; but
Lucy had never been awakened on this subject.
She knew nothing about love, and cared less, if
that can be believed; but the very breath was
taken away from her, and her head made giddy
by this sudden consciousness of power.

Next day Lucy had a visitor, in the morning,
before there was any question of visitors, when
she and Jock were seated alone. It was Mary
Russell, with a little flush on her face, and
somewhat breathless, who appeared behind the
maid when the door opened. Mary was the
plainest one of the family, a girl with a round
cheerful face, and no special beauty of any kind,
not like her handsome brother, who had the
air of a man of fashion, or Katie, who was one

of the prettiest girls at Mrs. Stone's. It was not
Mary's role to be pretty ; she was the useful one
of the family. In most cases there is one
member of a household specially devoted to this
part; and if it had happened that Mary had
grown up beautiful, as sometimes happens, no
doubt her claims would have been steadily
ignored by the rest of the family, who thought
of her in no such light. She was the one who
did what the others did not like to do. She
came in with a little hesitation, with a blush
and shy air of deprecating anxiety. The blush
deepened as she met Lucy's surprised look ; she
sat down with an awkwardness that was not
natural to her. She was scarcely seventeen,
younger than Lucy ; but had already learned so
much of the darker side of life. Yet there was
in Mary none of the self-contrasts, nor the
anxious adulation of her mother. She had so
much to do, she had not time to think how much
worse off she was than this other girl, her contemporary
in life.

I came to see when it would suit you to

send  Master Trevor," Mary said, faltering a
little. " Mamma feared that perhaps you might
be discouraged by seeing that the house was not

But I will see that he is very well

taken care of, and  regular with his lessons. I
am always with them. It is a holiday to-day,
that is why I have come out."

(The family had taken fright after Lucy had
gone ; they had doubted the possibility of so
much good-fortune coming their way; they had
trembled with apprehension lest a letter should
reach them next morning informing them that
some other school had been recommended to
Lady Randolph, or that Miss Trevor feared that
the air of the Heath would be too keen for her
little brother ; and Mary had as usual put herself
in the breach. " I will go and find out," she
had said, "they cannot eat me, at the very
worst." This was Mary's way ; the rest of the
house waited and fretted, and made all around
them miserable, but she preferred to cut the
knot.)

"You see, Miss Trevor," she continued,

"mamma is very anxious to get a good connection.
I do not care so much, for my part ;
but it is gentlemen's sons she wants, and she
thinks that if we were known to have your
brother "

But I am nobody," said Lucy, " and Jock

is Papa was only a schoolmaster himself.

He was not even a grand schoolmaster. He
taught the common people ; and I don't think
that having Jock would make much difference."


Mary looked at her with wistful eyes.

He is your brother," she said.

But, indeed, indeed I am nobody," cried
Lucy, "scarcely a lady at all, only allowed to
live here, and be well thought of, because I have
a great deal of moneys I am not so good as you
are ; even Katie, though she was known to be
poor, they said at school, ' She is one of the
Russellss.' Now that could never be said of me ;
I am not one of the anybody," Lucy said, with
a little smile. " I have nothing but my money,"
she added, eyeing Mary with great earnestness,

it is good for something ; there are some things,
indeed, that it can do," here she paused, and
looked at the other girl again, very doubtfully,
almost anxiously. Mary did not know what it
meant. She had come as a supplicant, wistfully
desirous of making a good impression upon the
rich and fortunate heiress. Only to be connected
in the most superficial way with this
favourite of fortune would do them good, her
mother thought. But she was deeply puzzled
by Lucy's look at her, which was wistful
too.

"Yes, there is a great deal that it can do,"
said Mary. " When one has so very, very much,
it is as good as being born a princess. It is
better to be of a good family when you have
only a little, but when you are as rich as  as an
'Arabian Night,' what does it matter? Other
boys would come from other prosperous places,
if it were known that you had brought your
brother."

I wish," cried Lucy, " oh, I wish !  that I
could do more than that."

Mary's cheeks grew crimson ; she tried to
laugh.

"That is all we want, Miss Trevor. We wantonly
a good connection, and to get our school
known."

In a moment the characters of the two girls
had changed ; it was the heiress that was the
supplicant. She looked very anxiously in the
other's eyes, who, on her side, understood somehow,
though she knew nothing about it.

We are getting on," said Mary, with that
flush of generous pride and courage ; '* oh, I am
not afraid we shall get on I There may be a
struggle at the beginning ; everybody has a
struggle; but we have only got to stand firm,
and not to give in. Mamma gets frightened, but
I am not a bit frightened ; besides, she is not
strong, and when people are not strong everything
tells upon them. Of course we shall have
a struggle  how could it be otherwise  there are
so many poor people in the world ! but in the
end all will come right ; and. Miss Trevor," she
added, with a little flush of excitement, "if you

VOL. TI. K

don't think our house is good enough, never
mind. We should like to know, but I don't
wish to urge you, if you are not satisfied. We
don't want any to come who is not satisfied ; all
the same wee shall get on."

Lucy looked at her almost with envy.

"Yes," she said, shaking her head, following
out her own thoughts, " I suppose it is true that
there are a great many poor people in the
world."

*' Oh, so many !" Mary said ; " poor women
struggling and struggling to live ; though we are
struggling ourselves, it makes my heart sore ;
there are so many worse off than we are. But
we must get on, whatever happens, I tell mamma
so; what is the use of fretting, I say, all will
come right in the end ; but she cannot keep her
heart up. It is because she is not strong,"
Mary said, a tear coming furtively to her
eyes.

I know what papa meant now," said Lucy.
I had never thought of it. It is a sin for one
to have so much, and others nothing. If it

could only be taken and divided, and everybody
made comfortable  so much to you, and so much
to me, and everyone the same how much
better, how much happier ! but how am I todo
it?" she said, clasping her hands.

Mary stood, opening her blue eyes, then
laughed, with youthful ease and frankness,
though far from free of tears. " How strange
that you should say that! I thought it was
only poor people and Radicals that said that.
You can't be a Radical, Miss Trevor ? But
it would be no good," said the sensible girl,
shaking her head ; " even I have seen enough
to be sure of that. If we had all the same one
day, there would be rich and poor again the
next. It is in people's nature. But this is a
long way off from what I came to ask you,"
she said, dropping her voice with a little sigh.

Jock had been in the room all the time. He
was one of the children whom no one ever notices,
who hear everything, and bide their time.
He came forward all at once, startling Mary,
who turned to him in alarm with a little cry.

K 2

'rare you fond of the 'Arabian Nights f he
said. " I am not so very fond of them
now  they are for when you are quite little ;
when you don't know anything. When I
come, I will tell yoti quantities of things, if
you like. I can tell you all Shakespeare. I
told Lucy : she does not know much," Jock said
with genial contempt.

Perhaps you will think I don't know very
much : but I shall teach youyour lessons," said
Mary with tremulous satisfaction, yet a little
pedagogic assertion of her own superiority. Jock
looked at her with attention, studying this new
specimen of the human race.

You must not think he is naughty," said
Lucy, interposing eagerly. " He is a very good
boy. Though he is so little, he knows a great
deal. And he always understands. You may
think he is a trouble with his stories, and the
fairy books he has read. But he is no trouble,"
his sister cried, " he is the greatest comfort.
I don't know what I should have done without
Jock ; and I am sure you will like him too. Weare

going to get him his things this afternoon,
and tomorrow I am to bring him," Lucy added
in her usual tranquil tones.

"Then that is all right," said Mary. She
thought it was all her doing  that the question
had been a doubtful one, and that it was the
decided step she had taken which had secured
this important little scholar. He was to pay
better than any of the rest, and he was, it might
be hoped, the first of a better connection. Mary
got up tu go home with a satisfaction in her
supposed success, which was almost triumph.
She did not envy Lucy, though she was an
heiress. She saw a long perspective of new boys
filing before her, and a handsome house and big
play-grounds, and an orderly prosperous establishment.
These were the things that were
worth wishing for, Mary Russell thought. As
for Bertie and his book, she shrugged her
youthful shoulders at them. But she believed
in herself, and in the little boys to come. " We
shall have a struggle," she repeated with a
smile, " as everybody has ; but we shall get on."

She did notenvy Lucy ; but Lucy, perhaps, feeling
the tables turned, was not so magnanimous.
She was half vexed that the success of the
Russellss was so certain, and that here was no
case for her to interfere. Alas, there was nothing
for her to do, but to wring her hands and
stand helpless upon her mountain of money,
while all those poor people, whom Mary knew,
struggled unaided  yet " got on" at last, without
any help of hers."

CHAPTER VII.

HOW THE Russell GOT OX.

LUCY was permitted to take Jock to Hampstead
by herself in Lady Randolph's
brougham next day. They had spent the morning
buying things for him, a schoolboy dressing-case,
a little desk, various books, and an
umbrella; possessions which, up to this time,
had been considered too valuable for the child,
of whom nobody took any special care. He went
to his new home with such an abundance of
property as elated even Jock, though he was
not given to trivialities. He had a watch too,
which was more than property, which was a
kind of companion, a demi-living thing to console

him when he should be dull ; and the child
bore up with great heroism in face of the inevitable
parting. Indeed, Jock regarded the whole
matter in an extremely practical common-sense
way. Lucy herself was disposed to be tearful
during the long drive. She held him close to
her side, with her arm round him. " You will
be good, Jock ?" she said ; " you will not be silly
and read books, but do your lessons and your
sums, and everything. Promise me that you
will do your lessons, Jock."

Jock eyed his sister with that indulgent contempt
which her want of discrimination often
produced in him. " Of course I will do my
lessons," he said; "it is you who are silly.
What else should I go away for ? People must do
lessons, it appears, before they grow up. If I
didn't mean to do them," Jock said, with a full
sense of his own power of deciding his fate.
I should stay at home  I shouldn't go."

This silenced Lucy for the moment ; but she
was not so confident as he was. " When you
get dull, dear, and when there is nobody to talk

to, and when you begin to feel lonely" The
tears got into Lucy's eyes again, as she added
line after line to this picture ; " then I am afraid,
I am afraid ! you will begin to read, you will
forget about everything else."

Jock drew himself away from her arm with a
little offence ; he looked at her severely. " I am
not past a baby or a girl ;" he said, indignantly.
Then he added, softening, " And I don't mean to
be dull. I will tell Mary a great deal. It will
do her good. You don't mind so much about
things, when you have a great many other things
in sour head."

Once more this oracular utterance silenced his
sister for the moment ; and then with natural
inconsistency she resented his philosophy. "I
did not think you were so changeable. You are
quite pleased to have Mary ; you don't care for
leaving me. It is I that will be lonely, but you
don't mind a bit!" cried Lucy. Jock sighed
with the impatience which his elders so often
show when a woman is unreasonable. " Don't
you loan me to learn my lessons then ?" he said.

But as this protest was uttered the carriage
drew up before Mrs. Russell's house, where all
was expectation, though there was no peeping
at windows or signs of excitement, as on the
first visit. The drawing-room, which was like
poor Mrs. Russell herself, limp and crumpled
with the wear and tear of life rather than old,
had been rubbed and dusted into such a measure
of brightness as was possible. There was a pot
of crocuses at the window, and tea upon the
table ; and the whole family were assembled todo
honour to the visitor. There was nothing
slipshod about Bertie now ; his hair was carefully
brushed, all the details of his appearance
anxiously cared for. " For who can tell what
may happen f his mother said ; " we never know
what an hour may bring forth ;" and inspired by
this pious sentiment she had counselled Bertie,
nothing loth, to buy himself a new necktie. His
whole life might be altered by the becomingness
of its tint and the success of its arrangement.
Do not girls perpetually take these little precautions
? and why not young men too ? And they

all stood up to receive Lucy, and regarded her
with a kind of admiring adoration. " Give Miss
Trevor this chair  it is the most comfortable."
"Mother, a little more cream for Miss Trevor,
and some cake." They could not do too much
for her. " Katie is so happy that we have seen
you ; she writes to me this morning, that all will
go well with us now we know her dear, dear
Lucy." " We have all known you by name so
long," Bertie added ; " it has been familiar in our
mouths as household words." Lucy was abashed
by all this homage ; but how could she help
being a little pleased too ? Mary was the only
one who did not chime in. " I suppose Katie
thinks you lucky," she said ; " I don't believe in
luck myself." x\nd then Lucy made a little
timid diversion, by asking about Mr. Bertie's
book. Was it finished yet ? and would it soon
be published? It is pleasant to be courted and
applauded ; but somewhat embarrassing when it
goes too far.

He has not got a publisher yet ; is it not
strange," cried Mrs. Russell, indignantly, " that,

whatever genius you may have, or however beautifully
you may write, it is all nothing, nothing
at all, without a publisher ? He may be just an
ignorant man, just a tradesman  not in the least
able to understand ; indeed I hear that they are
dreadful people, and cheat you on every side (and
authors are a great deal too generous and too
heedless. Miss Trevor, they allow themselves to
be cheated) ; but however beautiful your book
may be (and Bertie's book is lovely) not one step
can he move, not one thing can he do, till one of
these common dreadful men  oh !" cried the indignant
mother ; "it is a disgrace to our age 
it is a shame to the country  "

They are necessary evils," said Bertie, with
magnanimity ; *' we can't do without them. You
must not think it quite so bad. Miss Trevor, as
my mother says. And after all one is independent
of them, as soon as one has got a hearing ;
ce nest que le premier pas  "

If Lady Randolph chose, she might easily
get him an introduction," said Mrs. Russell;
but it is out of sight out of mind, Miss Trevor.

When 3'ou do not want anything, there are
numbers of people ready to help yoii ; but when
you do  Lady Randolph might do it in a
moment. It would not cost her anything ; but
she forgets ; when you are out of the way everybody
forgets."

 " We must not say that, mother. It was she
who brought us our celestial visitor."

That is true, that is true," Mrs. Russell cried.

Lucy did not know what to think, or how to
reply ; she had never been called a celestial visitor
before, and it was impossible not to be pleased
by all this kindness and admiration. But then
it was embarrassing, and she saw Mary in the
background laugh. She felt half disposed to
laugh too, and then to cry ; but that was because
she was parting with Jock, who, little monster,
did not shed a tear. Lucy dried her own eyes
almost indignantly ; but even on her side the
effect of the parting was broken by the assiduous
attentions with which she was surrounded. She
was so confused by having to take Bertie's arm,
and thus being conducted to the door, and put

into the carriage, that she could not give Jock
that last hug which she had intended. Mrs.
Russell stood on the steps, and kissed her hand.
You will come soon again, come as often as
you can. You will do us all good, as well as the
little brother ;" Mrs. Russell said. And Bertie
put his head into the carriage to tell her that
he would come himself and bring her news of
Jock. They both spoke, and looked as if Lucy
were indeed a celestial visitor, a being of transcendent
excellence and glory. She could not but
be conscious of a bewildering sense of pleasure ;
but she was ashamed of so much devotion. She
was not the least worthy of it. Could they be
laughing at her ? but why should anyone be so
cruel as to do that ?

For the moment, however, all Lucy's personal
excitement in the consciousness of being able
to change the circumstances of the poor lady,
who had at first sight appealed so strongly to
her sympathies, was subdued, and turned into
the humiliation and shame of an officious person
who has been offering unnecessary aid. She

shrank back into herself with a hot blush. Had
she, perhaps, wanted to appear as a great benefactor
in the eyes of the Russellss ? was it pride
rather than pity? Lucy, though she had so
little experience, was wise enough to know that
undesired help is an insult, a thing that everybody
resents. She was deeply disappointed and
ashamed, not knowing how to excuse herself
for her rash impulse of liberality, liberality which
these high-spirited and hopeful people would
most likely never have forgiven her for thinking
of. She locked away her father's memoranda
again in the secret drawer.

Oh, papa ! papa !" she said to herself, " how
could you think it would be so easy ?"

He had thought money was everything, but it
was not what he thought. Lucy was glad that
she had not written to Mr. Chervil about it, as
she had intended, for most likely he would have
laughed at her, or perhaps been angry. Evidently
the only thing for her to do was to
read," as Lady Randolph advised her, and try
to learn German, and keep as quiet as possible.

It was dull, very dull, without Jock, but Lucy-was
of a patient disposition, and reconciled herself
gradually to her life.

On the whole however this life was a life full of
pleasantness, to which the most exacting young
person might easily have reconciled herself.
Lady Randolph was very kind  indeed, as time
went on, she got to like Lucy very sincerely,
appreciating the good qualities of a girl who
brought so much into the establishment and
took so little out, who gave no trouble at allas
the servants said, rather despising her for it.
But Lady Randolph did not despise her. She
knew the value of a companion who was always
contented, and aspired after no forbidden pleasures
of society, and did not so much as understand
the A B C of flirting. Such a girl was of rare
occurrence in the world, or, at least, so persons
of experience, accustomed to think the
worst of all classes of their fellow-creatures, said.
A girl who was always willing to do what she
was told, and who set up no will of her own,
and had no confidential visitor, except Mr.

Chervil, who was one of her legal guardians,
was a charge with whom any chaperon might be
pleased; provided all went as well next year,
when Lucy came out ! but Lady Randolph piously
reflected that no one could tell what might
happen before that. Lucy excited no strong-feeling
: there was little in her (except her fortune)
to take hold of the imagination ; but her
quiet presence was always soothing and pleasant.
Lady Randolph professed to go little into
society that season, " saving herself up," as she
said, for the next, when it would be her more
arduous duty to take Lucy out. But though she
did not go out much, that did not prevent her
from enjoying a great many dinner-parties, and
even occasionally " looking in" upon some dear
duchess's ball ; and Lucy spent many quiet evenings
at home, in which her chief amusement
was to hear the carriages of the people who were
enjoying themselves roll up and down the street,
and in wondering how she would like it next
year, when she would be enjoying herself too.
She did not at all dislike these quiet evenings,
VOL. n. L

and, on the whole, her life passed very pleasantly,
as the Spring grew into Summer, and
the season came to its prime. She rode in the
morning, sometimes in the Park, when Lady
Randolph could find suitable companions for
her, and often going as far as Hampstead,
where Mary Russell looked out upon her from
the schoolroom window with cheerful friendliness ;
and Bertie, not very sure of his skill, came out
to put her on her horse when she was ready to
go, and bit his young moustache with envy and
anger against fate, which had denied him all such
indulgences. Bertie, however, was buoyed up
by a great confidence ; his book was going
through the press : he had got the opening he
wanted ; and presently, presently ! he said to himself,
his time of humiliation would be over.
Lucy had no idea of the effect of her visits upon
the household. The little pupils, who were not
very answerable to Mary's rule, hearing it often
called in question, ran to the window when they
heard the sound of the horses' feet, and they too
looked with envy upon little Jock, who now had

a pony, and frequently went out with his sister.
The little boys looked after Jock, some with admiring
eyes, while others scowled at his unusual
privileges.

Why has that little beggar got a pony and
us not?" the urchins would say, indignantly;
and Mrs. Russell was not, with all her refinement,
much better than the boy who said this,
who was the son of the grocer, taken on reciprocal
terms, and whose presence was felt to be a
humiliation to the establishment. Mrs. Russell
never saw Lucy ride away without drying her
eyes.

To think my girls should be toiling while old

Trevor's daughter !" She looked out eagerly

for Lucy's coming, but this was the unfailing
sentiment with which she greeted her. " The
ways of Providence are inscrutable," the poor lady
said, " when I remember her mother, who was
nothing but nursery-governess at the Brown -
Jones's, an old maid ! when we used to call in
mamma's carriage."

"If you were so much better off than her

L 2

mother, she has a right to be better off than weare
; it is only justice and fair-play," said Mary.

Oh, child ! child ! hold your tongue ! what
can you know about it f her mother said, with
red eyes, while Bertie gnawed his moustache.

The young man stood and looked after Lucy,
waiting to wave his hand to her as she turned the
corner. She looked very well on horseback. If
he had not felt that indignant envy of her, that
sense that a trumpery bit of a girl had no right
to be so much better off than he, he would have
almost admired Lucy as she rode away. She
was the representative of so many things that he
did admire : wealth, luxurious ease, an undeniable
superiority to all care. That she should be setup
on that pinnacle, high enough to impress the
whole world with her greatness, while he, clever,
and handsome, and well born, attracted attention
from nobody, was one of those things which are
so incredible in their inappropriateness as to fill
the less fortunate with indignant astonishment ;
but presently, presently ! the young man said to
himself. Meantime he was very irregular in

giving the little boys their Latin. The proofs
took up a great deal of his time, and it was scarcely
to be expected that a young author, on the verge
of success and fame, could be as particular, in
respect to hours, as a nameless pedagogue. Mrs.
Russell fully felt the force of this argument. She
did not see how Bertie could be expected to give
himself up to the children every day. The Latin
lessons came down to three times, then twice a
week, and it was never quite certain when it
might suit Mr. Russell to give them. "They
shall have another half-hour with me at their
music, or, Mary, give them a little more geography
; geography is very important, of far
more consequence, at their age, than Latin," the
head of the establishment would say ; and though
the sight of Miss Trevor arriving on her fine
horse, with her groom behind her, had a great
effect upon the neighbourhood, and the parents
of the day scholars were pleased to think that
their little boys were at the same school as this
fine young lady's brother, yet after a while
there were remonstrances from these commonplace

people. The boys, they complained, did
not " get on." " What do they mean by getting
on? we are not bound to furnish intellects to our
pupils," Mrs. Russell said, assuming something
of the same imperiousness which answered with
Mrs. Stone ; but, alas ! it did not answer at
Hampstead, and but for the hope of that book
which was coming out directly, the poor lady
would have seen a very dismal prospect before
her. But the book was to make amends for
everything, it was to bring both money and peace.

There is another boy gone ;" said little Jock.
I'm very glad, he was one that laughed when
you talked of anything. I told him about
Macbeth, and he laughed. He's gone, that
fellow ; and Blackwood's going  "

"They seem all to be going," said Lucy,
alarmed.

Oh no, you know there's me. I'm the sheet
anchor, they say; but what is a sheet-anchor?
She is often crying now," said Jock; "I can't
tell why. It can't be because of the fellows
leaving. They are a set of little  cads."

- " Jock, where did 30 u learn such words ? 3'0ii
never spoke like that before."

Oh, it is being with those fellows," said Jock.
If I were bigger I'd lick half of them ; but I
couldn't lick half," he added, reflectively, " for
there's only five now, and when Blackwood is
gone, and the one with the red hair, there will
be three. But then one is me I there will only
be two others left. You know, Lucy, Russell,
the man himself, Mary's brother, has made a book,
and it's all in print."

"Yes, I know. I hope he will make some
money b} it, and make poor Mrs. Russell more
happy."

Money !" This was an idea Jock could not
fathom ; he pondered it for a time, but did not
arrive at any clear comprehension of it. " Ville
go and knock at all the doors, and sell it like
the milkman?" asked the child, with much
doubt in his tone. The milkman was striding
cheerfully along with his pails, uttering a
mysterious but friendly howl at every door, and
furnishing Jock with the simile. He thought the

milkman a very interesting person, but he did not
realise Bertie Russell in the same trade. " I don't
think he would do it," Jock said confidentially,
and if it was only one book, it would not be
much good. I should like to be a pedlar with a
heap of books ; then you could read the rest, and
sell them when you had finished them. But,
Lucy," cried the child, " what I would like best
of all would be to ride on, and on, and on, like
this, and never stop, except at night, to lie on the
grass and tell stories, like that book about the
Knight and the Squire ; and the Manciple. What
is a manciple ?" Jock asked, suddenly impressed
by the charms of the unknown word.

I can't tell in the least, I never heard of it.
Jock, doesn't it vex poor Mrs. Russell when the
boys go f

"When the fellows leave? oh, I don't know.
I tell you they're not much of fellows ; I don't
see why she should care," said the little ignoramus,
serenely. " I wish they were all gone, then
Mary would have time to improve her mind."

'' Poor Mary ! has she so much to do ?"

She is always having the fellows for something.
When we have not Latin we have geography,
and we don't often have Latin. Russell,
he's busy, or he's got a headache. The fellows
say "

What little gossips ! Tell me what Latin
you have learned, Jock."

"Oh, nothing at all. Penn-a, penn-ah or
perhaps it's penn-ah  penn-a, I never can remember.
It is far easier just to say pen, as you
do, Lucy. And then we have counting ; two

times three is six, three times three I'll tell

you that another time; the pony jumps about
when I try to do arithmetic in my head."

But they are always very good to you,
Jock? you are happy there?" this was the
burden of all their talks, the constantly recurring
chorus.

This time Jock, who usually said " Oh, yes,"
with great indifference to the question, laughed,
which was rare with him.

She says I am always to say Mr. Bertie is
very kind," said Jock. "That's Russell, you

know; the fellows all call him Russell. She
says, when you ask, I am to say he takes great
pains with me."

Lucy was perplexed, but it was not right to
show her perplexity, she thought.

And does he ?" she said.

"I don't know what it means, he never says
anything at all. Do you think, if we were to
ride long enough, we could ride, ride, right into
the sun, Lucy ? there where it touches the Heath,
look ! The sky must touch somewhere, if we
could only ride as far."

Let us try," said Lucy.

Jock's revelations were very unsatisfactory*
It was just as sensible, she thought, to pursue
the sunshine, and follow the point where the
sky must touch, as to get any light thrown upon
the one point which she was anxious to investigate.
Lucy's mind had been greatly exercised
upon this subject. It was impossible to mistake
the signs of growing poverty and squalor in the
house, and she, who felt that she had in her
hand the power of turning anxiety and trouble

into ease, was greatly disturbed, not knowing
what to do.

Mrs. Russell's eyes were generally red now ;
but then they were weak, she said ; and the
house got to look more and more untidy. It was
a begrimed little maid who opened the door, and
the red-haired boy was gone, and the one
who squinted, and the little fellow with the curls.
Lucy went in with her brother, when they
had finished their ride, and was met by the mistress
of the house, all tremulous, clasping and
unclasping her hands, with a nervous smile.

You must rest a little. Miss Trevor," she
said, " after your long ride, and take something ;
won't you take something ? I have made a little
space in the drawing-room," she added, seeing,
with the quick instinct of the unfortunate, that
Lucy's eye had been caught by the big vacancy
in the room, which had never been too full of
furniture ; " my poor piano, it was too big, much
too big. I did not like to part with it, it was a
relic of the days when my rooms were not so
small," she said, with a pretence at a smile.

But you will be glad to hear, Miss Trevor, we
have heard of a much better house, when  I
mean as soon as we are quite sure about the
book."

It will not be long now f said Lucy. " Mr.
Bertie told me the printing was very nearly
done."

No, it will not be long. We might take it
now, for that matter, for I don't entertain any
doubt on the subject. But Bertie is always so
modest. Bertie insists that we must make quite
sure. You see. Miss Trevor, a work like his, a
work of imagination, succeeds at once, if it is
going to succeed," she added, with a little laugh.
Other kinds of books may take a long time to
gain the public ear, but that one knows directly.
So I say to Bertie, we really might venture. It
is just round the corner. Miss Trevor, a much
larger, handsomer house. But, on the other hand,
this is a long way from the centre of everything.
It might be better to move into Mayfair, or even
Belgravia. He will want to be nearer the world.
So, on the whole, we think it best to wait a little:

and it does not do to move in the season, ever
thing is so dear."

And the little boys f said Lucy. Her mind
was bewildered by the contrast between what she
was hearing, and the visible signs of misery
around.

Oh," said Mrs. Russell, " as for Jock, you
must not trouble yourself in the least. We are
quite fond of him, he is such a little original.
And Mary is very independent-minded ; she will
never take anything from her brother, though a
better brother never existed ! Mary will want
something to occupy her, and so long as I have
a roof over my head, little Jock shall never want
a home. You may be quite easy on that point.
I am telling Miss Trevor, Mary, that we are
thinking of removing," she said, as her daughter
came in.

Mary did not look in high spirits.

Are you, mamma ? I should not mind the
house, if other things were comfortable," Mary
said. Her eyes were heavy, as if she had been
weeping, and she avoided Lucy's look.

That is because some of the little boys are
going away," said Mrs. Russell, nervously.
Mary is always so anxious. We shall be glad
to be rid of them, my love, when Bertie's book is
out."

Mary did not make any reply. She gave her
shoulders an imperceptible shrug ; and what
between the daughter's unresponsiveness, and
the mother's tearful and restless profusion of
words, Lucy did not know what to say. When
she went out, Bertie appeared with his hat on,
and a packet of papers in his hand, and walked
by her as she rode slowly along the steep little
street. " These are the last of the proofs," he
said to her, holding them up. "I am going to
take them myself for luck. I hope you will
think of me kindly, Miss Trevor, and wish me

well."

Indeed, I will. I wish it may be the

greatest success that ever was."

Thanks, that should bring me good fortune.

I want you to do me a favour too. Let me give

it all the better chance by putting your happy

narae upon it. I am sure it is a happy name,
a lucky name, bringing good," he added fervently,
" to all who invoke it."

Indeed, Mr. Russell," said Lucy, troubled.
I do not know what you mean."

I want," he said, " to dedicate it to you."

To me !" Lucy's simple countenance grew
crimson. She did not quite understand the half
pleasure, half repugnance that seemed, all at
once, to flood her veins to overflowing The
colour rushed to her face. She was flattered,
what girl would have been otherwise? But she
was more embarrassed than flattered. " Oh, no !
Mr. Russell, please not. It is too much, I have
no right to such a compliment."

"Then I don't know who has," he said. '' You
sought us out when we were very low, and gave
us courage. That was the thing we wanted
most. My mother is not encouraging, Miss
Trevor. She is very good ; but she is so anxious
so easily cast down."

She is in very great hopes now, Mr. Russell''
'* Oh, yes I poor mother  too great. I don't

know what she thinks is coming. A fortune
a king's ransom. And she will be disappointed.
I feel sure she will be disappointed  even if I
succeed. I shall have to think of getting connections,
forming friends, helping myself on in
the world, instead of muddling always here."

Then there was a moment of silence, and the
sound of the horse's hoofs on the stones came
in, ringing in Lucy's ears. And these words
raised up echoes of their own. Lucy's young
soul got perplexed among them. But she said
nothing, and after a moment he went on.

Of course I will help them ; but I must
think of what is to be done next, and I must be
in a place where I can see people  not out here.
You are so reasonable, you will understand me,
Miss Trevor. It is hard to be living among
people who do not understand. I will bring
you one of the first copies, if you will let me 
the very first, if I have my way," he said, looking
up at her with a glow on his face. As she
sat on her horse, swaying a little with the
movement, she looked the most desirable thing

in all the world to Bertie Hiissell. To think a
girl the best thing you could become possessed
of, the most valuable and precious, the highest
prize to be aspired to, the creature who can
bestow everything you most wish for  is not
that being in love with her? If so, Bertie
Russell was in love; and he looked at her as
if he were so. Lucy's cheek was a little flashed
with surprise, with the confusion of her thoughts,
and he interpreted this so as to chime in with
the excitement he had himself given way to.
It was a genuine excitement. Heavens ! if he
could but win that girl to be his ! what more would
there be to wish for ? He put out his hand and
gently touched and stroked her horse's neck.
This meant the most shy caress to herself, and
Lucy felt it so, with a thrill of alarm she could
not tell why.

I am afraid I must go on now," she said,
feeling a blush come over her face again; and
he took off his hat, and stood watching as she
quickened her pace along the road, calling after
her, " I may come then, and bring the first

VOL. II. M

copy?" His heart jumped up [within him as he
saw the colour on Lucy's face. Could she, in
her turn, a simple girl not used to much attention,
have fallen in love? If so, there would
be nothing strange in that. A fine young fellow
a young man of genius about to blaze upon
the world. Nothing could be more natural ; but
the idea made Bertie's heart beat. It would be the
most fortunate the most desirable of all things ?
It opened up a perfect heaven of hope and
blessedness before his feet.

As for Lucy, she rode home with her heart
quaking and trembling and full of many thoughts.
She did not entertain any doubt of the success
of the book, any more than the author of it did, or
his mother. But what she had heard from both
sides opened Lucy's eyes. Poor Mrs. Russell !
what wild fancy possessed her, making her so
feverishly confident in the midst of all those
signs of trouble? Youth is intolerant, yet Lucy
was reasonable. She saw some excuse for Bertie
too. And now her duty seemed to her very clear.
After all her vicissitudes of feeling, she had

come back to the starting point. This made her
heart beat, not an} thought of the handsome
young author. She would have to tell Mrs.
Russell herself of what she was about to do. It
would be a difficult mission, Lucy thought to
herself with something of a panic; yet it must
be done. And when she thought of the house over
which such a cloud of trouble and anxiety and
approaching ruin seemed to hang, and of Mrs.
Russell's excitement, and Mary's pale cheeks,
her heart smote her for delaying. She must not
allow her guardian to hold her hand, or her own
timid spirit to shrink from her work. Would it
not be better to have it done before the moment
came when this poor woman would be undeceived
? While she rode back through the
suburban roads, Bertie subduing his pride, took
the aid of an omnibus, and made his way to the
publisher's  his head in the air, his mind full
of ecstatic visions. He composed a hundred dedications
as he rolled and rumbled along, smiling
to himself at the idea of the author of '' Imogen"
being seen on an omnibus. " Why not ?" he

M 2

asked himself. A man of genius, a future lord
of society and the age, may go where he will
without derogating from his dignity. If all
went well, if all went as every indication
proved it to be going, other vehicles than omnibuses
were waiting for Bertie, golden chariots,
cars of triumph. His present humility was a
pleasantry at which he could not choose but
smile.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE Dedication.

AVERY short time after this Lucy received
the parcel of books which had been
promised her. The season was growing to
its height, and no time had been lost in putting
the three volumes into the flimsy cloth binding
which places the English novel on a platform of
respectability, elevated far above its contemporary
of other nations. The author did not bring
her the first copy with his own hands, as he had
vowed to do. Bertie had been afraid  he had
done a thing which was perhaps too daring, and
he did not venture to appear in his own person,
to meet (perhaps) the storm of Lady Randolph's

displeasure, perhaps the alarmed reproachfulness
of Lucy herself. He sent it instead, and awaited
the reply with a heart which could scarcely beat
higher with any personal excitement, than it did
with the tumult of hope and fear with which he
awaited the issue of his first publication. It
seemed to the inexperienced young fellow that
the issues of life and death were in it, and that his
fate would be fixed one way or another, and that
without remedy. His doubt of Lucy's reception of
his offering, therefore, added but a slight element
the more to a tumult of feeling already almost too
great to be controlled. He brought it himself to
the door, but would not go in ; leaving a message
that the parcel was to be given to Miss Trevor
at once. Lady Randolph and she, for a wonder,
were dining alone, and the parcel was undone
when the dessert was placed on the table, and
lay there in a very fashionably artistic binding,
of no particular colour, with " Imogen " scrawled
in large uneven letters on the side. The ladies
both took it up with great interest. A new book,
though so many of the community have ceased to

regard it as anything but a bore, is still interesting
more or less to every little feminine circle
that knows the author. Lady Randolph was
going out to a succession of parties after dinner,
and among them to a great intellectual gathering,
where all the wits were to be assembled. " I
must tell Mrs. Montague about it," she said;
I must speak to everybody about it. It is very
attentive of the young man to send it at once.
We must do what wee can for him, Lucy. We
must ask for it at all the libraries, and tell everybody
to ask for it, and I will speak to the critics.
I will speak to Cecilia ;" she said, taking up the
first volume. But after a momentary interval.
a change came over Lady Randolph's face.
She uttered the invariable English monosyllable
" Oh !" in startled and troubled tones ;
then turned upon her companion, hastily,

Did you know of this, Lucy ? My dear, my
dear, how wrong! how imprudent! Why did
not you mention it to me ?"

Lucy was eating her strawberries very quietly,
looking with a pleased expectation at the two

Other volumes of the book. It seemed to her a
fine thing to be an author, to have actually
written all that ; and she was a little proud in
her own person of knowing all about him, and
felt that she would now have something to talk
about when Lady Randolph's visitors tried her, as
they were in the habit of doing, on divers subjects.
When they talked to her about Lady
Mary's small and early party, or the Duchess's
great assembly, Lucy had often found it embarrassing
to repeat her humble confessions of
ignorance to one after another, and to admit that
she had not been there, or there ; and did not
understand the allusions which were being made ;
and she did not know enough about music to speak
of the opera, nor about pictures to prattle about the
exhibitions, as she heard other girls do ; but now
she would have something to say : " Have you
seen the new novel ? It is written by a gentleman
we know ;" with that to talk about Lucy felt that
she might even take the initiative, and begin the
conversation with anyone who did not look very
clever and alarming, and this gave her a serene

satisfaction. Also she was to spend the evening all
by herself, and a new story was a nice companion.
She was aroused from these agreeable thoughts by
that " Oh-h !" uttered upon two or three notes by
Lady Randolph, and looked up to see her friend's
countenance entirely changed, severe as she had
never seen it before. " Did you know of this ?
Why did you not mention it to me ?" Lady
Randolph said. She was holding out the book
for Lucy's inspection, and the girl looked at it
with instinctive alarm, yet all the calm of innocence.
This was what she read : 

To the Angel of Hope

LUCY,
to u'hose name in reverence

I prefix no title.

This first effort of a mind

which her gentle encouragement

has inspired with confidence

is Inscribed.

Lucy's eyes grew round with amazement, her
lips dropped apart with consternation. She

looked from the book to Lady Randolph and then
to the book again. After a moment, the
colour rushed to her face. " Lucy !" "Oh, you do
not suppose he means mg," she said, aghast.

Whom could he mean else ? Did you know
anything about it 1 Lucy, don't let me think I
am deceived in you," Lady Randolph said, with
great vehemence. She was more excited than
seemed necessary ; but then, no doubt, she had
a very serious sense of responsibility, in regard
to a ward so precious.

I am very sorry," said Lucy ; " I suppose I
do know ; he said he would dedicate the book tome,
and I said, oh no don't do that ; but then
we spoke of something else, and I thought of it
no more."

After a while Lady Randolph found herself
capable of smiling, when she was fully convinced
of the girl's innocence. " What a good thing
you are not out, my dear. I can't be sufficiently
thankful you are not out. You see by this, Lucy
what a dangerous thing it is to be kind to anybody.
You, with your prospects, cannot be

sufficiently careful. Have you ever thought
that you are different from other girls? that there
are reasons why I niust take a great deal more
care of you ? I, who think girls ought always to
be taken care of;" Lady Randolph said.

I know that I have a great deal of money,"
said Lucy, quietly. " I suppose, Lady Randolph,
that is what you mean ?"

My dear, if it were only in novels, you must
have read that girls who have great fortunes are
run after by all sorts of unworthy people ; and
innocent girls like you are apt to be deceived
when people are civil. Lucy, my love, this is
a great deal too broad a compliment," said Lady
Randolph, very solemnly, laying her hand upon
the book ; " you must not be taken in. Xo man
who really cared for you, no nice man, would
have held you up to the notice of society in this
way."

Cared for me f said Lucy ; "but I never supposed
he did that. Why should he care for me f

Lady Randolph looked at her charge with
great perplexity of mind. Was this innocence,

or was such simplicity credible? Had the
girl never heard of fortune-hunters? All girls
in society were aware of the dangers which
attended an heiress; but Lucy had not been
brought up in society. She did not know what
to think ; finally however, she determined that
it was better, if they did not already exist thereto
put no such ideas into the head of her ingenue.
For Lady Randolph, who had no clue to the
graver cares which occupied Lucy's mind, had
not thought of her, as yet, in any character
except that of ingenue. She stopped herself in
the half completed sentence which she had began
before this reflection came to her aid. " He must
want you to think he cares  it is a beginning
of " Here she stopped; and laughed uneasily.
" No, no, I daresay I am wrong. It
is my over-anxiety. Let us say it is only an
indiscretion. Young men are always doing things
which are gauche and inappropriate. And you

have so much good sense, Lucy " Lady

Randolph got up and came behind Lucy's chair,
and gave her a hasty kiss. " I have perfect confidence

in your good sense. You will not let your
head be turned by fine words, as so many girls
do?"

Lucy looked up with surprise at the haste and
almost agitated impulse of her careful guardian.
Lady Randolph was dressed for her parties in
black velvet and lace, with the riviere of diamonds
which Lucy admired. She was a stately
personage, imposing to behold ; and yet, as she
stood, somewhat excited, anxious and deprecating
by the side of the little fair-haired girl in her
black frock, Lucy felt a conviction of her own
superior importance which was painful and humiliating
to her. The uneasy sparkle in the eye,
the glance of anxiety in the face of the lady, who
in every natural point of view, was so much
above herself, made her unhappy. How much
money can do ! Was it this, and this only which
disturbed the balance between them, and made
Lady Randolph's profession of faith in her
sound as apologetic ? She rose to follow upstairs
with a confused sensation of pain. She
had been trained, indeed, to think her fortune

the chief thing in the world ; but not in this
point of view. The drawing-room was dim and
cool, the windows all open, the night air blowing
in over the boxes of mignonette and geranium
in the balconies. The sounds from without
came softened through the soft air, but yet
furnished a distant hum of life, an intimation of
the great world around, the mass of human cares
and troubles and enjoyments which were in full
career. Lady Randolph placed Lucy in her own
chair by the little table with the reading lamp,
and gave her Bertie's book with a smile. " No,
I don't think it will turn your head," she said,
read it, my love, and you will tell me tomorrow
what you think of it. How I wish I could
take you with me ! and how much more I shall
enjoy going out next year when you are able to
go with me, Lucy !" She gave her another kiss
with a little nervous enthusiasm, and left the
girl seated there in the silence with many wondering
in her mind. Lucy sat and listened with
the novel in her hand while the carriage came
to the door, and Lady Randolph drove away.

Other carriages passed, drew up in the street
below, took up and set down other fine people
going here and there into the sparkling crowds
of society. Many an evening before, Lucy had
stolen behind the curtain to watch them with a
country-girls curiosity, pleased even to see the
bellowing train visible through a carriage window,
which betrayed the fine evening toilettes
within. But this evening she did not move from
her chair. There was so little light in the room
that the windows mysteriously veiled in filmy
drapery added something from the dim skies
outside to the twilight within. A shaded lamp
stood in the back drawing-room, making one
spot of brightness on a table. Her reading-lamp,
with its green shade, condensed all the
light it gave upon her hand with the book in it,
resting upon her knee. But her face was in
the dimness, and so vere her thoughts. She
was not so angry with Bertie as Lady Randolph
had been, for his dedication. It was intended
to be kind  what could it be but kind ? Perhaps
he had divined the attitude which, in intention

at least, she had taken towards his family.
Lucy's thoughts had never turned the way of
love-making. She had not as yet encountered
anyone who had touched her youthful fancy.
It was no virtue on her part  she sat like one
on the edge of the stream musing before she put
her foot into the boat which might lead her 
whither? But, in the meantime, the thoughts
in her heart were all serious. Was she not
pausing too long, lingering unduly upon the
margin of her life  not doing the work which
had been put into her hands to do ?

Lucy had got so deep in these thoughts that
she did not hear the noise and jar with which
a hansom cab came to the door  or, at least,
hearing it, paid no attention ; for it is very difficult
to discriminate in a street, whether a carriage
is stopping at number ten or number eleven,
and hansom cabs were not commonly heard at
Lady Randolph's at night. Even the movement
in the house did not rouse her ; she had not the
ease of a child in the family, though she was
of so much importance in the house. She sat

quite still, feeling by turns a refreshing breath
steal over her from the windows, watching the
flutter of the curtains, and the glimmer of the
stars, which she could see through them, through
the upper panes of the long windows ; and
vaguely amused by the suggestion furnished to
her mind by the passing carriages, the consciousness
of Society behind. She was so well entertained
by this, and by her own thoughts which
were many, that she had scarcely opened
the book. She held it in her hand; she
had looked again at the Dedication, feeling half
flattered, half annoyed ; and had read a page or
two. Then, more interested, as yet, in her own
story, or in this pause, so full of meaning and
suggestion before it began, had closed again
upon her fingers the new novel. Could anything
in it be so wonderful as her own position : so
full of that vague questioning which, in Lucy's
mind, was more a state than a query. She dallied
with the book, feeling herself a more
present and a more important heroine than any
imaginary Imogen.

VOL. n. N

Lucy did not even hear the door open. It was
opened very quietly far away in the dimness, at
the other end of the room, and the new arrival
stood looking in for, at least, a minute before
he could make out whether any one was there.
There was no light to show his own figure in
the dark doorway, and he saw nothing except
the lamp in the first room and the smaller one
with its green shade, by which Lucy in her black
dress was almost invisible. He paused for a
minute, for he had been told that there was someone
there. Then, with a bold step, he came in
and closed the door audibly behind him. " Nobody,
by Jove !" he said, an asseveration quite
unnecessary ; then threw himself into a chair,
which stood in front of the table on which was the
larger lamp. The sensation with which Lucy
woke up to the discovery that a stranger, a gentleman
! had come into the room, not seeing her,
any more than till the moment when he became
audible she had seen him, was one of the most extraordinary
she had ever experienced. She raised
herself bolt upright in her chair, half in alarm ; but

Lady Randolph's chairs, it need scarcely be said,
did not creak, and Lucy's dress was soft with
no rustle in it. " Nobody, by Jove I" the individual
said ; and nothing contradicted him. It
seemed to Lucy that she instantly heard her own
breathing, the beating of her watch, her foot
upon the footstool, as she seemed to hear in
exaggerated roundness and largeness of sound
the thud with which he threw himself into that
chair, the movement with which he drew it to
the table, the grab he made across the table at
a newspaper that lay there. " lyell ! here's the
news at all events," the stranger said. As he
stooped over the newspaper, his head came within
the circle of the lamp. Lucy scarcely dared to
turn hers to look at him. There was the outline
of a head, a mass of hair, a large well-defined
nose, a couple of large hands grasping the paper.
Lucy's first impulse was half, but only half-alarm
; but she was not at all nervous, and
speedily reminded herself that it was very unlikely
any dangerous or unlawful stranger should
be able thus to make his way past Robinson, the

N 2

butler, and George, the page, into Lady Randolph's
drawing-room. There could not be anything
to fear in him ; but who was he, and how
came he there ? And what was Lucy to do ?
She sat as still as a mouse in Lady Randolph's
chair and watched. Was it quite honourable to
watch a man who was not aware of your presence
? But then how to get away' Lucy did
not know what to do. She felt more disposed
to laugh than anything else ; but dared not.
Perhaps after a while he would go away. She
held her breath and sat as still as a mouse. A
gentleman I utterly unknown and appearing so
suddenly in a feminine house it was embarrassing;
but certainly it was rather amusing
too.

The stranger was not a quiet gentleman, whatever
else he might be. How he pushed his chair
about ! how he flung the paper from one side to
another ! turning it over with resounding hums
and hems! How could anyone be so noisy?
Lucy, who was afraid to stir, watched him, evermore
and more amused. At last he tossed the

paper back upon the table. "News! not a
scrap f he said to himself, and suddenly throwing
a large pair of arms over his head, gave such
a yawn as shook the fragile London house. Did
Lucy laugh? She feared that the smallest ghost
of a giggle did burst from her in spite of herself.
It seemed to have caught his ear. He
suddenly squared himself up, turned his chair
round, and put on an aspect of listening. Lucy
held her breath ; he turned straight towards her
and stared into the dimness. " By Jove !" he
said again, to himself. The soft maze of curtains
fluttered, the night air blew in. Xo doubt
he thought it was these accidental sounds that
had deceived him. But suspicion had evidently
been roused in his mind. After a minute he
rose, a large figure, making the house creak,
and cautiously approached the window. He
passed Lucy, who had shrunk back into her
chair, and went beyond her to look out. One or
two carriages were rolling along the street, and
Lucy felt this was her opportunity, the way of
retreat being now clear. She got up softly, with

the utmost precaution, while he stood with his
back to her, then turned to flee.

Alas ! Lucy's calculations failed her ; her foot
caught the footstool, her book fell out of her
hand with a noise that sounded like an earthquake,
the stranger turned upon her as quick as
lightning : and there she stood, blushing, laughing,
confused, prettier than Lucy Trevor had
ever looked in her life before.

Oh, I beg your pardon !" she cried ; and he
said " By Jove !" taking out of his pockets the
hands which had been thrust down to their
depths.

*' It is I who ought to beg your pardon," he
said. " I am afraid I have frightened you.
Robinson told me I should find  some one here ;
but the room seemed empty. I hope you will
begin our acquaintance by giving me your forgiveness.
I am Tom Randolph, the nephew of
the house."

Thank you," said Lucy, regaining her composure
and seriousness, " and I am Lucy Trevor,
whom Lady Randolph is so kind as to take care

of. It is I who ought to apologize, for I saw
you  I saw you directly : but I did not know what
to do."

You must have thought it very alarming, a
savage like myself coming in and taking possession.
I am much obliged to you for taking it so
quietly. My aunt is out, I hear. I wonder,
when she has you to bear her company, Miss
Trevor, that, now and then, she can't make up
her mind to stay at home."

Oh, but society has claims," said Lucy, repeating
the words she had heard so often with
matter-of-fact and quite believing simplicity. To
her horror and surprise the new-comer replied
with a laugh,

We have all heard that, and let us hope,
Miss Trevor, that the votaries of society are
rewarded for their devotions. You don't share
the culte ?" he said.

"I! I am not out; and, besides, I am in
mourning," said Lucy, looking at her crape.

I beg your pardon ; won't you take your seat
again, and let me feel my sins forgiven ? Did I

interrupt your reading? A new novel is much
more interesting than an old  or, let us say, a
middle-aged savage."

Sir Thomas Randolph saw Lucy look at him
when he said this ; already did she want to make
sure that the savage was not more than middle-aged?
He thought so, and he was satisfied.


It is not that I care for the novel ; I had not
begun it yet. It is written," said Lucy, trying
her new subject, *' by a  gentleman we know ;
but, perhaps, as you have just come home, you
may want dinner, or something, Mr.  I mean
Sir Thomas f

"You have heard of me, I see."

'' Oh, yes ; Lady Randolph so often speaks of
you ; but I am not much used to people with
titles," Lucy said.

"Do you call mine a title? not much of
that. We are commoners, you know : and I
hear that whenever there is anything very
wicked wanted in a novel, it is always found in a
baronet ; that is hard upon us, Miss Trevor. I

wonder if there is a wicked baronet in the novel
you have got there."

I have not read it yet  it is written," said
Lucy, hesitating, "by a gentleman we know.
Lady Randolph is going to speak to everybody
about it, and we hope it will be very successful."

Lucy could not keep herself from showing a
little consciousness. He took it up, and she was
very much alarmed lest he should see the dedication.
She had never thought it would affect her,
yet here, already, she had quite entered into
Lady Randolph's feelings. Fortunately he did
not see it, though he turned over the volume in
his hardie hands. He was large all over, as
different as it was possible to conceive from
Bertie, who was slight and dainty, almost like a
girl. Lucy was not sure that she had ever seen
a man before so near, or spoken to one of this
kind. He was so unlike the other people of her
acquaintance that she could not help giving
curious looks at him under the shade of the lamp.
He did not keep still for a moment, but threw
his bigness about so that it filled the room, sometimes

getting up and walking up and down,
taking up the chairs as if they were toys. He
was a creature of a new species. She did not
feel towards him as Miranda did to Ferdinand,
who was probably an elegant stripling of the
Bertie kind, but she was interested in the new
being, who was not beautiful. He was so unlike
anything she had seen before.

CHAPTER IX.

SIR TOM.

THE days that followed were full of this big
person. Lucy found his company so pleasant
that she lingered, to her own great consternation,
talking to him, till Lady Randolph
returned ; no, not talking very much to him ;
but yet telling him various things about herself,
which she was greatly surprised to recollect afterwards,
and hearing him talk, which he did with
a frankness and freedom equally unusual to her.
When she heard Lady Randolph's brougham draw
up at the door, Lucy fairly jumped from her chair
in alarm and wonder. What would Lady Randolph
say ?  would she be angry ? A sentiment of

honour alone kept her from running away : and
her look of innocent panic greatly amused Sir
Tom.

Are you afraid *?" he said, with that great
but harmonious laugh, which softly shook the
house. " Is she so hard upon you ? Never mind,
she is fond of me, though you would not think
it, and there will be a general amnesty to-night."

Oh, I am not afraid," Lucy said, with a
smile. But she said to herself, what will Lady
Randolph think? the dedication first, and now
to sit up and chatter to a gentleman! But
Lady Randolph's voice had never been so soft,
nor her countenance so genial. She was so glad
to see " Tom," that she saw every thing in the
most favourable light. At least, this was the
Interpretation Lucy put upon her cloudless
graciousness.

Don't hurry away'' she said ; " or Tom will
think you are glad to escape now your post of
entertainer is over ;" and she kissed Lucy with
a warm, natural tenderness which went to the
girl's heart. She went upstairs, indeed altogether

in a state of unusual and pleasant commotion.
She had never met anybody in her lifelike
Sir Tom. He told her of a hundred places
he had been at, of his long journeys, and acquaintance
with all sorts of things and people ;
bringing in the wide atmosphere of a big world
into the four walls, which was all the sphere
Lucy knew. How pleasant it was ! It had stirred
her altogether, with curiosity and interest, and
amusement and admiration, yet with the amiable
derision of a tide', orderly girl, for the man's
faculty of disarranging everything, which made
the balance a little more even. He had seen
every kind of wonder; but he could not sit
down in a chair without rushing up all its cover,
and hooking on its ornaments to his buttons.
This made her laugh, and disposed her
to take care of Sir Tom, and pilot him to
safe chairs, on which there were no antimacassars.
She had felt perfectly at her ease with him,
almost more than with Mr. Rushton, for instance,
whom she had known at home, and the little
agitation of his arrival, and the novelty of him

generally, drove all her other ideas out of Lucy's
head. After she had gone to bed even, she could
not but smile in the darkness, to hear his big
step coming up-stairs, and his cheerful goodnight
to his aunt, which sounded up and down
the narrow London staircase, so that everybody
in the house shared it. " Good night, Sir Tom,"
Lucy said, within herself; and laughed. The
house felt more safe, better taken care of, with
this new-comer in it. It was enlivening to think
that he would be there in the morning, with his
cheery voice. " Provided he does not upset the
house," Lucy said to herself. She had not been
aware that she had so much love of fun in her.
As for Lady Randolph, she was glad to see Sir
Tom. He was all she had to represent her
family, and she was as fond of him as a mother.
Perhaps the relationship of aunt made her accept
his roving and lawlessness with more composure
than a mother would have done ; and they were
the best friends in the world. When Lucy left the
drawing-room, Lady Randolph gave her nephew a
keen and anxious look ; but it was not till sometime

after that the new inmate was talked of. Then
it was Sir Tom himself who opened the subject.

'' That is a jolly little girl you've got."

Oh, Tom !" his aunt cried, throwing all her
breath into that exclamation ; * I am so glad to
hear you say so."

He laughed. " Do you suppose I am thinking
of ulterior steps?" he said; "but I like her. She
is a jolly little girl."

And Lady Randolph, too, went to bed very
happy, thinking Sir Tom's big " good-night," as
it went booming up the staircase as pleasant as
any music. Her heart swelled, as with the most
generous of sentiments ; she thought if she
could but see the old Hall revived by new money,
the rich new life-blood of gold untold, such as
would soon be in Lucy's possession, poured into
the family veins, she thought she would die
happy. And what could Lucy's dearest friend
desire better for her ? Mrs. Russell, poor lady,
thought the same thing of her son.

And next day, and for some days after, the
house was like a new place. He went and came,

out to his clubs, to the world outside, and back
again, bringing news, public and private, bringing
the breath of the general existence, in a
manner entirely novel to Lucy. She had heard
a great many stories of contemporary life in
Lady Randolph's drawing-room before, scraps
of politics, which she paid no attention to, and
tales of this one and the other, whom she did
not know or care for ; but whether it was something
in the personality of Sir Tom, or that he
told these stories better, or that the larger life
which he brought into the house, harmonised
them, and gave them a human attraction, it
would be hard to say ; but it is certain that they
assumed a totally different character to Lucy.
Somehow they did not seem gossip from his lips.
Lady Betsinda suggested scandal in every line
of her eager old face ; but who could call that
gossip which fell from the bearded lips of the
good-natured adventurer, the man who had friends
everywhere, among American Indians and African
savages, as well as in the clubs. It is impossible
to tell what a difference he made in the house.

his very step on the stair brought variety, changea
difference, a relief from monotony, to which
no one could remain insensible. The river of
life had flowed slowly, partially frost bound by
chills to come in Lady Randolph's veins, and
not loosed from the spring icicles in Lucy's; but
when this torrent of full existence, warm and
mature, came in, the stream was at once in flood,
neither partial age nor developing youth being
beyond its influence. Lucy was so much amused,
so occupied with the change in the house, that
the Russellss and their concerns faded from her
recollection. " Imogen" was put away on a side-table
; and she had never required to make use
of that subject for conversation : Have you seen
the new novel ? There was a much more easy
one at hand : " Do you know Sir Thomas f was
now the question with which she took the initiative
; and Lucy found a power of language she
had never dreamt of possessing, in describing
his travels and the things he had brought home.
Sir Thomas had shot a lion  actually a lion 
and had brought back its magnificent skin as a

VOL. II. o

trophy. She got a little pink tinge on her cheeks,
which was very becoming, as she described it.
This gave her quite a little success among Lady
Randolph's visitors, who had hitherto found her
very elementary ; and already there were jokes
about Pygmalion and Galatea, and about the
sunshine, which made buds open and birds sing.
Lady Randolph, looking on watchfully, would have
preferred that the spell had not worked quite so
quickly. But as for Lucy she was delighted by
her own awakening, and pleased to find herself
enjoying everything, even the talk. The house
was so much more cheerful now Sir Tom was in
it. She put off her usual visit to Jock for a
whole week. To be sure there were various
reasons for that, for Lucy did not know how to
meet Bertie Russell after the dedication, and felt
that to speak of it, even to his mother, was difficult.
AVhat could she say % It was very " kind,"
but then it was, as Lady Randolph said, " too
broad." Lucy did not like to think of it. She
did not know how to meet the young man who had
called her an angel of Hope, and addressed her.

even in print, as Lucy ; and yet when they met
she would be obliged to say something to him.
Her embarrassment on this point had been
greatly increased by the fact that Sir Tom had
found the dedication out, and had " made fun "
of it. He was mischievous, though Lucy did not
like to think he was unkind. Sometimes he would
refer to the Angel of Hope in a way which covered
her with confusion, alarming her with a possibility
of betrayal ; but it was only to teaze her, and she
did not on the whole dislike Sir Tom's teazing. On
one of these occasions however she was so much
frightened that she remonstrated. " Please,"
she said, " do not tell any one it is me. Perhaps
after all it is not me ; Lucy is not an uncommon
name. And oh, Sir Thomas, if you please, do
not talk of it when any one is here."

I am afraid it must be you," Sir Thomas
said, " there could not be two with the same
characteristics; but you may trust me. Miss
Lucy, I will not tell, no, not for anything that
might be offered me. Wild horses "

You are laughing at me," she said.



Would you have me cry ? But I should like
to punch the young fellow's head. He had no
right to do it. It was like a cad to do it ; even ingratitude,
he ought not to have exposed you to
anything that might be disagreeable; besides,
Miss Lucy, it is taking a base advantage of other
fellows who cannot write books."

Lucy was not quite sure what he meant by
this, but she replied very gravely,

*' I am afraid it is the only thing he can do.
Do not laugh, please, it is very serious. I am
very anxious to know how it turns out."

Then you take a great deal of interest in
him r

I take a great deal of interest in that. They
all depend upon it ; and also for other things. Do
you think he will make much money by it. Sir
Thomas T

I have not an idea ; the only thing I know
about literature is that I was offered something if
I would write my travels. I have been in a
good many out of the way places, you know, and
then I am pretty well known ; but, unfortunately,

I could not, so that money got lost, more's the
pity!"

It was a great pity," said Lucy, with feeling.
"How strange it seems, you who cannot write
are offered money for it, and he who can write
is kept so uncertain. It seems always to be like
that. There is myself, with a great deal too
much money, and so many people with none at
all."

Sir Thomas laughed; the frankness of the
heiress amused him beyond measure.

Have you a great deal too much money V he
said.

Yes, did you not know ? But it will not be
so much," Lucy said, with an involuntary burst
of confidence, " after a while."

This puzzled him quite as much as anything
he could say puzzled her. He did not know
what to make of it, for there was no jest, but
perfect and candid gravity in Lucy's tone. He
thought it best, however, to take it as a mere
girlish levity and threat of extravagance to come.

Do you mean to make it go, then f he said.

Don't ! Take my advice : I have a good right
to give it, for I have paid for my experience.
Don't throw your money away as I have done."

*' Have you thrown it away ? I am very sorry.

I wonder f Lucy looked at him doubtfully,

almost wistfully. Was she going to offer him
some of hers ? he asked himself. He was at
once amused and touched, and full of expectation
as to what she would say next; but Lucy
changed her tone. "I will not throw it away,"
she said quietly. " Papa directed me, before he
died, what to do with it. It is a great responsibility
;" and here she paused and looked at him
once more. Was she going to confide some
secret to him ? Sir Thomas was very much
puzzled, indeed, more than he remembered ever
to have been puzzled hj any girl. He was a
man over thirty, a man of large experience, but
this young creature was a novelty to him.

' I should like to see how you will spend your
fortune," he said. " I shall watch what you do
with it. Mine went before I took time to consider
the responsibility. Marriage is not the

only thing that one does in haste and repents at
leisure. I am very sorry now, I can tell you,
that I was such a fool when I was young."

I  wonder ?" Lucy said again, softly to

herself She could not help longing to tell somebody
her secret, somebody that would feel a little
sympathy for her  why not this big, kind,
genial stranger, who was quite unlike all the
rest of her people ? who would surely understand,
she thought. But Sir Thomas did not in the
least understand. He thought she would have
liked to give him some of her money, and, indeed,
for his own part, he would not have had
the slightest objection to accept the whole of it,
as his aunt had planned and hoped ; but a portion
would be impossible. He laughed, looking at
her, in his turn, with kindness in his amusement.

"Are you meditating some benevolence?" he
said. " But, Miss Lucy, benevolence is a very
doubtful virtue. You must reflect well, and take
the advice of your business people. You must
not be too ready to give away. You see, though
I have not known you long, I am disposed to

take upon me the tone of a Mentor already, an
uncle experienced and elderly, or something of
that sort."

"Indeed, that is just what I should like," Lucy
said, simply.

This was a dreadful dash of cold water in his
face. It is one thing to call yourself experienced
and elderly, and quite another to be taken at
your word. He laughed again, but this time at
himself, and accepted the position with a curious
sense of its inappropriateness which was all the
more vivid because she did not seem to see it to
be inappropriate at all.

"Well," he said, "that's a bargain. When
you want to do anything angelically silly, and
throw away your money, you are to come and
consult me."

Do you really mean it ?" said Lucy, with
most serious eyes.

I really mean it, and there is my hand upon
it," he said. She put her hand into his with
gentle confidence, and he held it for a moment,
looking at the slender fingers. Lucy, as has

been said, had, though she had no right to it, a
pretty hand. " What a little bit of a thing," he
said, " to have so much to give away."

Yes," Lucy said, with a long breath that was
scarcely a sigh, and without the vestige of a
blush or embarrassment, " it is a great responsibility."
She was as sincere and serious as if he
had been an old woman, Sir Thomas felt, and he
laughed and let the little hand drop. His
fatherly flirtation, a mode which he had known
to be very efficacious, had no more effect than if
he had been a hundred. This failure tickled his
sense of humour, far more than success would
have pleased him otherwise.

That girl is a little original," he said, when
he talked her over with Lady Randolph ; but,
meantime, it was very certain that they were the
best of friends.

They were seated at breakfast on Saturday
morning, rather more than a week after his
arrival. Lucy had been making up her mind
that she could make no further excuse to herself,
but must go to Hampstead that day, and was

trying, as she drank her coffee, to compose little
speeches fit for the occasion. Sir Thomas was
half-hidden behind the newspaper, and Lady
Randolph cast a glance now and then, as she
finished her breakfast, at the pages of a weekly
review, supposed to be the most spirituel of its
kind, the first in fashion and in force.

Oh !" she cried suddenly. " Lucy I here is
something interesting, here is a notice of ' Imogen.'
You must take it out to the Russellss : for once
Cecilia has been as good as her word" Lucy
was in the midst of a carefully turned sentence
by which she meant to assure Mrs. Russell that she
felt Bertie's " kindness ;" she looked up with lively
interest ;  then, " Good heavens !" Lady Randolph
cried.

** What is the matter, aunt ?" said Sir Tom ;
he put out his big hand and took it from before
her, with the license of his privileged position.
"We others are most anxious to hear, and
you keep it to yourself. Shall I read it aloud.
Miss Lucy ?"

No ! no !" Lady Randolph cried, putting out

her hand. She was pale with fright and trouble,
but Sir Tom did not pay any attention ; he did
not notice her looks, and what was there in Bertie
Russell to make anything that could be said
about his book alarming to these ladies? He
took it up lightly.

I must see this Russell," he said, " that you
are so much interested in. What right has the
fellow to make you anxious f ' he was looking at
Lucy, who was, indeed, curious and interested,
but no more. " Now, if you are not good," he said,
looking at her, *' I shall keep you in suspense."

But Lucy did not accept the challenge. She
smiled in reply, with her usual tranquillity.

It is Mrs. Russell who will be in suspense,"
she said : and with a little friendly nod at her he
began to read. It was the kind of review for
which this organ of the highest literature was
famous. This was what Sir Thomas read :

*' We have so often had occasion to point out
to the female manufacturer of novels the disadvantages
which attend her habitual acquaintance

with the simplest rules of her art, that it
is a sort of relief to find upon the title-page of
the most recent example of this class of productions
a name which is not feminine. The
occurrence is rare. In this branch of industry,
at least, men have shown a chivalrous readiness
to leave the laurels growing low, and therefore
within the reach of the weaker vessel, to the
gathering of woman. She has here had the
chance, so often demanded, of proving her
powers, and she has not been reluctant to avail
herself of it. Almost as appropriately feminine
as Berlin wool, or the more fashionable rebels,
the novel of domestic life has acquired a stamp
of virtuous tedium, or virtuous excitement,
which are equally feminine, and we sigh in vain fora
larger rendering even of the levities of existence,
a treatment more broad, a touch more virile."

'* There's for you, Miss Lucy," said Sir Tom,
pausing ; " how do you like that, my excellent
aunt? He puts your sex in their right place.
There's a man now who feels his natural superiority,

who contemplates you all de haut en
has "

Oh, don't read any more, Tom ; it is not
worth your while to read any more."

Ah ! you are hit," he said. " Hurrah ! the
iron has entered into your soul."

Half a dozen pages of ' Imogen' will, however,
(he continued reading,) be enough to make
any reader pause who is moved by this natural
sentiment. What! he will ask himself, was
there no little war in hand demanding recruits ?
no expedition to discover the undiscoverable ?
even no stones to break on the roadside, which
could have given Mr. Albert Russell a bit of
manly work to do  that he must take up
with this industry reserved for the incompetent
r

Here Lucy uttered a long drawn " oh !" of
alarm. It had not occurred to her ignorance that
there could be any malice in it.

We must give him credit, however, for a
courage and liberality beyond that of his feminine
contemporaries in the freedom with which he

has mixed up what is apparently a personal
romance of his own with this production of his
genius. Whether the young lady, who is poetically
addressed as the Angel of Hope, will
relish the homage so publicly paid to her is a
different matter. We can but hope that, since
the art he has adopted is little likely, we fear,
to reward his exertions, the other patronesses to
whom he devotes himself may be more kind,
and that the owner of the pretty Christian name,
which is presented without the conventionality
of a Miss or Mistress "

Hallo !" said Sir Tom. He had been reading
on, without any particular attention to what
he read, until the recollection of what it meant
suddenly flashed upon him. He grew very red,
put down the paper, and looked at his companions.
" By Jove !" he cried.

I told you not to read it," cried Lady Randolph.
" Never mind, Lucy, my love, nobody
will know it is you. Oh, I could kill the presumptuous,
impertinent ! And that woman

is worse !" she cried with vehemence. " She

who knew all about it ; I will never forgive her.
She shall never enter this house."

Woman !" said Sir Thomas, " what woman ?
By Jove !" here he got up and buttoned his coat,
*' whoever the fellow is he shall have my opinion
of him before he is much older."

Sit down, Tom, sit down. If it was a fellow
whom you could knock down there would be no
great harm done ; no fellow ever wrote tJiat"
cried Lady Randolph, with that fine contempt of
masculine efforts which is peculiar to women.
Oh, I know the hand ! I know every stroke !
But never mind, never mind, my dear child,
nobody will connect you with it ; unless the
Age' gets hold of it, and gives us all a paragraph
; there is nothing more likely," she cried,
with tears of anger and annoyance. As for Sir
Thomas, he paced about the room in great perturbation,
saying, '' By Jove !" under his breath.

A woman I then there is nothing to be done,"
he said.

*' Oh, no ; you can't knock her down, more's
the pity ! or call her out. But, Tom, if you will

think, it is just as well, it is far better; we can't
have slut talk got up about that innocent child."

'* Lady Randolph, is it me you are thinking
of? What harm can it do me?" said Lucy, who
had grown pale, but was puzzled and frightened,
and did not quite understand why all this excitement
should be.

What harm, indeed !" cried Lady Randolph,
so long as you don't mind it, my darling !
She is the only one that has sense among us,
Tom."

"That is all very well," Sir Tom said.
*' She is too young to understand ; it is meant
for an insult. There's the harm of women getting
their fingers into every pie. You can't
kick them. By Jove ! isn't there any other way
that one can serve her out ?"

** Sir Thomas," said Lucy, " you laughed at
me about it yourself."

So I did ; I am ready to laugh at you, my
dear little girl, any moment  but I should like to
see another man do it," he cried.

Lady Randolph looked at him in dismay.

What could he mean ? to speak with such kindly
familiarity', as if she were his cousin, at the least.
(Though Lady Randolph professed to be a connection,
yet this link was not even known to
Sir Tom.) Would not the heiress be alarmed ?
would not she suspect and divine ? She turned
her eyes furtively towards Lucy, more troubled
than before.

But Lucy took it all very calmly. She showed
no consciousness of too much or too little in her
new friend's address. She smiled at him with
grateful confidence, without even a blush. What
was there to blush for ? Then her face clouded
over a little.

"Will it hurt the book? will he get no money
for it ?" she said.

VOL. n.

CHAPTER X.

A BAD RECEPTION.

LUCY rode to Hampstead that morning, Sir
Thomas, to her great surprise, volunteering
to go with her. He had some one in those
regions whom he too, wished to see, he said.
Lucy was not sure whether she was most pleased
or disconcerted by this companionship ; but the
ride was all the more agreeable. He was, as
usual, very kind, friendly, and brotherly  or
rather, as she thought, taking his own statement
frankly, like an uncle, an elder, experienced, but
altogether delightful friend, to whom she could
say a great many things, which it would have been
impossible to say to one near her own age and
condition.

Oddly enough Lucy was mysterious to Sir
Thomas, the only person with whom she felt inclined
to be confidential. She hovered about the
edge of her secret, asking herself whether she
should confide in him, half betraying herself,
then drawing back, more from shyness than want
of faith in him. She had known him so short
a time ; perhaps he would think it bold and presuming
of her, to thrust her confidences upon
him. This hesitation on her part gave her an
attraction which was not at all natural to her.
The touch of the little mystery added what was
wanting to the simplicity, and good sense, and
straightforward reasonableness of Lucys character.
What was it that lay thus below the surface 1 Sir
Thomas asked himself. What did she want to confide
to him? there was certainly something; was it
some entanglement or other, some girlish engagement
perhaps with this fellow, who had been base
enough to expose her to the remarks of the world.
It seemed to Sir Tom that this was the most
natural secret, the most probable embarrassment
that Lucy could have ; and with great vehemence

P 2

of disdain and wrath, he thought of the " cad"
who had probably inveigled the girl into some
sort of promise, and then proceeded to brag of it
before all the world. Thus Sir Thomas Randolph,
out of his much experience, entirely misconstrued
these two young persons who had no
experience at all. Bertie Russell was not a
young man of very elevated character, but he
was not a " cad ;" neither, very far from it, was
Lucy a fool ; but then Sir Tom  though he was
full of honest instincts and good feeling, and
would not himself (though he thought it no harm
to lay siege to an heiress, when the chance fell
in his way) have done anything which could be
stigmatized as the act of a cad still judged as
the world judges, which is after all a superficial
way of estimating human action : and he was as
entirely wrong, and blundered as completely in the
maze of his own inventions, as the greatest simpleton
could have done; which is one of the penalties
of worldly wisdom, though one which the wise are
most slow to learn. Notwithstanding, he n;ade her
ride very pleasant to Lucy. He talked up all

sorts of subjects, not allowing her mind to dwell
upon the annoyance of the morning. And
though this annoyance was not at all of the kind
he imagined, it was still good for her not to be
left to invent little speeches to be made to Mrs.
Russell, or to imagine dialogues that might never
take place. Lucy's mind had been in a good
deal of excitement when they set out. She had
resolved to make the plunge, to announce her intentions
to Mrs. Russell, and though there was
nothing but good in these intentions, still it requires
almost as much courage to inform a person
who has no natural claim upon you that you mean
to provide for her as it does to interfere in any
other way in the concerns of a stranger; or at
least this was how Lucy felt. Her heart beat :
had she been a poor governess going to look fora
situation she could not have been more nervous
about the result of the interview. But the
summer morning was exhilarating, and Sir
Thomas talked to her all the way. He told her
of a great many other rides taken in very different
circumstances, he took her for little excursions,

SO to speak, into his own life ; he made her
laugh, he led her out of herself. When she
reached Mrs. Russell's door, she had almost forgot
how momentous was the act she was about todo.
" I will come back for you," Sir Tom cried,
waving his hand. He did not come up the steep
bit of street. How kind he was, not oppressing
her with too much even of his own company !
Lucy had not known how she was to get rid of
him when she reached the house.

The house looked more neglected than ever
when Lucy went in. She could not but notice
that, as soon as she appeared, the blind of the
dining-room, which faced the street, was hurriedly
drawn down. She could, it was true, command
it as she sat there on her horse ; but she
was wounded by the suggestion that she might
intend to spy upon them, to look at something
which she was not wanted to see. In the hall,
outside the door of this closed room, a breakfast
tray was standing, though it was noon. The
grimy little maid was more grimy than ever.
She showed Lucy into the faded drawing-room,

where the blinds were drawn down for the sun,
which however streamed in at all the crevices,
showing the dust and the faded colours. There
were flowers on the table in a trumpery glass
vase, all limp and dying. A shabby miserable
room, of which no care was taken, and which
looked like the abode of people who had lost
heart, and even ceased to care for appearances.
Lucy's heart sank as she looked round. She who
was so tidy, with so much bourgeois orderliness
in her nature, felt all this much more than perhaps
an observer with higher faculties would
have done. It looked as if it had not been
touched" this morning, and it was with a pang
of pity that Lucy regarded the evident disorganization
of a house in which the chief room, the
woman's place, " had not been touched " at noon
of a summer day. It almost brought the tears
to her eyes. And she had a long time to wait to
note all the dust, the bits of trimming torn off
the curtains, the unmended holes in the carpet.
She even looked about furtively for a needle and
thread : but there were no implements of work to

be seen, nothing but the fading flowers all soiled
with decay, a fine shabby book on the untasted
table, the common showy ornaments all astray
on the mantelpiece. About a quarter of an hour
passed thus before Mrs. Russell came in, with
eyes redder than ever. Mrs. Russell could not be
untidy though her room was. She had the
decorum of her class whatever happened ; but
her black gown was rusty, and the long streamers
of her widow's cap had been worn longer than
was compatible with freshness. She held herself
very stiffly as she came in, and gave Lucy the
tips of her fingers. The poorer she was the more
stately she became. There was in her attitude,
in her expression, a reproach against the world.
That she should be thus poor, thus unfortunate,
was somebody's fault.

'' Your little brother is out. Miss Trevor, with
the others. He thought you had quite given him
up, and were coming no more."

Oh, Jock could not think that."

"Perhaps not Jock; but I certainly did, who
have, I hope, some experience of the world;"

said the poor lady, in her bitterness, "it is
quite natural; though I should have thought
Lady Randolph had sufficient knowledge of what
is considered proper, to respect your recent
mourning ; but all these old formalities are
made light of nowadays. When one sees girls
dancing in crape ! I wonder they don't feel as
if they were dancing over their relations'
graves."

Dear Mrs. Russell," said Lucy ; " T have not
been dancing. I did not come because because
 It was Lady Randolph that was vexed.
I am much obliged, very much obliged to
Mr. Bertie for being so kind ; but Lady Randolph
thought"

"Yes, I never doubted it," cried Bertie's
mother, with an outburst. " I never doubted it !
I told him it was imprudent at the time, and
would expose him to unjust suspicions ; as if he
was one to scheme for anybody's money ! much
more likely her own nephew, her dear Sir
Thomas, whom she is always talking of! But
Bertie would do it ; he said where he owed gratitude

he never should be afraid to pay it. And to
think that the very person he wished to honour
should turn against him ; and now he is ruined
altogether ruined in all his prospects !" the
poor mother cried amid a tempest of sobs.

Ruined !" cried Lucy, aghast.

"He is lying there, in the next room, my
poor boys I thought he would have died this
morning  oh, it is cruel, cruel ! He is quite
crushed by it. I tell him it is all a wicked plot,
and that surely, surely, there will be some
honest man who will do him justice ! But, though
I say it, I don't put any faith in it, for where is
there an honest critic ?" cried Mrs. Russell ; " from
all I hear there is not such a thing to be found.
They praise the people they know  people who
court them and fawn on them ; but it isn't in the
Russell blood to do that. And the worst of all,"
she said, with a fresh flood of tears, " the worst
of all  the thing that has just been the last
blow  is that you have not stood by him, Lucy,
you that kept on encouraging him, and have
brought it all upon him."

"brought it all upon him !" Lucy's consternation
was almost beyond words.

*' Yes, Miss Trevor," said the poor lady,
hysterically. " He would never have done it had
not you encouraged him never ! and now this
is what is brought against him. Oh, they cannot
say a word against his talent," she said ; " nota
word ! They cannot say the book is not beautiful
; what they say is all about that, which was
put in to please 3/0 and you have not the heart
to stand up for him !" the mother cried. She
was so much excited, and poured forth such tears
and sobs, that Lucy found herself without a word
to say. The trouble, no doubt, was real enough,
but it was mixed with so much excitement and
feverish exaggeration that the girl's sympathetic
heart was chilled ; and yet she had so much to say.
"But he must not put up with it," cried Mrs.
Russell ; " he shall not put up with it if I can
help it. He must write and tell them. And
there is not one word of real criticism not one
word ! Bertie himself says so ; nothing but
joking and jeering about the dedication. But I

know whose hand that is  it is Lady Randolph who
has done it. I knew she would interfere as soon
as she thought ' Bertie I said, ' don't  don't
for heaven's sake I You will bring a hornet's nest
about your ears.' But he always said ' Mother !
I must.' And now to think that the girl herself,
that has brought him into all this trouble, should
not have the heart to stand up for him ! Oh, it
just shows what I've always said, the wickedness
and hollowness of the world !"

Then there was a pause, through which was
heard only the sound of Mrs. Russell's sobbing.
Lucy sat undecided, not knowing what to do.
She was indignant, but more surprised than indignant
at the accusation ; and she was entirely
unaccustomed to blame, and did not know how
to defend herself. She sat with her heart beating,
and listened, now and then trying to remonstrate,
to make an appeal, but in vain. At last,
the moment came when her accuser lead poured
forth all she had to say. But this silence was
almost as painful as the unexpected violence
that preceded it. To be accused wrongfully, if

terrible, has still some counterbalancing effect in
the roused amour-propre of the innocent victim ;
but to watch the voice of the accuser quenched by
emotion, to hear the sobs dying off, then bursting
out again, the red eyes wiped, then filling
all in a silence which her own lips were too
much parched with agitation to permit her to
break, was almost more hard upon Lucy. She
had become very pale, and she did not know
wha* to say. More entirely guiltless than she
felt herself, no one could have been. She was
so innocent that she had no defence to make ;
and the attack took from her all the thoughts of
which her mind had been full. All the more
the silence weighed upon her. It was terrible
to sit there with her eyes on the floor, and say
nothing. At last she managed to falter forth:
May I see Jock, Mrs. Russell, before I
goT

I suppose you will want to remove him,"
Mrs. Russell said. " Oh ! I quite understand
that. I expected nothing else. The brother of
a rich heiress is out of place with a poor ruined

family. Everything is forsaking us. Let him
go too let him go too !"

Indeed I" said Lucy, recovering her composure
a little. " I was not thinking of that. I
meant only "

Never mind what you meant, Miss Trevor ;
it is better he should go. Things have gone too
far now," said the disturbed woman. " All the
rest are going  we shall have to go ourselves.
Oh! I thought it would not matter so long as
my Bertie God forgive them! God forgive
them !" she said, with trembling lips. " I
thought it would all come right, and everything

succeed, when my boy But we are ruined,

ruined I I don't know where we are to turn, or
what we are to do."

Mrs. Russell, will you let me say something
to you f Lucy said. This cry of distress had
restored her to herself. " I meant to have said
it before. It is not because of what has happened.
It was all settled in my mind before.
I was only waiting till I could arrange with my

guardian. Mrs. Russell, papa left some money
to be given away  "

Here she made a little pause for breath. Her
companion made no remark, bnt sat, lying back
in her chair, with her handkerchief to her
eyes.

It was a good deal of money," said Lucy.
He told me I was not to throw it away, but
to give enough to be of real use. I thought
that you would like to have some of it,
Mrs. Russell. That  it might do you a little
good."

Mrs. Russell let her handkerchief drop, and
stared at Lucy with her poor red eyes.

If you would let me give you part of it  I
cannot tell how much would be enough : but if
you would tell me  and we could consider everything.
It is lying there for the use of  people
who are in want of it. I hope you will take some
of it. I should be very thankful to you," said
Lucy, with a little nervous emphasis. " It is
there only to be given away."

Lucy had felt that it would be a difficult communication

to make, but she had no fear of any
refusal. She did not venture to look up, but
kept her eyes fixed on the carpet, though she
was very conscious, notwithstanding, of every
movement her companion made. The girl was
shy of the favour she was conferring, and frightened
in anticipation of the thanks she would
probably receive ; if only it could be settled and
paid without any thanks ! When her own voice
stopped she became still more frightened. The
silence was unbearable, and Lucy gave an
alarmed glance towards the sofa. Mrs. Russell
was gasping for breath, inflating her lungs,
apparently, in vain, and struggling for utterance.
This struggle ended in a hoarse and moaning
cry.

,soh, what have I done, what have I done,
that it should come to this f

"Mrs. Russell! you are ill. Are you ill?"
Lucy cried, alarmed.

Oh, what have I done, what have I done,
that it should come to this ?" she moaned. " Am
I a beggar that it should come to this ? to offer



me money in my own house ? money, as if I
were a beggar in the street? Oh, don't say
anything more, Miss Trevor, don't say anything
more!" Here she got up, clasping her hands
wildly, and walked about the room like a creature
distracted, as, indeed, between pride and
shame, and wretchedness and folly, the poor
woman almost was. " Ob, why didn't I die !
why didn't I die when he died ?" she cried. *' It
is more than I can bear. I, that was a Stonehouse,
and married a Russell, to be treated like
a beggar on the street. Oh, my God !" cried the
excited creature, *have I not enough to bear
without being insulted ? I can starve, or I candie,
but to be insulted it is more tian I can
bear."

Lucy was confounded. She stumbled to her
feet, also, in overwhelming distress. She had
meant no harm, heaven knows ! She had not
meant to wound the most delicate feeling. It
was a view of the matter which had never
occurred to her.

I must have said something wrong  without

VOL. II. Q

meaning it," she faltered. " I don't know how
to speak, but I did not mean to make you angry ;
oh, forgive me ! please forgive me ! I mean nothing
but "

This is what it is to be poor," Mrs. Russell
said. " Oh, I ought to thank you for it, that
among other things  I never would have known
all the bitterness of being poor but for this : and
yet I never held out my hand to ask anything,"
she cried, beginning to weep. *' I never thrust
my poverty on anybody. I did all I could to

keep up  a good appearance ; and to hope "

here the sobs burst forth again beyond restraint,
for better days."

What is the matter f said Bertie, pushing
open the door. He was carelessly dressed in an
old coat, his hair in disorder, his feet in slippers,
he who had always decorated himself so carefully
for Lucy's eyes. He did not take the
trouble to open the door with his hand, but
pushed it rudely with his person, and gave Lucy
a sullen nod and good morning. " What are you
making such a row about, mother ?" he said.

Oh, Bertie, Miss Trevor has come to offer
me charity !" she cried, '' charity ! She sees weare
poor, and, because she is rich, she thinks she
can treat me, me ! like a beggar in the street,
and offer me money. Oh, Bertie I Bertie ! my
boy !" the poor woman threw her arm round
him, and began to sob on his shoulder, "what
has your poor mother done that she should be
humbled like this ?''

Charity !" he said ; then looked at Lucy with
an insolent laugh that brought the colour to the
girl's face; "it is, perhaps, conscience mone3V
he cried. Then putting his mother away from
him : " Go and lie down, mamma, you have had
excitement enough this morning. We are not
beggars, whatever Miss Trevor may thinks
Bertie's eyes were red too, he was still at the age
when tears, though the man is ashamed of them,
are not far from the eyes when trouble comes.
Naturally," he said, " we all stand upon what
we have got, and money is Avhat you have got,
Miss Trevor. Oh, it is a very good thing, it
saves you from many annoyances. We have not

Q 2

very much of it, but we can do without charity."
His lip quivered, his heart was sore, and his
pride cut to pieces. " Money is not everything,
though, perhaps, you may be excused for thinking
so," he said. He wanted to retaliate on
some one ; the smarting of his eyelids, the quiver
which he could not keep from his lips, the
wounds of his pride still bleeding and fresh, all
filled him with a kind of blind fury and desire to
make some one else suffer. He would have
liked to tear his angel of hope to pieces in the
misery of his disappointment. Was it not her
fault?

As for Lucy, she stood like a culprit before
the mother and the son, looking at them with a
pathetic protest in her eyes, like that with which
an innocent dumb creature appeals against fate.
She was as much surprised by all this storm of
denunciation as a lamb is by the blow that ends
its life. When they were silent, and it was
time for her to speak, she opened her lips and
drew a long troubled breath, but she could say
nothing for herself. What was there to say?

She was too much astonished even for indignation.


I  will go, if you please, and wait for Jock
in the street," was all she found herself able to
say.

And just then the voices of the children, to
her great relief, were audible outside. Lucy
hurried away, feeling for the moment more
miserable than she had ever been in her life
before. There were but three little boys now,
and Mary, who had come in with them, was
standing a little in advance, listening, with an
anxious face, to the sound of the voices in the
drawing-room. Mary was hostile too ; she looked
at Lucy with defiant eyes.

Oh, is it really you, at last. Miss Trevor f
she said.

Poor Lucy felt her heart swell with the sting
of so much unkindness. She cried when Jock
rushed forward and threw himself upon her.

You are the same, at least*' she said with a
sob, as she kissed him. " May he come out with
me ? for I cannot stay here any longer."

The other girl, who did not know the meaning
of all this, was shaken out of her sullenness by
the threatening of another calamity. Mary had
nothing to do with the quarrel. She grew, if
possible, a little more pale.

Do you mean that he is to go  for good f
she said, looking wistfully at the diminished
band, only three, and there had been ten ! It
was all she could do to keep from crying too.
I have always tried to do the best I could for
him," she said.

CHAPTER XL

A RECEPTION OF A DIFFERENT KIND.

LUCY rode home without waiting for Sir
Thomas, with a heavy heart. She said
very little when she got back. To Lady Randolph's
questions she had scarcely anything to
reply. In Lady Randolph's eyes the chief person
to be considered was Lucy, whose name had been
so cruelly brought before the public. When it
did occur to her that the poor young author might
be cast down by the cruel comments upon his
first production, it is to be feared that the verdict
served him right," was the one that occurred first
to her mind. Only in the course of the afternoon,
when Lucy's increased gravity had made a distinct

impression upon her, did she express any-feeling
on this point. " Of course I am sorry for
his mother," she said ; " a silly woman, no energy,
no resource in her; but it will wound her of
course. How are they getting on with their
school ? That little girl, Mary, that was the only-one
that seemed to me to be good for anything.
Are they getting on any better with their school ?"

Lucy shook her head. She could not muster
courage to speak, the tears were in her eyes.

Ah !" said Lady Randolph, Lucy's emotion
had a very disturbing effect upon her; but it
moved her not to compassion for Mrs. Russell,
but to suspicion against Bertie. " I never thought
it would come to much," she said. " It seems so
easy to start anything like that. They had their
furniture, and what more did they want. Indian
children ! one would think it rained Indian
children ; every poor lady with no money thinks
she can manage to make a living out of them 
without calculating that everybody in India, or
almost everybody, has poor relations of their

But she was kind notwithstanding her severity.
There are few people who are not more or less
kincf absolute suffering. Though she thought
Mrs. Russell silly, and considered that her son
had been served rightly (if cruelly), and was impatient
of the foolish hopes on which their little
establishment had been founded, still she could
not be satisfied to leave the poor lady whom she
had known in her better days, to want. *' I will
speak to Tom," she said, "if Bertie could but
get some situation, far better than waiting nonsensical
books, something in the Customs, or
perhaps the post-office  I believe there are a great
many young men of good families in places like
that  where he could get a settled income, and
be able to help his mother."

Lucy made no reply to this suggestion. She
brightened a little in the evening, when Sir Tom
came in, bringing all his news with him ; but
she was not herself. When she was safe in her
room at night, she cried plentifully, like a child
as she was, over her failure. Perhaps her heart
had never been so sore. Sorrow, such as she had

felt for her father, is a different thing  there had
been no cross or complication in that ; but in this
all her life seemed to be compromised. This
dearest legacy that had been left her, the power
of making others happy, was it to be a failure in
her hands ? She had never contemplated such a
probability. In all the books she had read (and
these are a girl's only medium of knowledge)
there had been no such incident. There had been
indeed records of profuse gratitude, followed by
unkindness and indifference ; but these had never
alarmed Lucy. Gratitude had been the only
thing she feared, and that the recipients of the
bounty should forget it, was her chief hope. But
this unexpected rebuff threw Lucy down to
the earth from those heights of happy and simple
beneficence. Was it her fault, she asked herself?
had she offered it unkindly, shown any ungenerous
feeling ? She examined every word she had
said  at least as far as she could recollect them ;
but she had been so much agitated, so overwhelmed
by the excitement and passion of the
others, that she could not recollect much that she

had said. All night long in her dreams she was
pleading with people who would not take her
gifts, and blaming herself for not knowing how
to offer them. And when she woke in the morning,
was it my fault ? was the first question that
occurred to her. It seemed to assail the very
foundations of her life. Alas not this her first
duty, and if she could not discharge it what was
to become of her ? What would be the value of
all the rest?

She was sitting in the sitting-room in the
morning, somewhat disconsolate, pondering these
questions. A bright, still morning of midsummer,
all the windows open, and shaded by the
pretty striped blinds outside, which kept out the
obtrusive sunshine, yet showed it brilliant overall
the world below ; the windows were full of
flowers, those city plants always at the fullest
perfection, which know no vicissitudes of growth
or decay, but fill the luxurious rooms with one
continuous bloom, by grace, not of nature, but
the gardener. It was the hour when Lucy was
supposed to "read." She had not herself any

great eagerness for education ; but no woman
who respects herself can live in the same house
with a young girl nowadays, without taking care
to provide that she shall " read." Lucy had need
enough, it must be allowed, to improve her inind ;
but that mind, so far as the purely intellectual
qualities were concerned, did not count for very
much in her being. To be more or less well-informed
does not affect very much, one way or
other, the character, though we fear to utter any
dogmatism on such a subject. She was reading
history, poor child ; she had a number of books
open before her, a large Atlas, and was toiling conscientiously
through a number of battles. Into
the very midst of these battles, her thoughts of
the earlier morning, which were so much more
interesting to her, would intrude, and indeed she
had paused after the battle of Lepanto, and was
asking herself, not who was Don John of Austria,
or what other great personages had figured there,
which was what she ought to have done  but
whether it could possibly be her fault, and in
what other form she could have put it to succeed

better when suddenly, without any warning, a
knock came to her door. She sat very bolt upright
at once, and thought of Don John, before
she said " Come in." Perhaps it was the lady
who was so kind as to read with her  perhaps it
was Lady Randolph. She said " Come in," and
with no displeasure at all, but much consolation,
closed her book. She was not sorry to part company
with Don John.

To her great surprise, when the door opened,
it was neither Lady Randolph nor the lady who
directed her reading, but Mrs. Russell, with the
heavy crape veil hanging over her bonnet, her eyes
still very red, and her countenance very pale.
Lucy rose hastily from her chair, repeating her
Come in," with the profoundest astonishment,
but eagerness. Could it be Jock who was ill ?
could it be  Mrs. Russell smiled a somewhat
ghastly smile, and looked with an anxious face at
the surprised girl. She took the chair Lucy
gave her, threw back her veil, and the little
mantle from her shoulders, which was crape too,
and looked suffocating. Then she prepared for

the interview by taking out her handkerchief.
Tears were inevitable, however it might turnout.


You will be surprised to see me," Mrs. "Russell
said.

Lucy assented breathless. " Is there anything
the matter with Jock f ' she said.

It is natural you should think of your own
first," said the visitor with a little forced smile.
Oh, very natural. We always think of our
own first. No, Miss Trevor, there is nothing
the matter with Jock. What should be the matter
with him ? He is very well cared for. My
poor Mary gives herself up to the care of him.
She lies awake with him and his stories. Mary

is a She is the best daughter that ever

was " the mother said with fervour. Now

Mary was generally in the background among
the E/Ussells, and Lucy was perplexed more and
more.

It is by Mary's advice I have come," Mrs.
Russell said, putting her handkerchief to her
eyes. " It has been very difficult for me, very

difficult to make up my mind to come, Miss
Trevor. Mary says she is sure you meant 
kindly yesterday. I don't know how to refer
to yesterday. Everything that passed is written
here," she said, putting her hand upon her
breast, " as if it were in fire as if it were in
fire ! Oh, Miss Trevor ! you don't know what
it is when a woman has kept up a good position
all her life, and always been able to hold her
head high  you don't know what it is when she
has to give in, and allow herself to be spoken to
as one of the poor !"

Here she began to cry, and Lucy cried too.
I did not mean it," she said fervently, " indeed,
indeed, I did not mean it. If I said anything
wrong, forgive me. It was because I did
not know how to speak."

Well, dear," said Mrs. Russell, drying her
eyes, " perhaps it was so. You are very young,
and you have not had much experience ; and, as
Bertie says, you have so much money, that it
is no wonder if you think a great deal of it.
But you shouldn't. Miss Trevor  you shouldn't.



V

Money is of great use ; but it is not everything."


Here the poor lady paused and glanced round
the room, in every point so dainty, all the details
so perfect, everything fresh, well chosen, adapted
to the corner it filled ; and the flowers so abundant,
and so sweet. '' Oh !" she said, " it wants
no arguing. Money tells for so much in this
life. Look at my Mary. She is younger than
you are, she is clever and good, yet look at her,
and look at you. I think it will break my
heart !"

Lucy made no reply. After all, it was not her
fault that she had a great deal of money  that
she was a great heiress. There was no reason
why that fact should break Mrs. Russell's heart.
If I had not had it," she faltered apologetically,
" some one else would have had it. It
would not have made any difference if it had
been another girl, or me."

'' Oh yes ! it would have made a difference.
When you don't know the person, it never feels
quite so hard. But I don't blame you  I don't

blame yon. 1 suppose everyone would be rich
if they could ; or, at least, most people," said
Mrs. Russell with a tone which seemed to imply
that she herself would be the exception, and
superior to the charms of wealth.

At this Lucy was silent, perhaps not feeling
that she had ever wished to be poor ; and yet
who, she thought within herself, knew the burden
of wealth as she did? it had brought her
more trouble than pleasure as yet. She felt
troubled and cast down, even though her girlish
submission began to be modified by the faintest
shy gleam of consciousness that there was something
ludicrous in the situation, in her visitor's
disapproval, and her own humble half-acknowledgment
of the guilt of being rich.

Miss Trevor," Mrs. Russell said, with trembling
lips. " Though I wish j'ou had not found
it out, or that, if you did, you had not taken
any notice of it, which is what one expects from
one's friends, I cannot deny that you arc right.
We have lost almost everything," she said,
steadying her voice in dreary sincerity. " We

VOL. II. R

have been fighting on from hand to mouth 
sometimes not knowing where next week's bills
were to come from. Oh I more than that  notable
to pay the week's bills ; getting into debt,
and nothing, nothing coming in. I kept up,
always hoping that Bertie Bertie with his

talents Oh ! you don't know nobody

knows how clever he is ! As soon as he got

an opening But now it seems all ended,"

she added, her voice failing. *' These people,
oh God, forgive them ! they don't know, perhaps,
how wicked it is these envious cruel people
have half killed my boy; and I have not a penny,
nothing, Miss Trevor, nothing; and the rent
due, and the pupils all dropping away."

Lucy rose and came to where the poor woman
sat struggling with her emotion. It was not a
case for words. She went and stood by her,
crying softly, while Mrs. Russell leant her crape-laden
head upon the girl's breast and sobbed.
All her defences where broken down. She grasped
Lucy's arm and clung to it as if it had been an
anchor of salvation. *' And I came " she

gasped, " to say, if you would really be so kind
oh, how cau I ask it ! as to lend us the money
you spoke of only to lend it, Miss Trevor, till
something better turns up till Bertie gets something
to do. He is willing to do anything now :
or till Mary finds a situation. It can't be but

that we shall be able to pay you, somehow

And there is the furniture for security. Oh ! I
don't know how to ask it. I never borrowed money
before, nor wished for anything that was not my
own. But, oh, Lucy ! if you really, really have
it to do what you like with The best people
are obliged to borrow sometimes," Mrs. Russell
added looking up wistfully with an attempt at a
smile, " and there is nothing to be ashamed of
in being poor."

But this was an emergency for which Lucy's
straightforward nature was not prepared. She
had the power to give she knew ; but to lend she
did not think she had any power. What was
she to do? She had not imagination enough
to conceive the possibility that borrowing does
not always mean repaying. She hesitated and

R 2

faltered. " Dear Mrs. Russell, it is there for
you if you would only take it, take it altogether
!" Lucy said in supplicating tones.

No," said her visitor firmly. " No, Lucy,
do not ask me. You will only make me go away
very miserable  more miserable than I was when
I came. If you will lend it to me, I shall be
very glad. I don't hesitate to say it will be a
great, great service  it will almost be saving our
lives. I would offer to pay you interest, but I
don't think you would like that. I told Bertie so ;
and he said if I were to give you an I  U ;
I don't understand it, Lucj and you do not understand
it, my dear; but he says that is the
way."

There was nothing about lending, I think,
in the will," said Lucy, very doubtfully ; " but,"
she added after a moment, with a sudden gleam
of cheerfulness. " I will tell you how we can
do it. I am to be quite free to do what I please
in seven years  "

*' In seven years !" poor Mrs. Russell's face
seemed to draw out and lengthen, as she said

these words, until it was almost as long as the
period, though it did not seem easy to see by
what means the fact could affect her present
purpose. Lucy nodded very cheerfully. She
had quite regained her courage and satisfaction
with her fate.

I will give it you for seven years," she said,
going back to her seat, " and then you can give
it me back again, there will be no need for Iso.
what ? or anything of the sort. We will be
sure to pay each other, if we remember  "

I shall be sure to remember, Miss Trevor,"
said Mrs. Russell, almost sternly ; " a matter of
business like this is not a thing to be forgot."

Then that is all settled," cried Lucy, quite
gaily. " Oh, I am so glad ! I have been so
unhappy since I was at Hampstead. I thought
it must be my fault."

"Not altogether your fault," said Mrs. Russell.
Oh, you must not blame yourself too much, my
dear, there was something on both sides; you
were a little brusque, and perhaps thinking too
much of your money. I should say that was the

weak point in your character; and we were
proud  we are too proud that is our besetting
sin," she said, with an air of satisfaction.

Mrs. Russell dried the last lingering tears from
the corners of her e3es, everything had become
tranquil and sweet in the atmosphere once so
laden with tragic elements ; but still there was an
anxious contraction in her forehead, and she
looked wistfully at the girl who had so much in
her hands.

I know," said Lucy, " you would like it
directly, and I will try, I will try to get it at
once. I will send it to you, if I can, to-night ;
but perhaps not to-night, it might be too late ;
tomorrow I think I could be quite sure. And
then we must fix how much," said Lucy, with
something of that intoxication of liberality which
children often display, children, but, alas ! few
people who have much to give. 'show many
thousand pounds would do?"

Mrs. Russell was stupefied, her eyes opened
mechanically to their fullest width, her lips parted
with consternation.

Thousand pounds !" she echoed, aghast.
The poor soul had thought of fifty, and a hundred
had seemed to her something too magnificent
to be dreamed of.

One thousand is only fifty pounds a year," said
Lucy, " sometimes not that, I believe ; it is not
very much. What 1 had thought of was five or six
thousand, to make two hundred and fifty pounds
a year. Mrs. Ford used to say that two people
could live upon that. It is not much, I know,
but it would be better, would it not ?" the girl
said persuasively, " to have a little every year,
and always know you were going to have it, than
to have a sum of money only once ?"

Mrs. Russell looked at the simple young face,
all glowing with renewed happiness, till she
could look no longer, it seemed to dazzle her.
She covered her face with her hands.

"Oh, Lucy, I do not know what to say to
you. I have not deserved it, I have not deserved
it," she said.

At luncheon Lucy was a changed girl. She
had never looked so happy, so bright ; the clouds

had blown entirely away from her face and her
firmament. She had written a letter to her
guardian as soon as Mrs. Russell, her head light
and giddy with sudden relief from all her trouble,
had gone back to Hampstead in the omnibus, to
which she had to bend her pride, protesting
mutely by every gesture that it was not a thing
she had been used to. No more had been said
about the paying back. The idea of an income
had stunned this astonished woman, had almost
had upon her the effect of an opiate, soothing
away all her cares and troubles, wrapping her
in a soft stupor of ease and happiness. Could it
be true ? She had given up, without any further
murmur or protest, the conditions she brought
with her, and which she had meant to insist
upon. Lucy's final proposal had taken away her
breath ; she had not said anything against it, she
had made no remonstrance, no resistance. Her
mind was confused with happiness and ease, and
the yielding which these sensations bring with
them. So poor a careworn woman, distracted
with trouble and anxiety she had been when, with

her veil over her face to hide the tears that would
come against her will, she had been driven down
the same long slope of road, sick with hope, and
doubt, and terror, feeling every stoppage of the
slow, lumbering machine a new agony, yet half
glad of everything which delayed the interview
she dreaded, the self-humiliation which she could
not escape from. How different were her feelings
now! She could not believe in the wonderful
good fortune which had befallen her ; it removed
all capability of resistance, it seemed to trickle
through all her veins down to her very feet, upward
to nourish her confused brain, a subtle
calm, an all dissolving dew of happiness. Provided
for ! was it possible ? was it possible ?
She did not believe it the word is too weak,
she was incapable of taking in the significance
of it mentally at all ; but it penetrated her and
soothed her, and took all pain from her, giving
her an all-pervading consciousness of rest.

As for Lucy, she listened to Sir Tom's gossip
with that eloquent interest and ready amusement
which is the greatest flattery in the world. All

his jokes were successful with her, her face responded
to him almost before he spoke. Lady-randolph
could scarcely believe her eyes; the
success of her scheme was too rapid. There was
terror in her self-gratulation. Would Tom care
for such an easy conquest? and if the guardians
could not be got to consent to a marriage, was
it possible that this could go on for seven years ?
She would have preferred a more gradual progress.
Meanwhile, Lucy took an opportunity to
speak apart to this kind new friend of hers, while
Lady Randolph was preparing for her usual drive.

May I ask you something f she said, after
she had actually no other word would describe
the process  wheedled him up to the drawing-room
after luncheon. It was not often Sir
Thomas came to luncheon, and Lucy thought it
providential.

"Ask me anything in the world!" he said,
with the kind smile which seemed to Lucy to
warm and open up all the corners of her heart.
It got into the atmosphere like sunshine, and she
felt herself open out in it like a flower.

She stood before him very gravely, with her
hands folded together, her eyes raised to his, the
utmost seriousness in her face, not at all unlike
a girl at school, very innocent and modest, but
much in earnest, asking for some momentary
concession. He had almost put his hand paternally
upon the little head, of whose looks he was
beginning to grow fond, though, perhaps, in too
elder-brotherly a way. It was while Sir Tom's
experienced heart was in this soft and yielding
state, that the little girl, raising her soft eyes,
asked very distinctly,

Then would you lend me a hundred pounds,
if you please ?"

Sir Thomas started as if he had been shot.

A hundred pounds !" he cried, with consternation
in every tone.

Lucy laughed with the happiest ease. There
was no one with whom she was so much at
home.

It is only till tomorrow. I have written to
Mr. Chervil to come, but he cannot come till tomorrow,"
she said.

And you want a hundred pounds, to-day f

If you please," said Lucy, calmly ; " if you
will lend it to me. It would be a pleasure to
have it to-day."

Sir Tom's face grew crimson with embarrassment;
had he a hundred pounds to lend? he
thought it very unlikely; and his wonder was
still more profound. This little thing, not much
more than a child: what on earth could she
vant, all at once, with a hundred pounds ? he
did not know what to say.

"My dear Miss Lucy," he said, (for though
this title was incorrect, and against the rules of
society, and servant-maidish, he had adopted it
as less stiff and distant than Miss Trevor). " My
dear Miss Lucy : of course I will do whatever
you ask me. But let me ask you, from the uncle
point of view, you know  is it right that you
should want a hundred pounds all in a moment ?
Yes, you told me you had a great deal of money ;
but you have also a very small number of years.
I don't ask what you are going to do with it.
We have exchanged opinions already, haven't

we ? about the pleasure of throwing money
away. But do you think it is right, and that
your guardian will approve ?"

It is quite right," said Lucy, gravely ; " and
my guardian cannot help but approve, for it is
in papa's will, Sir Thomas. Thank you very
much. I am not throwing it away. I am giving
it hack

"What does the little witch mean ? he asked
himself, with consternation and bewilderment ?
but what could be done ? He went out straightway,
and after a while he managed to get her the
hundred pounds. A baronet with a good estate
and some reputation, even though he may have
no money to speak of, can always manage that.
And Lucy accepted it from him quite serenely,
as if it had been a shade of Berlin wool, showing
on her side no embarrassment, nor any sense
that it Alas inappropriate that he should be her
creditor. She gave him only a smile, and a
thank you, and apparently thought nothing more
of it. Sir Thomas was fairly struck dumb with
the adventure ; but to Lucy, so far as he could

make out, it was the most everyday occurrence.
She sent her maid to Hampstead that evening 
dressing for dinner by herself, a thing which Lucy,
not trained to attendance, was always secretly
relieved to do  with a basket of strawberries for
Jock, and a letter for Mrs. Russell ; and the
girl's face beamed when she came downstairs.
They took her to the opera that evening, where
Lucy sat very tranquilly, veiled by the curtains
of the box ; and listened conscientiously, though
she showed no signs of enthusiasm. She had a
private little song of her own going on all the
while in her heart.

CHAPTER XII.

LUCY'S FIRST Venture.

WHILE Lucy's mind was thus soothed and
comforted by the consciousness of doing
her duty, a very different effect was produced
upon her father's executors, who, it is scarcely
necessary to say, regarded her attempt to fulfil
the commands of the secret codicil with mingled
consternation and fury. Mr. Chervil, who, being
at hand, was the first representative of these
legal authorities to be appealed to on the matter,
had obeyed her first call with some surprise, and
had been, as was not unnatural, driven nearly
frantic by the quiet intimation given him by
the little girl, whom he looked upon as a child,
that she intended to use the power entrusted
to her.

What do you know about Codicil F f he
said. *' I don't know that there is any Codicil
F. I don't believe in it. You are under a
mistake, Miss Lucy :" but when she made it apparent
to him that her means of knowing were
unquestionable, and her determination absolute,
Mr. Chervil went a step further  he blasphemed.
"It is against every law," he said. "I don't
believe it would stand in any court. I don't feel
that I should be justified in paying any attention
to it. I am sure Rushton would be of my
opinion. It was a mere piece of folly, downright
madness, delusion  I don't know what to
call it."

"But whatever it is," said Lucy, with great
prudence, putting forth no theory of her own,
what papa said is law to me." And though his
resistance was desperate, she held her own with
a gentle pertinacity.

Lucy's aspect was so entirely that of a submissive
and dutiful girl, she was so modestly
commonplace, so unlike a heroine, that it was a
long time before he could believe that this little

creature really meant to make a stand upon her
rights. He could scarcely believe, even, that she
understood what those rights were, or could
stand for a moment against his denial of them.
When he was driven to remonstrance, a chill
of discouragement succeeded the first fury of
his refusal. He tried every oratorical art by
sheer stress of nature, denouncing, entreating,
imploring all in a breath.

*' It is like something out of the Dark Ages,"
he cried. " It is mere demoralization. You will
make a race of paupers, you will ruin the character
of every person who comes near you.
For God's sake! Miss Lucy, think what you
want to do. It is not to give away money, it is
to spread ruin far and wide  ruin of all the
moral sentiments; you will make people dishonest,
you will take away their independence,
you will be worse than a civil war ! And look
here," cried the executor, desperate, " perhaps
you think you will get gratitude for it : that people
will think you a great benefactor 1 Not a bit of
them! You will sow the wind and reap the

VOL. n. s

whirlwind," he cried, wrath and despair driving
him to that great storehouse of poetry with
which early training still supplies the most
commonplace of Englishmen.

Lucy listened with great attention, and it was
an effort for her to restrain her own awe
and respect for *' a gentleman," and the almost
terror with which his excitement, as he paced
about her little dainty room, shaking the whole
house with his hasty steps, filled her. To see
her mild countenance, her slight little form,
under the hailstorm of his passion, was half
pathetic and half ludicrous. Sometimes she cried,
sometimes trembled, but never gave in. Other
stormy interviews followed, and letters from Mr.
Rushton, in which every argument was addressed
both to her *' good sense" and "good feeling;"
but Lucy had neither the good sense to appreciate
their conscientious care of her money, nor
the good feeling to allow that her father had in
this particular acted like a fool or a madman.
She was wise enough to attempt no argument,
but she never gave in ; there were moments, indeed,

when the two men were in hopes that
they had triumphed ; but these were only when
Lucy herself was wavering and discouraged in
regard to the Russellss, and unable to decide
what to do. The evening after her final interview
with Mrs. Russell, she sent for Mr, Chervil
again ; and it was not without a little panic and
beating of her heart that Lucy looked forward to
this conclusive meeting. She had to prop herself
up by all kind of supports, recalling to herself
the misery she had seen, and the efforts to conceal
that misery, which were almost more painful
still to behold, and, on the other hand, the precision
of her father's orders, which entirely suited
the case : " If it is a woman, let it be an income
upon which she can live and bring up her
children," nothing could be more decided than
this. Nevertheless, Lucy felt her heart jump to
her mouth when she heard Mr. Chervil's heavy
yet impetuous feet come hastily upstairs.

And Mr. Chervil, as was natural, made a
desperate stand, feeling it to be the last. He
made Lucy cry, and gave her a great deal of very

S 2

unpleasant advice ; he went further, he bullied
her, and made her blush, asking, coarsely,
whether it was for the son's sake that she was so
determined to pension the mother ? for she had
been obliged to give him full particulars of the
Russell family and their distresses. It was a
terrible morning for the poor little girl. But if
the executor ever hoped to make Lucy swerve, or
to bully her into giving up her intention, no
mistake could be greater. She blushed, and she
cried with shame and pain. All the trouble of a
child in being violently scolded, the hurts and
wounds, the mortification, the sense of injustice,
she felt, but she did not yield an inch. Lucy
knew the power she had, and no force on earth
would have turned her from it. He might hurt
her, that was not hard to do, but change her
mind he could not ; her gentle obstinacy was invincible;
she cried, but she stood fast; and
naturally the victory fell to her, after that battle.
From the beginning Mr. Chervil knew well
enough that if she stood out there was nothing
to be done, but it seemed to him that fifty must

be more than a match for seventeen ; and in this
he was mistaken, which is not unusual. When,
however, all was over, the capitulation signed and
sealed, and Lucy, though tearful, entrenched
with all her banners flying upon the field of
battle, a new sensation awaited the discomfited
and angry guardian of her possessions. He
thought he had already put up with as much as
flesh and blood could bear, but it may be imagined
what Mr. Chervil's feelings were when his ward
thus addressed him, putting back a little lock of
hair which had got out of its usual tidiness
during the struggle, (for though there was no
actual fighting far be it from us to insinuate
that the angry guardian went the length of blows,
though he would have dearly liked to whip her,
had he dared  agitation itself puts a girl's light
locks out of order,) and pursuing a last tear into
the corner of her eyes :

I want a hundred pounds, if you please,
directly; I borrowed it yesterday," said Lucy,
with great composure, " from Sir Thomas, and I
said I would pay it back to-day."

You  borrowed a hundred pounds  from Sir
Thomas !" His voice gurgled in his throat. It
was a wonder that he did not have a fit ; the
blood rushed to his head, his very breath seemed
arrested. It was almost as much as his life  being
a man of full habit and sanguine temperament
 was worth.

Yes," said Lucy's calm, little soft voice.
There was still occasionally the echo of a sob in
it, as in a child's voice after a fit of crying, but
yet it was quite calm. " Will you write a
cheque for him, if you please'*

You will drive me mad, Miss Lucy, before
you have done !" cried the excited executor, " all
for this woman, this young fellow's mother, this

object of your And you go and borrow

from another man, borrow, actually money 
from another man, you, an unmarried girl ! Oh,
this is too much! I must put your affairs in
Chancery ! I must wash my hands of you ! borrow
money  frOm a man !"

'* But I don't know who else I could have
borrowed it from. Sir Thomas is not just a 

man ; he is a friend. I like him very much, there
is nolK)dy so kind. If I had asked Lady Randolph
she would have insisted upon knowing
everything ; but Sir Thomas understands me  a
little," Lucy said.

Understands you a little ? Well, it is more
than 1 do," cried her guardian; but when ho came
to think of it, this complication silenced him, for
if the young fellow at Hampstead had been the
object of any childish infatuation, Sir Thomas
could not have been brought into it in this way ;
and if she had a fancy for Sir Thomas, it was
clear the young fellow at Hampstead must be out
of it. She could not possibly, at her age, be
playing off the one against the other. So Mr.
Chervil concluded, having just as little confidence
in the purity and simplicity of Lucy's motives as
everybody else had; and he gave the cheque with
groans of suppressed fury, yet bewilderment.
You don't know the world, Miss Lucy," he said,
though you are very clever. I advise you not
to borrow from gentlemen ; they are apt to fancy,
when a girl does that sort of thing And I

will not have it !" he added, with some violence.
You are my ward and under age, notwithstanding
that mad codicil. If it were not that a
great part of the money would go to your little
brother in case we broke the will, by George, I
should try it I" the outraged executor said.

"Would it to Jock? Oh, that would be a
blessing!" cried Lucy, clasping her hands;
then she added, the light fading from her
face. " But that would be to go against everything
papa said, for Jock is no relation to my
Uncle Rainy. Of course," said Lucy, with
delightful inconsistency, " when I can do what I
like, in seven years time, Jock shall have his full
share, and if I were to die he would be my
heir; you said so, Mr. Chervil, that made my
mind quite easy. But I shall not be able to
borrow from Sir Thomas again," she added,
with a laugh, " because he will not be here."

What could the guardian do more ? There
was no telling what might happen in seven years;
before seven years were over, please God, she
would be married and trust her husband to

guard against the dividing of the fortune ! It
would be better, Mr. Chervil concluded, to put up
with the loss of a few thousand pounds than to
risk the cutting up of the whole property, and
the alienation of a great part of it from poor
Rainy's race. Besides, the executor knew that
to break the will would not be an easy matter.
The codicil might be eccentric, but old Trevor
was sane enough. He growled, but he wrote the
cheque, and submitted to everything, though
with an ill grace. Lady Randolph offered luncheon
to the gentleman from the city, and was
pointedly ceremonious, though civil.

Miss Trevor is rather too young to have such
lengthened conferences with gentlemen," she
said, " though I have no doubt, Mr. Chervil, I
can trust you."

Trust me, my lady ! Why, I am a man with
a family !" cried the astonished executor. " I
have daughters as old as Miss Lucy." He was
confused when Sir Tom's large laugh (for Sir
Tom was here again, much amused with the
little drama, and almost making his aunt angry

by the devotion with which he carried out her
scheme) showed him the folly of this little speech,
and added awkwardly, " I don't suppose she will
come to any harm in your hands, but she's a
wild madcap, though she looks so quiet, and as
obstinate, as obstinate "

Are you all that?" Sir Thomas said, looking
at Lucy with the laugh still in his eyes. " You
hide it under a wonderfully innocent exterior. It
is the lion in lamb's clothing this time. I think
you must require my help, aunt, to manage this
dangerous young lady."

"Oh I I can dispense with your help," Lady
Randolph said, with a little flush of irritation.
Decidedly things were going too fast and too
far; under the very nose of the executor too,
who, no doubt, kept a most keen outlook
upon all who surrounded his precious ward. " I
am not afraid of Lucy, so long as she is let
alone and left to the occupations suitable to her
age'* And with this her ladyship rose from the
table, and with some impatience bade her young
companion to get ready for their drive ; though,

as everybody could see, even though the closed
blinds which kept the dim dining-room cool, it
was hours too early for any drive.

Just a word to you, Sir Thomas, if you'll
permit me," Mr. Chervil said. " That dangerous
young lady, as you call her, will run through
every penny she has, if she is allowed to have
her own way. If you would be so kind as to
riot encourage her, it would be real friendship,
though she oughtn't think so. But as long as
any one backs her up "

Sir Thomas opened his eyes wide. " Ah, I
see ! you took what I said au pied de la lettre"
he said with languid contempt. Now the executor
was little experienced in the French, or
any foreign tongue, and he did not know what
the foot of the letter meant. He cried, " Oh, no,
not at all!" apologetically, shocked at his own
boldness ; and went away bewildered all round,
and much troubled in his mind about the stability
of the Rainy estate. Mr. Chervil was the
most honourable of trustees his own interest
had nothing at all to do with his opposition.

But prodigality in business-matters was, to him,
the master sin, above all those of the Decalogue.
There was, indeed, no commandment there which
ordained, " Thou shalt not waste thy money, or
give it injudiciously away." But Mr. Chervil felt
that this was a mere oversight on the part of the
great law-giver, and one which prudent persons
had a right to amend on their own account. Mr.
Chervil who here felt an unexpressed confidence
that he was better informed (on matters of business)
than the Almighty, was very sure that he
Jjnew a great deal better than old Trevor. He
scouted the old man's ideas as preposterous.
That craze of his about giving it back was evident
madness. Give it back! the thing to be
done was exactly the contrary. He himself knew
ways of doubling every pound, and building up
the great Rainy fortune into proportions colossal
and magnificent. But he did not think of any
advantage to himself in all this. He was quite
content that it should be the little sedate figure
of the girl which should be raised, ever higher
and higher into the blazing heaven of wealth

upon that golden pedestal, heaped with new and
ever-renewed ingots. And not only was this
his ambition perfectly honest, but there was
even in a way something visionary in it, an
ideal, something that stood in the place of poetry
and art to Mr. Chervil. It was his way of identifying
the highest good, the most perfect beauty.
A fortune does not appeal to the eye like a statue
or a picture ; but sometimes it appeals to
the mind in a still more superlative way. Old
Trevor's executor felt himself capable of working
at it with an enthusiasm which Phidias,
which Michael Angelo could not have surpassed. 
Arch' io picture." I too have made something
all beautiful, all excellent, all but divine,
he would have said, had he known how. And
when he contemplated the possibility of having
his materials taken from him piecemeal, and
scattered over the country to produce quite inappreciable
results in private holes and corners,
his pain and rage and disappointment were
almost as great as the sentiments which would
have moved the fierce Buonarotti had some

wretched bungler got into his studio, and cut
knobs off the very bit of marble in which already
he saw his David. Therefore it was not altogether
a sordid sentiment which moved him.
There was in it something of the desperation of
a sincere fanatic, as well as the regret of a man
of business over opportunities foolishly thrown
away.

And Lucy, if the truth must be told, got no
particular satisfaction out of the proceeding. She
thought it right to suggest, though very timidly,
that instead of the bigger house, which poor Mrs.
Russell's desperation had been contemplating,
a smaller house, where she could herself be comfortable,
would be the best; and the suggestion
was not graciously received. The family
indeed which she had so greatly befriended contemplated
her with a confusion and embarrassment
which made poor Lucy wretched. Mary,
the ene of them whom she had always liked
best, avoided the sight of the benefactor who
had saved them all from destruction. When
she appeared reluctantly, her cheeks red

with shame, and her eyes with crying, she
could scarcely look Lucy in the face. " Oh,
Miss Trevor ! I wish you had not done it. We
should have struggled through and been honest,"
Mary exclaimed averting her eyes ; and then she
fell a-crying and begged Lucy's pardon with half
angry vehemence, declaring she hated herself
for her ingratitude. Wondering, bewildered, and
sad, Lucy stole away as if she had been a guilty
creature from the house to which she had given
a little fortune, ease, and security, and comfort.
Had she made enemies of them instead of
friends'? Instead of making them happy, she
seemed to have destroyed all family accord, and
put everything wrong. Nor was this all the
trouble the poor girl had. She had scarcely got
back from that mission of uncomfortable beneficence,
when she saw by the general aspect of
affairs in Lady Randolph's drawing-room that
something was wrong. Lady Randolph herself
sat bending, with quite unaccustomed energy,
over a piece of work, which Lucy had got to
know was her refuge when she was annoyed or

disturbed  with a flush under her eyes which
was also a sure sign of atmospheric derangement.
Sir Thomas was pacing about the room behind
backs, and as Lucy came in she saw him (which
even in a moment of violent commotion disturbed
her orderly soul) tear a newspaper in
several pieces, and throw it into the basket
under the writing-table: a new newspaper, for
it was Saturday. What could he mean ? Near
Lady Randolph was seated old Lady Betsinda
full in the light, and looking more like a merchant
of old clothes than ever; while Mrs.
Berry-Montagu had her usual place in the
shadow of the curtains ; the two visitors had
the conversation in their hands.

My dear Mary Randolph," Lady Betsinda
was saying, " you ought to have taken my advice.
Never have anything to do with authors ; I say
it to everybody, and to you I am sure if I have
said it once I have said it a hundred times.
They are a beggarly race ; they don't print by
subscriptions nowadays, but they do far worse.
If they cannot get as much out of you as they

want, they will make you suffer for it. Have not
I told you? When you're good to them, they
think they pay you a compliment by accepting it.
A great many people think it gives them importance
to have such persons about their house ;
they think that is the way to get a salon like the
French, but there never was a greater mistake.
Authors, so far as I've seen, are the very dullest
people going, if they ever have an idea in their
heads, they save it up carefully for their books."

What would you have them do with it, Lady
Betty ? waste it upon you and me ? most likely
we should not understand it," said the other lady,
with her soft little sneer. " Come in, come in,
Miss Trevor, and sit and learn at Lady Betty's
feet."

Lady Randolph bent towards the speaker with
a rapid whisper. *' Not a word to Lucy about
it, for heaven's sake !" she said.

Mrs. Berry-Montagu made no reply; almost
all that could be seen of her was the malicious
gleam in her eyes.

'' Come and learn wisdom," she said, " at the

VOL. n. T

feet of Lady Betsinda. When we have a
University like the men, there shall be a chair
of Social Experience, and she shall be voted into
it by acclamation." Lady Betsinda was a little
deaf, and rarely caught all that was said, but she
made no show .of this imperfection, and went on
without asking any questions.

I have met a great many authors in my
day," she said, " they used to be more in society
in my time. Now it has become a sort of trade,
I hear, like cotton-spinning. Oh, yes, cotton-spinners,
my dear, get into society  when they
are rich enough  and so do the people that write ;
but not as they used to do. They are commoner
now. It seemed so very clever once to write a
book ; now, I hear, it's a great deal more clever
not to write. I don't give that as my opinion ;
ask Cecilia Montagu, it is she who tells me all
the new ideas."

Have I said so ? It is very likely," said that
lady, languidly. " It repays one for a great deal
of ingratitude on the part of the world, to have
a friend who remembers all one says."

Oh, I have the best of memories," said Lady
Betsinda ; " and, as I was saying, if you don't
go down on your knees to them they punish you.
I was reading somebody's life the other day  I
remember her perfectly well, one used to meet
her at Lady Cheddar's, and one or two other
places  rather pretty and lackadaisical, and very,
very civil. Poor thing! one saw she was thereon
sufferance ; but if you will believe me perhaps
you have read the book, Cecilia Montagu ? 
you would think she was the centre of everything,
and all the rest of us nowhere ! And so
poor Lady Cheddar, a really nice woman, will
go down to posterity as the friend of Mrs. So-and-so,
whom she asked out of charity ! It is
enough," said Lady Betsinda, with indignation,
to make one vow one will never read another
book as long as one lives."

"Mrs. So-and-so!" said Lady Randolph, "I
remember her very well. I think everybody was
kind to her. There was some story about her
husband, and poor Lady Cheddar took her up
and fought all her battles  "

T 2

 And has been rewarded," said Mrs. Berry-montagu,
softly satirical, "with Immortality.
Good people, what would you have more ? Fifty
years hence who will know anything about Lady
Cheddar except from the life of Mrs. So-and-so ?
And so it will be in  another case we know of.
After all, you see that, though you make so little
account of them, it is the poor authors who hold
the keys of fame."

As for the other case, that is not a parallel
case at all," Lady Betsinda cried. " Mrs. So-and-so
was bad enough, but she did not put poor dear
Lady Cheddar in the papers. No, no, she never
put her in the papers ; and Lady Cheddar was a
woman of a certain age, and people did not need
to be told what to think about her. These papers
are a disgrace, you know ; they are dreadful, nobody
is safe."

But what should we do without them ?" said
Mrs. Berry-Montagu, lifting up her languishing
eyes.

That's true enough," said Lady Betsinda,
softening; "one must know what is going on.

But about a young girl, you know ; I really think
about a young girl "

Here Lady Randolph interposed with rapid
and alarmed dumb-show, and Sir Thomas made
a stride forward, with such a lowering brow as
Lucy had never seen before. What could be the
matter ? she wondered ; but there the discussion
stopped short, and she heard no more.

This was the matter, however : that one of
the newspapers of which society is so fond had
taken up the romantic dedication of " Imogen,"
and with an industry that might have been
praiseworthy (as the police reports say) if employed
in a better cause, had ferreted out a still
more romantic edition of the story. It was not
true, but what had that mattered? It gave a
fancy sketch of Lucy, and her heiress-ship, and
her rusticity, and described how the young
novelist was to be rewarded with the hand of the
wealthy object of his devotion, a devotion which
had begun while she was still poor. Lucy had
not learned to care for newspapers, and it was
not at all difficult to keep itfrom her. But Sir

Thomas gave all belonging to him a great deal
of trouble to soothe him down, and persuade
him that nobody cared for such assaults.

*' It is quite good-natured ; there is no harm
intended," Lady Randolph said, " we all get a
touch now and then."

If that is no harm, a punch on the head is
still more innocent," said Sir Thomas, savagely,
and it was almost by force, and solely because
of the fact that this would be still worse for
Lucy, that he was restrained. But Lucy never
heard of it, and the article sold off at once, before
a month was out, the whole edition of " Imogen."

CHAPTER XIII.

Going HOME.

AND now the period of Lucy's first experiment
in life was over. From all the delicacies
with which Lady Randolph's care had
surrounded her, and from the atmosphere of
refinement to which she had grown accustomed,
it was now the moment to descend and go back
to the homely house which Jock and she instinctively
still called " home." He had come
in from Hampstead a day or two before, and
lived with Lucy in her little sitting-room, while
all the packing went on. The limit of the six
months had been relaxed a little, to suit Lady
Randolph's convenience, who considered (as did

her doctor) that after the fatigues of the season
Homburg was a necessity for her. On ordinary
occasions Lady Randolph spent a month at the
Hall before she went to Homburg ; but she had
not thought it prudent this year to take Lucy
there, so they had stayed in town till the Parks
were like brown paper, and the shutters were
up in all the houses. This was a thing that had
not happened to Lady Randolph for a long time,
and she felt that she was something of a
martyr, and that it was for Lucy's sake. However,
at last the long days came to an end. Parliament
rose, and everybody, to the last lingering
official, went out of town. Sir Thomas,
who had been at various places in the interval,
and whose absence had been a real affliction to
Lucy, came back again for a day or two before
the final break up. He was not going to Homburg,
he was going to Scotland, and it had been
arranged that he should act as escort to Lucy
on her journey, as Farafield and his own house
were on his way to the North. Lady Randolph
was not quite sure that she liked this arrangement

; the " whole thing," she said to herself,
had gone too far. Tom was not prudent ; to
show his hand to the rest of the guardians at
once, and put them all on their guard, was
foolish  and as for waiting seven years ! Lucy
might do it, Lucy, who, her maternal guardian
thought, already showed all the signs of being
in love ; but Tom ! he would have a dozen other
serious devotions before that. Sir Tom was
fond of Platonic relationships  he did not want
to marry, not being able, indeed, to afford that
luxury, yet he liked the gentle excitement of a
sentimental friendship. He liked, even, to feel
himself just going over the edge into love, yet
keeping himself from going over. He had kept
himself from going over so many times, that he
knew exactly what twigs to snatch at, and what
eddies to take advantage of: therefore it is not
to be supposed that there could be much danger
to him from a simple girl. But certainly he had
gone further than was at all expedient ; Lady
Randolph's very anxiety that this time he should
be brought to reason, should not catch at any

twig, but allow himself to be really carried by
the current to the legitimate end, made her unwilling
to see matters hurried. Lucy would
make him a very nice little wife, and, if he
married, his aunt knew that he was far too good
a fellow not to be a kind husband; but that
Lucy's simple attractions (even including her
fortune, which was a charm that would never
fail) could hold him for seven years, was not a
thing to be hoped for. She spoke to Sir Tom
very strongly on the subject the evening before
they separated. Lucy and little Jock  who
always was a troublesome inmate to Lady Randolph
because of his very quietness, the trance
of reading, in which she never could be sure
that he was not listening  had gone upstairs
early. London was very warm and dusty in
these August days ; the windows were open, but
the air that came in was not of a very satisfactory
description. Most of the houses were shut
up round about, and in the comparative quiet
the sounds from the Mews behind were frequently
audible. In short, there was about the district

the uncomfortable feeling that the appropriate
inhabitants had gone, and only a swarm of
underground creatures were left, to come forth
blinking out of their coverts. Indoors the furniture
had all been put into pinafores, the pretty
nothings on the tables had been laid away,
the china locked up in cabinets. Lady Randolph
was starting by the morning mail-train.

You know, Tom," she said, " I am not at
all sure that it is wise for you to go down with
Lucy tomorrow."

"Why, aunt? You know it is on my way,"
he said with a twinkle in his eye.

*' Oh ! stuff about it being on your way. Yon
know it would not be on your way at all unless
you liked to go."

Well !" Sir Thomas said, " and after "

he never indulged in the vulgarity of French;
but he was given to literal translations, which is
more aggravating, and neither one thing nor
another, as Lady Randolph said.

"Well! it is just this, most of the guardians
live in Farafield, and they will be immediately

put on their guard if they see you much with
her. There are the Rushtons, the lawyer-people,
and that Mrs. Stone, who keeps a school. They
will both be in arms against you instantly. That

father of Lucy's was an old I don't want

to be unkind to anybody that is dead and gone,
but "

Most likely he thought it would be better
for her not to marry," said Sir Thomas tranquilly.


What folly ! well, it would be just like him.
I don't think the will would stand if it where
ever brought into a court of law. There were
the maddest provisos! However, unless it can
be broken we must hold by it ; and, Tom, you
must let me say it, you ought to go more cautiously
to work."

Is it worth the trouble f ' he said indifferently.
" My dear aunt, before a man takes the
pains to work cautiously, he must have set his
heart on the prize with some fervour."

And haven't you done so, Tom ? Why, I
thought you were going too far and too fast.

I did not see any doubt, or want of warmth, I
assure you. Fervour ! well, perhaps, fervour is
a strong word ; that means difficulty to get over,
and resistance, and a struggle perhaps. Poor
little Lucy ! I don't think there will be much
resistance on her part."

*' I am not at all so sure of that," he said.

Why, Tom! Poor child ! we can't blame
her. She is only seventeen ; and you have a
way Ah, my boy, it is not want of experience
that will balk you. You have a way of
speaking, and a way of looking. And Lucy is
as simple as a little dove, there is no concealment
about her. She thinks there is nobody
like you."

Well ! perhaps you are right. She thinks
there is nobody like me," said Sir Tom, with
something of that softening of vanity which
makes a man's countenance imbecile when he
thinks he is admired ; " but," he added with a
little laugh, " Lucy is no more in love with me
than  I am with you. Like her, I think there
is nobody like you"

Oh, Tom  Tom, you are a deceiver ! My
dear, that is nonsense. There is no tie between
her and you. The very first night I saw it.
Fancy her sitting up to chatter to you  and
chattering, she who is so quiet ! Why, she is a
great deal more open, more at her ease with you
than with me."

All so many things against me," he said,
she is not in love with me, as I tell you, anymore
than I am with you."

Lady Randolph was struck with great surprise,
and so many things poured into her mind to be said
that she was silent, and did not say anything,
looking at him with confused impatience, and
able to bring out nothing save a " but  but," of
bewilderment. At last she enunciated with difficulty
and hesitation, " If this is true, which I
can't believe do you mind, Tom f

Not much," he said, then laughed and looked
her in the face. " You do not understand me,
aunt. I think it quite likely that if it were put
before her as a suitable arrangement, Lucy
might make up her mind to marry me. She is

beginning to get perplexed in her life. She has
been on the point of confiding in me two or three
times."

'* What ?" said Lady Randolph in great excitement.
She could not think of anything but
love about which a girl could be confidential, and
Bertie Russell, like a Jack-in the-box, suddenly
jumped up in her anxious brain. But Sir Thomas
shook his head,

That is exactly what I cannot tell you," he
said. " I thought it might be some entanglement
with that young fellow of the book ; but it
is not that. It is quite possible she might marry
me"

Well, but, Tom  why should you be so very
particular? Think what it would be for the
estate. You might pay off everything, and
regain the first position in the county. You
ought to have the first position in the county.
What is Lord Langton in comparison with the
Randolph V A nobody; and all this that girl
could do. Only think what her fortune could
do. I am not mercenary  I don't think I am

mercenary  but when you just realise it. Oh !
how often I have said to myself Your uncle
had no right to marry me. He ought to have
married somebody with money. And now if
you can set it right, why, oh why ! should you
have any absurd scruples ? Of course, Lucy
would be very glad; and she would make you
a good little wife. She is not impassioned she
never will be out of her wits about anyone ;
if that is what you want, Tom."

No, I don't think that is what 1 want," he
said ; " but in the meantime we need not quarrel
about it ; for you know there are the guardians
to be taken into consideration, and it would be
foolish to show one's hand. And then there is
plenty of time. One ought to go cautiously to
work."

He laughed as he quoted all her own little
speeches to her. But for her part, Lady Randolph
could have cried  how difficult it is to be
patient when you are anxious! She had been
alarmed by what she thought a too hasty progress
; now she was cast down to the depths of

trouble by this sudden suggestion that no progress
at all had been made, She did not know
what to do. It was no use speaking to Tom,
so self-willed was he  always taking his own
way. She had no patience with him ! Of course
Lucy liked him  how could she help it? And
to think that he would run the risk of losing all.
that for the merest fantastic nonsense. Oh, she
had no patience with him ! But when he only
laughed and made a joke of it all, what was the
use of saying anything ? Poor Lady Randolph !
She could not let things take their OAvn way.
She was unhappy not to be able to guide them,
and yet she knew that she could not guide them.
Either they would go on too quickly, or they
would not go on at all.

The effect of this conversation was, that she
started in a much less cheerful and hopeful state
of mind for that yearly renovation at Homburg.
She tried to make a parting effort for Sir Tom,
when she said good-bye to Lucy, who was to
leave by a later train. " If Tom stays at the
Hall, and there is anything you want advice

VOL. n. u

about, never hesitate to apply to him, my love,"
she said, " you may have every confidence in him,
as much confidence as in myself."

'' Oh yes ! Lady Randolph," said Lucy with
the warmest sincerity. " I should ask him anything
 he has always been so kind to me."

It is more than kindness  he has a real interest
in you, Lucy; and you need never fear
to trust Tom. He has a heart of gold, and he
is the truest friend in the world," Lady Randolph
said. She kissed her charge with fervour.
Could she say more ? When she turned round,
who should be watching her but Tom himself,
with that twinkle in his eye. The poor lady felt
as if she had been detected. She made her exit
quite crestfallen, while Sir Thomas paused to
tell Lucy he would come back for her half-an-hour
before the train started. " It is not everybody
that would make himself a railway porter
for your service, is it, Miss Lucy?" he said
laughing. " Depend upon it, however specious
other people may look, it is ' Codlin's the
friend !' " He went out after his aunt still

laughing ; but as for Lucy she looked after him
somewhat bewildered. Her reading was not
her strong point, and she could not think what
Codlin" had to do with it, or who that personage
was.

But what a different Lucy it was that took
possession of a special carriage reserved for her
own party to Farafield, with her maid and mountain
of luggage, from the humble little Lucy,
with two black frocks, who had come to town
with Lady Randolph in February ! Her groom,
with her horses and Jock's pony, had gone the
night before; Jock himself, embracing a big
book, was the thing of all her surroundings that
was the least changed. Lucy's mind, indeed,
was not altered, as were her outward circumstances,
but it had expanded and widened, so
that she became a little giddy as the journey
approached its close, half-pleased, half-alarmed to
think of the old life, the familiar streets, the old
white parlour with its blue curtains, and the
view from the window across the common to
Mrs. Stone's school. Sir Thomas, who had

u 2

travelled with her part of the way. now departing
to the smoking-carriage, now coming to inquire
into her comfort and the progress she was
making in the novel with which he had thoughtfully
provided her, joined the party at the last
important station.

'you have scarcely read twenty pages," he
said, reproachfully, " after all my care in choosing
you a pretty book. You have read five times as
much, Jock."

Jock looked up on being addressed. Though
he was many fathoms deep below the surface, he
always heard when he was spoken to, and often
when he was not spoken to. He was lying
across the arm of one seat, with his book lying
on the cushions of another, in a dark blue valley
below him. He gave a sidelong look of disdain
to his questioner.

Do you count your pages ?" said Jock, with
contemptuous satire. " I can tell by what the
reading is."

Hush, Jock ! I was not reading at all," Lucy
said, " but thinking."

"And what might the thinking be? regretting
town, or welcoming the country? We'll give
her, Jock, two pennies for her thoughts."

"You know," said Lucy, "it is not either
town or country I was thinking of. I was thinking
of Lady Randolph's, and all that was new tome
there ; and of some things I have had to do,
and how I have lived so different from everything
before, and now coming back  home. It always
was home, I can't call it anything else ; but it
will be different again. There is no more papa.
That does not make me unhappy," said Lucy,
the tears coming into her eyes, " for it was what
he always trained me to expect ; but it will be
dreary to go into the house and to find that he
is not there, sitting by the fire with the will."

The will r Sir Thomas had no fear to bethought
inquisitive, his face was full of kindly
interest and sympathy.

Did I never tell you ? that was all his
thought. It was his amusement, as long  well,
as long as Jock could remember. Don't you
recollect, Jock, how he would sit and write a

little bit, and rub his hands, and read it to me
when I came in. That is how I know so well
all he wished me to do. He would put down his
newspaper when something occurred to him, and
write it down. It pleased him more than anything.
Don't you think it is a great pleasure,
when anyone is gone, to know exactly what they
wished you to do f

It is a great bondage sometimes," Sir Thomas
said.

I don't think I shall feel it a bondage. But
somehow going back is almost stranger than
going away. The rooms at the Terrace will
look small ; and it will not be prettily furnished,
and I shall not have Lady Randolph to talk to,
nor the carriage, nor the visitors  "

These things are easily got, even the visitors.
As for Lady Randolph, perhaps you can
put up with me instead. I am very fond of
being talked to, and you know she recommended
me as her substitute'*

That is very true," said Lucy, with her
usual calm ; " but then you are going to Scotland

to shoot. You are odIv here on your way."

There is no saying, if you consult me a great
deal, and give me a great many interesting subjects
to think about, how long I may linger on
my way."

Oh, as for that !" said Lucy, " there is one
thing  very interesting ; but then I am not sure
if I should tell it to anyone, though it would bea
great, a very great comfort. I tried to tell
Lady Randolph once, and ask her  and I have
wanted so much to tell you to ask you  "

Well ! I am a sort of an uncle, you know ;
that was the relationship we decided upon," Sir
Thomas said.

Lucy did not say anything. She laughed,
looking at him with a very winning confidence
and trust in her eyes. They were quite unabashed
in their modest gaze, conscious of no
timidity, but there was a gentle affection in
them which touched him. However, they were
now drawing very near Farafield, and even her
composed heart began to beat. She called Jock,
very reluctant to be roused from his book, to

look at the church tower, the spire of the town
hall, the big roofs of the market. " I don't
want to see them," Jock said ; all he wanted was
his story. Perhaps it was her story which made
Lucy so animated ; one not yet written in any
book.

Sir Thomas had intended to take Lucy home,
to see her in her old-new habitation, and make
himself acquainted with her surroundings ; and
to this end he had telegraphed to his servants
to send a carriage to meet the train. But Sir
Thomas had formed no idea in his mind of the
real aspect of the other side of Lucy's life ; and
it had not occurred to him that the people with
whom she was going to stay had a right to guide
her, equal to that which his aunt exercised. It
was a shock to him to see that respectable couple
who stood on the very edge of the station waiting
for the train, and moved along by its side,
panting yet beaming, as it gradually came to a
standstill. " Welcome back, my darlings ! welcome
home, Lucy and Jock," the woman said.
She had not the least pretension to the title of

lady. She was enveloped in a large shawl,
though it was summer, and she was red and hot.
She seized Lucy in her arms, pushing him away
as he helped the girl out of the carriage. " Oh,
my pet ! we have been counting the days, Ford
and I ; and ain't you thankful to get home after
being banished among strangers ?" Sir Thomas
was confounded. He had thought Lucy was to
be pitied for the fantastic arrangement which
transferred her from his aunt's house to the care
of the old servants, or poor relations, where her
position and surroundings would be so different ;
but the suggestion that she had been banished
among strangers took him altogether by surprise.
He had been about to take Lucy to the carriage
which was waiting ; but in a moment she
was separated from him, surrounded by these
strange people, and drawn in the midst of them
towards a fly which was standing near. It was
a curious lesson for Sir Tom. He stood aside
and looked on while she was taken out of his
hands and deposited in the shabbier vehicle, with
a sense of the ludicrous which struggled with a

less agreeable feeling. There was another group
on the platform to whom Lucy's arrival was very-interesting.
This was the Rushton family, the
lawyer himself, with his wife on his arm, and a
tall youth, clad in a light summer suit, with
his hands in his pockets, who lounged up and
down the railway station after his parents, looking
very much out of place, and somewhat
ashamed of himself. Mrs. Rushton dashed boldly
in, into the midst of the salutations of the Fords.
I must say a word to Lucy," she cried. '* We
have just come in for a moment to welcome you
home. Here is your guardian, Lucy, and Raymond,
your old playfellow." It was all that
Sir Tom could do not to laugh out. But the
laugh was not pleasurable. He thought that
anything more artless than this presentation of
the old play-fellow at the very earliest moment
could not be ; but yet what was he himself
doing, and what were his inducements to give
so much time and attention to this little girl?
It was like a scene in the theatre, but so much
more dramatic than scenes in the theatre often are.

Lucy, in the midst, so eagerly secured by Mrs.
Ford, so effusively embraced by the other lady,
the leader of the opposition forces ; while old
Ford stood jealously on one side, and Mr. Rushton,
with his hand held out, looked genial and
affectionate on the other. The Fords were
gloomy, concentrating their whole attention on
the opposing band, whereas the Rushtons, who
were the assailants, were directing all their
smiles and caresses to Lucy, ignoring her relations.
" Ray  Ray  I know you are dying to
shake hands with Lucy come quick and say,
how d'ye do. There is no time for any more
just now; but I felt I must come just to give
you a kiss, and bid you welcome," said Mrs.
Rushton. The lawyer for his part shook a finger
at her. " Fine stories Chervil has had to tell
about you, my young lady," he said.

'' Lucy," cried Mrs. Ford in sharp tones, " the
fly is waiting, and I am ready to drop. Whoever
wishes to see you, can come and see you at the
Terrace."

As for Lucy herself she was so anxious to be

civil to everybody, and so unaccustomed to the
conflict that had thus suddenly sprung up around
her, that she could not tell what to do. She
looked round wistfully towards Sir Tom, who,
for his part, stood quite outside the immediate
circle round her, smiling to himself with that
quick perception of the " fun " of the situation,
which was, Lucy thought with vexation, the chief
thing he thought of. She felt wounded that he
should laugh at her ; but then he was always
laughing. Little Jock on the other side was a
spectator too ; but a scene has a very different
aspect according as you look upon it from above
or from below. Jock was low down among the
feet of all these people. Mrs. Rushton nearly
brushed him away with her ample gown; R-ay
all but knocked him down as he came forward
sheepishly to shake hands with Lucy. There was
something savage in the energy with which little
Jock clutched at his sister's dress. " I say can't
they let us alone ? I want to get home  I want
to get home," cried the little fellow. Nobody
took the slightest notice of little Jock. Sir Tom,

in the distance, laughed more and more in his
moustache, but ruefully. He came forward at last
and lifted Jock out from among the other people's
legs. " Come and stand here with me, old fellow ;
you and I are left out in the cold," said Sir
Tom. The tall man and the tiny boy stood out
of the crowd, and watched while Lucy was hustled
into the fly, Sir Tom laughing, Jock alarmed
and gloomy. " She's going away without tw,"
Jock said with a naif consternation. Sir Thomas
laughed. " Your day and mine is over, old man,"
he said.

But Jock at least was not to be forgotten.
Jock, Jock ! where are you ?" Lucy cried
anxiously looking out. The child pulled his hand
out of Sir Tom's and rushed away; then the
whole party were packed inside the fly, Ford,
with his knees up to his chin bolt upright, Mrs.
Ford sunk back into a corner, loosening her
bonnet strings, and " worried " beyond all 
Mrs. Rushton stood kissing her
band on the platform. " If you please, Sir
Thomas, what am I to do ]" said a troubled voice

as he looked after them. Then Sir Tom laughed
out. It was Lucy's maid, who had been left behind
with a number of small matters. He put
her into the carriage with secret glee, and sent
her off after her mistress. Old Trevor himself
could not have made a more grotesque contrast
between the old life and the new ; how the old
man would have chuckled had he seen it! the
great heiress shut up in the close fly the somewhat
frightened maid ensconced in the luxurious
corner of the open carriage glittering along
with a pair of fine horses, and all the prance and
dash with which the coachman of a county family
thinks it right to maintain the credit of his house
in a county town following the dustiest and
stuffiest of flys. This was carrying out his
principles on their broadest basis. Sir Thomas
chuckled too ; it was a piece of malice after his
own heart. "If that's so, let's show fight," he
said to himself.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE Terrace.

FOUR persons in a fly on a hot August day,
one of them large and warm and '* worried,"
another very tall, with knees up to his chin, do
not make a very agreeable party. Lucy, unaccustomed
to travelling, had the whirl of the
railway still in her head, and its dust oppressing
her lungs and spirits ; and she had the sensation of
rush, and hurry, and crowding, which was peculiarly
disagreeable to her orderly mind, and the uncomfortable
consciousness of having abandoned her
kind companion without a word. Indeed she
seemed suddenly to have ceased to be a free agent.
She had lost her independence, and even her personality,

and had been carried off like a bale of
goods, like a box long lost and suddenly found
again, but no way consulted as to what was to
be done with it. Was it this, or was it the mere
vulgarity and discomfort of her surroundings that
made her heart sick ? The fly had been the only
vehicle she had known until six months ago, and
the Fords her constant companions, and friendly
notice from Mrs. Eushton a thing highly prized
and thought of. And she had only been six
months away ! But as Lucy drove in at the
gloomy gateway of the little enclosure which
separated the Terrace from the road, and saw the
well-known door open, and looked up wistfully
at the well-known windows there was no revulsion
of happier feeling. " Here we are at home,
Jock," she said faintly, trying to feel as happy
as she ought to do. " Is it f said Jock indifferently.
His little face was blank too ; they had
both fallen out of the clouds, down from the
heights, and the contact with mother earth was
hard. Lucy felt ashamed of herself that this
should be, but she could not help it. It was all

SO different. Was it possible that the "Aunty
Ford " of old was like this ? Mrs. Ford was still
wearing her mourning. She had crape flowers
upon her bonnet,*awful counterfeits of nature, cornflowers
with stamens of prickly jet. Her shawl
was huddled up about her neck, she had taken
off her black gloves, as it was so warm, and her
face was of a fine crimson. As for Ford, on the
contrary, he was neatness itself. He wore a little
checked tie very stiffly starched, and his waistcoat,
and the thin legs which were so prominent
were of checked black and white in a large
pattern. Mourning is not so necessary for a man
as for a woman. Mrs. Ford's crape flowers, with
which her bonnet bristled, were intended for the
highest respect. Lucy's depressed sensations
were enlivened by a wondering doubt whether
she could prevail upon the good woman to abandon
these unearthly flowers. Mrs. Ford was
talking all the way. "Did you see those Rush-tons,"
she said, " making a dead set at Lucy the
very first moment ? one would have thought they
would have had more pride; and that Raymond,

VOL. II. X

that son of theirs ! as if Lucy with the best in
London at her feet would look twice at a Raymond?
Oh yes, you'll see, they'll be all down
upon you like locusts, Lucy ; not a young man in
the town that won't be thrown at your head. It
is your money they're after  only your money.
What is that carriage following behind us ? It is
coming here I declare, it's somebody that has got
scent of you already  that's what it is to be an
heiress ; but it can't be so bad as what you've
gone through in London."

It is only Elizabeth," said Lucy, " oh, how like
Sir Tom, he has put her in the carriage ; Elizabeth
that is my maid. Would you rather I had not
brought a maid, Aunt Ford f

"A maid  I never see the use of them. You
could have had Jane to help you when you
wanted any extra dressing," said Mrs. Ford with
gloom on her countenance, " what did I tell you.
Ford ? I said Lady Randolph would be sending
some spy to keep a watch upon us. Do you call
that a maid? sitting up as grand as possible in
the carriage, as if she were the lady and you the

servant. It's like Sir Tom, is it? I don't doubt
but it's like Sir Tom, he's well enough known
about here. He's not one you should ever have
spoken to, or sat down in the same room with
him, if my consent had been asked. Many's the
story I could tell about Sir Tom, as you call him ;
oh, I don't doubt it's quite like him ! and many a
one he has ruined with his smiling ways."

Jock had not been able so much as to open his
book while he rattled along the Farafield streets
in the fly, but he had not paid much attention to
what was going on ; now, however, moved by the
practical necessity of getting out of the carriage,
he awoke to what was going on around him. He
had heard the voice of Mrs. Ford in this same
key before. And he looked up suddenly with a
surprised but serious countenance.

Why is Aunty Ford scolding, and us just
come ? Is it you, or is it me, Lucy ?" the little
fellow said.

Me scolding ! God forbid," cried the excited
woman, and instead of getting out of the fly, she
cried, and then in a voice broken with sobs

X 2

entreated their pardon. "It's all my anxiety,"
she said, "I can't abide that anything but
what's good should come to you. I'd like to
keep you safe, like the apple of my eye : and
that's what Ford thinks too."

This scene was rather an unpleasant beginning
to the second chapter of life on which Lucy was
now entering. She stood on the pavement
before the familiar door, and tried to occupy the
attention of Elizabeth, and keep her from
observing Mrs. Ford's agitation and tears.
Elizabeth was too refined a person to take any
notice. She was the very last improvement in
the way of a maid, and could have written her
mistress's letters had that been desirable, a most
useful attendant to ladies " whose education had
been neglected." Lady Randolph had not been
at all sure of Lucy's grammar, or her h's when
she secured such a treasure. But fortunately
Elizabeth's superiority went so far as to have
convinced her of the inexpediency of taking any
notice of her employer's private affairs. She
turned her back upon the fly, where Mrs Ford

was sobbing. She had the air of seeing nothing.


Sir Thomas made me come in the carriage,
Miss Trevor. I could not help it," she said.

It makes me so happy to see yon at home
again," Mrs. Ford said, commanding herself. " It
is silly I know, but I can't help crying when I
am happy. Come and carry in Miss Lucy's
things, Jane. Isn't it a pleasure to see her back
again? And now you follow me, my darling,
and I'll let you see what we have done for you,"
she said with some triumph. Lucy went upstairs
with a serious face. She thought she knew what
she would find there, everything the same, no
difference except in one thing, the old man sitting
by the chimney corner, with the big blue
folios open on the writing table, spreading the
Times on his knees, rubbing his hands as she
came in, looking up at her with his spectacles
pushed up on his forehead. He would not be
there, but the place would be full of him and of
his image. She took Jock's hand into hers, and
led him upstairs. It was a pilgrimage upon

which the two orphan children were going*
Come and see where papa used to sit," she
said. She had never made great demonstrations
of sorrow, but her heart was full of her father,
and tears where in her eyes.

Mrs. Ford received them at the door with a
look of triumph ; but it was with consternation
that Lucy saw what had happened. The whole
room had been transmogrified. The Fords had
given all their minds and a great deal of money,
which was of more immediate value, to the great
work. Wherever it had been blue, now it was
pink. White curtains, very stiff with starch,
fluttered at the windows. There was a great deal
of gilding about  gilt cornices, gilt chairs, gilt
cabinets, and over the mantelpiece an enormous
gilt frame enclosing a portrait of old Trevor,
which the good people had caused to be painted
by a local artist from an old daguerreotype, all
with the kind intention of giving pleasure to
Lucy. She gave a cry of dismay as she came in.
Her father's chair and his writing-table, objects
which would have recalled him so much more

tenderly than this portrait, had been carried
away. In their place was what the upholsterer
called a '* lady's chair," covered in one of the
newest and most fashionable of cretonnes, stout
little cupids disporting themselves on a pink
ground  and a gilt and highly decorated worktable.
Lucy stood at the door of the room with
the checked tears feeling very hot and heavy
behind her eyes.

This is all for you, Lucy," said Mrs. Ford,
restored to good humour by the satisfaction with
which she regarded her work, " everything in it
has been done for you. We have been working
at it these three months and more. If you had
but heard us talking  ' Do you think she would
like this? and do you think she'd like that?' and
Ford would says I saw a little cabinet in
Williams' would just please Lucy,' or ' There's
some new curtains at Hemsdon's are the very
thing.' We've done nothing else these three
months. I declare I don't think I ever slaved so
much in my life to get carpets that matched and
a nice chintz, and the rugs and everything. But

we kept the two old white rugs. Mr. Hemsdon
said they were beauties. I was determined," said
the good woman, " that you should find something
just as pretty as your fine London drawing-rooms.
' She shan't come home and find nothing
but a dingy old place to sit in, and think my
Lady Randolph's is a paradise,' is what I said to
Ford, and he backed me up in everything. And
now here it is, Lucy my darling, and it's all for
you, and I hope you'll be as happy in it as I and
Ford wish you to be. I couldn't say more if I
were to talk from this to Christmas," Mrs. Ford
concluded with a tremulous warmth of enthusiasm
which arose partly from the delightful consciousness
of giving her charge a pleasant surprise 
and partly from a quiver of uncertainty as to
whether Lucy's delight would be equal to the
occasion. She added instantaneously in a tone
which was ready to be defiant, " You may have
seen finer in London, I can't say; but this I
know, you'll find nothing like it in Farafield,
search where you may !"

Thank you, Aunt Ford," said Lucy faintly.

** It is very pretty but I was thinking of papa."
These words checked the rising disappointment
and displeasure in the mind of Mrs. Ford, who, if
not very refined in her perceptions, was kind, and
had a sincere if jealous affection for the girl committed
to her care. She took Lucy into her arms
and consoled her with much petting and caressing.
*' Yes, my pet, I knew you would feel it. Yes,
my pretty ! Of course it brings it all back. But
after the first you'll find the change of the furniture
very comforting," Mrs. Ford said.

Lucy did not know what to say when the first
pangs of recollection were over. She went round
the room and looked at everything, and did her
best to praise. Six months ago she would have
thought it all beautiful. Even now she had no
opinions on the matter, or taste that she was
aware of  but she had been six months away ina
different atmosphere, and nothing could undo
or change that fact. She said everything she
could to show her gratitude. Whatever might be
said about the curtains or the carpets, the kindness
was indisputable ; and it was all very pretty,

probably quite as nice as the other waj : but it
was different. That was all that was to be said
everything was different. She placed herself
in the " lady's chair " which stood in the place of
her father's old seat, and found it very comfortable.
It was not comfort that was wanting ; it
was  Lucy did not know what ; it was different.
Where she sat she could see, through the windows
and lines of the curtains, the White House
shining in the afternoon sunshine, and the road
across the Common, still green with all the freshness
of summer. It was very different from the
burnt up parks and the rows of London houses,
but not in the same ways

"It is all for you, Lucy," said Mrs. Ford, not
quite satisfied with the commendation she had
received. " For my part there is nothing I like
so well as my own parlour. It may be vulgar,
but that's my taste. I don't want to be moving
about all day long from the drawing-room to the
dining-room. Hike to feel myself at home. But
you are young, and that's a different thing. You
have to do as other people do. There's one thing,

just one thing I can't give in to : I can't begin at
my time of life to be eating ray dinner when I
should be having my tea ; tea's far more to me
than any dinner ; I never was a great eater, and
as for wine I can't abide it. A cup of tea and a
bit of toast that's what I like. I'll see to your
dinner if you wish, like in your poor papa's
time ; but I can't change., that's just the one
thing I can't do."

I do not care for dinner," said Lucy, *' I will
do whatever you do, it does not matter to me."

"If that's so," said Mrs. Ford, brightening;
and she came up to her charge and kissed her
affectionately', ' whatever we can get or whatever
we can do to make you happy, Lucy, you have
only to say it, never mind the expense. If there
is one thing you have a fancy for more than
another, if it should be game, or whatever it is,
you shall have it. And this room is yours, my
pet. You'll excuse me sitting here, I think
there's nothing like ray parlour ; but when you
want me you can always send for me. And
here you shall always find everything kept nice,

and as for a cup of tea whenever you want it  I
shouldn't wonder if you were kept very short
up there."

Mrs. Ford jerked her thumb over her shoulder
by way of indicating Lucy's former abode. " I
know what fine ladies are," she said, " a fine
outside and not much within. Horses and carriages
and all that show, and footmen waiting,
and silver dishes on the table  but not much
inside."

"Lady Randolph was not like that," Lucy said,
faintly. She did not know whether to laugh or
to cry ; but her companion took her hesitation asa
proof of the correctness of her own judgment,
and was triumphant.

I know 'em," she said. *' I don't give myself
any airs, Lucy, but I know you'll find nothing
like that here. No show, but everything good,
and plenty of it, and not so much fuss made about
you  for we've got no ends to serve. Ford and
me  but if there's a thing you want you shall
have it ; that is our way, and I don't see but
what you may be very happy here. Keep all

these folks that will be gathering round you, and
making believe to adore you, at a distance, and
keep yourself to yourself, and don't put your
faith in the Rushtons, nor the Stones, nor any
of the Farafield folks ; and I don't see, Lucy, my
pet, but what you may be very happy here. And
now, my darling, I'll go downstairs and see after
the tea."

Lucy was left alone accordingly, seated in the
familiar room, so changed and transformed, and
looking out somewhat drearily upon the Common,
which had not changed, which she had crossed
so often in those old days that were never to
come back, that could not come back, neither the
simple habits of them, nor the gentle ease of
mind and happ}' ignorance of everything beyond
their quiet round. It was not a cheerful programme
which her present guardian had traced
for her, and Lucy, sitting very still, not caring
to move, in the most strangely complete and depressing
solitude which she had ever been conscious
of, went further in her thoughts than Mrs.
Ford. Had it all been a mistake ? Her father's

favourite theory, his pet whim about her, his
determination to divide her life between the
different worlds of society, one part of it on the
higher level, one on the lower, was that to prove
itself at once a hopeless blunder? Lucy felt too
much dulled and stupefied by the sudden change
to be able to think about it ; a sensation as of a
sudden fall, a precipitate descent down, down,
into a world she no longer understood, pervaded
her being. Lady Randolph's world had not been
a very lofty one ; was it possible that it was the
mere external change from one kind of house to
another, from a companion who dressed with
exquisite taste to one who huddled on her common
clothes anyhow, and wore crape flowers in
her bonnet ; from old, soft, mossy Turkey carpets
to brilliant modern Brussels, that gave her this
sensation of downfall ? Lucy did not ask herself
the question, nor did it even suggest itself in any
formal way to her mind, only a vague sense of
the impossibility of the return, the radical change
in all things, the space she had traversed
which could not be gone back, overwhelmed her

vaguely. If it had been a poor country cottage,
a rustic farmhouse, real poverty to contrast with
the soft surroundings of wealth, the contrast
might have been salutary, and it might have been
natural. But the Terrace was nothing but a
vulgar, unintelligent copy of the house she had
come from ; the life set before her now was but a
poor imitation of that she had left, but narrowed,
and limited, and shut in, cut off by jealous precautions
from all the human fellowship that made
the other attractive. Ford and his wife, in their
little stuffy parlour, at their tea-table, eating
their toast and their shrimps, were as respectable
in themselves as Lady Randolph at the head of
the pretty table covered with flowers, softly
lighted, and noiselessly served. Probably they
were more honest, more strictly sincere, than she,
and their love for Lucy was a very genuine
love, more profound than her easy affection.
But how was it? Lucy could not tell to step
down all in a moment from Lady Randolph to
the Fords was something incomprehensible and
impossible. She could not go back these six

months ; the new life had claimed her, she was
not capable of resuming the old where she had
left it off. This feeling humiliated and depressed
her, she could not tell how or why. Had they
been living in a little cottage in the country, had
they been quite poor, so that she should have
had homely services to do for them, help to give,
that would have been practicable ; but to come
back to the Terrace with her maid, and her
horse, and her groom, and her new habits: to
have all the indulgences without any of the
graces of existence I Lucy sat sadly in the pink
room, all newly bedizened and fine, dressed outby
ignorance and kindness for her pleasure, but
not pleasing her at all, and pondered, dreary and
down-hearted. Alas it possible that papa himself
had not understood ? that he did not know
what the real differences were, but had made to
himself some picture of extravagant splendour
on the one side, to be tempered by the Fords and
their respectable parlour on the other. Alas I
Lucy felt more and more, as she reflected, that
poor papa did not understand. It made her heartsore

to sit in the place where he had sat, aud
to contemplate this, and to feel that perhaps, as
Sir Thomas had said, to follow out all those
regulations of his, which she had thought a
happiness and consolation, might turn out nothing
less than a bondage. Everything seemed
somewhat blank before her, as she sat thus solitary.
She knew the routine so well, there was
no margin of the unexpected, no novelty to carry
her on. She had been so deep in thought that
she had not felt a pull at her dress several times
repeated. At last Jock could have patience no
longer.

*'I say," he cried, looking up from his old
position upon the great white rug, " Lucy, it is
not any good to think."

Lucy was not greatly given to that exercise of
thinking, and, to tell the truth, she had not found
it to be of very much use.

What makes you say so, Jock ?"

Oh, because I have tried  often," said the
little fellow ; " before we went away from here,
and after, when I went to school. It is no good,

VOL II Y

you never find out anything; you wonder and
wonder, but jou never know any better. Do
you think, now," said Jock, with a gleam of
moisture in his eyes, " that he ever sees us now,
or hears what we are talking about ? I wonder
often "

I  hope so, Jock," said Lucy ; but as she
remembered what she had just been thinking she
faltered a little, and was not so sure that this was
desirable, as in the abstract it seemed to be.

I wonder," said the little boy thoughts such
as had filled her mind had perhaps been vaguely
floating across his firmament also. '' I wonder
would miss his funny old table and his big
blue paper if he were to come back now."

"He has now something better: we wilmot
think of that any longer," said Lucy, drying her
wet eyes.

But we have got to think of it," said Jock,
reflectively contradicting himself, " that is funny,
everything is funny; there is Aunty Ford at the
foot of the stairs calling us to go down to tea."

CHAPTER XX.

HOIilE AND FRIENDS.

THAT very evening, notwithstanding her
supposed fatigue, the little world of Fairfield
was roused to welcome Lucy, The Rector
and his wife, going out for a drive in the cool
of the evening, drew up their pony at the door,
and left a card and their kind regards, and hoped
Miss Trevor was not tired with her journey ;
and a little later, when Lucy and Jock were preparing
to stroll out, as they had been in the
habit of doing, upon the Common, they were
stopped by a visit from Mrs. Ashton and her
son and daughter. " We always come out after
dinner in the hot weather," the visitor explained,

Y 2

and it is so delightful to have an object for
our walk. I hope you have had a good rest, my
dear. What a pleasure," said Mrs. Ashton
taking Lucy's hands in hers, and looking at her
with enthusiasm, " to see you at home again,
and looking so well !"

Lucy was confused by the warmth and effusion
of this unexpected greeting. Her guardian's wife
had never taken much notice of her in the old
days ; but she was pleased at the same time, for
affection is always pleasant, and it was agreeable
to find that she had more friends than she
was aware of. Raymond, of whom she remembered
nothing, except that she had seen him at
the railway station, was an ordinary young man,
still in his morning suit, by licence of the summer,
and the after dinner walk ; and wholly undistinguishable
from any other young man in
that universal garb. He said, " How d'ye do ?"
and taking his right hand out of his pocket, presented
it to her, not without embarrassment.
Lucy gave it him back at once, with a great
inclination to laugh. She felt herself a great

deal older, and more experienced than Raymond,
though he was two and twenty and had taken
his degree.

I hope you will not find Farafield dull," said
Mrs. Rushton, " we must do what we can to
make you like us, Lucy. Have you seen a good
deal of society in town ? Oh ! I know you could
not go out; but Lady Randolph is always
having company. I suppose you would meet
her nephew. Sir Thomas. I hear he is expected
at the Hall."

Yes," said Lucy. " He is on his way to
Scotland. He came down here with us to-day."

Oh ! he is on his way to Scotland ? Isn't
this a little out of the way to Scotland, Ray?
I know when we went, we had to go a hundred
miles round, your father said, to get to that big
junction ; but you can't always calculate on Sir
Thomas. He is a gay deceiver ; with that jolly
laugh of his, didn't you quite fall in love with
him, Lucy ? I always say he is the most dangerous
man I know."

I liked him very much," Lucy said.

And so does Ray. He is quite captivating
to young people. He has always been so kind
to Ray. One forgets the little stories that are
current about him when one comes under the
spell. Did you like his aunt equally well, Lucy ?
Opinions are divided on that score."

She was very kind to me," said Lucy, " no
one ever took so much care of me. She did not
talk of it, but one felt all round one"

But still you did not care for her ? That is
what I have always heard  very kind, and that
sort of thing ; but not attractive."

Indeed, I am very fond of Lady Randolph,"
Lucy said, with a flush of annoyance. Her
visitor laughed and coughed, confused and disconcerted,
though Lucy could not tell why.

Oh ! I only say what I have heard !" she
said. " I don't know much of her myself. Sir
Thomas is the only member of the family whom
I know ; and I always frankly admit I think
him charming  whatever may be his little
faults."

All this time Raymond stood swaying about

from one leg to another, with his hands in his
pockets. He had received the best of educations,
as his mother proudly declared ; but this had not
conferred ease of manner or social grace. Lucy
could not help longing that he would sit down ;
but it seemed to be against the young man's
principles. He stood between her and the window,
swaying about like a cloud upon the wind,
but solid enough to shut out the light. Miss
Eushton was a very big girl of sixteen in short
frocks, who kept half behind her mother, and
took shelter under her wing.

And what are you going to do, ray dear,
now you have come back ? I hope we shall see
a great deal of you. You will find yourself a
little lost here just for the first. The Fords
are excellent people, but you will find yourself
a little lost. You must run over to us whenever
you feel dull. To-morrow there is some croquet
going on are you fond of croquet? You must
come early and have a game, and stay to dinner.
In this hot weather we never dress for dinner,
for we always have a walk in the cool of the

evening. Is that a bargain f said Mrs. Ashton
graciously. " And you must bring little Jock.
Do you walk with him as you used to do, Lucy ?
I think, as a girl, you were the very best sister
in the world."

"Jock and I ride," said Lucy, "he was always
fond of riding. Lady Randolph sent the horses
and the groom, and Jock's pony. She thought
I might have them here."

Certainly, Lucy," Mrs. Rushton said with
many nods of her head. " That I am sure your
guardians would approve. And what a lucky
thing for you, Ray ! Now you can get up all
sorts of delightful parties. Emmy is beginning
to ride very nicely too, and you like it, don't
you, dear ? They will be so glad to join. I am
so delighted to have found something in which
you can all join."

It will be very jolly," said Raymond. That
and " How d'ye do f was all that he contributed
to the conversation, And Emmy said nothing
at all, except in shy murmurs of assent, and
stifled explosions of laughter when her mother

said anything she thought amusing. The two
young people preceded Mrs. Rushton downstairs
when she had said all she had to say ; but she
came back again, once more seized Lucy's two
hands, and added a parting word in her ear.

I see that friend of yours, that Mrs. Stone,
coming this way. She is very well in her own
place, Lucy ; oh, very nice. I thought she behaved
badly to me about Emmy ; but that is
neither here nor there. Everybody speaks very
highly of her in her own place. But you must
not let her get you into her hands, dear. She
is dreadfully managing, and by hook or by crook
she will have her own way. But you are in a
different sphere altogether. Don't forget, my
dear Lucy, that you are in a different sphere.
I felt that I must just say this. You know what
an interest I take in you. Dear child !" said
Mrs. Rushton with enthusiasm, giving Lucy a
sudden and tender kiss of irres attainable feeling.
Who would not take an interest in you, so
young and so nice and so lonely ? Till tomorrow,
dear ! "

Mrs. Stone met Mrs. Rushton going down.
'' So it is true that Lucy has come back' said
that able tactician. " I heard a rumour and was
coming to inquire  when they told me she was
here."

Just come. My husband being her guardian,
I felt that she had a special claim upon
me, poor dear child. I am afraid she is tired
with her journey, and agitated with all the
associations. I have only been there a moment,
I would not stay. I felt it was kindness to postpone
a longer visit."

Thank you for the hint," said Mrs. Stone,
calmly pursuing her way upstairs ; and she too
took Lucy into her arms, if not with enthusiasm,
yet with the most affectionate interest ; she kissed
her, and then held her at arm's length, and looked
into her face. " You are very welcome back, my
dear," she said, " but, Lucy, there is something
new in your face.

Is there ?" said Lucy faintly, " I am a little
tired ; and then there are so many other things
that are new."

Mrs. Stone looked round the room, with such
disdain of the shop-upholstery' as was natural to
a woman who possessed a parlour furnished with
Chippendale. She said, " Ah, I see they have
been doing something here," then added, " Lucy,
you must not trifle with me, it is not that.
But," she said, " your hat is on the table, you
were going out ? it is a sweet evening, and we
can talk just as well on the Common. Come,
and we will discuss the whole matter out of
doors."

Lucy was grateful to be released, for the night
was warm, and Jane, Mrs. Ford's maid, had
come up with a taper in her hand, and was
threatening to light the gas. Mrs. Ford was determined
that Lucy should want for nothing, and
no consideration of time or season was permitted
to interfere with the proper hours for
doing everything in this well regulated house.
Therefore, though it was somewhat late for Jock,
Lucy put on her hat gratefully, and suffered her
hand to be drawn through the arm of her considerate
friend, and drew a long and grateful

breath as she got out upon the breezy sweep of
the Common, which even in the twilight showed
a faint flush of the heather. " How sweet it is I
this is the one thing which is unchanged," she
said.

Do you find the place changed, Lucy ?"

Perhaps it is me, Mrs. Stone."

You should say I, my love. Yes, no doubt it
is you, Lucy. It could not be otherwise; you
have been in so different a sphere, and how could
you help feeling it ? I think I can understand
you. Lady Randolph is  well, I don't know what
she is. I confess that I have a little prejudice
against her."

Indeed, you should not have any prejudice,"
said Lucy earnestly, " she is so good and so kind
oh, far too kind and good for anything I
deserve."

** Yes," said Mrs. Stone with a smile, " I understand
: a woman with a great deal of tact, Lucy,
who knows what is best for you, and takes her
measures accordingly ; oh yes, I am quite sure
Lady Randolph is highly refined, and a thorough

lady, and would do nothing that was unbecoming,
whereas our good Mrs. Ford is just Mrs Ford,
and a very good woman. I think it would have
been better, Lucy  we have all our little vanities
if your excellent father had sent you to me."

Yes," said Lucy with a sigh : but there was
no enthusiasm in the assent. Mrs. Stone was
slightly disappointed. She gave the girl's arm a
soft pressure.

** You must let us help you to get through this
second beginning : things will never be so bad
again. You will get used to the alteration, and
new interests will spring up. What are you doing
about little Jock, my dear ?"

Nothing," said Lucy, " he is still so little,
and I have no one else. Do you think, really,
really 1 ought to send him, such a little fellow,
away from me to some real school. He was at
Mrs. Russell's, but that was not a real school, and
I went to see him whenever I liked."

"Ah! perhaps too often," said Mrs. Stone, with
another pressure of her young friend's arm. " I
have something to say about that after. But,

Lucy, listen. I will tell you what I was thinking.
Frank St. Clair, whom you may remember,
my nephew, is coming to stay with me again.
He is not very well, poor fellow. I will tell you
his story some time. He has been unfortunate."
He who was so kind, who came to see papa f
Your father interested him so much, dear !
He used to come back and tell me all the clever
acute things he said. Yes. Frank St. Clair.
This is one of my disappointments, Lucy.
Frank was the pride of all our family. We all
seemed to have a share in him ; his father died
young, his mother was poor, and we all helped.
He was the cleverest boy I ever saw. At school
he was extraordinary, no one could stand against
him, and you can imagine how proud we all were.
Am I boring you with my story, Lucy ?"

How could you think so ? I am like Jock
about a story, there is nothing I like so much :
especially if at the end there was anything  anything
that could be done."

I don't know what you could do, my dear," Mrs.
Stone said with a smile, " but your sympathy is

sweet. He was not quite so successful at the
University, there is such competition  but still
he did very well, and also in his work at the bar.
For he is a barrister," said Mrs. Stone with a
thrill of pride in her voice, " he has been called,
and was just at the beginning of his career 
when his health failed. Can you imagine such
a disappointment, such a commentary upon the
vicissitudes of life ! Just when he was in a
position to justify all our hopes, his health gave
way."

I am so sorry." Lucy looked up at her friend
with the profoundest pity in her blue eyes, but
with something else besides, a spark of hidden
interest, the gleam with which an explorer's eyes
shine when he finds some new sphere of discovery,
a new world to conquer. Lucy had not
been very happy in her first venture, but she
jumped at the thought of a second venture, if it
might be found practicable. It was she now who
pressed Mrs. Stone's arm, clinging closely to it.
I am so sorry ! I hope he may soon get better.
Is there nothing that could be done ?"

Rest is all he wants, m} dear, rest and a
relief from anxiety, and something to do quietly
that will not strain him. As soon as I knew you
were coming back, I immediately thought of
Jock. Poor Frank is very independent, he would
be less unhappy if he had something to do. And
it is providential for you, for Jock must begin to
have something done for his education ; I consider
it quite providential for you."

If Mr. St. Clair would be so kind. But
would he like it, a gentleman, and a lawyer, and
so clever," said Lucy, puzzled. *' Jock is such
a little, little fellow."

He will take Jock," said Mrs. Stone, with
tranquil assurance. " He would not take any
little boy, of course, but Jock is exceptional,
Jock is your brother, and you know my interest
in you, Lucy. Yes, my dear, do not be afraid,
Frank will take Jock. And now that this is
settled  and I wanted to make your mind easy
on the subject let us talk of other things.
What is all this story about the Russellss, Lucy ?
You have not allowed Bertie to he has not, I

hope, really acquired any It is so difficult

to speak to you on such a subject, but you know
I am a kind of guardian too. I should not
approve of Bertie Russell, I could never give my
consent "

To what ?" said Lucy, with great surprise.
"Is it about his book, Mrs. Stone? It was not
my fault, indeed, it was not anyone's fault. I
suppose he never thought that people would take
any notice. It was just a mistake, a foolish
thing to do. I think even Lady Randolph,
though she was so angry, got to see that at
last." .

Then there is nothing more, Lucy ; you car
assure me, on your word, that there is nothing
more V*

Lucy was more surprised than ever.

What should there be more ?" she said.

Mrs. Stone laughed and made no reply.

** So Lady Randolph was angry," she said.
*'I don't wonder, so was I. We all have the
same feeling towards you, Lucy," and here Mrs.
Stone laughed again, evidently perceiving a

VOL. n. z

humorous aspect of the question which was unknown
to Lucy. " We are all so fond of you,
my dear. Did you see much of the Randolph
family when you were there ?"

Only Sir Tom."

Only Sir Tom ! that makes you smile. By
the way, he is all the Randolph family, I believe ;
and he is nice, Lucy ? I have met him, and I
thought him very pleasant; but he has not a
very good character, I am afraid. He has
been what people call wild ; but now that he
is getting old, no doubt he is mending his
ways."

Mrs. Stone gave Lucy a keen glance of inquiry
as she said this ; but, as a matter of fact, Lucy at
eighteen honestly thought Sir Thomas old, and
made no protest, which satisfied her friend. She
said, after a pause,

Now, I have a pleasant surprise to give you.
Katie Russell is here ; I am looking for a situation
for her. She has finished her education,
and I wish to place her in a thoroughly nice
family."

Oh !" cried Luc}, with pained surprise. " I
thought that Mrs. Russell I thought that ?ioiv
they were all to be at home."

Since she came into that money ? Oh, no,
it is not enough for that ; besides, even if it were
more than it is, Katie ought to do something, to
make a life for herself. It was a great God-send,
the money, but it is not enough for any great
change in their life."

I thought  it was enough to live on," said
Lucy, feeling a great flush of shame come over
her face. It had not given her much satisfaction
in any way, but to hear that it was a failure altogether
struck her a very keen and unexpected
blow.

'' Oh, no, my dear, no," said Mrs. Stone, all
unaware of Lucy's interest in the matter, " a
pittance! merely enough to give them a little
more comfort, joined to what they have."

Lucy went home rather subdued after this
interview. She did not see Katie, who was outwith
Miss Southwood, and she was rather glad
to escape that meeting. She called Jock back

z 2

from his wanderings among the heather, and led
him home, with his little arms twined round
hers. Lucy felt very much subdued, perhaps
because she was tired. She drew little Jock very
close to her, and felt something like the twilight
dimness stealing into her mind.

'' Are you tired f she said ; " you ought to be
in bed. I think I am tired too ; Jock, are you
glad to be at home ?"

I don't know if it's home," said Jock, looking
up at her with his big eyes.

Neither do I," said Lucy, drearily. " But
it is all we have for home," she added, with a
sigh. " Anyhow, it is you and me, Jock ; things
cannot be so very bad as long so there is you and
me."

To this Jock assented with a reservation.
1 suppose I shall have to go to school, Lucy ;
all the other fellows go to school."

*'I have got a tutor for you, dear: you will
not have to go away. Mr. St. Clair, that used
to come and see papa. It is providential, Mrs.
Stone says."

What, that fat fellow in the black coat ? I
don't mind," said Jock. " I think he is a duffer,
lie's so fat ; but I don't mind. You don't know
what that means, Lucy."

You should not say such naughty words,
that is what you learnt at school ;" said Lucy,
with disapproval. "I don't think you learned
anything else there."

Duffer is not a naughty word, it means just
nothing ; but I don't mind him at all," said Jock,
with indulgence. He was quite willing to undergo
the experiment. "I should like to have
another try," he said.

When they got to the house it was as dark as
an August evening ever is, and Mrs. Ford, with
a candle in her hand, was beginning to fasten up
the windows and doors. She had again put on
her stern aspect, and looked very severe and
solemn, as she followed them upstairs. " It is a
great deal too late for that child," she said.
He ought to have been in bed an hour ago. So
you have had visitors, Lucy ? I think they might
hive been so civil as to ask for me. After all.

though the house may be kept for your convenience,
it's me that am the mistress of it. And
I expect civility, if there's nothing more to be
looked for. I do expect that."

'' I am very sorry. Aunt Ford."

"You must be something more than sorry.
You must let them see you won't stand it. As
for that Mrs. Rushton, I think she is insufferable.
She wants to keep you in her set. And
Raymond, what does he want here the first
evening ? You never knew Ray Rushton ; whatever
they may say, don't you put any faith in
them, Lucy. She's a designing woman; and
I mistrust her, bringing her son the first
day."

You tell me to put no faith in Mrs. Rushton,
and she tells me to beware of Mrs. Stone, and
they both shake their heads about Lady Randolph,"
said Lucy with a smile, that was not
happy. "If I am to do what you all tell
me, don't you think, Aunt Ford, I shall be
very lonely? for these are all the friends I
have."

"My pet," said Mrs. Ford; "don't you be
afraid, you'll get friends in plenty, friends always
turn up for a girl who is  a good girl," she
added, after a momentary pause. Perhaps she
had not intended originally to conclude her sentence
in this simple and highly moral way.

CHAPTER I.

CHANGED.

LUCY spent two or three days after this in
comparative solitude. Her friends, both
the Rushtons and Mrs. Stone agreed in feeling
that it would be indecorous to make any rush at
her. It was a suggestion forced upon each of
them by the too great eagerness of the other,
and both concluded that it would be well to
adopt a more dignified course, and to leave her
to herself for the moment. Katie Russell had
gone on a visit of two or three days' duration,
and Lucy found herself thus at full liberty to
realise her loneliness. The weather, as it hap-vol.
in. B

\ I !)

opened, was very hot, and Jock and she were shut
up for the greater part of the day in the glaring
room, where there was no provision for very
hot weather, no sun-blinds or shutters, but
everything open to the blazing sun in the day,
and all lighted up with blazing gas at night.
When after those long and weary days little
Jock went tired and cross to bed, unwilling to
go, yet glad to get the day over, his sister sat
alone in the pink drawing-room in the unshadowed
flood of the gas-light, and thought
with the tenderest longing of all she had left
behind, and with a sinking at her heart beyond
describing, of all that was before her. The Fords
were in their parlour below, which they preferred,
he reading his paper, she mending stockings
tranquilly, at the table with its oil-cloth cover.
Lucy had not required any derangement of their
habits. She sat with them meekly at table,
without asking for anything beyond what
they chose to give her ; but she had found at
once that, after the repast was over, she was
expected to return to her own luxurious apartment,
the room which they were proudly conscious
had cost more than any other room in

Farafield, not to speak of the trouble that had
been taken over it  and in which there was a
piano and books, and all the things with which
girls are supposed to be amused. Lucy had been
called upon by two of the most important people
in Farafield, she had taken several walks and one
ride, and many substantial meals had been set before
her at their comfortable table ; what could any
girl in her senses want more ? And now she had
that beautiful drawing-room to return to, where
there was provision for both mind and body, sofas
to repose upon, and a piano to play, and books to
read, and where she could certainly gratify herself
with the consciousness of being mistress of a
room which had not its equal in Farafield. Mrs.
Ford saw no reason why she should give up her
own evening leisure, the purring quiet of that
final hour before bed-time, when she sat content
after supper was over, and all the affairs of the
day concluded. She did her duty by Lucy. She
bought sweetbreads and other delicacies, instead
of the beefsteak which was so much cheaper, and
which Ford liked just as well as the greatest
dainty. She spared no expense upon her guest.
She was ready to give her a cup of tea half a

B 2

dozen times a day. She had planned a variety of
puddings that there might be something different
at every meal : and to conclude, she had given
Lucy the best of advice. What could she be expected
to do more ?

But Lucy sat very disconsolate in front of the
shining steel fire-place filled up with shavings,
amid that blaze of gas, without even the little
stir of a fire which might have given companionship
at another season. She felt like a stranded
sailor, like some one shipwrecked on a very clean,
bright, polished desert island, where, however,
there was not even the consolation of struggling
for your living, to keep you alive. She pondered
all things that had happened, and that were
going to happen. It had given her a painful
sensation to hear Mrs. Stone speak of the
Russellss, and of the money which had come to
them, which was just enough to enable them to
live in comfort, as Lucy had intended. Had
that been a failure, that first effort ? And then
she thought of the new claimant, the poor gentleman
whom Mrs. Stone had hoped might be Lord
Chancellor one day, and who was only able to be
tutor to Jock. Surely it would be a right thing

to give him enough to remove anxiety', as Mrs.
Stone had said. And this time Lucy thought
she would take care that there was enough,
that no one should say it was a pittance.
This idea made her face glow with as much
shame as if she had cheated these poor people, to
whom she had meant to be kind. How was she
to know what was enough ? especially for a
gentleman. Oh, Lucy thought, if I could but
ask some one ! If some one would but tell me !
but who was there whom she could consult on
such a subject? Her guardians, instead of
helping her, would certainly do all they could to
hinder her. They would put every kind of
obstacle in her way. Instead of aiding her to
make her calculations and ascertain how much
was wanted, they would beat her down to the last
penny, and try to persuade her that half of what
she wanted to give would do. How difficult was
this commission she held, this office of dispenser,
almoner of posthumous bounty ! Oh, if her
father had but done it himself!  he was old, he
had experience, he must have known much better
than she could know. But here Lucy stopped
short, and bethought herself of the conclusion

that had been forced upon her, that poor papa
did not understand. The world in which her
timid footsteps were finding out painfully unaccustomed
tracks, was one of which even his keen
eyes had not found out the conditions. In her
stumbling and groping she had already discovered
more than his three score and ten years
of keen, imperfect theory had taught him. And
now it was her part to suffer all the inconveniences
and vexations, which in his ignorance he
had fixed upon her life. It never occurred to
Lucy to make any effort to escape from them, or
even to remain quiescent and refrain from doing
the difficult things he had left her to do. She
was determined to execute his will in every
detail. Should she die even of this ennui and loneliness,
she would yet bear it until the appointed
moment ; and, though she might have no more
success than with the Russell, still she must
flounder on. If she could only find somebody to
help her, to give her a little guidance, to tell her
how much, not how little, she ought to give.
There was one indeed who might be a help to
her, who would understand. But was it possible
that even Sir Tom had deserted her? Three

days, and he had not come to see her ! At this
thought there came into Lucy's eyes something
that felt very like a tear.

This, however, was the last of these silent
days. In the morning Katie Russell burst upon
her, all radiant with pleasure, " Oh, what a lucky
girl you are !" Katie cried, " you have got all we
used to talk of, Lucy. I never thought it would
come true ; but here you are, just looking the
same as ever, though you have been living among
swells ; and come down to dazzle us all at Fairfield,
with beautiful horses, and heaps of money,
and everybody after you. To think that all this
should have happened to you, and nothing at all
to me."

Lucy did not like her friend's tone. What
had come over her that everything seemed to
hurt her? "I don't think very much has happened
to me," she said. " What has happened
was all before I left here."

Katie shook her head and her curly locks, till
she had almost shaken them off. "I know a
great deal more than you think. I know what
you were doing in London, and how you went
riding about, and turning people's heads. What

a lucky girl you are, with everything that heart
can desire ! I don't envy you, not wicked envy,
because you are always as good as gold, and
never give yourself airs ; but you are a lucky
girl. You don't even know how different we
poor ones are. I have never turned anyone's
head," said Katie, with a sigh.

Do not talk of anything so silly," said Lucy
blushing, she did not quite know why. " I think
you are laughing at me  and to laugh at me is
not kind, for I am not clever as you are, and
cannot make fun of you. Katie, tell me all
about yourself, what you are doing ; and tell me
how they all are at Hampstead, and if they have
got into the new house."

I am doing  1 don't know what I am doing,"
said Katie, "dancing attendance on Mrs. Stone
and old Southernwood. They are going to get
me a situation in some nice family. I wish the
nice family would turn up, for I am very tired
waiting and wasting my holidays in this old
place. It is nice being here ? Oh, I know what you
will say, it is very nice, and I am very ungrateful.
But, though it is nice, it is a school, Lucy ;
and mamma does not want me at home, and I

have got no other place to go. Lady Langton
has been very kind, she asked me to go there for
three days. But it's dreary always coming back
to school, for the White House is only school
when all is said. They are all right at Hampstead,
so far as I know. Did you hear what
happened ? Mamma has come in to some money.
It is not a very great sum, but it is a great help.
It was some old relations, that no one had ever
thought of, and mamma says it might just as
well have been the double, for they were dreadfully
rich. But anyhow it has been a great
help. With what she had before I believe they
have quite enough to live on now, without doing
anything," Katie said, with a little pride.

To all this Lucy listened with a countenance
blank of all expression. She had been half
afraid of her friend's gratitude ; but there was
something in this complete ignorance which was
very bewildering. And when she looked at her
own generosity through Katie's eyes, so to speak,
and saw it on the other side, she felt, too, that '' it
might as well have been the double," and contemplated
her own action with a mixture of
shame and regret, instead of the satisfaction

which she had vainly felt at first. And this little
discovery made her first wound smart all the
more. A certain fear crept over her. She would
have liked to stop her ears from further revelations
had she been able. But as that was impossible,
Lucy listened patiently, with a blank
countenance, trying hard to dismiss all appearance
of feeling from her face.

Mamma would like me to stay at home too,"
Katie continued. " She cannot bear me to be a
governess. But I could not do it ; stay at home
and sink down into Hampstead tea-parties  oh,
I could not do it! If I get into a good family,
Maud and the others will stand by me, and I
shall have some fun at least and see life. To
have only enough to live on, and to live at
Hampstead, is more than I could put up with.
Bertie, he has gone into chambers, he doesn't
live with mamma now. I don't blame him, do
you, Lucy ? It must have been so slow for him,
a young man. And now he has some money of
his own, of course he has himself to think of.
He is always  " Katie said slowly, watching her
friend's face ; " always talking of you."

Lucy did not make any response ; but she was

surprised by this unexpected change in the strain,
and looked up in voluntarily, with a half inquiry
in her eyes.

Oh, constantly !" said Katie, with a mixture
of natural mischief and more serious purpose,
not quite able to give up the pleasure of laughing
at her companion, yet very seriously determined
to help her brother. " He says you are cross
about that dedication. How could you be cross
about it ? such a lovely dedication, making you
into a famous person all at once. It is just the
same as Dante did, and Petrarch, and all the
poets, Bertie says. And it has brought him luck.
Lucy, do you mind? He wants so much to
come down here."

Why should I mind T Lucy asked. Bertie
Russell had floated out of her recollection ; why
should his movements concern her? even the
dedication, and all the annoyance it had brought,
affected her no more.

That is quite true, why should you mind ?"
Katie said, with some pique. " One more or less
doesn't matter, when there are so many. He
wants to come down and study the scenery for
his next book. He means to lay the scene here ;

won't it be exciting ? People will be sure to say
he has studied the characters too."

I don't think there are many characters here,"
Lucy said.

Oh, don't you think so ? If I were to write
a book I know whom I should put in ; the Missis
and little Southernwood, and that fat St. Clair ;
and old Mademoiselle finding out everything
about everybody. Oh, I should soon make up
a book if I could write  I wish I could write,"
cried Katie, with flashing eyes.

Was it really so? Was Katie vulgar too?
Lucy felt herself shrink involuntarily. She asked
herself whether, in the old schoolgirl days, there
had been chatter like this which had not disgusted
her, or if Katie had deteriorated.

Do not speak so," she said ; " Katie, it is not
like you."

Oh, yes, it is quite like me. I always was
wicked, you were the good one, Lucy. I hope
Bertie will take them all off; and I hope you
will not be cross to him, Lucy ; that would take
all the heart out of him. Poor old Bertie ! he
thinks you are an angel, that is all he knows."

"I am never cross," said Lucy, wounded.

What had happened to her ? Had her e3es been
anointed by that disenchanting touch which turns
all the glories of fairyland into dross and tinsel ?
or was she really cross with everybody and out
of tune? She could not tell herself which it
was.

"You are cross now," cried Katie, growing
red ; and then the hasty tears started to her
eyes, and she complained that her friend was
"changed." What could Lucy say? either it
was true, or it was Katie that was changed.
"You are a great lady now," the girl cried,
with grand friends and everything you wish
for; and I am only a poor governess, not fit
company for you."

This reproach went to Lucy's heart. She
could not defend herself from such an accusation
; it took her entirely without defence, without
the power of saying anything for herself;
and she had never had any quarrels in the old
days. Thus the two girls parted, Katie running
across the Common, with red eyes, in high dudgeon,
though there was so little cause for it,
while Lucy stood at the window looking after
her piteously, and with an aching heart.

Changed ! yes, everything was changed, either
within or without : but which poor Lucy could
not tell. She scarcely knew how long she stood
there, and she was so occupied with Katie and
the pang of this parting with her, that she did
not see another visitor approaching from the
town, though he was a very welcome visitor indeed.
When she heard his voice coming up the
stair, her heart jumped with pleasure. He had
not deserted her then, and gone away without
seeing her. She turned round and opened the
door of the drawing-room in the simplicity of
her pleasure.

I am so glad to see you," she said, with fervour
; and Sir Tom came in smiling, with every
appearance of being glad to see her too.

I thought it best not to come too soon," Sir
Thomas said, " for your old lady did not like the
looks of me. Miss Lucy. Perhaps, I thought,
she might like me even worse than my looks ;
but this is luck to find you alone."

Oh, but I am always alone," said Lucy, her
countenance falling. " This is not like Grosvenor
Street, Sir Thomas ; most of the time I see nobody

at all ; and when people come they say that
I am changed."

Somebody has been vexing you," said Sir
Thomas, with his sympathetic look. " Never
mind, no one who really knows you will think
you changed ; and I hope you are happy on the
whole, among your old friends ?"

Lucy shook her head.

"It is not that they are not kind," she said,
"they are all very kind  but they will not permit
me to think that other people are kind too ; everyone
bids me to beware of some one else. You
laugh, but I could cry ; and it makes me that
I don't know what to do."

They bid you beware of me? Well, I suppose
that was to be expected," Sir Thomas said,
with a laugh.

Oh, not only of you, but of each other ; and
Aunt Ford warns me against them all. Well, it
is amusing, I suppose," said Lucy, *' but it does
not amuse me," and the tears came into her eyes.

My dear little girl ! (I am an uncle, you
know), things will mend," said Sir Tom, " Come,
tell me what they say of me. Did they say I
was an extravagant fool, and had wasted all my

living like the prodigal ? Alas ! that is true,
Luc} It may be uncharitable to say it, but the
ladies are quite right ; and if it were not for that
excellent plan of the uncle, perhaps, as they tell
you, it would be better for you to have nothing
to do with me."

"I do not believe that," cried Lucy, almost
with vehemence. And then she paused and
looked at him anxiously, and, with a crimson
colour gradually coming over her face, asked ina
low tone, "" Sir Thomas, do not be angry, are
you poor T'

He grew red too, with surprise, but then
laughed.

Well," he said, " yes, for my position I
certainly am. When a man has a great house to
keep up, and a number of expenses, if he is not
rich he must be poor."

Ah ! but I don't think that could be what papa
meant," cried Lucy, with a profound sigh.

I cannot tell, nor what you mean either, my
little Lucy," he said. " I feel very much like an
uncle to-day, so you must pardon the familiarity ;
you are so little, and so young, and I am so
JlStri, with crows-feet beyond counting. Lucy, I

have come to bid 3011 good-bye ; I am going to
Scotland, you know."

"Oh!" said Lucy, her countenance falling.
*' I hoped we hoped you were not going directly.
So long as you were 'near, I felt that there

was some one Must you really go, Sir

Tom ?"

Neither of them noticed at the moment the sudden
familiarity into which they had fallen, and
Lucy's dismay was so candid that it was all Sir
Tom could do to keep from a caress, such as
would have been very appropriate to his assumed
character, but not very consistent with the partial
guardianship he had been trusted with.

It is very sweet of you to be sorry," he said,
rising and walking to the window, where he
stood looking out for a moment with his back to
her, " but I am afraid I must go ; at all events.
it will be better for me to go. If you want
anything very urgently, write to me, or send mea
telegram ; but I don't suppose you will have
any very pressing necessities," he said, turning
round with a smile.

"No," said Lucy, very downcast; "oh, it is
not that : I have not any necessities, I wish I

VOL. III. C

had. It is just  it is only  one wants some one

to speak to, some one to tell "

She was so disappointed that there came a
little quiver into her lips and quaver in her tone.
Had he been right ? Was it really true that she
was no more in love with him than he was with
his old aunt? Sir Thomas was only human, and
an amiable vanity was warm in him. A pleasant
little thrill of surprise and gratitude went
through his heart. Was it perhaps possible ?
but Lucy made haste to add :

You are the only person that I could tell something
to, something that is on my mind. My
guardians know, so it is not quite, quite a secret :
but no one else knows : and when I go to them
they always oppose me at least, they did everything
they could against me the one time ; and I
thought if I could tell you, who are a gentleman,
and have experience, it would be such a
comfort  and perhaps you could guide me in
doing what I have to do. Papa did not say I was
to tell nobody 1 am sure he would have liked me
to have some one to stand by me, since you are
so kind, Sir Tom."

*you may calculate upon me, Miss Lucy.

What is if? or do you want to tell me now,
when I am going away ?"

His tone was cooled, chilled. Lucy did not
quite know how, but she felt it. Almost for the
first time since she had known him, Sir Thomas
looked at her with no wavering of expression in
his face, no twinkle in his eye.

*' It will perhaps  be a bore to you," she said,
chilled too, and hesitating.

You learned that word in town," he said,
melting, and relaxing into his habitual laugh.
Come, tell me ; when I know, then I shall be
able to advise, and you will find me infallible.
Something your guardians oppose ? then I suppose
it must be a desire you have to be kind to
other people, Lucy. They could not refuse you
any little wants of your own."

How clever you are. Sir Tom !" said Lucy,
lighting up, "that is just what it is. Papa left
me a great deal of money  I believe it is really
a great deal of money  to give away. Perhaps
you may have noticed that I have been rude,
very rude, in asking if people were  poor."

You asked me so ten minutes ago," he said.

"Oh! you must not think I meant Sir

C 2

Thomas, papa says in his will, aud he has said
it to me often not to waste the money, giving a
little here, and a little there, but, when I could
find out a fit occasion, to provide for somebody,
to put them quite above want."

And the thought crossed your sweet little
soul," he said with one of his big laughs, "my
dear child I to provide for me."

*' No ! Oh no ! I never could have been so
impertinent, indeed that was not what I meant ;
only it flashed across me how much better, if I
could, to give it to some one I liked, than to someone
I knew nothing about and didn't care for ;
but then it was not to be people I cared for 
only people who were poor."

Lucy, do you care for me ?"

Very much, Sir Tom," she said with a brightness
quite unusual to her, turning upon him eyes
which met his with perfect frankness and calm.
Will it be believed that Sir Thomas was utterly
disgusted by this quite candid, affectionate, innocent
response?

Ah ! that is precisely what I said," he
muttered to himself, jumping up impatiently from
his chair ; then he laughed and sat down again.

"Well, well, tell me how I can help you.

This money is to be spent on the deserving poor.
In short it is a charitable fund."

*' There is nothing about deserving. It is a
very great deal of money. It is nearly as much
as the half of what I have got. What papa
wished was that it should be giver bach''

The half of what you have got !" Sir Thomas
stared at her bewildered, in his mind making a
rapid calculation that, with the half of what she
had got, Lucy would no longer be the greatest
heiress in England. He was not sorry. She
would still have a great fortune. Somehow,
indeed, it pleased and conciliated him that she
should be put down from that high pedestal.
This was his only reflection on the subject.
What are you to do ? are you to establish institutions,
or build hospitals ?" he said.

Oh, no, nothing of that kind ; only to provide
for those that want, not for the very, very poor,
at least not always ; but for poor people who are
not poor. Do you know what I mean, Sir Thomas ?
for those who have been well ofiP."

I understand : like me poor ladies, and poor
gentlemen."

We were not ladies and "gentlemen ourselves.

It is not confined to them," said Lucy doubtfully,
"families that are struggling to live, whether
they are gentlemen, or whether they are not,
clerks like my Uncle Rainy, or schoolmasters
like papa. Do you consider it very insulting to
offer people money, when you see that they want
it very much ?"

"Well, that depends," said Sir Thomas, recovering
his humorous look, "upon the person
who offers, and the person to whom it is offered.
It happens so rarely that one has no experience
on the subject."

Do you remember, Sir Thomas, when I borrowed
that hundred pounds?" Lucy said. " That
was for one, it was my first, my very first. She
was very much offended, and then she said she
would take it as a loan. I cheated her into it,"
the girl said with glee, " I told her I could not
give any loans, papa never said anything about
loans, but she could give it me back if she wished
when I am my own mistress in seven years. Don't
you think she will forget before that time ? It
would be rather dreadful to have it back."

That depends also," he said, " but I think it
very likely that she will forget. Only take care,

take care. Presents of a hundred pounds are
very pleasant things. You will have crowds of
claimants if you don't mind."

A hundred pounds !" said Lucy, " oh, it was
not an insignificant thing like that !"

You think that insignificant ? You have princely
notions, it must be allowed. Might one ask  "

I counted up very closely," Lucy said. She
was drawn along by the tide of her own confidences,
" for it was no use giving a little bit that
would be swallowed up directly, and do no good
You see it was a lady, and ladies are not so
expensive as men. In that case, and it was my
first, it was six thousand pounds."

*' Six thousand pounds !" Sir Thomas sprang to
his feet with comical consternation, as if he had
been struck by electricity. " My dear little girl,"
he said half tragically', half laughing, "do you know
what you are doing ? Are you sure this is in your
father's will ? and do your guardians allow it I I
feel my head going round and round. Six thousand
pounds! to someone not related to you, a stranger."

' Oh, yes," said Lucy earnestly, *' or it would
not be giving it back. My guardians oppose it
as much as ever they can."

And I don't wonder at it," cried Sir Thomas.
I think 1 should oppose it too if I were one of
them. My dear little Lucy, you are upsetting the
very principles of political economy. Do you
know what that means ? You will demoralise
everybody you come in contact with. Even I,
though my instincts are not mendicant, it is all I
can do not to hold out ray hand for something.
I shall be doing it if I stay much longer," he said.

Lucy looked at him with a dubious, half
alarmed look. She never was quite sure whether
he was in jest or earnest, and the possibility,
even the most distant possibility that he could
mean  Even Lucy's imagination, however,
could not go so far as that. He could read her
doubt in her face, and laughed out.

I warn you to take care," he said. " You
will be the ruin of all your friends ; but, Lucy,
Lucy, this is a very wonderful business, it is like
a fairy tale. You gave away six thousand pounds,
and were permitted to do so at your age ? and
you mean to do it again  and again f

Oh, as often as ever I can," Lucy said fervently.
" I cannot bear to think how many
people may be in want of it, and that I don't

know them, and don't know how to find them
out. This makes me very unhappy when I think
of it. Perhaps you will help me to find them  f

No, that I cannot promise to do. I warn you
I shall be holding out my own hand presently. On
the contrary, I will keep people out of your knowledge.
You will ruin all our principles," he said.

But when it is in the will," cried Lucy. It
is unconceivable how much lighter her heart felt,
since she had told him. There was a little flush
on her cheeks, and her eyes shone with a pleasant
light. She could have gone on talking for hours
now that the floodgates were open. It was so
easy to talk to Sir Tom. His very laugh was
kind, he never found fault, or if he did that was
as pleasant as the rest ; she had a kind of frank
admiration of him, and trust in him, such as
some girls feel for an elder brother. The unusual
gleam of excitement in her face made
the little quiet Lucy pretty and interesting, and
Sir Thomas was flattered and piqued at once by
the enthusiasm of affectionate faith which was in
her eyes. It piqued him, and it pleased him 
that he should have all this, and yet no more.
He had got a great deal more in his life, and

looked for it, and the absence of it made him a
little impatient.

Well," he said, *' you will go through the
world like a good fairy, and I hope the good you
will do, will make up for the demoralisation your
want of principle will lead to. But before my
principles are ruined, Lucy, goodbye, I must go.
I have written my address there in your blotting
book, and if you want me, or if you want to ask me
anything, be sure you do it. Thank you for taking
me into your confidence. But now 1 must go away."

Lucy got up to say goodbye, but her heart
sank. " Oh, must you go f' she said, *' I am so
sorry. While you were there the place was not
quite so lonely. But I hope you will like the
shooting very much," she said with a sigh, and a
sense of real self-sacrifice. Her eyes got moist
in spite of herself; and Sir Thomas bent over
her, and kissed her forehead, or rather her hair,
in spite of himself. He ought not to have done
it, and he was half ashamed of having done it.
Goodbye, my little Lucy," he cried. As for Lucy,
she took this kiss " sedately " like the poet's
heroine. It seemed so natural, she liked him so
much ; she was glad he liked her a little too.

CHAPTER II.

A NEW Adviser.

LUCY was greatly comforted by the visit of
Sir Thomas. It made her sad to see him
go away, and the consciousness that he was no
longer within reach raised for the moment another
cloud upon her horizon; but on the whole
it was an exhilaration to her to have spoken to
him, to have shared her secret with him. She
had, as she said, tried to communicate it to Lady
Randolph in the early days of their companionship;
but it had been so very far from Lady
Randolph's thoughts, that Lucy's timid hint had
made no impression on her mind. Neither would
Sir Thomas have been capable of understanding
had she spoken less plainly than she did ; but
Lucy at last had spoken very plainly  and he

had understood. He had not given her any
valuable advice. In such circumstances there is
very little advice practicable ; but he had understood,
which is such a great matter. She knew
no better what to do, how to turn, and how to
distribute the money, than she had done at the
first; but yet she was easier in her mind. She
had talked it over, and it had done her good.
Henceforward she was not alone in her possession
of this secret. A secret is a very heavy burden
to be borne alone, and, though Lucy had been
restrained by many considerations from asking
Sir Thomas' advice on the special question which
now occupied her mind, she was still consoled.
In case of any break-down he would not blame
her; he would give her his sympathy. Incase
of any difficulty she could write to him, or even
summon him to her aid. He liked her, which
was a pleasure to think of liked her as she
liked him  though he was so much older, and of
so much more importance in the world. All this
was of great comfort to Lucy. She began to
hold up her head, and to feel herself less
abandoned. It was true he had gone away, but
that did not matter so much, he would come

back if she wanted his help ; and in the meanwhile
time was going, floating on noiselessly' and
swiftly and by and by the Farafield chapter
would be over. Mrs. Ford, who had watched for
Sir Tom's departure very jealously, and who had
bounced out of the parlour to see him go away,
and detected a little redness about Lucy's eyes,
was re-assured by hearing her hum little tunes to
herself in the latter part of the day, and talk to
Jock with great animation about his new tutor,
and all that was going to happen.

* She didn't mind after all," Mrs. Ford said,
*' how should she, a man old enough to be her
father." And thus everybody was pleased.

In the afternoon Katie Russell came in, all
tearful and penitent, to beg Lucy's pardon, and
declare that " it was all me." The pardon was
accorded with great willingness and satisfaction,
and Katie stayed and chattered, and made a
lasting peace. She offended Lucy's taste no longer;
or else Lucy awoke to the fact that her friend
was never entirely to her taste, and that toleration
is the most essential of all qualities to friendship.
Katie remained to tea. She told Jock a
quite new story, which he had never heard

before, and could not parallel out of his books ;
and she beguiled Lucy back into the old world
of careless youth. Lucy's youth had never been
so thoughtless or so merry as that of many of
her comrades. Even Katie, though she had
known so many of the drawbacks of life, had on
the other hand got a great deal more pleasure out
of it than the heiress had ever known. Sometimes
the pleasures and the pains go together,
and it is a question whether those are best off
.who hold the middle way between, and have not
much of either. Katie was a more lively companion
than Lucy, with her serious upbringing,
her sense of responsibility, and those cares which
had been put so prematurely upon her young
head, could ever have been. The pink drawing-room,
for the first time, became mirthful, and
light voices and laughter disturbed the quiet.
** Just listen," Mrs. Ford said, " Sir Thomas, for
all such a great man as you think him, has not
made much impression there." Her husband,
who had a very high opinion of the influence of
Sir Thomas, uttered a " humph " of protestation
from where he sat in his easy-chair by the fireplace.
The grate full of shavings was not so

pleasant as the grate with a good fire in it was
in winter; but it was Ford's place at all seasons.
He said nothing but humph ! having nothing to
add to bolster up his opinion. But it would have
been as surprising to him as to his wife had they
known that it was he who was in the right, and
that even Luc's laugh, her easier mind, her
more cheerful face, owed something to the
cheerful presence of Sir Tom, even though he
had gone away.

At tea they were joined by another and unexpected
visitor, at the sight of whom Mrs. Ford
threw up her hands. " Philip I" she cried. " I
thought you were abroad. How glad I am to
see you ! Dear, dear, how little one knows I I
was thinking this very afternoon, when I saw a
picture of the snowy mountains  there now,
Philip's about there."

I have come back," said Philip, " I was abroad
all last month, but a great many things seemed to
call me home. There is a bit to be built on at
Kent's Lane. And there was Lucy. Oh, how do
you do ? You are here ! I thought " he said
with frankness which Mrs. Ford thought excessive,
" that I must come back if Lucy was here."

** I shall be here for six months," said Lucy
calmly. "I am very glad to see you, Cousin
Philip, but it is a pity you should have come
back for me."

"I don't regret it," said the young man; he
did not resemble any of the others whom
Lucy knew. He was not like St. Clair, nor yet
Raymond Rushton, who though the one was fat,
and the other awkward, had still a certain naturalness
and ease, as if they belonged to the
position in which they were. Philip was a great
deal more carefully adapted to his position in
every respect than they were. He had just the
clothes which a man in the country in the month
of August ought to wear, and he had been absent,
spending the first part of his holidays " abroad,"
as most men in August would like to be. He had
all the cleanness and neatness and trimness which
are characteristic of a well-bred Englishman. He
was not fine ; there was no superfluous glitter
about him, not a link too much to his watch-chain,
not an unnecessary button. In the very
best taste ! the only thing against him was that
his appearance was too complete. He had the
air of being respectful of his clothes, and very

conscious of them. And he was always on his
good behaviour, very careful to commit no
solecism, to do exactly what it was right to do.
He came in with his hat in his hand, and clung
to it, though all the time it was apparent in his
countenance that he would much rather have left
in the hall. It was in such matters that Philip
Rainy betrayed himself, for in his heart he felt
that it would also have been much more sensible
had he hung up his hat, and not encumbered
himself with the care of it. He sat down on the
haircloth sofa, not approaching his chair to the
table round which all the others were seated. He
had been brought up upon bread and butter, and
was very well accustomed to the homely tea-table
; but he felt he owed it to himself to keep
up a position of independence, inferring the
superior dignity of a late dinner even in vacation
time, and a soul above tea.

Nothing to eat?" said Ford. " I think you're
wrong, Philip ; here is toast, and there are some
nice slices of cold beef; and there's cake, but
there's no substance in cake. It is good enough
for girls, who live upon nothing, but a man,
except to finish off with, wants something more

VOL. m. D

solid. Have a bit of cold beef, that's what I'm
taking myself."

Let him alone," said Mrs. Ford, " he don't
want to spoil his dinner. I hope you haven't
come home on some wild-goose chase or other,
Philip. I hope you have a better reason than
just to see Lucy; but, anyhow, you're welcome.
Lucy has been home only a few days, and she's
not spoiled, nor much changed, though she might
be. I cannot say that I think she's much
changed."

Lucy is not one to change," the young man
said ; and he looked at her with an affectionate
smile ; but somehow, in the very act of going to
her, this look was arrested by the little saucy
face of Katie Russell, a face which was brighter
and more mischievous, but not half so strong in
moral beauty as that of Lucy. She caught
him, looking at him as the most timid of young
girls may look at a stranger, when under the
care of a most decorous roof and a matron's
ample wings. The young man actually swerved
a little aside, and stopped dead short in what he
was saying. It was as if some one had given
him a blow.

I forgot to introduce you to Miss Russell''
said Mrs. Ford, catching the look, but not understanding
it. "A cousin of ours, Mr. Rainy,
Miss Russell. No, you are right about Lucy;
but she has a great many temptations. There
are folks about her that have their own ends to
serve. She is one that many a person envies ; but
I, for one, don't envy Lucy. I tell her sometimes
I wonder how many of her fine friends would
stand by her  My Lady This, and Mrs. That 
if she were to lose her money ; that's what they're
after. And she's too trusting, the thing for her
would be to keep herself to herself."

Indeed," cried Katie Russell, with sparkling
eyes, " it is very cruel and unkind of you to
say so. Lucy knows very well hoe don't love her
for her money. What do I care, for her money ?
I was fond of Lucy before 1 knew what money
meant, and so I would be fond of her," cried
the girl, with a flush of passion, " if it were all
tossed into the sea:  and all my people," she
added, after a moment, " as well as me."

Lucy had followed this little outburst with
pleasure in her mild eyes, but the last words
gave her a shock, as of the real penetrating

D 2

into the poetical. Her mind was not quick
enough to jump at the subtle mixture of semi-truth
and semi-falsehood in it, but she felt,
though she could not define. There was the
bitterest kind of humour in the suggestion, but
Katie, perhaps, did not know, and certainly did
not, at the moment, mean anything different from
what she said.

Susan," said Ford, with a nod to Philip,
wasn't meaning anybody in particular. There
is no occasion, Miss Russell, to take offence.
Mrs. Ford was meaning  other persons that shall
be nameless," Ford added, with a wave of his
hand.

They are all wrong, Philip," said Lucy. " I
wish so very much people would not speak so.
It takes all the pleasure out of my life. Lady
Randolph never talked about my money, never
warned me against anyone. Please don't do it,
Aunt Ford !"

I know," said Mrs. Ford, putting her handkerchief
to her eyes, *' I've seen it from the very
first in your face, Lucy. I'm not a fine ladylike
your Lady Randolph, I can't put a smooth
face on everything, and let you go sailing over

a precipice as if it were nothing to me. I am only
one that speaks out plain what is in my mind,
and one that has known you from your cradle,
and have no ends of my own, but your interest
at heart. But to be plain and true's not enough
for you any longer. I've known it all this time,
I've seen it in your face : but I didn't think you
would put it into words, and before strangers,
and me Lucilla Rainy's cousin, and one that has
known you from your cradle, and nursed your
father on his death-bed; oh, I never thought
you could have the heart to put it into
words !"

"Have I said anything wrong?" said Lucy,
in great distress. She was bewildered by the
sudden attack, and horrified by the scene " before
strangers;" for Lucy had all the instincts of
respectability, and to see Mrs. Ford's tears filled
her with pain and involuntary compunction ; but
she was not so emotional as to lose her sense of
justice. "I did not mean to say anything
wrong," she repeated, anxiously. Mrs. Ford's
tears were a little slow in coming ; she sniffed,
and she held her handkerchief to her face, which
was red with anger and excitement, but she did

not possess, at any time, a great command over
tears.

Then Philip took up the part of peace-maker.

*' You said yourself, two minutes ago, that
Lucy was not changed," he said. *' Because you
think she should be on her guard, you don't
want her to be unhappy ? and if she does not
like her friends, how can she be happy, Mrs.
Ford ? so good a friend as you are must know
that. To be sure," said Philip, '* we of the
Rainy family can't help being a little anxious
and fussy about our heiress, can we ? We think
more of her than other people can, and care more
for her."

*' That is the truth, that is the very truth,"
cried Mrs. Ford. And thus the incident blew
over in professions that Lucy's interest and
happiness were all she thought of, on one side,
and on the other, that she meant to say nothing
which could hurt Mrs. Ford's feelings.

Philip went upstairs with the girls after this,
into the pink drawing-room, where he sat all the
evening, forgetting his dinner. He had come to
see Lucy, but it was Katie Russell who took the
conversation in hand ; and as he was a very

staid young man, not used to the lighter graces
of conversation, Katie's chatter, and the perpetual
variations of her pretty face, were a sort
of revelation to Philip. He was entirely carried
beyond himself and all his purposes by this new
being. Lucy sat tranquilly in her corner and
assisted, but did little more. She was amused
to see her grave cousin laughed at and subdued,
and the evening flew over them, as evenings
rarely fly, in more edifying intercourse. The
talk and the laughter were at their height when
Katie, going to the piano to sing "just one more
song," suddenly discovered that it was too dark
to see her music, and stopped short with a cry
of dismay, " Why, it is dark ! and I never noticed
What will Mrs. Stone think? T came

over only for half an hour, and I am staying all
the night. Lucy, goodbye, I must go now.

But you have promised me this song," Philip
said, " there are candles to be had."

And you are not going to run away like
that. Jock and I will go home with you," said
Luc} " and, perhaps, Philip will come too."

Philip thanked his cousin with his eyes, and
the song was sung ; and then the little party got

under weigh. It was a warm still night, with a
little autumnal mist softening all the edges of
the horizon, and mild stars shining through with
a kind yet pensive softness. Philip Rainy had
been admirable in all the relations of life. He
had done his duty by his parents, by his scholars,
and by himself; he had combined a prudent
sense of his own interests with justice to everybody,
and kindness to those who had a claim
upon him ; and the life which lay behind him
was one on which any well-regulated young man
might have looked back with pleasure. But all
at once it seemed to the young schoolmaster
that it was the dreariest of desert tracks, and
that up to this moment he had never lived at
all. He had never understood before what the
balmy atmosphere of a summer night meant, or
how it was that the stars got soft, and came
to bear a personal relation to the eyes that
looked at them. What did it mean ? He had
come to see Lucy ; but he barely perceived Lucy.
All the world, and all his interests seemed suddenly
concentrated into the little circle in which
that one little figure was standing. He stood
beside her, drawn to her by a soft inexplicable

influence. He walked beside her as in a
dream ; everything was sweet, the night air that
lifted her bright hair and tossed it about her
forehead ; the gorse-bush that clung to her dress,
and had to be disengaged, every prickle giving
him another delicious prick as he pulled them
away. Whether he was dreaming, or whether he
had gone clean out of his senses, or whether this
was a new life of which he had never been conscious
before, Philip did not know. When they
arrived at the White House, which they did not
do by honest straightforward means, along the
plain road that led to it, but by a quite unnecessary
roundabout, an excursion led by Jock
through all the narrowest byways, a sudden
stop seemed to be put to this chapter of existence.
He had a hand put into his for one
second, a succession of merry nods, and farewells
waved by the same hand, and then he stood
with Lucy, come to himself, outside a blank
door, a dropped curtain, a sudden conclusion.
Philip stood gazing, he did not seem to have any
energy even to turn round. Had it been suggested
to him to lie down there and spend the
night, he would have thought the suggestion

most reasonable. Had he been alone, he would,
DO doubt, have lingered, for some time at least.
Even as it was, he never knew how long a time,
a minute, or an hour, or perhaps only an infinitesimal
moment, too small to be reckoned on any
watch, elapsed, before, slowly coming to himself
with the giddiness of a fall, he saw that he
was with Lucy, and that she was turning to go
home. Jock was roaming on in advance, a little
moving solid speck in the vague dark, and Lucy
moved on, softly and lightly indeed, but with no
enchantment about her steps. And then what
she said was all of the old world, the antiquated
dried up Sahara of existence from which
Philip had escaped for the first time in his
life.

*' It looks a little like rain," Lucy said, " it is
a good thing we are not far from home."

Ah I but it does not so much matter now,"
Philip said with a sigh. " She would have spoilt
her pretty dress."

Yes ! muslins go at once," said Lucy, " it
is the starch. I didn't think it would rain when
we came out. But we must not grumble  we
have had a beautiful summer. Does Farafield

seem just the same to you, Philip, when you
come home."

Farafield ! I never saw anything so sweet
the air is softer than I ever felt it in my life :
and the Common smells like Paradise," cried
the young man in the sudden bewilderment
which had come upon him, which he did not
understand.

Do you think so f said Lucy in great surprise
; especially the last point was doubtful ;
but she thought it was the warmth of local enthusiasm,
and blamed herself for her want of
patriotism. " I like it very well," she added
with hesitation, " but  after one has been away
the first time, then one sees all the difference. I
don't suppose I should feel the same again."

Then there was a pause. Philip did not feel
inclined to talk ; his mind was quite abstracted
out of its ordinary channel. As they went back,
he felt within himself a dual consciousness  he
was walking with her, helping her over the
stones, disengaging her dress from the prickles ;
and at the same time he was walking demurely
with Lucy, who required no such services. The
sensible young schoolmaster, had the question

been suddenly put to him, could not, at the
moment, have distinguished which was true.

But Lucy, curiously enough, was seized with
an inclination to open her mind to her cousin.
She had come back to her natural condition,
through the help of Sir Tom and Katie, and she
wanted to be friendly. She said, " I am so glad
that you have come home, Philip. You know 
so much more than Aunt Ford knows. Perhaps
if you will tell her that everybody is not thinking
of my money  that it is not half so important
as she thinks, she will believe you."

Your money !" Philip said with a gasp 
suddenly the stars disappeared out of the sky.
The summer evening became less balmy. There
was a moment of rapid gyration, either of the
whole round world itself, or of his head, he
could not tell which. And he felt himself strike
sharply with his foot upon a stone in the path,
and came to earth and to common life again,
limping and rubbing his ancle. " Confound it !"
he said under his breath ; but, perhaps, it was his
good angel put that stone in his way. He came
wholly and entirely to himself under the stimulant
of that salutary pain.

I hope you have not hurt yourself," said
Lucy, with her usual calm.

*' Oh ! it is nothing," said Philip, ashamed,
The fact is I came home sooner than I intended,
thinking  that, perhaps, you might want
some advice. For instance," he said, grasping
at the first idea which occurred to him, a sort of
staff of the practical in this chaos of the vague
and unknown where he had suddenly found himself
stumbling, *' about Jock  he is in my way
I might help you about Jock."

Oh !" said Lucy with animation, " thank
you, Philip, that is all arranged. I have got
the most delightful plan settled. Mrs. Stone's
nephew, a poor gentleman who is in bad health :
just when he was about succeeding so finely at
the bar and it is a great thing to succeed at
the bar, isn't it? his health gave way: and he
is 80 good as to be willing to come and teach
Jock. I think it is so very kind."

Kind !" said Philip at last, thoroughly woke
up. He opened his eyes wide and shook himself
instinctively. This was what Mrs. Ford
meant, and no wonder if she made a scene.
''- This is a strange step to take, Lucy," he said

seriously. " I don't know what it means. I
should think as a relative, and your father's
successor, and  engaged in tuition" (nature had
brought the word [schoolmaster to his lips, but
unless you belong to the higher branches of the
profession, you do not like to call yourself a
schoolmaster), " that I had the first claim."

Lucy was greatly distressed. She had never
considered the question before in this light.
Oh, Philip ! I am so sorry. So you should
have had  if I had ever thought ! I beg your
pardon a thousand times. But then," she added,
recovering her composure, *' you have a great
many boys it does not matter to you; and this
poor gentleman"

'' Poor gentlemen ought not to come to you,"
said Philip with indignation. " A barrister, a
man In bad health  what was he to do with a
small boy ? Jock ought to have come to me.
I proposed it before you went to London, it
is the best thing for him. I think that your
father meant him to be my successor in Kent's
Lane."

Oh, no, no ! never that," said Lucy.

Is it so much beneath Jock ?" Philip said,

with a touch of natural bitterness. *' But anyhow,
it is I that ought to have the charge of
him. I do not want to be unkind, Lucy; but
I think I begin to see what Mrs. Ford means
about your family."

Philip !" cried Lucy indignant, and then
she added, almost crying, " you are all so unjust;
and if you say so too, what am I to do?"

I will not say anything ; but it is what I
cannot help thinking," said Philip with the
stateliness of offence. It seemed to him, he
could scarcely tell how, that he was being defrauded,
not of Jock, who was a trifle, but of
all share or interest in Lucy's future. He had
come back, on purpose to look after her, to
keep her out of trouble. While he had been
away, it bad been more and more clear to him
that to share Lucy's fortune was in a manner
his right. It would save him, at least, ten years,
it would secure his position at once  and he had
a right. He had come to the Terrace that evening
full of this idea ; and he had played the fool
he could not but allow that he had played the
fool. What were poetry and the stars and the
mild influences of the Pleiades to him ? He was a

Rainy, and there was no one who had so much
right to share the great Rainy fortune. The
energy of opposition awoke him, which nothing
else, perhaps, could have done. " You will forgive
me," he said, " but you are only a young girl,
and you cannot be expected to understand. And
it is quite true what Aunt Ford said, there are
always a herd of harpies after a girl with a large
fortune. You should take the advice of those
who belong to you. You should first consult
your true friends."

Lucy was confounded, she did not know how
to reply. Was not Sir Thomas her true friend ?
He had not been angry with her when she told
him about that famous scheme for giving the
money back. Some floating idea that Philip
would have been able to help her in that respect,
that he might have suggested what, for instance,
she should give to St. Clair, had been in her mind.
But Lucy promptly shut up her impulse of confession.
She withdrew a little from his side.
He was not ignorant like the Fords  he was a
kind of natural adviser. " But what is the use
of speaking to anyone who does not understand
T Lucy said. So they traversed the rest

of the way in silence, Philip occasionally making
a severe remark in the same vein, yet feeling,
as he did so, that every word he said was a
sacrifice of his vantage ground. He wanted to
change his tactics, when he saw the evident
mistake of strategy he had made. But such
matters are not within our own control; when
a false key is struck, it is not easy to get free
of it. Philip was ready to curse himself for his
folly ; but at the same time his folly and his
wrong key-note, and the misadventure of the
evening altogether gave him a sense of almost
aversion to his cousin. " What a contrast !" he
said to himself. Thus Lucy, whose simplicity
was captivating to such a man of the world as
Sir Tom, made the Farafield schoolmaster indignant
and impatient beyond measure. Sir
Thomas would have been in no sort of danger
from little Katie. Thus the world goes on,
without any regard to the suitable, or possible.
They said " goodnight" very coolly to each
other, and Lucy ran upstairs vexed and troubled
for to be disapproved of wounded her. As for
Mrs. Ford, she came out of the parlour, where
she now seemed to lie in wait for occurrences,

VOL. III. E

when she heard them come to the door. " Come
soon again, Philip," she whispered, " there's a
good lad. I think the whole town is after her.
You are the one that ought to get it all. You
will be kindly welcome if you come every day."

I have not a notion what it is you want me
to get," said Philip crossly as he strode away.

CHAPTER III.

VISITORS.

riHE day on which these events occurred was
-L the day of Mr. Frank St. Clair's arrival at
the White House, where he had come dutifully
in answer to his aunt's summons, to hear of
"something to his advantage." To do him
justice, he was by no means delighted with the
project ; but he was dutiful and needy, and there
was nothing for it but to submit. He went the
next morning to pay his respects to the heiress,
and assume the charge of his pupil. It was nota
long walk from the White House, but Mr.
Frank St. Clair was warm when he arrived,
being, according to the euphemism of the day,
out of training," and glad to sit down and contemplate
the little fellow who was to be the in 

E 2

-

#

strum went of his fortune. Jock, who had resumed
his position on the white rug, and lay there, cool
and at his ease, while Lucy dutifully read her
history, Alas by no means inclined to submit to
any examination.

Come and tell me what you can do, my little
man," Mr. St. Clair said ; " let us see which of
us knows the most ; we are going to teach other 
you me, or I you. Come and let's make out
which it is to be."

Jock raised his head from the rug, and looked
at his questioner with big eyes. The inspection
did not seem to please him. " I know a lot," he
said, concisely, and dropped his head ; his book
was more interesting than the stranger. It was
Don Quixote" with pictures which he had in his
hands, this deeply experienced reader had never
encountered the work with these attractions before.

I told you. Miss Trevor," said St. Clair, " he
sees through me, he knows my learning is antiquated.
If a man has the misfortune to live before
Madvig what is he to do ? Scholarship is the
most progressive of all sciences ; which is curious,
considering that it is with dead languages it has
to do."

Lucy raised her mild eyes with no understanding
in them. It was in vain to speak of dead
languages to her. " Though he is so little," she
said, apologetically, " he has read a great many
books. That is what he means ; but he has had
no education, Mr. St. Clair, except just a little
at Hampstead. He has done nothing but read
books  nonsense books," said Lucy, severely,
thinking to reach the culprit, '' that could not
teach him anything or do him any good."

Reading books is on the whole not a bad
kind of education," said St. Clair. " I see you
pursue that way yourself."

Oh  but this is history : it is not in the least
amusing, sometimes it is very hard, I can't remember
it a bit : and sometimes I almost go to
sleep ; very different," said Lucy, pointedly,
*' from the books that Jock reads ; they make him
laugh, they make him so interested that he can't
bear anyone to speak to him. He won't go to
bed, he won't play for them. That cannot be
education at all."

'' Very true," Mr. St. Clair" said. " Medicine
must be nasty. Might one know, my friend,
what you are reading now ?"

Jock raised himself from the rug once more.
He did not lose a word either of the book or the
conversation. " I've read it before ; but this time
I've just come to the windmills," he said.

The windmills ? now what may they be f

I told you," said Lucy regretfully ; " they are
all nonsense books  nothing that is of any
good."

Because you don't know," cried Jock, hotly.
"You've no business to speak when you don't
know. He doesn't think they're windmills ; he
thinks they're big giants, and they're just like
it, just like giants  I've thought so myself. He
thinks they've got a lot of poor people carrying
them off to be slaves, and there's only him upon
his own horse  nobody more ; but do you think
he'll let them carry off the poor people for slaves ?
He goes at them like a dozen knights he goes
at them like an army," cried Jock, his eyes
flashing. " I wish I had been there, I'd have
done it too."

"Ah, Don Quixote," said St. Clair. "What
you, Jock ! you that know such a lot, you'd have
gone at the windmills too ?"

Jock grew red, for he did not like ridicule

He didn't know they were windmills," he said.

Didn't I tell you, Mr. St. Clair," said Lucy ;
"that is all he thinks about  windmills! what
good can windmills do him ? unless he were to
learn all about the uses of them, and who began
them, and the good they are to the country ; that
would be very different from a fairy tale."

It is not a bit a fairy tale," Jock cried, indignant.
"It's a longtime since I read any fairy
tales  never any since Prospero and israel on the
enchanted island. This is about a man. Fairy
tales are very nice when you are quite little," he
added, with dignity, 'just beginning to read
plain ; but when you are bigger you like sense
best, for you can think I would do the same."

"You see, Mr. St. Clair, that is just like him :
it is not education," said Lucy, with mild
despair.

"I am not quite clear about that," said St.
Clair, who knew a little more than Lucy ;
"but, Jock, you will find a great many more
books to read, and men to hear about, if
you come to me and learn. Leave your tall
gentleman to overcome the windmills, and come
and speak to me. Tell me what you have

learnt," he said, holding the child within his
arm as he stood up, reluctantly, by his side.
Lucy looked on with pleased approval, yet many
excuses. " He has never been to school, he was
so delicate, papa didn't like him to be out of his
sight," she said, reddening with much shame
and self-reproach, as the real state of the case
was elucidated. When the cross-examination
was over, Jock, though not at all ashamed, escaped
as quickly as he could from Mr. St. Clair's
detaining arm. He snatched up his book from
the rug, and made assurance sure by putting a
flight of stairs and the closed door of Mrs. Ford's
room between him and the inquisitor, who laughed
and shook his head as the little fellow bolted.
** We must begin from the beginning, I fear ;" he
said. " He has been neglected ; but after all there
has not been much time lost."

'' I am very sorry he is so Ignorant," said Lucy,
deprecating ; " but, Mr. St. Clair, papa was old,
and I was very young."

Yes, no one could expect you to think of it ;
you are very young now, Miss Trevor, to have
such a charge."

"Oh, that is nothing," Lucy said; "many

people have had a great deal more to do. I have
heard of girls that have had to work for their
brothers and sisters, indeed I have been acquainted
with some," she said, thinking of Mary
Russell. " But, now that we know of it, it is not
too late to mend it, Mr. St. Clair.

Not at all too late," he was pleased that she
should say we. Such a familiarity of association
was all he thought that could be desired. " I
will undertake to put him in the right way  for
the moment."

Oh !" Lucy said, with disturbed looks, " will
it be only for the moment, Mr. St. Clair ? I know
it is very good fortune, far more than we could
have expected, to get you at all  and that you
should take such a very little boy."

I am very happy to be able to be of any use
to you," St. Clair said, with a smile, " and
if I am not called away  But you well understand
that I cannot be at all sure of my time. Miss
Trevor. I may be called away."

St. Clair was ready to laugh at the little
formula, and this gave him an additional air of
seriousness, which looked like feeling. " I wish
I had done nothing in my life to be so little

ashamed of," he [added, " as teaching a small
boy."

Lucy looked at him with great respect, and
even a little awe. An innocent girl has a certain
awe of a man so much older than herself, so
much more experienced in every way, who perhaps
has had mysterious wrong-doings in his
life as well as other things, more momentous
and terrible than any her imagination has ever
realized. The things that St. Clair might have
to be ashamed of loomed large upon her in the
darkness of her ignorance, like gigantic shadows,
upon which she looked with pity and a little
horror, yet at the same time an awful respect.
Mrs. Stone told me," she said, with her serious
face, " that you had not been well, that, after all
your studies and work, you had not been well
enough  I am very, very sorry. It must have
been a great disappointment."

That is exactly what it was ; it is very sweet
to meet with some one who understands," St.
Clair said ;" yes, it is not so much for myself,
but they had all done so much for me, all believed
in me so."

But, Mr. St. Clair, with rest and taking care,
will it not all come right ?"

*' They say so' he said ; " but, Miss Trevor,
though you don't know much of the hardships of
life, you will understand that this is exactly what
it is most hard to do. To rest implies means and
leisure, and I ought to be working night and
day."

I am very, very sorry," said Lucy ; a great
many waves of varying resolution were passing
over her mind  what could she do ? would it be
most polite to take no notice, to receive such a
confidence as if it was nothing to her ? or should
she be bold and put forth her powers as a helper,
a wrong-redresser ? Jock's story about the windmills
had seemed very great nonsense to his unlettered
sister, yet practically she was in a
strait not dissimilar. She put her lance in rest
with a very doubtful and assured hand ; but
if they were giants, as they seemed, she too felt,
like the great Spaniard, that to pass them by
would be cowardly. She looked at him wistfully,
faltering. " You will think it strange of me to say
it," she said, her serious face gradually crimsoning
from chin to forehead ; " but perhaps you

know  that I am not the same as other girls ;
if there were anything that I could do  "

St. Clair grew red, too, with surprise and mortification
: what could the girl mean ? he asked
himself; but he answered suavely, "I am sure
you are a great deal better and kinder than most
girls or men either. Miss Trevor. You have
the divine gift of sympathy, which always does
one good."

I don't know if it is sympathy, Mr. St. Clair.
Papa left me a great many directions. He said
there were some things I was to try to do ; and
if it would be good for you to have leisure, and
be able to rest for a year or two  "

St. Clair was reduced to the level of Raymond
Eushton by the utter confusion which these
words seemed to bring into the very atmosphere.

Oh, by Jove !" he ejaculated faintly, in his
dismay. He rose up hurriedly. She would offer
him money, he felt, if he gave her another
moment to do it, and though he was very willing
and desirous, if he could, to get possession of
her money as a whole, to have a little of it thus
offered to him seemed the last indignity. " I
expect to find Jock a very amusing pupil," he

said, " not at all like the average little hop. He
shall give me a lesson in literature, when I have
given him his Latin. I suspect it is I who will
profit the most. The little wretch seems to have
read everything ; I wonder if you have shared
his studies. He must have got the taste from
some one, it is not generally innate in small
boys."

Oh, no," said Lucy, " not I." She was disappointed
to have the subject changed so
rapidly, and abandoned it with great reluctance,
still looking at him to know why he should so
cut her short. " Jock does not think much of
me," she added, " and all those story-books, and
plays, and poetry, cannot be good for him, surely.
Papa never minded ; he was old, and Jock
seemed such a baby, it did not seem to matter
what he did ; it was not his fault."

Oh, I don't think it was anybody's fault.
But you are reading, I see, in a steadier way.
What is it ? history ?" Mr. St. Clair approached
her table where she was sitting and looked at
Lucy's book.

Yes," she said, with a soft little sigh. " Lady
Randolph thought I ought ; and I should bethinking

of my French. It is so hard when one
is not clever. I must ask Mrs. Stone to let me
go to Mademoiselle when she comes back."

'sand may T help you with this?" Mr. St.
Clair said. He drew a chair near her and sat
down.

It had not occurred to good Mrs. Ford that
any precautions were necessary, or that she
should break up her mornings by being present
during all the talk of the young people. If a
girl had to be watched for ever, Mrs. Ford
thought, she must be a very poor sort of girl ;
so that Lucy's pink drawing-room was practically
open to the world, as entirely open as if she had
been an American young lady, with a salon and
visiting list of her own. She was very grateful
to Mr. St. Clair when he sat down beside her.
It was so kind. He took up the book, and asked
her if she had seen this and that, other books
more readable than the dry compendium Lucy
was studying.

If you will let me get them for you, it will
give me the greatest pleasure," St. Clair said.
I consider history my great subject. I should
like to help you, if you will let me." Lucy

accepted his offer with the greatest gratitude.
She had found it very dry work by herself.

This was the scene upon which Raymond
Rushton came in, very slowly, crushing his hat
in his hands. His mother had prevented him
from signifying the hour of his visit, with a
natural fear of the precautions which Mrs. Stone
would certainly have taken to occupy the
ground beforehand ; but this prudence, as it
happened, did him no good. Raymond, to tell
the truth, was as much relieved as he was
annoyed by St. Clair's presence. He had felt
himself grow red and grow pale, hot and cold,
all the way, as he came along the street,
wondering how he was to manage to make himself
agreeable as his mother had ordered him.
The very fact that he was commanded to make
himself agreeable, hindered any natural effort he
might have been capable of. He did not know
how to talk to Lucy. Some girls saved you the
trouble of talking, but she was not one of those
girls, and he did not know how he was to
manage to get upon such easy terms with her
as would make flirtation possible  even if he had

known how to flirt, which he did not  at least
with Lucy. So, though he was so far sensible
of the importance of the pursuit as to be slightly
angry and alarmed by St. Clair's presence, he
was still more relieved, on the whole, to feel that
he was thus protected, and that there would not
be so much required of him. He came in, looking
very much embarrassed, crushing his hat between
his hands.

How d'ye do, Miss Trevor?" he said. "My
mother thought I ought to come and see about
our ride. We have fixed Thursday for the picnic,
but don't you think we might go out tomorrow
to see how the horses go together?
Mine," said Raymond, with a blush, " is rather
an old screw."

I should like to go whenever you like. I
am very fond of it," said Lucy. " Jock and I
thought of going a little way this evening, but
only a little way."

This put Raymond more and more out.

*' I am afraid I can't get my horse to-day. It
is too late now to arrange it."

"Do you get your horses from the 'Black
Bull'" said St. Clair. "It must be difficult to

make sure of any thing there. I go to the ' Cross
Keys where jou are much better served. The
Black Bull " he added, in an explanatory tone ,
is the place where you get your flys, Miss
Trevor. When the fine weather comes, and a
great many people are driving about, all their
horses are put into requisition'

Oh, not quite so bad as that' cried Raymond,
reddening, "you don't suppose I ride a fly-horse."


"I know I have done it' St. Clair said,
when one has not a horse of one's own, one has
to be content with what one can get ; but to feel
that you are upon a noble steed, which made his
last appearance, perhaps, between the shafts of a
hearse "

Oh, hold hard I" Raymond cried ; he was
sadly humiliated by the suggestion, and he now
began to feel that the presence of this intruder
made his visit of very little use indeed, " you
must not take all that for gospel. Miss Trevor.
A joke is a joke, but a man may go too far in
joking'

*' Which is more than you are likely to do on
old Fryer's horses," St. Clair said, laughing.

VOL. III. F

But then he got up, feeling that he had made an
end of his young rival. He was bigger, broader,
altogether more imposing than Raymond. He
stood up, and expanded his large proportions,
feeling that anybody with half an eye must seethe
difference  which, perhaps, on the whole, was
an unwise step ; for St. Clair was too much
developed for a young man, and the merest
suspicion of fatness, is not that a capital crime ina
girl's eyes ? On the whole, when they stood up
together, Raymond's slim youthfulness carried
the day ; but there are no delusions so obstinate
as those which concern our own personal appearance,
and it was with a smile of conscious triumph
that the larger young man spread himself out.
As for Raymond, he too felt outdone, and withdrew
a little from the competition.

Emmie has got her pony," he said. " My
mother thinks it will do her a great deal of good
to see how you ride, Miss Trevor."

*' Oh ! but I never was considered to ride very
well," Lucy said.

'' We think down here that whatever you dois
done well," said St. Clair, taking the very
words out of Raymond's mouth, with this difference,

that Ray would have uttered them seriously,
and would have broke down, whereas
that fellow road a joke of it, and carried off the
compliment with a laugh. " We are not much
used to accomplished young ladies from town
down here," St. Clair added, " and whatever you
do is a wonder to us. ' When you speak we'd
have you do so ever when you sing, we'd have
you buy and sell so, so give alms  ' "

From this it will be seen that Mr. Frank St.
Clair was possessed of some of the graces of-letters.
But the young persons on either side of
him opened their eyes. Ray had a suspicion
that there was some sort of play-acting in it ;
but Lucy was simply amazed that anyone should
speak of her singing when she could not sing
at all.

Indeed," she said seriously, " I do not know
a note. I never had a voice, and what was the
use of having lessons f which simple answer,
though it made him laugh, entirely disconcerted
St. Clair and reduced him almost to the level of
Raymond, who had now got one hand into his
pocket, and felt more comfortable and at his
ease. It was thus that Ray was left master of

F 2

the field, somewhat to his own surprise ; but at
the same time much to his gratification too.

I say, what a queer fellow that is," Raymond
said, " we all want to know about him.
If he's a barrister, as they say, why isn't he at
his chambers, or on circuit, or something? To
be sure it's the 'Long' just now; but he seems
to be always here."

*' He has overworked himself, he is not able
to do anything," said Lucy with great sympathy,
looking out from the window with a grave face
as he went out through the big gateway and
crossed the road. When he had reached the edge
of the Common, he looked back, and seeing her,
took off his hat. It gave St. Clair a glow of
gratification to see Lucy looking after him. He
went on with a lighter step, and, if possible, a
broader chest than ever.

"By Jove! isn't he fats said Ra3'-mond by
Lucy's side ; and Lucy, full of sympathy as she
was, could not help remarking the breadth of
shadow which moved with him across the sunshine.
She laughed in spite of herself. The
observation was not witty, but Raymond was
put into such high spirits by the laugh he elicited

that he burst forth into scintillations of still more
unquestionable wit. " That is because they pet
him so at Mrs. Stone's. Ladies always do pet
one. I should like to know where he'd find a
fly horse up to his weight. Let us ask him to
the picnic, Miss Trevor ; and borrow a beast for
him from the brewer. One elephant upon another,"
said Ray.

But Lucy's amusement did not last through
so long an address. She ended by a sigh, looking
after him sympathetically. "' I wish one
could do everything one wished," she said.

Ah !" Raymond echoed with a sigh. " But
you can, I should think, pretty near. I wish I
could do any one thing I wished," the young
man added ruefully.

And that is just my case too," Lucy said.

CHAPTER IV.

A CROQUET PARTY.

The Rushtons lived in a big old red brick
-' house, close to the town-hall in what was
still called the market-place of Farafield, though
all the meaner hubbub of the market had long
ago been banished to the square behind with its
appropriate buildings. It was a house of the
time of Queen Anne, with rows of glittering windows,
surmounted by a pediment, and, though it
was in the centre of the town, a fine old walled
garden behind. To Lucy this garden seemed
the brightest place imaginable, when she was
led into it through the shady passages of the old
house, the thick walls and rambling arrangement
of which defended it from the blazing of the
August skies which penetrated with pitiless heat
and glare the naked walls of the Terrace, built

without any consideration of atmosphere changes.
Mrs. Ashton's drawing-room was green and
cool, all the Venetian blinds carefully closed
on one side, and on the other, looking out
upon the trees and shady lawn where two
or three joung people, girls in light dresses
and young men scarcely less summer-like in costume,
were playing croquet. These were the
days when croquet still reigned on ail lawns and
country places, and nobody had as yet discovered
that it was " slow." The party was of the usual
orthodox kind. There was a young, a very
young curate in a long black coat and wide-awake,
and a second young man in light clothes
with his hands in his pockets, whom Lucy's inexperienced
eyes with difficulty distinguished
from Raymond Rushton ; and two or three girls,
one of them the daughter of the house, Emma, a
shy hoyden of sixteen. All these young people
looked with great curiosity at Lucy as she followed
Mrs. Rushton out of the house in her
black frock, Jock clinging closely to her. Jock,
though he had a great deal of self-possession on
ordinary occasions, was shy in such an unusual
emergency as this. He had never been at a

garden-party, he was not used to society, and he
did not know how to play croquet, in all which
points Lucy was almost as uninstructed as he.
There was a tea-table set out under an old mulberry
tree, with garden chairs and rugs spread
out upon the grass. Nothing could be more
pleasant, cool, leisurely, and comfortable. It
was indeed a scene such as might be seen on a
summer afternoon in almost every garden with a
good sized house attached to it, with a lawn
and a mulberry tree, throughout England. But
then Lucy was not much acquainted with such
places, and to her everything was new. They
all stood and looked at her as she followed Mrs.
Rushton across the grass  looked at her with
inward sighs and wondering. To think she
should be so rich, while none of the others had
anything to speak of. It did not perhaps go sofar
as actual envy ; but it was certainly surprise,
and a bewildered question why such good fortune
should have fallen to an inconsiderable girl,
and not at all to the others who might have been
supposed able to make so much more use of it.
The young men could not help feeling that the
enjoyment which they could have extracted out

of SO much money would have been far more
than anything a girl could derive from it. Not
one of the three perhaps went any further, or at
least went so far as to ask whether there were
any means by which he could appropriate such a
fortune, except indeed Raymond, who was in a
most uncomfortable state, knowing that his
mother intended him to begin at once to " pay
attention "' to Lucy, and not knowing in the
least how to begin. Lucy was put into the most
comfortable chair as if she had been a dowager,
and even Jock was wooed as he had never been
wooed before.

"Oh, you will soon learn how to play," all
the young people said in a chorus, "it is very
easy."

Lucy thought they were all very kind, and
she thought the lawn a kind of little paradise
with all the sights and sounds of the ruder world
shut out.

"Emmie and I almost live here," Mrs. Rushton
said. " We bring out our work in the morning ;
you can't think how pleasant it is. I wish, my
dear Lucy, that it could have been arranged
that you should live with your guardian instead

of those good relations of yours. They are very
nice, but it is always more cheerful where there
are young people. I wish it could be managed.
The Fords are excellent people, but they are ina
different rank of society. I was speaking to Mr.
Rushton about it, but he does not seem to think
anything can be done ; men are so entirely without
resources. You may depend upon it I should
find some way in which it could be done, if it
depended on me."

I don't think it could be done, Mrs. Rushton ;
it is all very exact in the will."

Then I suppose you stand up very firmly by
the will  in every particular, my dear f Mrs.
Rushton said, with a significant look.

How could I help it ?" said Lucy. She preferred
looking at the croquet to discussing the
will, and she wished Raymond would go and
play and not stand by her chair, looming over
her. His mother looked at him from time to
time, and when these appeals were made he took
his hands out of his pockets and grew red, and
cleared his throat. But nothing ever came of it.
Lucy did not know what to says to this embarrassed
young man ; he seemed so much further off

from her, by being so much nearer than Sir Tom.
At length she asked, with some diffidence, '* Are
you not going to play V

"Oh! my mother thought you would like  to
walk round the garden."

You goose !" cried his mother. *' The fact
is, Lucy, Ray thought you would like to see all
the old-fashioned corners. They are not like the
gardens at the Hall. Oh ! we don't pretend to
anything so fine ; but we have heaps of flowers,
and I think that is the chief thing. Ray is devoted
to the garden  he wants so much to show
you round."

And a few minutes after Lucy found herself
walking by Ray, who was very shy, and had nota
notion what to say to her, nor had she what
to say to him. He took her along a commonplace
path, and showed her the flower-beds, that is to
say he intimated, with a wave of his hand and a
blush, that here were the roses, and there  " I'm
sure I don't know what you call these things,"
Ray said.

Are you not very fond of flowers, then ? I
thought Mrs. Rushton "

Oh yes, I'm very fond of them  some, you

know ; but I never can remember the names ; it
is like songs, I'm very fond of music; but I
never can remember the words."

This was a long speech, and he felt better
after it. However little inclined you may feel
to do your duty, there is a sense of satisfaction
in having done it. '*Do you sing?" he added,
emboldened by his own success.

No," Lucy said ; and then the poor young
fellow was balked, and the path which seemed
to be opening before him was cut suddenly short.
He gave' a' sigh of disappointment, and plunged
his hands deeper than ever into his pockets to

seek inspiration there.

Mamma thinks we should go out to-morrow'*
he said.

Yes ?" This monosyllable was interrogative,
and gave him encouragement. He cleared his
throat again.

I could show you some very nice rides  the
way to the picnic on Thursday, is very pretty.
Were you ever at the old abbey at Burnside?
Quantities of people go  "

I have passed it," said Lucy ; " when we
rode at school."

"Oh! did you ride at school? I don't think
that could be much fun all girls. Picnics are
not very much fun either."

I never saw one. I should think it would be
nice," said Lucy, with some doubt.

Oh well, perhaps if you were never at one
before  I daresay it will be nice when when
you are there, Miss Trevor," said Ray, growing
very red ; " but then you see I never went with
you before."

Lucy looked at him with some surprise, totally
unable to divine why he should flourish so wild lethe
croquet-mallet JejSaSaEiJiS and blush L
and stammer so much. She was. entirely unaware
that she had assisted at the production of
Raymond's first compliment. She took it very
quietly, not knowing its Importance.

My mother thinks Emmie can ride," he went
on, after a confused pause ; " but she can't a bit.
Some girls are famous  take fences, and everything
you can put before them. There are the
Morton girls  I suppose you know the Mortons ?"

I don't know anyone  except the girls who
were at school."

Oh, there were some great swells, were there
not," said Raymond, " at that school f

Perhaps, for the first time, Lucy felt a little
pleasure in repeating the names of her schoolfellows,
information which Raymond received
with awe.

That's a cut above us," he said, " they were
all awfully angry at home because the old ladies
wouldn't have Emmie. I suppose you were
different."

"It was because of my having so much
money," said Lucy, calmly. "Oh, but you need
not laugh, Mrs. Stone said a girl with a great
deal of money wanted more training."

I can't see that," cried Raymond ; " not a
bit. It doesn't take much education to spend a
great fortune, when a fellow has to make his own
way like me ; I should think there was nothing
so jolly as to have a lot of money, so much that
you never could get through it; by Jove! I
wonder how it feels," he said, with a laugh. .

To this question, if it was a question, Lucy
made no reply. It was the subject upon which
she could talk best ; but she was not a great
talker, and Raymond was a kind of being very

far off from her, whom she did not understand.

I don't think there is much more to see," he
said, " there is not much. I can't think what m y
mother meant to show you the garden. Would
you like to go back and try a game ? I'll teach
you if you like. I suppose I may say you will
ride to the picnic? Emmie will go (as well as
she knows how), and I "

If Jock may come too."

Oh !" cried Raymond, " there will be no want
of chaperons, you know. My mother is coming,
and no doubt some more old ladies. It will be
all right, you know," said the youth with a laugh.
This speech made Lucy ponder, but confused her
mind rather than enlightened it. She went back
to the lawn with him into the midst of the croquet
players, with very little more conversation, and
Mrs. Rushton looking on anxiously, gnashed her
teeth behind the tea-urn. " He did not seem tome
to find a word to say to her," she lamented
afterwards ; " what is the good of spending all
that money on a boy's education if at the end of
it he can't say a word for himself" And her
husband answered with those comforting words
which husbands have the secret of. " You had

much better let scheming alone," he said. ' You
will put me in a false position if you don't mind,
and you 11 never do any good to yourself." Weare
ashamed to say the monosyllable was " Stuff !"
which Mrs. Eushton replied.

But the afternoon was very pleasant to Lucy ;
and Jock enjoyed it too, after a while, learning
the game much more quickly than his sister, and
getting into an excitement about it which she did
not share. The little fellow remained in the
foreground-brandishing a mallet long after the
party had melted away  and took possession of
the lawn altogether, tyrannising over the little
Rushtons, when Lucy was taken in to dinner with
the grown up members of the family. " Mrs.
Rushton says you may come with me, Jock,"
Lucy said, but Jock resisted strenuously. *' It is
only when you go we can have a real game ; you
are all duffers," said the little boy with a contempt
which he was much in the habit of showing
to his sister. Thus they were launched upon life
and society in Farafield. Mrs. Rushton proposed
the brougham to Lucy when the time came to go
home, but, on hearing that she would prefer to
walk, declared that she too was dying for a little

fresh air, and that the cool of the evening was
delightful. Then they sallied forth in a body, Raymond
by Lucy's side. It was all very pleasant. He
was not a brilliant talker indeed, but Lucy did
not want anything very brilliant, and what with
the little pricks and stimulants provided by his
mother, who walked behind, Raymond excelled
himself. It was cheerful even to see the little
party making its way along the cool twilight
ways, with soft interchange of voices and laughter,
little Jock again holding his sister's hand, while
Raymond was skilfully poked and bantered into
talk. If it was a scheme it was not very deeply
laid, and meant nothing cruel. Would not Raymond
Rushton be a perfectly good match for her,
should it come to pass"? and why should not
Raymond have the great fortune as well as
another ? His mother felt all the glow of virtuous
consciousness in her breast. He was a good son,
and would make a good husband. In every way,
even in respect to family and position, old
Trevor's daughter in marrying Raymond would
do very well for herself.

VOL. m.

CHAPTER V.

POPULARITY.

LUCY found the picnic very amusing. She
had never known any of the delights of
society ; and the gay party in the Abbey ruins,
and the ride  though Emmy did not know in
the least how to sit her pony, and Raymond
rode a tall and gaunt animal of extremely doubtful
race, which might have drawn a fly, or a
hearse, for anything his appearance said to the
contrary  was pleasant all the same. The party
was not very large, but it included the best
people in Farafield, and among others, the Rector
and his family, who were all very gracious to
Lucy. " You must not forget that I am partially
your guardian," the Rector said. " If you flirt I
have a right to pull you up. If you distinguish

one 3'oiing fellow more than another, I shall
probably ask what are your intentions ? So beware,"
he cried, laughing and holding up a finger
of warning. And all the Rector' girls were
as friendly as if they had possessed a brother,
which unfortunately was not the case. " If there
had been a* boy among us, of course he should
have tried for the prize," they all said with cheerful
frankness, which Mrs. Rushton did not relish.
Lucy, however, had a guardian who was more
alarming than the Rector. Out of civility to her,
Philip had been asked, and Philip conducted
himself in a way which called forth the dire
displeasure of all who had an} intentions upon
Lucy's peace. He was always appearing wherever
she went, stalking continually across the
scene, like a villain in the theatre, appearing
suddenly when least expected. " What was the
fellow afraid of?" the Rector said, " he had no
chance ; he was not even in the running." But he
was Lucy's cousin, and in this capacity he was
privileged to push forward, to make his way
through a group, to call to her familiarly to
"come and see" something, or even to persuade her
that the thing she was invited to do on the other

G 2

hand was impossible. "You can't go there,
Lucy, the mud would he up to your knees, come
this way and I'll show you all you want," or,
You never will be able for that climb, I will
show you an easier way." Thus Philip, who
had been so irreproachable and popular, made
himself disagreeable in society for the first
time. Perhaps the chief cause of it was that
Katie was there. He had taken himself sharply
to task after that one evening of enchantment,
which was so new and so unusual that he had
given way to it without an effort. The more
delicious it was, the more Philip had taken himself
to task. He tried to analyse it, and make
out how it was that he had been so deeply
affected. A reasonable man, he said to himself,
must be able to give an account of all the
mental processes he passed through; but here
was a mental process which was inexplicable.
Every interest, every argument pointed to Lucy
as the object of his thoughts. And now that he
saw Lucy among other people, and observed the
court that was paid to her, it became intolerable
to Philip to think of a stranger who had nothing
to do with the family, carrying her off and her

fortune, which belonged to the Raiuys. He could
not think of such a thing with composure. For
himself he liked Lucy well enough, and probably
the njost suitable arrangement in the circumstance
both of them, would have been the mariage
che convenance, which is not allowed as a
natural expedient in England, in name at least.
But when he remembered the evening at the
Terrace, when he had been so foolish, Philip
could not understand himself. On various occasions
he had attempted to analyse it  what was
it ? Lucy had blue eyes as well as Katie Russell,
she was about the same height. To be sure her
hair did not curl, and during the course of his
analysis, he recollected with dangerous distinctness
the blowing out of the curls in the soft evening
breeze. But who could analyse a curl, or understand
how such an insignificant detail could give
softness to the air, and melody to the wind, and
make the very stars in heaven look their best?
One of the Rector's daughters had a great many
curls, far more complete articles than the curls of
Katie, but they did not produce the same effect.

After this unsuccessful attempt at analysis,
Philip kept himself away from Katie, and kept

watch upon his cousin. He was determined to
appropriate the one, and, if he could help, not so
much as to see the other. It was the easiest
way. But these two objects together made the
picnic a very harassing and painful pleasure to
the young schoolmaster. When Raymond Rushton
was pushed by his mother's exertions to
Lucy's side, Philip did not fail to do his best to
hustle him politely away. He was constantly at
hand with an appeal to Lucy, Lucy. At least
he was determined that everybody should see he
had a claim upon her, and a prior claim to all the
rest of the world. But still he could not but
remain conscious of the presence of the other
girl. In all the guarded and careful intercourse
which he had previously had with society in
Farafield, as a man on his promotion, and
anxiously attentive to rules, Philip had never
asserted himself, never put himself into undue
prominence, never presumed upon the kindness of
the friends who were at the same time his
patrons, before. But it could not be denied that
he made himself disagreeable about Lucy that
afternoon ; her name was continually on his lips.
He would let her have no rest. He stepped in

front of everybody, broke up all the groups of
which she formed a part, aud followed her with
vigilant watch everywhere. Had his relationship
to the heiress turned his head  or was it possible
that he thought himself worthy of all that fortune,
that he thought she would choose him for the
partner of her splendour, the company asked each
other? "I am sure it is a thing to which Mr.
Rushton for one would never give his consent,"
said the giver of the feast. The Rector was not
quite so certain. 'rafter all it would be no
mesalliance, for they are exactly in the same
positions he said ; but then it was well known
the Rector looked upon his association with
Lucy's other guardians as more a joke than a
serious duty. Talks were going on about her in
almost every group, everybody was interested in
the great heiress ; people wished to be introduced
to her, as if the poor little girl had been a notability,
and so to be sure she was.

The riding party went off rather earlier than
the others, and before the whole party was got
under weigh a considerable time elapsed. Philip
had insisted upon putting his cousin into her
saddle himself; he was not clever at so unusual

an office, and he could not help feeling,
when she was gone, that he had not done himself
any good by his assiduities. He was as
sensitive as a thermometer to the fluctuations of
public opinion, and he perceived at once that he
had done himself harm. The company in general
were not unwilling to let him see that nobody
particularly wanted him, and that though they
were kind and invited him, they did not expect
any very great advantage from his presence.
Thus Philip spent the interval in wandering
about in a somewhat vague manner, not sought
b} any one. He could never tell how it was that
at last he found himself in one of the carriages
by Katie Russell's side. He had not done it, nor
had she done it, for Katie was greatly piqued by
the persistent way in which he had avoided her,
and her pride was up in arms ; but when he
turned his head and saw, in the gathering dusk,
the little twist of the curl which he had been so
utterly unable to analyse, a sudden change of
sentiment, still farther beyond the reach of analysis,
came over Philip. How was it? nothing
more illogical, more unreasonable, ever happened
to a philosophical schoolmaster. Instead of the

uncomfortable state of effort in which he had
spent the day, the young man's soul glided bank
in a moment into that curious lull of enchantment
which had come over him at the Terrace.
Once more the very air grew balmy and caressing,
the earth smelt sweet, the night wind blew
in his face like a caress, and all the individual
sounds about ran into one hum of happiness, and
satisfaction, and peace. No cause for it ! only
the fact that it was that girl, and not another who
sat next him in the brake, among all the chattering
and the laughter. Was there ever any cause
so inadequate ? but this was how it was. The
carriage stopped opposite the Terrace to put
down Katie. She had only a little way to walk
from that point to the White House, which shone
faintly through the darkness with a few lights in
the windows. Philip did not quite know how,
but somehow he had made his peace with Katie,
and he it was who jumped down to help her
out, and constituted himself her escort. They
walked again side by side down the same enchanted
road.

There is no mist to-night, and not so many
stars," he said ; and Katie answered, " No, not

half SO many stars," showing, as he said to himself
afterwards, that she remembered too. She
was more serious now than after that first evening
at the Terrace, walking along very demurely
by his side, and owning that she was tired.
'but we have had a very pleasant day, don't
you think so, Mr. Rainy?" Katie asked ; to which
Philip answered, " Ye-es," with a little doubt.

The drive back has been delightful," he said,
the air is so soft. I don't know that I enjoyed
so much the first part. It irritates me,
perhaps foolishly, to see the fuss all those people
make with Lucy. It was really too much for me
to-day ; I felt bound to put a stop to it as far as
I could. Lucy is a very nice girl, but to see
them, you would think there was nobody like
her. It makes me angry. I daresay it is very
foolish, for Lucy is sensible enough to know that
it is not herself but her money that so much
court was paid to. But the drive home was
worth all the rest put together," Philip said, with
fervour. This made Katie's head droop a little
with shyness and pleasure.

It was very nice," she said, in more guarded
tones, and with a little sigh of content. " But,

Mr. Rainy, you must not vex yourself about Lucy.
That is what she has to go through, just as I
must go through my governesses. She is sure
to have everybody after her wherever she goes,
but she is so sensible it never makes any difference
; she is not spoiled a bit."

Do you think so ? do you really think so ?
that will make my mind much more easy about
her," said Philip. As if Katie was a judge !
This was the reflection she herself made; and
Katie could scarcely help laughing, under the
shadow of night, at the sudden importance of her
own judgment. But, after all, however young
one may be, one feels that there is a certain
reasonableness in any reliance upon one's opinion,
and she answered with a gravity that was not
quite fictitious, that she was sure of it, and did
all she could to comfort Philip, who, on his part,
exaggerated his anxiety, and carefully refrained
from all allusion to that secret unwillingness tolet
the great Rainy fortune go to anyone else,
which had moved him powerfully during the day.
They took leave at the door of the White House,
as they had done before, but not till after a pause
and a lingering talk, always renewed upon some

fresh subject by Philip just as she held out her
hand to say good-night. He had held that hand
quite two minutes in his, on the strength of
some new and interesting subject which suddenly
occurred to him at the last moment, when Katie,
seized with a little panic, suddenly withdrew it
and darted away. " Good night," she said, from
the doors-step, nodding her head and waving her
hand as before, and once more Philip felt as if a
curtain had dropped, shutting out heaven and
earth, when the door opened and shut, and a
gleam of light shone out, then disappeared.
Analyse it! he could not analyse it. He had
never been so happy before, nor so sad, nor so
fortunate, nor so desolate ; but how he could be
so ridiculous as to be moved in this way, Philip
could not tell. He went back along the dark
road, going over every word she had said, and
every look she had looked. Lucy's window shone
all the way before him, the lights in it glimmering
out from the dark front of the Terrace. It
seemed to Philip that he could not get rid of
Lucy. He felt impatient of her, and of her
window, which seemed to call him, shining as
with a signal light. Its importunity was such,

that he decided at last to cross the road and call
at the door, and ask if she had got home iu
safety. It was an unnecessary question, but he
was excited and restless, half hating Lucy, yet
Tenable to overcome the still greater hatred he
had, and terror, of seeing her fall into some one
else's hands. Yhen his voice was heard at the
door, Mrs. Ford rushed out of her parlour with
great eagerness.

'' Come in, Philip, come in," she cried ; " I
heard the carriage stop, but what have you been
doing all this time ? I just hoped it might be
you ;" then she came close up to him and whispered,
" Lucy came in in such good spirits.
She said you had been there ; she said you had
been very attentive. If you would like to have
a horse to ride to go with them, to cut out that
Raymond Rushton, don't you hesitate, Philip ;
tell them to send the bill to me."

Is that Philip ?" Lucy asked from the stairs,
almost before the whisper was over. He was
half flattered, half angry, at the cordiality of his
reception. He walked upstairs to the drawing-room,
feeling himself drawn by a compulsion
which annoyed him, yet pleased him. The room

was very bright with gaslight, the windows shut,
as Mrs. Ford thought it right they should always
be at such a late hour. Lucy had been superintending
Jock, who was audible in his little
room behind humming himself to sleep. " I
thought it was your voice, Philip," she said.
Did you like it ? Thank you for being so kind
to me, but I thought sometimes you did not like
it yourself."

I liked it well enough ; but what I did not
like was to see what a position you have been
put into, Lucy," said her cousin ; " that was why
I took so much trouble. It makes one think
worse of human nature."

"Because they are kind to nef said Luc}
with surprise.

Because they are  absurd ;" said Philip.
You must see very well they cannot mean all
that. I should think a sensible girl would be disgusted.
I wanted to show you what nonsense
it all was, as if their whole happiness depended
on showing you that waterfall, or the abbey tower
or something. That was why I interfered."

I thought," said Lucy, " it was out of kindness;
and that everybody was kind as well as you."

"Kindness  that is all nonsense ;" Philip felt,
as he spoke, that of all the mistakes of the day
none was so great as this attempt to make Lucy
uncomfortable, and to throw suspicion upon all
the attention she had received, including his own ;
but he could not help himself. " You will find
out sooner or later what their motives are, and
then you will remember what I have said."

Lucy looked at him very wistfully. "You
ought to help me, Philip," she said, " instead of
making it harder."

*' How do I make it harder ? I only tell you
that all that absurd adulation must conceal
some purpose or other. But I am always very
willing to help you, Lucy," he said, softening ;
that is what I tried to do to-day."

When he had administered this lecture, Philip
withdrew, bidding her good night, without saying
anything about the other good night which
had preceded this. " You may always rely upon
me," he said, as he went away. " Thank you,"
said Lucy, a little ruefully. He was her relation,
and her natural counsellor ; but how unlike, how
very unlike to Sir Tom !. She sighed, discouraged
in her enjoyment of the moment, feeling

that Philip was the best person to whom she
could venture to confide any of those Quixotic
projects which her father's will had made lawful
and necessary. He was the very best person who
could tell her how much was necessary to give
ease of mind and leisure to a sick joung barrister.
Philip was the only individual within her reach
who could possibly have satisfied her, or helped
her on this point. She sighed as she assisted
at the putting out of the gas. There was nobody
but Sir Tom.

Philip did not feel much more comfortable ashe
went away ; he felt that he had done nothing
but scold Lucy, and indeed his inclination was
to find fault with her, to punish her if he could
for the contradiction of circumstances. That she
should be capable of taking away all that fortune
and bestowing it upon some one who was
a stranger, who had nothing to do with the
Rainys, and who would probably condescend to,
if he did not despise, the head of that family,
Philip himself, was intolerable to him. He felt
that he ought to interfere, he ought to prevent it,
he ought to secure this wealth to himself. But
then something gave him a tug exactly in the

opposite direction. If it had but been Katie
Russell who was the heiress ! She was nobody ;
it would be madness for him, a young man on
his promotion, to marry thus as it were in his
own trade, and condemn himself to be nothing
but a schoolmaster for ever. Indeed it would be
folly to marry at all  unless he married Lucy.
A young man who is not married has still metaphorically
all the world before him. He is very
useful for a dinner party, to fill up a corner. Inmost
cases he is more or less handy to have
about a house, to make himself of use. But a
man vho is married has come out from among
the peradventure, and has his place fixed in
society whatever it may be. He has come to
what promotion is possible, so far as society is
concerned  unless indeed he has the power to
advance himself without the help of society.
Katie Russell was a simple impossibility, Philip
said to himself, angrily, and Lucy  she was also
an impossibility. There seemed nothing to be
done all round but to rail against fate. When
he had settled this with a great deal of heat and
irritation, he suddenly dropped all at once into
the serene waters, into an absolute lull of all
VOL. m. H

vexation, into that state of semi-trance in which,
though walking along Farafield streets, towards
Kent's Lane, he was at the same time wandering
on the edge of the Common, with a soft rustle
beside him of a muslin dress, and everything soft,
from the stars in the sky, and the night air blowing
in his face, to his own heart, which was very
soft indeed, melting with the tenderest emotion.
It could not do anyone any harm to let himself
go for this night only upon such a soft delightful
current. And thus after all the agitations of
the day, he ended it with his head in the clouds. 

CHAPTER VI.

THE HARE WITH MANY FRIENDS.

IT will be seen from all this that Mrs. Ford
was but an indifferent guardian for an heiress.
Her ideas of her duty were of a peculiar kind.
She had newly furnished the drawing-room. She
had sweetbreads and other dainties for dinner,
If Lucy had been fond of cake, or muffins, or
battered toast, she might have revelled in them ;
but it did not occur to the careful housekeeper
to give herself much trouble about Lucy's visitors.
When Mrs. Rushton called, indeed, Mrs.
Ford would sail into the room in her stiffest silk
(which she kept spread out upon her bed, ready
to put on at a moment's notice) and take her
part in the conversation ; but she saw the young
men come and go with the greatest indifference,

H 2

and did not disturb herself out of her usual
habits for them. Though she entertained the
worst suspicions in respect to Mrs. Stone's motives,
she did not object to St. Clair, neither did
she dislike Raymond Rushton, though she saw
through (as she thought) all his mother's devices.
We will not attempt to explain this entirely
feminine reasoning. It was the reasoning of a
woman on a lower level of society than that
which considers chaperons necessary. She
saw no harm in St. Clair's appearance in the
morning to teach Jock, though Lucy, not
much better instructed than Mrs. Ford was
always present at the lessons, and profited
too in a mild way. Mr. St. Clair came every
morning, turning the pink drawing-room into
a school-room, and pursuing his work with
so much conscience that Lucy herself began to
learn a little Latin by listening to Jock's perpetual
repetitions. She was very anxious that Jock
should learn, and consented to hear all the story
about the gentleman and the windmills, in order
to bribe him. " I think he must have been
cracked all the same," Lucy said. " Oh ! I don't
say, dear, that he was not a very nice gentleman;

and after you have learned your lessons,
you can tell me a little more." Mr. St. Clair
made himself of great use to Lucy too. He
brought her books in which she could read her
history at much less cost than in her dry textbooks
; and helped her on in a way for which
she was unfeignedly grateful. And after the
intercourse of the morning there was the meeting
afforded by that evening stroll in the half light
after tea, which Jock considered his due. Mrs.
Stone too loved that evening hour, and the soft
dusk and rising starlight, and was always to be
found on the common with her light Shetland
shawl over her handsome head, under the dutiful
escort of her nephew. The two little parties always
joined company, and a great deal of instructive
conversation went on. On one of these evenings,
Lucy had been waylaid by a poor creature with
a pitiful story which went to the girl's heart.
It had already become known in Farafield that
there was in the Terrace a young lady who had
a great deal of ready money, and a very softheart.


Who was that woman, Lucy ?" said Mrs.
Stone as they met at the door of the White

House. They had been standing there, waiting
for her, aunt and nephew both, watching for her
coming. *' I suppose she was a beggar ; but you
must take care not to give too much in that way,
or to get yourself a reputation among them ; you
will be taken in on every side, and it will
vex you to be deceived."

Yes," said Lucy simply. " It would vex
me very much, more than anything else I can
think of. I would rather be beaten than deceived."


This made Mrs. Stone wince for a moment 
till she reflected that she had no intention of
deceiving Luc} but, in reality, was trying to
bring about the very best thing for her, the
object of every girl's hopes.

Then who was this woman 1" she said.

Indeed, I did not ask her name. She was 
sent to me. What do you think is right f said
Lucy, " to give people money, or a little pension,
or "

A little, pension, my dear child ! a woman
you know nothing about. No, no, give me her
name, and I will have her case inquired into,
and if she is deserving "

I don't think it is anybody that is deserving,
Mrs. Stone,"

*' Lucy ! my dear, yon must not you really
must not, act in this independent way. What
do you know about human nature ? Nobody who
is not deserving should be allowed to come near
a child of your age."

St. Clair laughed. " That might cut a great
many ways," he said. " Perhaps, in that case
you would have to banish most of the people
Miss Trevor is in the habit of seeing."

You, for example."

*' That was what I was about to suggest," he
said, folding his hands with an air of great humility.
This beguiled Lucy into a smile, as it was
meant to do ; and yet there was a certain sincerity
in it  a sincerity which seemed somehow
to make up for, and justify in the culprit's own
eyes, a good deal of deceit ; though, indeed, St,
Clair said to himself, like his aunt, that he was
using no deceit ; he was trying to get the love
of a good and nice girl, one who would make
an excellent wife ; and what more entirely warrantable,
lawful, laudable action could a young
man dot

*' You are making fun," said Lucy, " but I amin
great earnest. Papa, in his will, ordered me to
give away a great deal of money. He did not say
anything about deserving ; and if people are in
great want, in need  is it not as hard, almost
worse, for the bad people than for the good V

My dear, that is very unsafe, very dangerous
doctrine. In this way you would reward the
bad for having ruined themselves."

"Or make up to them," said St. Clair, "a
little  as much as anyone can make up for that
greatest of misfortunes  for being bad."

Lucy looked from one to another, bewildered,
not knowing which to follow.

Yes, it is the greatest of all misfortunes ; but
still that is sophistry, that argument is all
wrong. If the good and the bad got just the
same, why should anyone be good f

"Oh!" said Lucy with a heave of her breast;
but though her heart rose and the colour came to
her cheeks, she had not sufficient power of language
to communicate her sentiments, and she
was grateful to St. Clair who interposed.

"Do you think," he said, "that anyone is
good, as you say, for what he gets ? One is good

because one can't help it  or for the pleasure of
it  or to please some one else if it does not please
oneself."

"For shame, Frank, you take all the merit
out of goodness," his aunt said.

"Oh, no!" Lucy breathed out of the bottom
of her heart. She could not argue, but her
soft eyes turned upon St. Clair with gratitude.
Perhaps he was not quite right either  but he
was far more right than Mrs. Stone.

Miss Trevor agrees with me," he said quietly,
as if that settled the question ; and Lucy would
not have been human had she not been gratified,
and flattered, and happy. She looked at him
with a silent glow of thanks in her eyes, even
though in her heart she felt a slight rising of
ridicule  as if it could matter whether she agreed
or not !"

This is all very fine," said Mrs. Stone, " but
practically it remains certain that the people who
merit your kindness are those to whom you ought
to give it, Lucy. I did not know your father
had left instructions about your charities."

He did not quite mean charities," said Lucy,
' it was that I should help people who wanted

help. He thought we owed it, having so much ;
and I think so too."

"And therefore you were meditating a pension
to the first beggar that came in your way.
My dear child ! you will be eaten up by beggars
if you begin with this wild liberality."

It was not exactly  a beggar ; it is not that
I mean."

I will tell you what to do," said Mrs. Stone,
take the names of the people who apply to you,
and bring them to me. I will have the cases
thoroughly sifted. We have really a very good
organization for all that kind of thing in Fairfield,
and I promise you, Lucy, that if there is
any very hard case, or circumstances which are
very pitiful, even though the applicant be not
quite deserving, you shall decide for yourself and
give if you wish to give ; but do let them be
sifted first."

Lucy said nothing ; to have " cases " which
should be " sifted " by Mrs. Stone, did not seem
at all to correspond with her instructions ; and
again it was St. Clair who came to her aid.

The holidays are very nearly over," he said,
and we have a little problem of our own to

settle. Do you know, Miss Trevor, my aunt
meditates sending me away."

Oh !" cried Lucy with alarm. She turned
instinctively to Jock, who was roaming about
the common before them, " but what should we
do then?" she said with simplicity. The
guardians had not yet interfered about Jock's
training; they had left the little fellow in her
hands ; and Lucy was very much solaced and comforted
by the arrangement in respect to her little
brother which St. Clair's delicate health had permitted
her to make.

You forget that I am a wolf in sheep's clothing.
I am a ravening lion, seeking whom I may
devour. I am an enemy in the camp."

Is that all because he is a Gentleman V said
Lucy to Mrs. Stone, with wondering eyes.

It was not Mrs. Stone who replied, but Miss
Southwood, who had now come out to join them,
and who had heard St. Clair's description of himself.
She nodded her head, upon which was a close
"cottage bonnet" of the fashion of thirty years ago.

Yes, yes," she said, " it is quite out of the
question, it is not to be permitted ; not one of
the parents would consent to it if they knew."

The parents do not trouble me much," Mrs.
Stone said, raising her head, " when I think a
thing is right, I laugh at parents. They are perfectly
free to take the girls away if they object ;
judge for myself."

But you must not laugh at parents," said the
timid sister. "Maria! you make me shiver. 1
don't like you to say it even on the common,
where there is nobody to hear. There is that
child, with his big eyes ; he might come outwith
it in any society. Laugh at Parents !
You might as well say you don't believe in the
British Constitution, or the  Reformation, or
 even the House of Commons  or the Peerage,"
Miss Southwood said hurriedly, by way of epitomising
everything that is sacred.

The Reformation is quite out of fashion, it
is vulgar to profess any belief in that ; and at all
times," said Mrs. Stone, " popular institutions
are to be treated with incredulity, and popular
fallacies with contempt. Frank is not a ravening
lion, he wants to devour nobody but  Jock.
Yes, when you do bad exercises he would like to
swallow you at one gulp."

Is he going away ?" said Jock, whom this

reference to himself had roused to attention.
Then he said with authority, " He had better
come and live with us, there's a spare room ;
Lucy wants him as much as me. I know there
is something she wants, for she looks at him

when nobody is noticing, like this " And

Jock gave such an imitation of Lucy's look as
was possible to him.

This strange speech made an extraordinary
commotion in the quiet group. The two sisters
and St. Clair sent each other rapid telegraphic
messages by some kind of electricity, which went
through and through them all. It was one look
of wonder, satisfaction, consternation, delight
that flashed from one pair of eyes to the other,
and brought a sudden suffusion to all their faces.
As for Lucy, she took it a great deal more quietly.
They had the look of having made a discovery,
but she did not betray the consciousness of one
who has been found out.

"Indeed, I hope Mr. St. Clair will stay. I
don't think it would make any difference to the
girls," she said ; and then she added with a little
excitement. " How strange it will be to see them
all back again, and me so different."

Grammar had never been Lucy's strong point.

Shouldst you like to come back ?"

Lucy laughed and shook her head.

I can't tell," she said. " I should and yet
how could I ? I am so different. And by and by
I should have to go away again. How strange it
is that in such a little time, that has been nothing
to them, so much should have happened to me."

There passed rapidly through Lucy's mind as
she spoke a review of the circumstances and
people who had furnished her with so many
varied experiences. First and greatest stood
the Randolph, and that other world of life
in London, which she knew was waiting for her
in the shut up rooms, all shutters and brown-holland,
in Lady Randolph's house. She seemed
to see these rooms, closed and dim, with rays of
light coming in through the crevices and everything
covered up, in which her life was awaiting
her. The other scenes flitted across her mind
like shadows, the episode of the E-ussells, the
facts of her present existence  all shadows ; but
Grosvenor Street was real, though all the shutters
were shut. While this was passing through her
mind, the others were giving her credit for visions

very different. They glanced at each other again
and Mrs. Stone took her nephew's arm and gave
it a significant pressure. She was too much
elated to be capable of much talk.

We must see Lucy home," she said. " It is
getting late, and dear little Jock ought to be in
bed. I am always glad to see my girls come
back  but there is one thing J[ shall grudge, these
evening strolls ; they have been very sweet."

Then you have made up your mind, notwithstanding
Miss Trevor's intercession, (for which
I thank her on my knees,) to send me away ?"

I cannot send you away while you are necessary
to the comfort of  these dear children,"
Mrs. Stone said. There was a little break of
emotion in her voice, and Lucy listened with
some surprise. She was scarcely aware that she
had interceded, yet in reality she was very glad
that Mr. St. Clair should stay. She observed
that he held her hand a moment longer than was
necessary as he bade her good night, but she did
not attach any meaning to this. It was an accident
; she was too greatly indifferent to notice it
at all.

And thus the tranquil days went on ; the

girlgfcame back, but Mr. St. Clair did not go
away. He was faithful to Jock and his lessons,
and very sympathetic and kind to Lucy, though
he did not at all understand the semi-abstraction
into which she sometimes fell in his presence,
and which was due to her anxious self-inquiries
how she could propound to him the question of
permanent help. Indeed this abstraction deceived
St. Clair as much as his devotion was
intended to deceive her. He was taken in his
own toils, or, rather, he fell into the trap which
little Jock had innocently laid for him. When
Lucy looked at him, he thought that he could
see the keen interest which the child had discovered
in her eyes ; and when she did not look
at him, he thought she was averting her eyes
in maiden bashfulness for fear of betraying herself;
and he permitted himself to watch her with
more and more tender and close observation.
He was far cleverer and more experienced than
Lucy, but her simplicity deceived him ; and ashe
gave Jock his lessons, and watched the tranquil
figure of the girl sitting by, St. Clair felt,
with a throb of excitement, that he was approaching
a sort of fabulous termination, a success

more great than anything he had ever actually believed
in. For, as a matter of fact, he had never
really believed in this chance which his aunt
had set before him. He had " gone in for" Lucy
as he would have 'gone in for" any other
temporary pursuit which furnished him with
something to do, and satisfied the relatives on
whom he was more dependent than was agreeable.
But now suddenly the chase had become
real, the chance a possibility, or more than a
possibility. In such circumstances, what suitor
could avoid a growing excitement ? The moment
the thing became possible, it became wildly exciting,
a hurrying pursuit, a breathless effort.
Thus while Lucy's thoughts were gravely fixed
upon what she considered the chief business of
her life, St. Clair, on his side, pursued the object
of his with an ardour which increased as the
end of the pursuit seemed to draw near. His voice
took tender inflections, his eyes gave forth glowing
glances, his aspect became more and more
that of a lover ; but Lucy, pre-occupied and inexperienced,
saw nothing of this, and there was
no one else to divine what the unlucky wooer
meant, unless, indeed, it might be Jock, who
VOL. in. I

saw and heard so much more than any one supposed,
so much more than he himself knew.

Side by side along with this pursuit was that of
which Mrs. Ford more clearly perceived the danger,
the wooing of Mrs. Ashton and her son, Ray
Mrs. Ford's instinct was just, it was the mother
who was the most dangerous of the two. Ray,
with his hands in his pockets, did not present
much of the natural appearance of a hero, and
he had still less of the energy and spontaneousness
of a successful lover than he had of the appearance
which wins or breaks hearts ; but, nevertheless,
by dint of unwearied exertions he was
kept more or less up to the mark. Lucy had
another constant visitor, about whose "intentions"
it was less easy to pronounce. Philip
Rainy began to come very often to the Terrace ;
he scorned Ray Rushton, and he paid the compliment
of a hearty dislike to St. Clair ; he was
suspicious of both, and of all others who appeared
in the neighbourhood ; but this was in the
true spirit of the dog in the manger, for his own
purposes were more confused than ever, and he had
no desire to make any effort to appropriate to himself
the great prize. He stood by and looked on ina

state of jealous watchfulness, sometimes launching
a word of bitter criticism against his cousin ;
but unable to force himself to enter the lists, or
take a single step to obtain what he could not makeup
his mind to resign. Sometimes Katie Russell
would be with her friend, and then the young
schoolmaster went through such tumults of feeling
as nobody had thought him capable of. He
was the only one that had any struggle in his
mind ; but his was a hard one. Love or Advantage,
which was it to be ? By this time it
was very clear to him that they had no chance to
be united in bis case.

It was now October, but the weather was still
warm, and it was still possible to play croquet
on the lawn, amid an increased party of young
people, the only kind of dissipation which
Lucy's mourning made practicable. Mrs. Rushton's
regrets were great that a dance was not
possible; but she knew better than to attempt
such a thing, and set all the gossips going.
Next year everything will be very different,"
she said, " unless in the meantime some fairy-prince
comes and carries our Lucy away."
I am her guardian, and I will have nothing to

I 2

say to any fairy-prince," Mr. Rushton said. They
both gave a glance at their son as they spoke, who
was a good-looking young fellow enough, but not
much like a Prince Charmant. And Lucy smiled
and accepted the joke quite calmly, knowing
nothing of any such hero. She heard all his
mother's praise of Raymond quite unmoved, saying
" Indeed," and " That was very nice ;" but
without the faintest gleam of emotion. It was
very provoking. Mrs. Rushton had made up her
mind that Lucy was not a girl of much feeling,
but yet would be insensibly moved by habits of
association, and by finding one person always at
her elbow wherever she moved. Raymond, in
the meantime, had profited in a way beyond his
hopes. He had got a horse, the better to accompany
the heiress on her rides, and his money
in his pocket was more abundant; but when his
mother spurred him up to a greater display of
devotion, the young man complained that he had
no encouragement. '' Encouragement !" Mrs.
Rushton cried ; " a girl with 
thousands a-year, and you want encouragement!"
It seemed to her preposterous. Oh,
that mothers could but do for sons what they are

80 lukewarm in doing for themselves! Mrs.
Rushton did all that was possible. She told tales
of her boy's courage and unselfishness, which
were enough to have dazzled any girl, and hinted
and insinuated his bashful love in a hundred
delicate ways. But Lucy remained obtuse to
everything. She was not clever nor had she
much imagination, and love had not yet acquired
any place in her thoughts.

This was to be the last croquet-party of the
season, and all that was fair and fashionable and
eligible in Farafield was gathered on the lawn,
round which the scarlet geraniums were blazing
like a gorgeous border to a great shawl. Rarely
had Lucy seen so gay a scene. When she had
herself got through a game, which she did not
particularly care for, she was allowed to place
herself in one of the low basket-chairs near the
tea-table, at which Mrs. Rushton was always
seated. " Was there ever such a child V Mrs.
Rushton said ; " she prefers to sit with us
dowagers rather than to take her share in the
game."

And what is still more wonderful," said an
old lady, who perhaps did not care to hear herself

called a dowager, " your son, Raymond,
seems of the same opinion, though he is a hot
croquet-player, as we all know."

Oh, Ray ; I hope he is too civil to think
what he likes himself," his mother said, with
well assumed carelessness. But this did not take
anybody in. And all the elder people watched
the heiress, as indeed the younger ones did also
in the midst of their game ; for though Lucy did
not greatly care for his attendance there were
some who prized Ray, and to whom his post at
her elbow was very distasteful. He was very
faithful to that post on this occasion, for St.
Clair had posted himself on Lucy's other hand,
and Raymond's energies were quickened by opposition.


Why does not Miss Trevor play croquet 1"
St. Clair said.

I have been playing ; but it is prettier to
look on," said Lucy ; " and I am not at all good.
I have never been good at any game."

"You are quite good enough for me, Miss
Trevor," said Ray. " I never can get on with
your fine players, who expect you to study it ;

now Walford does study it. He gets up in the
morning and practises."

Mr. Walford is a clergyman, it is part of his
duty," said St. Clair. " A layman has a great
many exemptions. He may wear coloured ties,
and he need not play croquet  unless he likes."
Now Raymond had a blue tie, which was generally
considered very becoming to him.

Do you remember the day we had at the
old Abbey ?" said Ray. " I wonder if we could
do that again this season. It was very jolly.
Don't you think we might try it again. Miss
Trevor ? The ruins are all covered with that red
stuff that looks so nice in the autumn ; and I
hear Mayflower is all right again this morning.
I went to the stable to ask. I thought as sure
as fate she had got a strain ; I had a long talk
with Simpson about her."

It was very kind of you, Mr. Rushton."

'* Oh, not at all kind  but you can't think I
should not be interested in Mayflower. If she did
not carry you so nicely even, she's a beauty in
herself. And she does carry you beautifully  or
rather it's you. Miss Trevor, that "

Yes," said St. Clair, *' that is how I would

put it. It is you Miss Trevor who witch the
the world with such noble horsemanship that any
animal becomes a beauty. That is the right
way to put it."

But there is no noble horsemanship in my
case," Lucy said with a smile.

Oh, come, I don't know that," cried Ray ; " if
it comes to circus tricks that wouldn't answer fora
lady !  but there aren't many better riders than
you. Miss Trevor. You don't make any show,
but you sit your mare as if you were cut out of
one piece, you and she'

That is quite a poetical description," St.
Clair said. '* Why am I only a pedestrian, while
you two canter by? You cover me with dust,
and my heart with ashes and bitterness when you
pass me on the road. Why is one man carried
along on the top of the wave, in the most
desirable company while another trudges along
in the dust all by himself? Your ride opens all
the problems of life. Miss Trevor, to the poor
wretch you pass on the way."

Lucy looked at him wistfully. It was the look
which Jock had described, and it moved St. Clair
greatly, but yet he did not know what meaning

was in her eyes. Mrs. Ashton saw it too, and
it seemed to her that St. Clair was getting the
best of it. She called to him suddenly, and he
left his post with great reluctance. He had more
to say than they had, he had more experience
altogether; and it was not to subject the
heiress to the seductions of Mrs. Stone's nephew
that Mrs. Rushton had asked him here.

"Don't you play?" she said, "they are just
looking for some one to make up the game. It
would be so kind of you to join them. I know
they are rather young for you, Mr. St. Clair, but
it would be all the more kind if you were to
play."

"It would be too kind," he said; he had all his
wits about him, " they do not care for grandfathers
like myself. Let me look on as becomes
my years, or better still let me help you. There
must be some lady of my own standing who
wants to be helped to some tea."

You are too quick for me," she said, " you
know that is not what I mean ; you must not stay
among the dowagers. The girls would never
forgive me if I kept all the best men here."

Ah, is that so ?" he said. " But we are making

ourselves very useful. Your son is taking
charge of Miss Trevor, who is a very important
person and requires a great deal of attention, and
I am handing the cake. Mrs. Walford, you will
surely take some, I am charged to point out to
you how excellent it is."

"It is too good for me," said the old lady
whom he addressed, shaking all the flowers on
her bonnet. She was the curate's mother, and
she thought it her duty to back her hostess up.
You should not mind us, Mr. St. Clair ; the girls
will be quite jealous if they see all the young
men handing cake."

"Then I must take it to Miss Trevor," St.
Clair said.

Meanwhile, Ray was taking advantage of his
opportunity. " Won't you come for a turn. Miss
Trevor ? Some fellows are so pushing they never
know when they are wanted. Do come if it was
just to give him the slip. Why should he be
always hanging on here ? Why ain't he doing
something? If a fellow is out in the world he
ought to stay out in the world, not come poking
about here."

He is not strong, he is not well enough for
his profession," Lucy said.

Oh, that is bosh. I beg your pardon, Miss
Trevor, but only look at him, he is fat. If he is
not strong it is the more shame for him, it is
because he has let himself get out of training,"
Ray said.

Lucy glanced at St. Clair with the cake in his
hand, and a very small laugh came from her.
She could not restrain it altogether, but she was
ashamed of it. He was fat. He was more handsome
than Ray, and a great deal more amusing ;
and he had an interest to her besides which no
one understood. She could not dismiss from her
mind the idea that he was a man to be helped,
and yet she could not but laugh, though with a
compunction. A man who can be called fat,
appeals to no one's sympathies. She had got up
rather reluctantly on Raymond's invitation, but
he had not succeeded in drawing her attention to
himself. She was still standing in the same
place when St. Clair hastened back.

You are going round the grounds," he said,
*' a la bonne heures take me with you, please, and
save me from croquet. I don't know the mysteries

of the labyrinths, the full extent of Mr. Rushton's
grounds."

Oh, there is no labyrinth," Lucy said.

And there are no mysteries," cried Ray indignantly,
three people walking solemnly along
a garden path abreast is poor fun. " Didn't my
mother put croquet on the card ?" he added, " it
is always for croquet the people are asked. It is
a pity you don't like it." Ray wanted very much
to be rude, but he was better than his temper,
and did not know how to carry out his intention.

Isn't it ?" said St. Clair coolly, " a thousand
pities. I am always getting into trouble in consequence,
but what can I do, Miss Trevor ? I hate
croquet. It is plus fort que moi ; and you do not
like it either?"

"Not very much," Lucy answered, and she
moved along somewhat timidly between the two
men, who kept one on each side of her. Raymond
did not say much. It was he who had brought
her away, who had suggested " a turn," but it was
this fellow who was getting the good of it.
Ray's heart was very hot with indignation, but
his inventive powers were not great, and in his
anger he could not find a word to say.

It is a peculiarity of society in England that
we cannot meet save on some practical pretence
or other. Abroad," said St. Clair with all the
confidence of a man who has travelled, " conversation
is always reason enough. After all it is
talk we want, not games. We want to know each
other better, to become better friends ; that is the
object of all social gatherings. The French
understand all these things so much better than
we."

This the two young people beside him listened
to with awe, neither of them having ever set foot
on foreign soil.

*' For my part," cried Ray, suddenly ; " T don't
see the good of that constant chattering. Far
better to do something than to be for ever talk 
talking. It may suit the French, who ain't good
for much else; but we want something moreover
here. Besides what can you talk about ?"
the young man went on ; " things can't happen
just to give you a subject, and when you have
said it's a fine day, and what a nice party that
was at the Smiths  what more have you got to
say

I quite agree with you," said St. Clair ;

when you have no more than that to say it is a
great deal better to play at something. But yet
conversation has its advantages. Miss Trevor,
here is one last rose. It is the last that will
come out this season. Oh yes, there are plenty
of buds, but they are belated, they will never
get to be roses. There will come a frost to-night
and slay them all in their nests, in their cradles.
This one is all the sweeter for being on the edge
of ruin. I will gather it for you. A flower," he
said, in a low tone, which Ray could only half
hear, " is all a poor man can offer at any shrine."
Raymond looked on, crimson with indignation.
It was on his lips to bid this interloper offer what
belonged to himself, not a flower out of another
man's garden ; and when St. Clair tore his finger
on a thorn, the real proprietor of the rose was
enchanted ; but even this the fellow managed to
turn to his own advantage. "It has cost me
more than I thought," he said, so low that this
time Ray could not hear anything but a murmur.
It is symbolical, I Avould give all that is in
my veins; but it should buy you something
better." Ray did not hear this ; but Lucy did,
and it filled her soul with wonder. Her eyes

opened wide with surprise. She had not even
read so many novels as she ought, and she was
more puzzled than flattered. Besides Lucy's
mind was confused with the thought, so strong
in Raymond's consciousness, that to cut other
people's roses was a doubtful generosity. She
stammered a little as she thanked him, and
looked as if asking permission of Ray.

Oh ! Mrs. Rushton ought perhaps to have it,
as there are so few roses now," Lucy said.

CHAPTER VII.

THE FIRST PROPOSAL.

T Icy, I never thought you were a flirt
JLi before," said Mrs. Rushton, half severe,
half jocular. They did not walk home with her
now, as they had done in the warm August
evenings. It was now dark, and almost all the
company had dispersed, and the brougham had
been ordered to take Miss Trevor home.

A flirt I" Lucy looked up with great surprise
at the word.

Oh, yes ! you may look astonished ; perhaps
you don't call that flirting ; but I am old-fashioned.
No one has been able to get a word
with you all the evening. Now recollect," said
Mrs. Rushton, shaking a forefinger at the culprit.
" I am very prim and proper, and I have

Emmie to think of. You must not set her a
bad example ; and there's poor Ray. You have
not a bit of feeling for poor Ray."

Lucy looked at her with very serious inquiring
eyes, and went home with a consciousness
that there was a rivalry between Mr. St*
Clair and Raymond, in which she was more or
less involved. Lucy was not very quick of understanding,
and neither of them had said anything
to her which was quite unmistakeable.
Had they mentioned the words love or marriage,
she would have known what she had to encounter
at once ; but she was not on the outlook for
implied admiration, and their assiduities scarcely
affected her. St. Clair was Jock's tutor, and
in constant communication with her ; and, no
doubt, she thought, it was Mrs. Rushton who
made Raymond take so much care of her. This
was a shrewd guess as the reader knows, and,
therefore, she did not trouble herself about
Ray's attentions, or wonder at the devotion of
St. Clair. But she had a faint uneasy feeling
in her mind. The rose which she had fastened
in her dress was very sweet, and kept reminding
her of that scene in the garden. This pricked

VOL. m. K

Lucy's conscience a little as she drove home in
the dark alone with it. It ought to have been
given to Mrs. Rushton, not to her ; the last ,
sweet like an echo of summer, the
only one that was left. St. Clair had no right
to gather it, nor she to wear it. It was a robbery
in its way, and this made her uncomfortable,
more uncomfortable than the accusation of
flirting, of which Lucy felt innocent. The night
was dark, but very soft and warm for the season,
not even a star visible, everything wrapped in
clouds and dimness. When the brougham
stopped at the door in the Terrace, some one
appeared at once to open it for her, to help her
out. " Mr. St. Clair !" she cried almost with
alarm. " Yes," he said ; he was not much more
than a voice and a big shadow, but still she
could not have any doubt about him. " I hurried
on to do my duty as Miss Trevor's servant ; they
would not have let me walk home with you, but
I was determined to pay my duty here."

Lucy was embarrassed by this new attention.
I am so sorry you have taken so much trouble,"
she said. " I always wait till they have opened
the door. Ah ! here they are coming ; there was

no need, indeed, of anemone. I am sorry you
took the trouble."

Trouble !" he said, " that is not the word.
Ah, Miss Trevor, thanks ! you are wearing my
rose."

Indeed !" said Lucy. " I am afraid it was
not right to cut it. Mr. Raymond looked  it
was the last one ; and it was theirs  not ours."

The churl !" said St. Clair, " he ought to
have been too proud if you had put your foot
upon it, instead of wearing it. How sweet it is 
it is where it ought to be." Then he paused, detaining
her for a moment. " Yes, the door is
open," he said with a sigh. " I cannot deny it.
Good night then  till tomorrow."

Good night I" said Lucy calmly. She wondered
what was the matter ? What did he mean
by it ? He held her hand closely, but did not
shake it as people in their ordinary senses do
when they bid you good night ; and he kept Mrs-ford
standing at the door with her candle in her
hand, blown about by the draught. Mrs. Ford
was sleepy, she did not pay much attention to
Lucy's companion. It was past ten o'clock, an
hour at which all the Ford household went to bed ;

K 2

and Mrs. Ford knew herself to be very virtuous
and self-denjangin sitting up for Luc} and was a
little cross in consequence. She said only, *' You
are late, Lucy. I wonder what pleasure it can be to
anybody to be out of bed at this hour," and shut
the door impatiently. The lights were all out
except Mrs. Ford's candle, and the darkness
in-doors was very different from that soft darkness
out of doors. It was only half-past ten, yet
Lucy felt herself dissipated. She was glad to
hurry upstairs. Jock opened his big eyes as she
went through the room in which he slept. He
put up a sleepy hand, and softly stroked her
rose as she bent down to kiss him. The rose
seemed the chief point altogether in the evening.
She put it into water on her table, and went to
bed with a little tremulous sense of excitement.
But she could not tell why she was excited. It
was something in the air, something independant
of her, a breath as from some other atmosphere
straying into her own.

As for St. Clair, he stumbled home across the
common, almost losing his way, as the night was
so dark, with a little excitement in his mind too.
When he got into Mrs. Stone's parlour, where

she sat at the little meal which was her special
aud modest indulgence, he was greeted by both
ladies with much interest and many questions.
"Did it go off well?" Miss Southwood said,
who liked to hear what there had been to eat
at the " heavy tea" which followed the croquet
party, and whether there had been wine on the
table in addition to the tea. But Mrs. Stone
looked still more anxiously in Frank's face.
Are you getting on ? Are you making progress?"
was what she said. To which he answered
with a great deal of earnestness in the
words of the poet :

' He either fears Ms fate too much
Or his deserts are small,
Who dares not put it to the touch
To gain or lose it all.' "

Has it come so far as that ?" said Mrs. Stone.

I think so  but do not ask me any more
questions," he said, and he was treated with the
utmost delicacy and consideration. Without
another word, a plate with some of Mrs. Stone's
delicately-cooked dish was set before him and a
large glass of East India sherry poured out, far

better fare than the cold viands and tea prepared
for Mrs. Ashton's many guests, while the conversation
was gently led into another channel.
His feelings could not have been more judiciously
studied, for he had been too much intent upon
Lucy to eat much at the previous meal, and
agitation is exhausting. The only further
allusion that was made to the crisis was when
Mrs. Stone bade him good night. She kissed
him on the cheek, and said softly, " I quite approve
your action if you think the occasion is
ripe for it, but do not be premature, my dear
boy."

No, I will not be premature," he said, smiling
upon her. His heart expanded with a delightful
self-confidence. It did not seem to him that
there was any cause to fear.

And as he sat in the little room at the end of
the long passage, where he was permitted to
smoke, and watched the floating clouds that rose
from his cigar, the imaginations which rose
along with these circling wreaths were beautiful.
He saw within his grasp a something
sweeter than love, more delicious than any kind
of dalliance. Wealth ! the power of doing whatever

he pleased, stepping at once into a position,
he, the unsuccessful, which would leave all the
successful men behind, and dazzle those who had
once passed him by in the race He was not
disinclined towards Lucy. He felt it was in him
indeed to be fond of her, who could do so much
for him. She could open to him the gates of
paradise, she could make him the happiest man
in the world. These hyperboles would be strictly
true, far more true than they were in the
majority of the cases in which they were uttered
with fullest sincerity. But nobody could be
more sincere than Frank St. Clair in his use of
the well worn formulas. It was nothing less
than blessedness, salvation, an exemption from
ills of life which Lucy had it in her power to
confer.

Next morning he went as usual to the Terrace
and gave Jock his lesson with a mind somewhat
disturbed. The little fellow with his grammar,
the tranquil figure of the girl over her books,
the ordinary aspect of the room with which he
was growing so familiar, had the strangest
effect upon him in the state of excitement in
which he found himself. The monotony of

the lesson which had to be made out all the
the same, word by word, and the strange suspense
and expectation in which he sab amid all
the calmness of the domestic scene, made St.
Clair's head go round. He did not know how to
support it ; and it was before his hour was out
that he suddenly interrupted Jock's repetition
with a sudden harsh whisper.

Run and play," he said, " that is enough for
to-day."

He had not even heard what Jock had been saying
for the last ten minutes. The child looked
up in the utmost surprise. He was stopped in
the middle of a sentence, the words taken out
of his mouth. He looked with his eyes opening
wide.

Run and play," St. Clair repeated, his lips
were quite dry with excitement, " I want to
speak to Lucy."

He had never spoken of her as Lucy before, he
had never thought of suggesting that Jock should
run and play. The child, though startled and
indignant, yielded to the emergency which was
unmistakable in his instructor's face. He looked
at St. Clair for a moment, angry, then yielding

to the necessity. And Lucy, whose interest in
her hi story-book was never of an absorbing description,
hearing the pause, the whisper, the
little rustle of movement, looked up too. She
saw with some astonishment that Jock was
leaving the room.

Have you got through your lessons already "?"
she cried.

St. Clair made the child an imperative sign,
and got up and approached Lucy.

"I have sent him away," he said, and then
stood for a moment looking down upon her.
She, on her side, looked up with a surprised
countenance. There could not have been a
greater contrast than that which was apparent
between them ; he full of excitement, she perfectly
calm, though surprised, wondering what it
was he was about to say to her, and what his
restrained agitation could mean. " I sent him
away," said St. Clair, " because I wanted to say
something to you, Miss Trevor ; I could not
delay it any longer. It has been almost more
than I could do to keep silence so long."

*' What is it f she said. She was gently
anxious, concerned about him, wondering if he

was going to relieve her of her difficulty by confessing
his wants, and putting it into her power
to help him. It did not occur to Lucy that a
man would be very unlikely to confide troubles
about money to a girl. The distribution of her
money occupied her own mind so much that it
seemed, on the contrary, a likely matter to her
that others should be so pre-occupied too.

I have something to say to you," he repeated
; but the look of her mild blue eyes steadfastly
directed towards him, made what he had
to say a great deal more difficult to St. Clair.
A chill doubt penetrated into his mind; he
hesitated. The least little uncertainty on her
part, a blush, a shade of trouble, would have
made everything easier to him ; but Lucy was
not excited. She "did seriously incline" to
hear whatever he might have to say, but her
eyes did not even veil their mild light, nor her
cheek own the shadow of a flush. To discharge
a declaration of love point-blank at a young
woman who is gazing at you in perfect composure
and ease, without a shade of expectation
in her countenance, is no easy matter. Besides,
the fact of her composure was, of all things in

the world, the most discouraging to her suitor ;
and it was what he had not anticipated. It
came upon him as a revelation of the most chilling
and discouraging kind. " Now that the moment
has come," said St. Clair, '' all the unkind
judgments I may be exposing myself to seem to
rise up before me. I never thought of them till
now. The sincerity of my feelings was my defence.
Now I feel overwhelmed by them. Miss
Trevor  Lucy ! 1 feel now that I have been a
fool. What I wanted to say, is what I ought
not to say."

He covered his face with his hands, and
turned away from her. Lucy was much concerned.
This little pantomime, which, however,
was the sincerest part of all St. Clair's proceedings,
took away her indifference at once. Her
composed countenance was disturbed, a little
colour came to her face.

Oh, tell me what it is !" she cried.

When he looked at her, there was an air
almost of entreaty on Lucy's face. She repeated
her petition, " Tell me what it is," looking
anxiously up to him. His heart beat very
loudly. To

"Put it to the touch,
To gain or lose it allis

not so easily done in reality as in verse. He
drew a long, almost sobbing, breath. He dropped
down suddenly on one knee, close to her. This
was not any expedient of humility or devotion,
but merely to bring himself on a level with her,
and as such Lucy understood it, though she was
surprised.

Lucy !" he said (and this startled her still
more) " Lucy ! don't you know what it is ? cannot
you guess ? haven't you seen it already in
every look of my face, in every tone of my
voice? Ah, yes, I am sure you know it. I am
not a good dissembler, and what else could have
kept me here ? Lucy ! I am not good enough
for you, bat such as I am, will you have me ?"
he cried.

'have you, Mr. St. Clair?" Lucy stammered
out in consternation. She understood him vaguely
and yet she did not understand him. Have him !
not give to him, but take from him. He had put
it skilfully, without, however, being aware that
he was doing so, excitement taking the place of
calculation, as it often does. He held out his

hands for hers, he looked at her with eyes full
of entreaty, beseeching, imploring. There was
nothing fictitious in their eloquence. He meant
as sincerely as ever lover meant, and the yes or
no was to him, as in the case of the most impassioned
wooer, like life or death.

Yes," he said, " have me ! I am not much
of a man, but with you I should be another creature.
You would give me what I have always
wanted, an inspiration, a motive. Since the
first time I saw you, my happiness has been in
your hands ; for what else do you think I have
been staying here ? I have not done all I might
have done, but, Lucy, if love had not held me,
do you think I am good for nothing but to be
tutor to a child ? I have served for love, like
Jacob, for you."

Lucy gave a low cry at this. She put her
hands, not into his, but together, wringing them
with sudden pain.

'soh," she said, " why did not you tell me before
? Oh, Mr. St. Clair, why did I not know ?"

Do you think I grudge it f ' he said, " not if
it had been as long as Jacob's. Do you think

I regret having done this for you ? not if it had
been a lifetime ; but, Lucy, you are too good to
keep me in suspense, you will give me my reward
at the end ?"

And this time he took her clasped hands into his
drawing her to him. Lucy's courage had failed
for a moment. Confusion and trouble and distress
had taken away all the strength from her.
There was a mist over her eyes, and her voice
seemed to die away in her throat ; but at his
touch her girlish shyness came to her aid. A
flush of shrinking and shame came over her.
She drew away from him with an instinctive
recoil.

Mr. St. Clair, I don't know what you want
from me. I am very grateful to you about Jock.
I thought it was a great favour ; but I did not
know  Oh, I am very sorry, very sorry that you
should have done anything that was not good
enough, for me."

I am not sorry," he said ; his heart began to
sink, but he looked more lover-like, more eager
than ever. *' You do not know how sweet it is
to serve those one loves. Do you remember what
Browning says about Dante's angel, and Raphael's

sonnet f He was a man of culture
himself, and he did not reflect that Dante and
Raphael and Browning were all alike out of
Lucy's way, who stared at him with growing
horror, as he pleaded, feeling that he must be
citing spectators of his sacrifices for her, who
would blame her, and say she used him badly.
This is my sonnet and my picture," he added ;
' Once, and only once, and for one only.' Lucy !
believe me, I should never have said anything
about it, save to prove my dear love."

Blanched with pain and terror, her mild eyes
opened widely, her breath coming quick, Lucy
looked at him, kneeling by her side, and held
herself away, leaning to the other hand to avoid
the almost unavoidable contact. She kept her
eyes fixed upon him to keep watch, more than
anything else, upon what he would do next.

He saw that his cause was lost. There was
neither love nor gratitude for love in the stare of
her troubled eyes ; but he would not give in
without another effort. He said, softly sinking
his voice, '' You ask what I want from you, Lucy ?
Alas ! I thought you would have divined without
asking. Your love, dear, in return for mine.

which I have given you. What I want is nothing
less than your love and yourself."

Again he put out his hands to take hers. To
think that this should be all ! the mere fancy of
a little girl, all that stood between him and bliss,
not perhaps the usual kind of lover's bliss, yet
happiness, rapture. Impatience seized him, which
he could scarcely restrain. Such a trifling obstacle
as this, no obstacle at all, for it was clear
she could not know what was for her own advantage,
what would make her happy. There
came an impatient inclination upon him to capture
her by his bow and spear, to seize upon her
simply and carry her off, and compel her to see
what was for her own advantage. But, alas ! the
rules of conventional life were too many for St.
Clair. Though this he felt would have been the
natural and the sensible way of proceeding, he
could not adopt it. He had still to kneel by her
side, and do his best to persuade her. He could
not force her to do even what was so evidently
for her good.

The extremity of her need brought back Lucy's
courage. She felt herself driven to bay, and it

was evident that he must have no doubt as to
the answer she gave. She looked at him as
steadily as her trembling would permit, a deep
flush came over her face, her lips quivered.

Do sou mean that you want to marry me,
Mr. St. Clair?" she said.

St. Clair felt that the moment was supreme.
He threw all the passionate entreaty which was
possible (and his passion was real enough) into
his look, and, gathering her hands into both his,
kissed them again and again.

"What else?" he said in a whisper, which
must have thrilled through and through a heart
in which there was any response. But in Lucy's
there was no response. She stumbled to her feet
with an effort, getting her hands free, and leaving
her discomfited suitor kneeling by the side of her
empty chair in ludicrous confusion. He had,
indeed, to grasp hold of the chair, or the sudden
energy of her movement would have disturbed
his balance too.

That is impossible, impossible !" Lucy cried,
her cheeks burning, her mild eyes glowing, '* you
must never speak of it again, you must never
mention it to me more. " 1 could not," she

YOJi TU L

added, feeling in his look that all was not settled,
even by this vehement negative, " I could not,
I could never marry you ; and I do not want to
be married at all."

Not now, perhaps, but some time you will,"
he said. He had risen from his knee, and stood
opposite to her, banishing as best he could his
confusion from his face. " Not now ; I have been
rash, I have frightened you with an avowal which
I ought not to have made so soon ; but, Lucy,
dearest, the time will come."

Not now, or ever !" she cried, " oh, Mr. St.
Clair, believe me ! don't let it be all to go over
another time ; neither now nor ever. I may be
frightened, I never thought of anything like this
before ; but now you have made me think of it, I
know  that is impossible, it could never, never
be ! '

You are very sure of yourself," he said with
a little involuntary bitterness ; for it is not
pleasant to be rejected, even when you think it is
the dictate of fright, and St. Clair did not think
so, but only pretended so to think.

Yes, I am very, very sure. Oh, indeed, I am
sure. Anything, anything else I If I could help

you to get on, if I could be of any use. Anything
else ; but that can never be !" said Lucy
with tremendous firmness. He looked at her
with cynical scorn in his eyes.

"I will never thrust anything upon a lady
against her will," he said, '' even to save her from
the bloodhounds ;  one cannot do that, but the
time will come  I know very well the time will
come." He was as much agitated as if indeed he
had loved Lucy to desperation. He went to the
table and collected his books with a tremendous
vehemence. " I must now wish you good morning,
Miss Trevor," he said.

And it was with a troubled heart that Lucy
saw him go. What could she have done otherwise
? She could not bear that anyone should
leave her thus. She longed to be able
to offer him  anything that would salve his
wound. If he would only take some of the
money ! if he would only accept her help, since
she could not give him herself. She looked after
him with her heart wrung, and tears in her
piteous eyes.

L 2

CHAPTER VIII.

ONE DOWN, AND ANOTHER COME ON.

THIS was Lucy s first experience of love-making.
It is needless to say that it was
very far from being her last ; but for the moment
it was an appalling revelation to her an incident
of the most disturbing and disquieting kind.
She was alone for a long time after St. Clair's
withdrawal. It was the morning, the time when
Mrs. Ford was occupied with household concerns,
and Jock, being freed sooner than usual had betaken
himself to one of his habitual corners with
a book, and was thousands of mental miles away
from his sister. She remained alone in that pink
drawing-room, in which already she had spent so
many lonely hours. There she stood hidden
behind the curtains, and watched St. Clair speeding

across the road, that skirted the Common, to
the AVhite House. She had seen him coming and
going a great many times with placid indifference.
But she could not be indifferent to anything
about him now. His hasty pace, so unlike the
usual stateliness of demeanour in which he resembled
his aunt, the books under his arm, his
stumble as he rushed over the rough ground, all
went to Lucj's heart. She was not sorry that
she had given forth so determined a decision.
That she felt at once, with her usual good sense,
was unavoidable. It was not a question upon
which any doubt could be left. Bat she was
very sorry to have given him pain, very sorry
that it had been necessary. She felt pained and
angry that such an appeal should have been
made to her, yet at the same time self-reproachful
and sore, wondering how it was her fault, and
what she could have done. It dismayed her to
think that she had voluntarily and deliberately
inflicted pain, and yet what alternative had been
left her? Now, she thought to herself sadly,
here was an end of all possibility of helping a
man who was poor, and whom she would have
been so glad to help. He would not take anything

from her now, he would be angry, he would
reject her aid, although so willingly given. This
gave Lucy a real pang. She could not get it out
of her mind. How foolish, she moralised, to put
off a real duty like this, to let it become impossible
! She was sitting pondering very sadly upon
the whole matter, asking herself wistfully if
anything could be done, when Mrs. Rushton came
in, full of the plan which Raymond had proposed
the evening before. Mrs. Rushton was always
elated by a new proposal of pleasure-making.
It raised her spirits even when nothing else was
involved. But in this case there was a great deal
more involved.

It is the very thing to finish the season," she
said, " we have had a very pleasant season,
especially since you came back, Lucy. You have
made us enjoy it twice as much as we usually do.
For one thing, home has been so much more
attractive than usual to Ray. Oh, he is always
very good, he does not neglect his own people :
still young men will be young men, and you
know even Shakspeare talks of ' metal more attractive
' than a mother. So as I wds saying 
Oh, how do you do, Mrs. Ford f '

As usual, Mrs. Ford made her appearance, sweeping
in her purple silk, which was of a very brilliant
and hot hue, and put every other colour out.
Her punctual attendance, when ladies came to see
Lucy, served her purpose very well, for it made
it apparent to these ladies that Lucy's present
hostess was a very dragon of jealous carefulness,
and was likely to guard the golden
apples against all comers as she did from them.

How do you do ?" said Mrs. Ford stiffly,
taking a stiff and highbred chair.

It is a very fine day," said Mrs. Rushton,
what pleasant weather wee are having for this
time of the year ! I was remarking to Lucy that
it had been the most enjoyable summer. I
always say that for young people there is nothing
so enjoyable as outdoor parties when the weather
is good. They get air, and they get exercise, far
better than being cooped up in stuffy ball-rooms.
I feel quite thankful to Lucy, who has been the
occasion of so many nice friendly meetings."

She has had a deal too much gaiety, I think''
said Mrs. Ford, " considering that her poor dear
father has not been much more than six months
in his grave."

You cannot really call it gaiety ; oh no, not
gaiety ! a few nice quiet afternoons on the lawn,
and just one or two picnics. No, Lucy dear, you
need not be frightened, I will never suffer you todo
anything inconsistent with your mourning.
You may rely on me. If anything I am too
particular on that point. Your nice black frocks,"
said Mrs. Rushton with fervour, "have never
been out of character with anything. I have
taken the greatest care of that."

I don't say anything about the afternoons,"
said Mrs. Ford, "but I know that it was
half-past ten when your carriage came to the
door last night with Lucy in it. I don't hold
with such late hours. Ford and me like to be
in bed at ten o'clock."

"Ah, that is very early," Mrs. Rushton said,
with an indulgent smile, " say eleven and I will
take care that Lucy has some one with her to see
her safe home."

Oh, for that matter, there's always plenty
with her," said the grumbler, " and more than I
approve of. I don't know what girls want withall
that running about. We never thought of it
in our day. Home was our sphere, and there we

stayed, and never asked if it was dull or not."

That is very true : and it was very dull. We
don't bring up our children like that nowadays,"
said Mrs. Rushton, with that ironical superiority
which the mother of a family always feels herself
justified in displaying to a childless contemporary.
Mrs. Ford had no children to get the advantage of
the new rule. " And," she added, " one feels for a
dear child like Lucy, who has no mother that one
is doubly bound to do one's best for her. How poor
dear Mrs. Trevor would have watched over her had
sheen spared ! a motherless girl has a thousand
claims. And, Lucy," continued her indulgent
friend, "this is Ray's party. It is he that is
to manage it all ; he took it into his head that
you would like to see the abbey again."

Oh, yes," said Lucy, surprised that they
should show so much thought for her, but quite
ready to be pleased and grateful too.

He and his sister will come and fetch you
at two o'clock," she continued, " it will be quite
hurriedly got up, what I call an impromptu 
but all the better for that. There will be just
our own set. Mrs. Stone, of course it would be
useless to ask now that school has begun again ;

but if there is any friend whom you would like
to have"

It was as if in direct answer to this half question
that at that moment the door opened and
Katie Russell, all smiles and pleasure, came in.
Lucy," she cried, *' Bertie has come, as I told
you, he wants so much to see you, may I bring
him in? Oh, I beg your pardon, Mrs. Ford, I
did not see that you were here."

Don't mention it," said Mrs. Ford grimly,
*' most folks do the same."

"Is it your brother, the author f said Mrs.
Eushton excited. She was so far out of the
world, and so little acquainted with its ways
that she felt, and thought it the right thing to
show that she felt, an interest in a real living
novelist. " Lucy, we must have him come to
the pic-nic," she cried.

But she was not so enthusiastic when Bertie
appeared. His success had made a great difference
in Bertie's outward man ; he was no longer
the slipshod youth of Hampstead, by turns humble
and arrogant, full of boyish assurance and
equally boyish timidity. Even in that condition
he had been a handsome young fellow, with an

air of breeding: which must have come from
some remote ancestor, as there was no nearer
way b}'' which he could have acquired it. When
he walked into the room now, it was as if a
young prince had suddenly appeared among these
commonplace people. It was not his dress, Mrs.
Rushton soon decided, for Raymond was as well
dressed as he nor was it his good looks, though
it was not possible to deny them ; it was more
galling still  something which was neither dress
nor looks, but which he had, and, alas Raymond
had not. Mrs. Rushton gazed at him open-eyed,
while he came in smiling and gracious, shaking
hands with cordial grace.

"It is not my own boldness that brings me,"
he said, " but Katie's. I am shifting the responsibility
off my shoulders on to hers, as you
ladies say we all do ; but for Katie's encouragement
I don't know if I would have ventured."

"I am very glad to see you'* Lucy said, and
then they all seated themselves, the central interest
of the group shifting at once to the newcomer,
the young man of genius, the popular
author. He was quite sensible of the duties of
his position, and treated the ladies round him

en bon prince with a suitable condescension to
each and to all.

I have a hundred things to say to you from
my mother," he said, " she wishes often that you
could see her in her new house, where she is
very comfortable. She thinks you would be
pleased with it." This was said with a glance
of confidential meaning, which showed Lucy that,
though Katie was not aware of it, her brother
knew and acknowledged the source from which
his mother's comfort came. And "It is very
kind of you to admit us at this untimely hour,"
he said to Mrs. Ford, looking at her purple silk
with respect, as if it had been the most natural
morning dress in the world. " Katie is still only
a school-girl, and is guided by an inscrutable
system. I stand aghast at her audacity ; but I
am very glad to profit by it."

*' Oh, as for audacity," said Mrs. Ford, " that
is neither here nor there, we are well used to it ;
but whenever you like to come, Mr. Russell,
you'll find a welcome. I knew your good father
well, and a better man never was  "

Indeed," said Mrs. Rushton, eager to introduce
herself, " I must be allowed to say so too.

I knew Mr. Russell very well, though I never
had the pleasure of making acquaintance with
his family. I am afraid after the society you
must have been seeing you will find Farafield a
very benighted sort of place. There is nothing
that can be called society here."

That is so much the better," said Bertie
graciously " one has plenty of it in the season,
it is a relief to be let alone : and my object incoming
here is not society."

Oh, I told you, Lucy," cried his sister, " he
has come to study."

A frown crossed Bertie's face ; he gave her a
warning look. " I want rest," he said, " there
is nothing like lying fallow. It does one all the
good in the world."

Ah !" cried Mrs. Rushton, " I know what
that means. You have come to take us all ofi",
Mr. Russell ; we will all be put into your new
book."

Bertie smiled, a languid and indulgent smile.
*' If I could suppose that there were any eccentricities
to be found in your circle," he said,
perhaps  but good breeding is alike over all
the world."

Mrs. Rushton did not quite know what this
meant ; but it was either a compliment or something
that sounded like one. She was delighted
with this elegant young man of genius, who was
so familiar with and indifferent to society. *' If
you will come to the little pic-nic I am planning
for tomorrow you shall judge for yourself," she
said ; " and perhaps Mrs. Stone will let your
sister come too," she added with less cordiality.
Katie, whom everyone knew to be only a govern
had not attracted her attention much.
She had been accepted with toleration now and
then as Lucy's friend, but as the sister of a
young literary lion, who no doubt knew all kinds
of fine people, Katie became of more importance.
Bertie took the invitation with great composure,
though his sister, who was not blasee, looked up
with sparkling eyes.

'' To-morrow?" he said, "I am Katie's slave
and at her disposal. I will come with pleasure
if my sister will let me come."

Was it wise? Mrs. Rushton asked herself
with a little shiver. She made a mental comparison
between this new comer and Ray. The
proverbial blindness of love is not to be trusted

in, in such emergencies. His mother saw, with
great distinctness, that Raymond had not that
air, that je ne sais quoi; nor could he talk
about society, nor had he the easy superiority,
the conscious genius of Bertie. But then
the want of these more splendid qualities put
him more on Lucy's level. Lucy (thank Heaven
I) was not clever. She would not understand
the other's gifts ; and Ray was a little, justa
little taller, his hair curled, which Bertie's did
not ; Mrs. Rushton thought that, probably, the
author would be open to adulation, and would
like to be worshipped by the more important
members of the community, What could he care
for a bit of a girl ? So, on the whole, she felt
herself justified in her invitation. She offered
the brother and sister seats in the break, in
which she herself and the greater part of her
guests were to drive to the Abbey, and she made
herself responsible for the consent of Mrs. Stone.
* Of course I shall ask Mr. St. Clair, Lucy,"
she said. " I always like to ask him, poor fellow
! he must be so dull with nothing but ladies
from morning till night."

Happy man," Bertie said, " what could he
desire more ?"

*' But when those ladies are aunts, Mr.
Russell r

That alters the question. Though there is
something to be said for other people's aunts,"
said Bertie. " I am not one of those who think
all that is pleasant is summed up in youth."

Oh ! you must not tell me that. You all
like youth best," said Mrs. Rushton ; but she
was pleased. She felt her own previsions justified.
A young man like this, highly cultivated
and accustomed to good society, what could he
see in a little bread and butter sort of girl like
Lucy ? She gave Bertie credit for a really elevated
tone. She was not so worldly-minded as
she supposed herself to be for she did not
take it for granted that everybody else was as
worldly-minded as herself.

This succession of visitors and events drove
the adventure of the morning out of Lucy's head.
And when she went out with Jock in the afternoon,
Bertie met them in the most natural way
in the world, and prevented any relapse of her
thoughts. He told her he was " studying" Fairfield,

which filled Lucy with awe ; and begged
her to show him what was most remarkable in
the place. This was a great puzzle to the girl,
who took him into the market-place, and through
the High Street, quite unconscious of the scrutiny
of the beholders. " I don't think there is
anything that is remarkable in Farafield," she
said, while Bertie smiling  thinking involuntarily
that he himself, walking up and down the
homely streets, with an artist's eye alive to
all the picturesque corners, was enough to give
dignity to the quiet little country place  walked
by her side, very slim and straight, the most
gentleman-like figure. There were many people
who looked with curiosity, and some with envy,
upon this pair, the women thinking that only'
her money could have brought so aristocratic a
companion to the side of old John Trevor's
daughter, while the men concluded that he was
some needy " swell," who was after the girl, and
thus exhibited himself in attendance upon her.
It came to Mrs. Rushton's ears that they had
been seen together, and the information startled
her much; but what could she do? She fell
upon Raymond, reproaching him for his silly
m. M

silly. " Now you see there is no time to be
lost ; now you see that other people have their
wits about them," she said ; " if you let tomorrow
slip, there will be nothing too bad for
you," cried the exasperated mother. But Raymond,
though he was more frightened than could
be told in words, had no thought of letting
tomorrow slip. He too felt that things where
coming to a crisis. He stood at the window
with his hands in his pockets and whistled, as
it were, under his breath; He was terribly
frightened ; but still he felt that what was to
be done, must be done, if anything was to be done.
So long as it was only St. Clair, whom he thought
middle-aged, and who was certainly fat, who
was against him, he had not been much troubled ;
but this new fellow was a different matter. He
did not put his resolution into such graceful
words, but he too felt that it was time

To put it to the touch
To gain or lose it all."

As for Lucy, no thought of the further trials awaiting
her, entered her mind ; but she was not happy.
It had ceased to be possible to take those evening
strolls which had brought her into such intimate

relations with the inmates of the White House.
They had been given up since the girls came back ;
and, indeed, the days were so much shorter that
they had become impracticable. But when she
came upstairs to her lonely drawing-room after
tea, when it was not yet completely dark, she
could not choose but go to the window, and lookout
upon the dim breadth of the common, and
the lights which began to twinkle in Mrs. Stone's
windows. The grassy breadths of broken ground,
the brown furze bushes, all stubbly with the
husks of the seedpods, the gleam of moisture
here and there, the keener touch of colour in the
straggling foliage of the hedges, and here and
there a half-grown tree, were dim under a
veil of mist when she looked out. The
last redness of the sunset was melting from
the sky. A certain autumnal sadness was
in the bit of homely landscape, which, though
she was not imaginative, depressed Luc' as she
stood at the window. She was altogether depressed
and discouraged. Mrs. Ford had been,
if not scolding, yet talking uncomfortably to her
husband across the girl, of the rudeness of Lucy's
friends. " Not that I would go to their parties

M 2

if they begged me on their knees," Mrs. Ford
had said, " but the politeness of it ! And to
ask those Russellss before my very face, who are
not a drop's blood to Lucy." " Well, well, my
dear, never mind," her husband had said, " when
she's married there will be an end of it." " Married
!" Mrs. Ford had said in high disdain. And
then Lucy had got up and hastened away, wounded
and shocked and unhappy, though she scarcely
could tell why. She came and stood at the window,
and looked out with the tears in her eyes.
Everybody had been very kind to her, but yet
she was very lonely. She had a gay party to
look forward to the next day, and she believed
she would enjoy it ; but yet Lucy was lonely.
People seemed to struggle over her incoherently,
for she knew not what reason, each trying to
push the other away, each trying to persuade
her that the other entertained some evil motive ;
and everything seemed to concur in making it impossible
for her to carry out her father's will. And
there was nobody to advise, nobody to help her.
Philip, to whom she would so gladly have had
recourse, was cross and sullen, and scolded her
for no reason at all, instead of being kind. And

Sir Tom, who was really kind, whom she could
really trust to  what had become of him ? Had
he forgotten her altogether ? He had not written
to her, and Lucy had not the courage to write
to him. What could she do to get wisdom, to
know how to deal with the difficulties round her ?
She was standing within the curtains of the window,
looking out wistfully towards the White
House, and wondering how Mr. St. Clair would
speak to her tomorrow, and if Mrs. Stone would
know and be angry, when she was startled by
the sound of wheels, and saw a carriage  nay,
not a carriage, but something more ominous, the
fly of the neighbourhood, the well-known vehicle
which took all the people about the common to
the railway', and was as familiar as the common
itself. It rattled along to the White House,
making twice the noise that any other carriage
ever made. Could they be going to a party?
Lucy asked herself with alarm. But it was no
party. There was just light enough left to
show that luggage was brought out. Then came
the glimmer of the lantern dangling at the finger
end of the gardener  that lantern by which, on
winter nights, Lucy herself had been so often

lighted home. Then she perceived various
figures about the door, and Mrs. Stone coming
out, with a whiteness about her head which betrayed
the shawl thrown over her cap ; evidently
some one was going away. Who could be going
away?

After a while the fly lumbered off from the
door, leaving that gleam of light behind, and
some one looking out, looking after the person
departing. Lucy's heart beat ever quicker and
quicker. As the fly approached the lamp-post
that gave light to the Terrace, she saw that it
was a portmanteau and other masculine belongings
that were on the top, and to make assurance
sure, a man's head glanced out and looked up at
her window. Lucy sank down into a chair and
cried. It was her doing. She had driven St
Clair away, out into the hard world, with his
heart-disease and his poverty  she who had
been brought into being and made rich, for no
other end than to help those who were poor !

CHAPTER IX.

THE PICNIC.

LUCY spent a most melancholy night. It was
dreadful to her to think that she had been
not only " no good," but the doer of harm.
She imagined to herself poor St. Clair, with that
weakness which prevented him from realizing the
hopes of his friends, going away from the shelter
and comfort his aunt had provided for him, and
the rest of this quiet place, and struggling again
among others each more able to fight their way
than he  and all because of her, who should have
smoothed his way for him, who had the means to
provide for him, to make everything easy. It is
impossible to describe the compunctions that filled
Lucy's inexperienced heart. It seemed all her fault,
his departure, and even his incomprehensible proposal

 for how could he ever have thought of such
a thing of himself, he a Gentleman, and she only a
girl, at school the other day and all the disappointment
and grief which must have been caused
by his going away, all her doing ! though she had
meant everything that was kind, instead of this
trouble. When she saw Jock preparing for his
lessons, her distress overpowered her altogether.
I am afraid Mr. St. Clair is not coming'" she
said, faltering, at breakfast ; '' I think' he has
gone away," feeling herself almost ready to cry.
Gone away !" said the Fords in a breath ; and
they exchanged looks which Lucy felt to be
triumphant. " And a good riddance too," cried
Mrs. Ford, "a fellow not worth a penny, and
giving himself airs as if he had hundreds in his
pocket." " My dear," her husband said, " perhaps
you are too severe. I think sometimes you
are too severe ; but I can't say I think him much
of a loss, Lucy, if you will take my opinion."
Lucy was not much comforted by this deliverance,
and after hearing a full discussion of Mrs. Stone
and her belongings, was less consoled than ever.
If they were poor so much the more need for him
to be successful, so much the more dismal for

him to fail. Lucy could not settle to her own
work, she could not resume her own tasks so dutifully
undertaken, but in which she felt so little
interest. It was easy for Jock to dispose of
himself on the great white hearth-rug with his
book. She could not help saying this as the
sound of the leaves he turned caught her ears.
"It does rot matter for you," she said, "you are
only a small boy, you never think about anything,
or wonder and wonder what people are going todo."
Jock raised his head from the book, and
looked at her with his big eyes. He had been
conscious of her restlessness all along, though he
was reading the Heroes which St. Clair had given
him. Her little uncomfortable rustle of movement,
her frequent gazing from the window, the
undercurrent of anxiety and uncertain resolution
in the air, had disturbed Jock in spite of himself.
He lay and watched her now with his head raised.
I wish," said Jock, " we could get Here or
somebody to come." But Lucy was more insulted
than helped by this speech. " What is
the use of trying to speak to you about things ?"
she cried exasperated, " when you know weare
real living creatures, and not people ina

book !" And Lucy in her distress cried, which
she was not in the habit of doing. Jock raised
himself then to his elbow, and looked at her with
great interest and sympathy. " Here can't come
to us," he said seriously, " but she was just a
lady only bigger than you are. Couldn't you
just go yourself?"

Jock, do you think I should go ?" the girl
cried. It was like consulting an oracle, and that
is what all primitive people like to do.

"Yes," said the little boy, dropping down
again satisfied upon his fleecy rug. How could
he know anything about it ? but Lucy took no
time to think. She hastened to her room and
put on her hat, and was hurrying along the road
to the White House, before she had thought what
to say when she got there. It was just twelve
o'clock, a moment at which Mrs. Stone was always
to be found in her parlour, resting for half an
hour in the middle of her labours. Lucy found
herself tapping at the parlour door in the fervour
of her first resolution. She went in with eyes
full of tearful light. Mrs. Stone and Miss South-wood
were both in the room. They turned round
with great surprise at the sight of her.

"Hodo you do, Lucy?" Mrs. Stone said very
coldly, not even putting out her hand.

Oh," cried Lucy, full of her generous impulse.
Why has Mr. St. Clair gone away ?"

I told you," said Miss Southwood, " I told
you ! the girl doesn't know her own mind."

Mrs. Stone caught her this time by both hands.
*' Lucy," she cried, " don't trifle or be a little
fool. If this is what you mean, Frank will come
back. You may be sure he did not want to go
away."

Lucy felt the soft hands which took hold of
her, grip like fingers of iron, and felt herself
grappled with an eager force she could scarcely
withstand. They came round her with anxious
faces, seizing hold upon her. For a moment she
almost gasped for breath, half suffocated by the
closing in around her of this trap into which she
had betrayed herself. But the emergency brought
back her strength and self-command. " It is not
that," she said with poignant distress and shame,
though she had no reason to be ashamed. " Oh
forgive me, it is not that !"

Mrs. Stone dropped her hands as if they had
been hot coals, and turned away. " This is a

moment when I prefer to be alone, Miss Trevor,"
she said, as she was in the habit of saying to the
girls who disturbed her retirement ; " if there is
anything in which I can serve you, pray say so
without any loss of time. I reserve this half
hour in the day to myself."

Thus chilled after the red heat of excitement
into which she had been raised, Lucy stood
trembling scarcely knowing what to say.

I beg your pardon," she faltered at last,
I came because I was so unhappy about  Mr.
St. Clair."

Lucy ; what do you mean ?" cried Miss South-wood.
" Don't frighten the child, Maria ! what
do you mean ? You drive him away, and then
you come and tell us you are unhappy. What
do you intend us to understand f

I wanted to come to you before," said Lucy
with great humility, looking at Mrs. Stone, who
had turned away from her. " Please listen tome
for one moment. You said he was not strong,
not able to do all he wished. Mrs. Stone, I have
a great deal of money left me by papa to be given
away."

Mrs. Stone started to her feet with sudden passion.

" Do you mean to offer him money ?" she
cried.

This time Lucy did not falter, she confronted
even the tremendous authority of Mrs. Stone
with a steady though tremulous front, and said :
Yes," very quietly and distinctly, though in a
voice that showed emotion. Her old instructress
turned on her commanding and imposing, but
Lucy did not quail, not even when Mrs. Stone
repeated the words, " to offer him money I" in a
kind of scream of dismay.

Maria, let us hear what she means : we don't
know what she means ; Lucy tell it all to me.
She is naturally put out. She cannot bear Frank
to go away. Let me hear what you mean, Lucy,
let me hear !"

It was Miss Southwood who said this, putting
herself between Lucy and her sister. Miss
Southwood was not imposing, her anxious little
face conciliated and calmed the girl. How comfortable
it is, how useful to have a partner, or a
brother, or sister, entirely unlike yourself! It is
as good as being two persons at once.

Miss Southwood, papa left me a great deal of
money  "

At this the listener nodded her head a great
many times with a look of pleased assent : then
shook it gently and said. " But you should not
think too much of your money, Lucy, my dear."

 to give away," said Lucy hastily ; " he left
me this duty above all, to give away to those who
needed it. There is a great deal of money,
enough for a number of people."

Oh !" Miss Southwood cried out in a voice
which ran up a whole gamut of emotion. She
put out her two hands, groping as if she had
suddenly become blind. Consternation seized
her. " Then you are not" she said. " Maria,
she cannot be such a great heiress after all !"

Mrs. Stone's astonished countenance was
slowly turned upon Lucy from over her sister's
shoulder. She gazed at the girl with an amazement
which struck her dumb. Then she said
with an effort, " You meant to offer some of this
charitable fund to my nephew  "

It is not a charitable fund it is not charity
at all. It was to be given in sums which would
make the people independant. Why should you
think worse of me than I deserve ?" cried Lucy,
*' it is not my fault. I did not want him to say

that. I wanted to help him to offer him
what papa left."

Here Mrs. Stone burst out furious. *' To offer
him  my nephew a man : and you a little chit
of a girl, a nobody help as you call it alms?
charity !"

Maria  Maria !" said Miss Southwood.
Stop, I tell you. It is all nonsense about alms
and charity. Good honest money is not a thing
to he turned away from anyone's door. Lucy,
my dear, speak to me. Enough to make people
independent ! Old Mr. Trevor was a wonderfully
sensible old man. How much might that
be ? You have no right to spoil the boy's chance,
oh ! hold your tongue, Maria ! Lucy, Lucy, my
dear, do tell me."

I never knew that was what he meant, Miss
Southwood," said Lucy eagerly. " How could

I think that he  a Gentleman " She used

such a big capital for the word, that it overbalanced
Lucy's eloquence. " And I only a little
chit of a girl," she added with a tremulous laugh,
*' it is quite true. But there is this money, and
I have to give it away. I have no choice. Papa
said And since he is not strong, and wants

rest. Gentlemen want a great deal mure money
than women ; but if it was only for a short time,
till he got strong  perhaps," said Lucy faltering
and hesitating, " a few thousand pounds might
do?"

The two ladies stood and stared at her confounded
 they were struck dumb, both of them.
Mrs. Stone's commanding intellect stood her in
as little stead as the good Southernwood's common
sense, upon which she so prided herself.
A few thousand pounds ?

** And it would make me so much more
happy !" Lucy said. She put her hands together
in the fervour of the moment entreating them ;
but they were both too entirely taken by surprise,
too much overwhelmed by wonder and
confusion to speak. Only when Mrs. Stone
moved, as if in act to speak, Miss Southwood
burst forth in alarm.

Hold your tongue  hold your tongue," she
said, " Maria !" never in all her life had she so
ventured to speak to her dominant sister
before.

But when Lucy finally withdrew from this interview,
it was with a heart calmed and comforted.

Mrs. Stone was still stupefied ; but her
sister had recovered her wits. " You see, laria,
this money is not hers. It is trust money : it
is quite a different thing : and she is not such a
great heiress after all. Dear Frank, after all,
might have been throwing himself away," was
what Miss Southwood said. Lucy heard this,
as it were, with a corner of her ear, for, at the
same time, the bell began to ring at the White
House; and it was echoed faintly by another at
a distance which she alone understood. This was
the bell for Mrs. Ford's early dinner, and Lucy
knew that the door had been opened at No. 6 in
the Terrace, in order that she, if within hearing,
might be summoned home. And that was not
an appeal which she ventured to disobey.

This morning's adventure made Lucy's heart
much more light for her pleasure in the afternoon.
When Raymond and Emmie rode up at
two o'clock, he on the new horse which his
father had permitted to be bought for this very
cause, she sitting very clumsily on a clumsy
pony  Lucy and Jock met them with nothing
but smiles and brightness. It was not so bright
as the day on which the expedition had been

VOL m. N

planned. The autumn afternoon had more mist
than mellow fruitfulness in it, and there was a
cold wind about which shook the leaves in clouds
from the trees. And Raymond, for his part, was
nervous and uncomfortable. He had a deep and
growing sense of what was before him. At a
distance, such a piece of work is not so terrible
as when seen close at hand. But when time
has gone on with inexorable stride to the very
verge of a moment which nothing can delay,
when the period has come beyond all possibility
of escape, then it is not wonderful if the stoutest
heart sinks. Raymond had got some advantages
already by the mere prospect of this act to 
had got a great many pleasant hours of leisure,
escaping from the office, which he was not
fond of: and he had got his horse, which was a
very tangible benefit. And in the future, what
might he not hope for ? Emancipation from the
office altogether ; a life of wealth and luxury :
horses, as many as he could think of; hunting,
shooting, everything that heart could desire; a
place" in the country ; a " box" somewhere in
Scotland ; a fine house in town (which moved
him less), and the delightful certainty of being

his own master. All these hung upon his power
of pleasing Lucy nothing more than pleasing a
girl. Raymond could not but think with a little
scorn of the strange incongruity of mortal affairs,
which made all these happiness hang upon
the nod of a bit of a girl; but granting this,
which he could not help granting, it was, he
had frankly acknowledged, a much easier way
of getting all the good things of life than that
of laboriously striving for them all his life long 
to succeed, perhaps, only at the end, when he
was no longer able to enjoy them. " And you
are fond of Lucy," his mother said. Yes  this
too the young man did not deny. He liked Lucy,
he " did not mind" the idea of spending his life
with her. She was very good-natured, and not
bad-looking. He had seen girls he thought
prettier ; but she was not bad-looking, and always
jolly, and not at all " stuck up" about her
money ; there was not a word to be said against
her. And Raymond did not doubt that he would
like it well enough were it done. But the
doing of it ! this was what alarmed him ; for,
after all, it must be allowed that, more or less,
he was doing it in cold blood. And many things

X 2

were against him on this special day. The wind
was cold, and it was charged with dust, which
blew into his eyes, making them red, and into
his mouth, making him inarticulate. And Emmie
clung to his side on one hand, and Jock on the
other. He could not shake himself free of these
two; when Lucy and he cantered forward, instead
of jogging on together discreetly, these
two pests would push on after, Jock catching
them up in no time, but Emmie, after lumbering
along with tolerable rapidity for thirty yards or
so, taking fright and shrieking " Ray ! Ray !"
Raymond concluded, at last, with a sense of
relief, that to say anything on the way there
would be impossible. It was a short reprieve
for him, and for the moment his spirits rose.
He shook his head slightly when they met the
party who had gone in the break, and when his
mother's anxious eye questioned him. " No opportunity,"
he whispered as he passed her. The
parts in the break were covered with dust, and
they had laid hold upon all the wraps possible
to protect them from the cold. There was shelter
in the wood, but still it was cold, and the party
was much less gay than the previous one had

been, though Mrs. Rushton herself did all that
was possible to "' keep it up." Perhaps the
party itself was not so well selected as on that
previous occasion. It was larger, which, of itself?
was a mistake, and Bertie, who did not know
the people, yet was too great a personage to be
neglected, proved rather in Mrs. Rushton 's way
He would stray after Lucy, interfering with
Ray's " opportunity," and then would apologize
meekly for his " indiscretion," with a keen
eye for all that was going on*.

'* Oh, there is no indiscretion," Mrs. Rushton
said ; " but young people, you know, young people
seeing a great deal of each other, they like
to get together."

"I see," Bertie said, making a pretence of
withdrawal ; but from that moment never took his
eyes off Lucy and her attendant. The sky was
grey, the wind was cold, the yellow leaves came
tumbling down upon their plates, as they ate
their out-door meal. Now and then a shivering
guest looked up, asking anxiously " Is that the
rain ?" They all spoke familiarly of " the rain "
as of another guest expected ; would it come
before they had started on their return ? might it

arrive even before the refection was over ? They
were all certain that they would not get home
without being overtaken by it. And notwithstanding
this alarmed expectation of '' the rain,"
the ham and the chickens were gritty with the
dust which had blown into the hampers. It was
very hard upon poor Mrs. Rushton, everybody
said.

Come up and look at the waterfall," said Ray
to Lucy. " No, don't say where we are going, or
we shall have a troop after us. That fellow, that
Russell, follows everywhere. Thank heaven he
is looking the other way. He might know people
don't want him for ever at their heels. Ah !
this is pleasant," Ray said, with as good a semblance
of enthusiasm as he could muster, when
he had safely piloted Lucy into a narrow leafy
path among the trees. But Lucy did not share
his enthusiasm ; she shivered a little as they
plunged into the shadow, which shut out every
gleam of the fitful sun.

"It is a great pity it is so cold," Lucy said.

A horrid pity," said Ray, with energy ; but
then he remembered his role, " for you," he said ;
*' as for me I am very happy  I don't mind the

weather. I could go like this for miles, and
never feel the want of the sun."

I did not know you were so fond of the
woods," Lucy said.

Xor is it the woods I am fond of," said
Ka} and his heart began to thump. Now the
moment had certainly come. '' It is the company
I-love."

Hallo !" cried a Voice behind. " I see someone
in front of us  who is it ? Rushton. Then
this must be the way."

Oh, confound you I" Ray said, between his
teeth; and yet it was again a kind of reprieve.
The leafy path was soon filled with a train of
people, headed by Bertie, who made his way to
Lucy's side, when they reached the open space in
which was the waterfall.

Is not this a truly English pleasure ?" Bertie
said ; " why should we all be making ourselves
miserable eating cold victuals out of doors when
we should so much prefer a snug cutlet at home ?
and coming to gaze at a little bit of a driblet of
water when we all expect floods any moment
from the sky ?"

*' It is a pity," said Luc}, divided between her

natural inclination to assent and consideration
for Raymond's feelings, *' it is a pity that we
have so unfavourable a day."

But it is always an unfavourable day  in
England," Bertie said. He had been "abroad"
before he came to Farafield, and he liked to
make this fact known.

I have never been anywhere but in England,"
said Lucy regretfully.

Nor I," said Ray defiant.

*' Nor I," said some one else with a touch of
scorn.

Authors always travel about so much, don t
they ?" cried an ingenue in a whisper which was
full of awe ; and this turned the laugh against
Bertie. He grew red in spite of himself, and
cast a vengeful glance at the young woman in
question.

Ah, you should have seen the day we had
at Versailles ; such lawns, and terraces, such
great trees against the bluest, brightest sky.
Miss Trevor, do you know I think you should not
venture to ride home."

Why f said Ray, with restrained fury,
thrusting himself between them.

I did not suppose it mattered for yon, Rushton
; but Miss Trevor will get drenched. There,
I felt a drop already."

They all looked anxiously at the grey sky.
I should not like Jock to get wet," said Lucy,
I do not mind for myself."

Come round to this side, you will see the
fall better," Raymond said ; and then he added,
"come along, come along this short way. Let
us give that fellow the slip. It is not the rain
he is thinking of, but to spoil my pleasure."

"Versailles is something like Windsor, is
it not ? have you been there lately, Mr.
Russell ? Oh, we shall soon know. I can
always tell when you gifted people have been
travelling by your next book," said one of the
ladies.

Suppose we follow Rushton," said Bertie.
He knows all the best points of view."

And once more the train was at Ray's heels.
"I think I do feel the rain now," Raymond cried,
and listen, wasn't that thunder? It would not
be wise to be caught in a thunderstorm here.
Russell, look after Mrs. Charley, and make for
the open ; I will get Miss Trevor round this way."

*' Thunder !" the ladies cried, alarmed, and
there was a rush towards an open space.

"Nonsense," cried Bertie, "there is no thunder,"
hut it was he himself who had prophesied
the rain, and they put no faith in him. As for
Lucy, she served Raymond's purpose involuntarily
by speeding along the nearest opening.

Jock is always frightened, I must see after
him," she cried. Raymond thought she did it
for his special advantage, and his heart rose ;
yet sank too, for now it was certain that the
moment had come.

Stop," he said, panting after her, " it is all
right, there is no hurry, I did not mean it. Did
you ever see thunder out of such a sky."

*but it Alas you who said it," Lucy cried.

Don't you know why I said it ? To get rid of
those tiresome people ; I have never had time
to say a word to you all the day."

"Then don't you really think it will rain?"
Lucy said doubtfully, looking at the sky. She
was much more occupied with this subject than
with his wish to say something to her. " Perhaps
it would be best to leave the horses, and
drive home if there is room f she said.

T wish I were as sure of something else as
that it will not rain. Stay a little, don't be in
such a hurry" said Ray. " Ah, if 3'ou only
knew how I want to speak to 3'ou ; but either
some one comes, or  I funk it. I am more
afraid of you than of the Queen."

Afraid of me !" Lucy laughed a little ; but
looked at him, and grew nervous in spite of herself.
" Don't you think we had better wait for
the others ?" she said.

I have funked it fifty times ; but it does not
get any easier by being put off  for if you were
to say you would have nothing to do with me
I don't know what would happen," said Ray.
He spoke with real alarm and horror, for indeed
he did know something that would inevitably
happen. The cutting short of all his pleasures,
the downfall of a hundred hopes. *' We have
seen a great deal of each other since you came
home, and we have got on very well."

'* Oh, yes," said Lucy, " very well I I think I
hear them coming this way."

No, they are not likely to come this way.
I have always got on well with you, I don't know
how it is ; often I can't get on with ladies ; but

you are always so jolly, you are so good-tempered
; I don't know any one half so nice," said
the youth, growing red. "I am not a hand at
compliments, and I never was what you call a
ladies' man," he continued, floundering and feeling
that he had made a mistake in thus involving
himself in so many words. " Look here, I think
you are the very nicest girl I ever met in my
life."

Oh, no," Lucy said, growing graver and more
grave, " I am sure you are making a mistake."

Not the least a mistake I like everything
about you," said Raymond, astonished at his
own fervour and sincerity. " You are always so
jolly ; and we have known each other all our
lives, when we were quite babies, don't you
remember? I always called you Lucy then.
Lucy  our people seem to think that you and I
don't you think? 1 do believe we should get
on just as well together all our lives, if you were
willing to try."

Oh, Mr. Raymond," cried Lucy distressed,
why, why should you talk to me like this ?
We are good friends, and let us stay good friends.

I am sure you don't in jour heart want anything
more."

But I do," cried Raymond piqued. " You
think I am too young, but I am not so very
young ; many a fellow is married before he is
my age. Why shouldn't I want a wife as well
as the others ? I do ;  but Lucy, there is no wife
I care for but you."

Mr. Raymond, we must make haste or we
shall be caught in the rain''

What do I care if we are caught in the rain ?
But there is not going to be any rain, it was only
to get rid of the others," Raymond said breathless
; and then he added with almost tragical
pleading. " It would be better for me that we
should be swept away by the rain than that you
should not give me an answer." He put his
hand upon her sleeve. *' Lucy, is it possible that
you do not like me ?" he said.

I like you very well," cried Lucy with tears
in her eyes, *' but oh, why should you talk to me
like this? Why should you spoil everything?
You will think after this that we never can befriends
any more."

Then you will not ?" said Ray. He was a

great deal more disappointed than he had thought
he could be, and even the satisfaction of having
got it over did not console him. His face
lengthened more and more, as he stood opposite
to her, barring her passage, leaning against the
stem of a tree. " I never thought you would be
so hard upon a fellow. I never thought," said
Raymond, his lip quivering, " that, after all, you
would throw me off at the last."

I am not throwing you off at the last  it has
always been the same," said Lucy ; " oh, could not
you have left me alone f she cried half piteous,
half indignant. She walked straight forward,
passing him, and he did not any longer attempt
to bar the way. He followed with his head
drooping, his arms hanging limp by his side, the
very image of defeat and discomfiture. Poor
Ray ! he could have cried when he thought of all
he had lost, of all he was losing : and yet there
began to gleam over his mind a faint reflection of
content in that it was over. This at least was a
thing which nobody could expect him to repeat
any more.

CHAPTER X.

Discomfiture.

THE troubles of this interesting picnic were not
3'et over ; there was tea to be made over an
impromptu fire from a gipsy kettle, which the
young people generally thought one of the most
amusing performances of all. And indeed they
were all glad of the warmth of the tea, and
anxious to get as near as they could to the comforting
blaze of the fire, notwithstanding the
smoke which made their eyes smart. Mrs.
Rushton was busily engaged over this, when
Lucy and Ray, one following the other, made
their appearance in the centre of the proceedings ;
the others were dropping in from different sides,
and in the important operation of making the
tea Mrs. Rushton did not perceive the very

evident symptoms of what had happened. It was
only when a gleam of firelight lighted up the
group and showed her son, standing listless and
cast-down, full in the way of the smoke, and
receiving it as he might have received the fire
of an enemy, that the catastrophe became evident
to her. She gave him a hasty glance, half furious,
half pitiful. Was it all over? Poor Mrs. Rushton
! She was obliged to stand there over the fire
boiling her kettle, now and then getting a gust
of smoke in her face, and obliged to laugh at it,
appealed to on all sides, and obliged to smile and
reply, obliged to make believe that her whole
soul was absorbed in her tea-making, and in the
monotonous question, who took sugar, and who
did not ? while all the while her mind was distracted
with anxiety and full of a hundred
questions. Talk of pyschometric facts ! If Mr.
Galton would measure the thoughts of a poor
lady, who while she puts the tea in her teapot,
and inquires audibly with a sweet smile whether
Mrs. Price takes sugar, has all at once six ideas
presented to her consciousness : 1st. The discomfiture
of Ray ; 2nd. The alienation of Lucy 
3rd. Her husband's fury at all these unnecessary

expenses, which he had never countenanced ;
4th. The horse which would have to be sold
again, probable* at a loss, having failed like Ray ;
5th. How to get all her party home, it being
evident that Ray and Lucy would not ride together
as they came ; and 6th : with a poignant
sting that embittered all the rest, of the exultation
of her friends and rivals in witnessing her failure ;
If Mr. Galton could do that, weighing the weight
of each, and explaining how they could come
together, yet every one keep distinct, it would
indeed be worth a scientific philosopher's while.
But Mrs. Rushton, it is to be feared, would have
scoffed at Mr. Galton. She stood at the stake,
with the smoke in her face, and smiled like a
martyr. " Sugar ? I thought so, but so many
people don't take it. I lose my head altogether,"
cried the poor lady. "Ray, come here, make
haste and hand Mrs. Price her tea." Even when
Ray did come close to her, however, she could not,
encircled as she v>as, ask him any questions.
She looked at him, that was enough : and he in
reply slightly, imperceptibly, shook his head.
Good heavens! and there was the girl standing
quite unmoved, talking to somebody, after she
VOL. m. o

had driven a whole family to despair! What
could girls be made of, Mrs. Riishton thought ?

And just at the moment when this fire of suspense,
yet certainty, was burning in her heart, lo,
the heavens were opened, and a shower of rain
came pouring down, dispersing the company,
pattering among the trees. Mrs. Rushton was
like the captain of a shipwrecked ship, she was
the last to leave the post of danger. Though
the hissing of the shower forced up a black and
heavy cloud of smoke which nearly choked her,
she kept her place and shrieked out directions to
the others. " The Abbey ruins, the west wing,"
she cried ; there was shelter to be found there.
And now it was that Raymond showed how much
filial affection was left in him. He snatched a
waterproof cloak from the heap and put it round
his mother. " You want shelter as much as anyone,"
he cried. " Oh, Ray !" exclaimed the poor
lady as they hurried along together, the last of
all the scudding figures under umbrellas and
every kind of improvised shelter. She held his
arm tight, and he clung closely to her side.
There was no more said between them, as they
struggled along under the blinding rain. They

had both been extinguished, their fires put out,
their hopes brought to an end.

As for Lucy, she shrank away among the crowd,
and tried to hide herself from Mrs. Rushton's
eyes. She was not unconcerned, poor girl. Even
the little glimmer of indignation which had woke
in her was quenched in her sorrow for the
trouble and disappointment which she seemed to
bring to everybody. Only this morning she had
trembled before Mrs. Stone, and now it was these
other people who had been so kind to her, who
had taken so much pains to please her, whom she
had made unhappy. What could Lucy do "? She
did not want any of these men to come into her
life. She liked them well enough in their own
place ; but why should she marry them ? This
she murmured feebly in self-justification  but
her heart was very heavy; and she could not
offer any compensation to Ray. He was not
poor, he did not come into the range of the will.
She gathered her riding skirt up about her and
ran to the shelter of the Abbey walls when the
shower came on, little Jock running by her side
They had nearly reached that refuge when Jock
stumbled over a stone and fell, crying out to her

i

for help. Almost before Lucy could stop, however,
help came from another quarter. It was Bertie
Russell who picked the little fellow up, and
carried him safely into the west wing of the abbey,
where the walls were still covered by a roof.
He is not hurt," Bertie said, " and here is a dry
corner. Why did you run away, Miss Trevor? I
followed you everywhere, for I saw that there
was annoyance in store for you." " Oh, no," said
Lucy faintly ; but it was consolatory to find a
companion who would not blame her. He lifted
Jock up into a window-seat, and he found her
something to sit down upon and take breath, and
then he arranged a place for himself between them,
leaning against the wall.

Did you get wet?" Bertie said ; " after this you
will not think of riding home ? I have got a coat
which will cover Jock and you ; what made them
think of a picnic to-day? Picnics are always
dangerous in this climate, but in October !  Jock,
little fellow, take off your jacket, it is wet, and
put on this coat of mine."

But you will want it yourself," said Lucy,
very grateful. Bertie bore the aspect of an old
friend, and the people at Farafield, though she

had lived in Farafield all her life, were comparative
strangers to her. She was moved to laugh
when Jock appeared in the coat, which was so
much too large for him, a funny little figure, his
big eyes looking out from the collar that came
over his ears, but comfortable, and easy, and dry.
He has been wrapped in my coat before now,"
Bertie said. " Don't you remember, Jock, on the
Heath when I had to carry you home? Mary
expects to have him back. Miss Trevor, when you
return to town. I have not told you," continued
Bertie, raising his voice, " how Mrs. Berry-montagu
has taken me up, she who nearly made an
end of me by that review ? and even old Lady
Betsinda has smiled upon me; oh, I must tell you
about your old friends."

Their dry corner was by this time shared by a
number of the other guests, who were watching
the sky through the great hole of a ruined
window, and had nothing to talk about except
the chances of the weather, whether " it would
leave off," whether there was any chance of
getting home without a wetting, and sundry
doubts and questions of the same kind. In the
midst of these depressed and shivering people who

had nothing to amuse them, it was fine to talk of
Lady Betsinda and other names known in the
higher society of May fair ; and Bertie was not
indifferent to this, whatever Lucy's sentiments
might be.

'I ran over to Homburg for a few weeks,"
Bertie said. *' Everybody was there. I saw
Lady Randolph, who was very kind to me of
course. She is always kind. We talked of you
constantly, T need not tell you. But you should
have seen Lady Betsinda in the morning taking
the waters, without her lace, without her satin, a
wonderful little old mummy swathed in folds of
flannel. Can you imagine Lady Betsinda without
her lace?" said Bertie, delighted with the
effect he was producing. Mrs. Price and the rest
had been caught in the full vacancy of their discussion
about the rain. To hear of a Lady
Betsinda was always interesting. They edged
half consciously a little nearer, and stopped their
conjectures in respect to the storm.

I hear it is worth more than all the rest of
her ladyship's little property," Bertie said. " I
don't pretend to be a connoisseur, but I am told
she has some very fine Point d'Alen9on which

has never been equalled. Poor old Lady Betsinda
! her lace is what she stands upon. The
Duchess, they say, declares everywhere that the
Point d'Alen9on is an heir-loom, and that Lady
Betsinda has no right to it ; but if she were
separated from her lace I think she would die."

It is very dirty," said Lucy with simplicity.
She was not sure that she liked him to call the
attention of the others by this talk which everybody
could hear, but she was glad to escape from
the troublesome circumstances of the moment.

Dirty !" he said repeating her words in his
higher tones. " What is lace if it is not dirty?
you might say the same of the poor old woman
herself perhaps : but a Duke's daughter is always a
Duke's daughter, Miss Trevor, and point is always
point. And the more blood you have, and the
more lace you have, the more candid you feel
yourself entitled to be about your flannel. A
fine lady can always make a fright of herself with
composure. She used to hold out a grimy
finger to me, and ask after you."

After me ?" Lucy said shrinking. If he would
but speak lower, or if she could but steal away I
Everybody was listening now, even Mrs. Rushtou,

who had just come in shaking the rain off her
bonnet. She had found Lucy out the moment
she entered with that keen gaze of displeasure
which is keener than anything but love.

'' Yes," said Bertie still rising his voice. Then he
bent towards her, and continued the conversation
in a not-inaudible whisper. " This is not for everybody's
ears," he said. *' She asked me always,
How is little Miss Angel  the Angel of Hope.' "

A vivid colour covered Lucy's face. She was
looking towards Mrs. Rushton, and who could
doubt that Raymond's mother saw the flush and
put her own interpretation upon it ? Of this Lucy
did not think, but she was annoyed and disconcerted
beyond measure. She drew away as far
as possible among the little group around them.
Had she not forgotten all this, put it out of her
raindl Was there nobody whom she could
trust ' She shrank from the old friend with
whom she had been so glad to take refuge :
after all he was not an old friend : and was there
not, far or near, any one person whom she could
trust ?

When, however, the carriages came, and the
big break, into which Lucy and Emmie and little

Jock had to be crowded, since the weather was
too broken to make it possible that they could
ride home. Bertie managed to get the place next
her there, and engrossed her the whole way. He
held an umbrella over her head when the rain
came down again, he busied himself officiously in
putting her cloak round her, he addressed all his
conversation to her, talking of Lady Randolph,
and of the people w-hom they two alone knew.
Sometimes she was interested, sometimes amused
by his talk, but always disturbed and troubled by
its exclusiveness and absorbing character ; and
she did not know how to free herself from it.
The rest of the party grew tired, and cross, and
silent, but Bertie never failed. It was he who
jumped down at the gate of the Terrace, and
handed her down from amid all the limp and
draggled figures of the disappointed merrymakers.
They were all too wet to make anything
possible but the speediest return to their homes,
notwithstanding the pretty supper-table all
shining with flowers and lights which awaited
them in the big house in the Market-place, and
at which the Rushtons tired and disappointed, and
drenched, had to sit down alone. Bertie was the

only cheerful voice which said good night. He attended
her to her door with unwearying devotion.
Raymond, who had insisted upon riding after the
carriages, passed by all wet and dismal, as the
door opened. He put his hand to his hat with
a morose and stiff salutation. With the water
streaming from the brim of that soaked hat, he
passed by stiffly like a figure of despair. And
Bertie laughed. " It has been a dismal expedition,
but a most delightful day. There is nothing
I love like the rain," he said.

CHAPTER XL

P H I L I P'S DECISION.

SOME one else got down from the break after
Lucy had been carefully handed out by
Bertie, and followed her silently in the rain and
dark to the door. He went in after her, with a
passing nod of good night to Bertie, who was
somewhat discomfited when he turned round and
almost stumbled upon the dark figure of Lucy's
cousin, who went in after her with the ease of
relationship without any preliminaries. Bertie
was discomfited by this apparition, and felt that
a cousin was of all things in the world the
most inconvenient at this special moment. But
he could do nothing but retire when the door
was closed, and return to his sister, who was'
waiting for him. He could not bid Philip begone,

or forbid him to interfere. Philip had a
right, whereas Bertie had none. But he went
away reluctantly, much disposed to grumble at
Katie, who awaited him very quietly at the corner
of the road. Katie's heart was not so light as
usual, any more than her brother's. Why did
Mr. Rainy leave her without a word when, following
Bertie and Lucy, he had helped her out of
the crowded carriage ? They had been together
almost all the day, and Katie had not minded
the rain ; why had he left her now, so hastily,
without anything but a good night, instead of
taking the opportunity of going with her to the
White House, as he had done before? Two
heads under one umbrella can sometimes make
even the mud and wet of a dark road supportable,
and Katie had expected this termination to
the day with a little quickening of her heart.
But he had put up his umbrella over her, and
had left her, following her brother with troubled
haste, leaving Katie wounded and disappointed,
and a little angry. It was not even civil, she
said to herself, and one or two hot tears came to
her eyes in the darkness. When Bertie joined
her, she said nothing, nor did he. They crossed

the road and stumbled through the mud and
darkness to the White House, where Katie did
not expect a very cheerful reception ; for she
knew, having her faculties sharpened by regard
for her brother's interest, that something had
happened to St. Clair, who had gone so abruptly
away.

'* What does Rainy w-ant going in there at this
time of night ?" Bertie said, as they slid along
the muddy way.

How should I know ?" Katie said sharply.
"I am not Mr. Rainy's keeper."

Poor girl, she did not mean to be disagreeable ;
but it was hard to be deserted, and then have her
attention thus called to the desertion.

"Is he after Lucy, too?" said her brother.
Oh, how blind men are ! not to see that if he were
after Lucy he was guilty of the most shameful
deceit to another.

*' Oh, I suppose you are all after Lucy ! she
turns all your heads ;" Katie cried, with a harsh
laugh. Money ! that was the only thing they
thought of; and what a fool she had been to
think that it was possible that anybody could
care for her with Lucy in the way !

As for Philip he went in, following Lucy, with
scarcely a word to anyone. Mrs. Ford came out
as usual disposed to scold, but she stopped when
she saw Philip behind. "I have something to
say to Lucy," he said, passing her with a nod,
and following Lucy upstairs. This made Mrs.
Ford forget that bedtime was approaching, and
that it was full time to bolt and bar all the
windows. She went into her parlour and sat
down, and listened with all the breathless awe
that surrounds a great event. What could he be
going to say ? what but the one thing that would
finish all doubt? Mrs. Ford had always been a
partizan of Philip. And though she fully valued
Lucy's fortune, it did not occur to her that a
girl could refuse " a good offer," for no reason at
all. That girls do still refuse " good offers," in
the very face of the statistics which point out to
them the excess of womankind and unlikelihood
of marriage, is one of those contradictions of
human nature which puzzle the philosopher.
Mrs. Ford thought that it was Lucy's first experience
of the kind, and though she was anxious
she cannot be said to have had much fear. She

put out her gas, all but one light, and waited,
alive to every sound.

It would be hard to say why it was that
Philip Rainy followed Lucy home. He had perceived
his mistake the last time they had been
together, and the folly of the constant watch
which he had kept upon her ; it had done him
harm, he felt  it had made him "lose caste,"
which was the most dreadful penalty he could
think of. And the result of this conviction was
that on being asked late, and he felt only on Lucy's
account, to this second party he had made up his
mind that this time he would possess his soul in
silence. The thought that Lucy's money might goto
make so me blockhead happy, some fool who had
nothing to do with the Rainys, was no less intolerable
to him than ever ; but he began to feel
that he could not prevent this by interfering
with Lucy's amusements, and that on the other
hand he lost friends so far as he was himself concerned.
Therefore he had carefully kept away
from Lucy during the whole day; and what else
was there to do? he fell immediately into the
still more serious Charybdis which balanced this
Scylla that is to say he found himself involuntarily,

almost unwillingly, by the side of Katie
Russell. Not much had been seen of them all
the day : they had not minded the threatening of
the rain. When the party was starting to go
away, they had been found atthe very last under the
same umbrella, leisurelymakingtheirwayunderthe
thickest of the trees, and keeping the whole party
waiting. Between that moment and the arrival
of the break at the Terrace, Philip could not have
given a very clear account of what had happened.
It had been a kind of troubled elysium, a happiness
darkened only by the thought which would
occur now and then that it was an unlawful pleasure,
and out of the question. He had no right to
be happy at least in that way. What he ought to
have done would have been to make himself useful
to everybody, to please the givers of the feast, and
to show himself the popular useful young man,
worthy of all confidence, which he had been
hitherto believed to be. This or else to secure
Lucy the heiress-cousin, whom he had the best
right to please to carry her ofi" triumphantly
before everybody's eyes, and to show all the small
great people, who patronized him, how entirely
superior he was to their patronage. But this

latter was a step that it would only have been
safe to take had he been entirely assured of its
success : and he was not at all assured of its
success either on one side or the other. Lucy
did not want him, and, he did net want Lucy.
This was the fact, he felt ; it was a fact that
filled him with vexation unspeakable. Why
should not he want Lucy ? why should he want
somebody quite different a little girl without a
sixpence, without interest or connection? Could
anything be so perverse, so disappointing ! but
he could not explain or analyze it. He was
forced to confess the fact, and that was all. He
did not want Lucy ; the question remained should
he compel himself to like her, and after that compel
her to like him, notwithstanding this double
indifference ? The titter with which his late appearance
had been received when he returned to
the party, and when Katie, all shamefaced and
blushing had been helped into the over-crowded
carriage, amid smiles, yet general impatience, for
the rain was coming down, and everybody was
anxious to get home  had shown him how far
astray from the path of wisdom he had gone.
Perhaps this conviction would have worn off had
VOL. m. p

he been by Katie's side crowded up into a corner,
and feeling himself enveloped in that atmosphere
of her which confused all his faculties with
happiness, whenever he was with her, yet was
not capable of being explained. But Philip was
thrust into an already too large cluster of men on
the box, and, crowded there amid the dripping of
the umbrellas, had time to turn over in his mind
many a troublesome thought. Whither was he
going? what had he been doing? was he mad
altogether to forget all his interests, to cast prudence
behind him and laugh at all that was
necessary in his circumstances ? The bitter predominated
over the sweet as he chewed the cud
of thought, seated on an inch of space among
the bags and hampers, and umbrellas of other men,
with the confused babble of the break behind
him, which was all one mass of damp creatures,
under a broken firmament of umbrellas, where a
few kept up a spasmodic fire of gloomy gaiety,
while all the rest were wrapped in still more
gloomy silence. He heard Katie's voice now
and then among the others, and was partially
wounded by the sound of it ; then took himself
to task and did his best to persuade himself that he

was glad she could talk and get some pleasure out
of it, and had not, like himself, dropped into a
nether-world of gloom from that foolish Paradise in
which they had lost themselves. Much better if
she did not care ! he said to himself, with a bitter
smile, and this thought helped to bring out and
increase his general sense of discomfiture. The
whole business must be put a stop to, he said, to
himself, with angry energy And this it was which,
when the break stopped to set down Lucy, suggested
to him the step he had now taken. Katie
was making her way out between the knees of the
other passengers, from the place at the upper
end of the carriage, where she had been all but
suffocated, when Philip jumped down. He
caught, by the light of the lamp, a grin on the
countenance of the man who was helping her
out, as he said, " Oh, here's Rainy." But for
that he would most likely have gone off with her
to the White House, and snatched a few moments
of fearful joy in the teeth of his own resolution.
But that grin drove him wild. He put
up his umbrella over her head, and left her
abruptly. " I must see Lucy to-night," he
said, leaving her there waiting for her brother.

P 2

It was brutal, he felt, after all that had passed ;
but what, unless he wanted to compromise himself
utterly, what could he do ? He took no time
to think, as he followed his cousin and her companion
through the rain.

But when he had followed Lucy silently upstairs,
he did not quite know what to do or say
next. Lucy stopped on her way to her room to
change her habit, and looked round upon him
with surprise. "Is it you, Philip?" she asked,
wondering , then added, " I am glad to see you,
I have scarcely seen you all day ;" and led the
way into the pink drawing-room. Philip sat
down as he was told, but he did not know why
he had come there, or what he wanted to say.

The party  has been rather spoilt by the
rain," she said.

I suppose so," he answered, vaguely. " Did
you like it ? Sometimes one does not mind the
rain."

I minded it very much," said Lucy, with a
sigh ; then, feeling that she was likely to commit
herself if she pursued this subject, she added,
I am rather glad the time is over for these

parties; they are  a trouble. The first one is
pleasant  the others  "

Then she paused, and Philip's mind went back
to the first one, and to this which was just over.
He had not enjoyed the first, except the end of it,
when he took Katie home. And this he had enjoyed,
but not the end. His imagination escaped
from the present scene, and he seemed to see Katie
going along the muddy road, under his umbrella,
but without him. What could she think? that
he had abandoned her ? or would she care
whether he abandoned her or not ?

That depends," said Philip, oracularly, and,
like Lucy, with a sigh ; though the sigh was
from a different cause. Then he looked at her
across the table. She had not seated herself,
but stood in her habit, looking taller and more
graceful than usual, more high-bred too ; for the
girls whom Philip was in the habit of meeting
did not generally indulge in such an expensive
exercise as that of riding. He looked at her with
a sort of spectator air, as though balancing her
claims against those of the others. *' I should not
wonder," he said, " if you would like your season

at Farafield to be over altogether, and to be
free to go back to your fine friends."

*' Why should you say my fine friends" said
Lucy, with gentle indignation : and then more
softly, but also with a sigh, for she had been left
for a long time without any news of one at least of
them, whom she began to think her only real
friend "but indeed you are right, and I
should be very glad to get back all was so quiet
there."

So quiet ! If you are not quiet in Farafield,
where should you know tranquillity f cried
Philip, with a little mock laugh. He felt that
she must intend this for a joke, and in his present
temper it seemed to him a very bad joke.

Lucy looked at him with a momentary inquiry
in her eyes a question which had a great
deal of wistfulness and anxiety in it. Could she
tell her troubles to him ? He was her kinsman 
who so well qualified to advise her? But then
she shook' her head, and turned away from him
with an impatient sigh.

What is it you mean ?" he said, with some
excitement. His mind was in a turmoil, which
he could not tell how to still. He felt himself at

the mercy of his impulses, not knowing what
he might be made to do in the next five minutes.
It was the merest " toss-up" what he would do.
Never had he felt himself so entirely irresponsible,
so without independant meaning, so ready to be
hurried in any direction. He did not feel in him the
least spark of love for Lucy. He felt impatient
with her, wroth with all the world for making so
much of her, indignant that she should be preferred
to others. But with all that he did not
know what he might find himself saying to her
next moment. The only thing was that it would
not be his doing, it would be the force of the
current of Fate, on which he felt himself whirling
along  to be tossed over the rapids or dashed
against the rocks, he did not know how or when.
What do you mean ?" he repeated ; *' you look
mysterious, as if you had something to tell 
what is it. I have seen nothing of you the whole
day. We have been nominally at the same party,
and we are cousins, though you don't seem to
remember it much, and we once where friends ;
but I have scarcely seen you. You have been
absorbed by other attractions, other companions."

Philip !" said Lucy faltering and growing
pale. Was he going to desert her too ?

Yes !" he said, *' it is quite true. I am one
that it might have been supposed likely you
would turn to. Natural feeling should have made
you turn to me. I have always tried to stand
by you ; and you have got what would have
enriched the whole family  all to yourself. Nature
pointed to me as your nearest ; and yet you
have never," he said, pausing to give additional
bitterness to his words, and feeling himself
caught in an eddy, and whirling round in that
violent stream without any power of, his own,
never shown the slightest inclination to turn
to, or to cling to, me."

Indeed, indeed, Philip  " Lucy began.

Why should you say indeed, indeed ? What
is indeed, indeed? Just what I tell you. You
have never singled me out, whoever might be
your favourite. All your family have been put
at a disadvantage for you ; but you never singled
me out, never showed me any preference  which
would have been the best way of setting things
right."

There was a look of alarm on Lucy's face. " If

it is my money, Philip, I wish you had the half
of it, or the whole of it," she said. *' I wish
I could put it all away, and stand free."

It is not your money," he sid, '' it is

your " And here he stopped short, and looked

at her with staring troubled eyes. The eddy
had nearly whirled him away, when he made a
grasp at the bank, and felt himself, all at once,
to recover some mastery of his movements. He
did not know very well what he had been going

to say : '' your " what ? love ? It was not love

surely. Not such a profanation as that. He
looked at her with a sudden suspicious threatening
pause. Then he burst again into a harsh
laugh. " What was I going to say I don't
know what I was going to say ?"

What is the matter with you, Philip ? I
am your friend and your cousin ; there is something
Wrong  tell me what it is." Lucy came
up to him full of earnest sympathy, and put
her hand on his shoulder, and looked with hectic
anxiety in his. face. " Tell me what it is," she
said, with a soft tone of entreaty. " I am as
good as your sister, Philip. If I could not do
anything else, I could be sorry for you at least."

He looked up at her with the strangest staring
look, feeling his head go round and round ; and
then he gave another loud sudden laugh, which
alarmed her more. "I'll tell you," he said,
'' yes ! I'll tell you. It is the best thing I can
do. I was going  to make love to you. Lucy  
love ! for your money."

She patted him softly on the shoulder, soothing
him as if he had been a child confessing a
fault. " No, no, Philip, no. I am sure you
were not thinking of anything so unkind."

Lucy !" he said, seizing her hand, the other
hand. She never even removed the one which
lay softly, soothing him, on his shoulder. " You
are a good girl. You don't deserve to have a
set of mean hounds round you as we all are.
And yet  there are times when I feel as if 1
could not endure to see you give your fortune,
the great Rainy fortune, to some  other fellow.
There ! that is the truth."

Poor Philip !" she said, shaking her head,
and still moving her hand softly on his shoulder
with a little consolatory movement, calming him
down. Then she added with a smile, " You need
not be in any trouble for that, for I am not

going to give it to any  fellow. I never can by
the will."

I don't put any trust in that," lie said, " no
one would put any trust in that. You will marry,
of course, and then  it will be as Providence
ordains, or your husband. He will take the command
of it, and it will be his, whatever you may
think now."

I do not think so," said Lucy with a smile,
and, besides, there is no such person. You
need not trouble yourself about that."

Then Philip wrung her hand again, looking up
at her in such deadly earnest, that it took from
him all sense of humour, " Lucy, if I could
have fallen in love with you, and you with me,
that would have been the best thing of all," he
said.

But you see it has not happened, Philip ;
it is not our fault."

*' No, I suppose not," he said gloomily with
a sigh, " it is not my fault. I have tried my
best ; but things were too many for me." Here
he got up, shaking off unceremoniously Lucy's
hand. " Good night ! you must be damp in
your habit, and I've got wet feet," he said.

Mrs. Ford lay in wait for him as he came
downstairs, but he only said a hasty good-night
to her as he went away. His feet were wet, and
he realised the possibility of taking cold, which
would be very awkward now that the duties of
the school in Kent's Lane had recommenced.
Nevertheless, instead of going home, he crossed
the road, and went stumbling among the mud
towards the White House. What did he want
there ? he had a dim recollection of his umbrella,
but it was not his umbrella he wanted. And
Philip was fortunate, though, perhaps, he did
not deserve it. A light flashed suddenly out
from the White House as he reached the door.
Bertie had taken his sister back, and had gone
in, where he met but a poor reception. And
Katie had come out to the door to see her brother
depart. When she saw the other figure
appearing in the gleam of light from the door,
she gave a little shriek of mingled pleasure and
malice. " It is Mr. Rainy come for his umbrella !
Here it is !" she said, diving into the hall and
re-appearing with the article in question, all wet
and shining. She held it out to him, with a
laugh in which there was a good deal of excitement,

for Katie had not been without her share
in the agitations of the evening. " Here is your
umbrella, Mr. Rainy. I was so glad to have it,
and it is so good of you to save me the trouble
of sending it back." Philip stepped close up to
the door, close to her as she stood on the threshold.
" It was not for the umbrella I came," he
said, as he took it from her. " I came only to
look at the house you were in." It was a strange
place to make a declaration, with Bertie within
hearing, the dark and humid night on one side,
the blazing unsympathetic light of the hall on
the other. But he was excited too, and it seemed
a necessity upon him to commit himself, to go
beyond the region of prudence, the place from
which he could draw back. Katie grew suddenly
pale, then blushed crimson, and drew away from
the door, with a wavering hesitating consent.
That was not much worth the while," she said
hurriedly. " Are you coming my way, Rainy,"
said Bertie, who did not understand anything
about it, and had his head full of other
thoughts.

CHAPTER XII.

WHAT THE LADIES SAID.

When Lucy awoke next morning, a world
of cares and troubles seemed to surround
her bed. The previous day seemed nothing buta
long embroglio of discomforts one after the
other. First her interview with Mrs. Stone, then
Raymond's efforts to secure her attention, which
she had not understood at the time, but which, as
she looked back upon them, formed into a consistent
pursuit of her which Lucy could not now
believe herself to have been quite unconscious
of. It seemed to her now that she had been
hunted, and had managed to get away again and
again, only to fall, at last, into the snare from
which she finally escaped only with another hurt
and wound. Poor Ray's version of this would

have been a very different one. He would have
said that it was he who had been wounded and
beaten, and that Lucy had remained mistress
of the field. But that was not her own sensation.
She had been hunted, and she had escaped,
but with the loss of another friend, with the
sense of having brought pain and disturbance to
another set of people, who had been kind to her,
and narrowed the world round about her. It
seemed to Lucy, when she opened her eyes that
morning, as if the skies were getting narrower
and narrower, the circle of the universe closiiig
in. It was becoming like the terrible prison in
the story, which got less and less every day, till
it crushed the unhappy inhabitant within. The
White House first, and now the Rushtons. Where
was she to turn for safety '?

When she went downstairs, she found Mrs.
Ford much disposed to improve the occasion,
and preach a sermon upon the discomforts of
pleasure-seeking.

*' I hope it will teach her a lesson," said Mrs.
Ford, " a woman at that age with pleasure never
out of her head. Oh I I could forgive a child like
you. You have not learned yet what vanity and

vexation of spirit it all is ; but a woman with
children grown up, I wonder she is not ashamed
of herself! and a fine company of draggle-tails
you must have been when you came home. If
I were Mr. Rushton, I should give my wife a
piece of my mind. I would not allow, nor countenance,
for a moment, such silly goings on."

Mrs. Rushton did not do it for herself. Aunt
Ford."

Oh, don't tell me ! Do you suppose shed
do it, if she didn't like it ? Do you ever catch
me at that sort of folly ? I almost wished you
to get something that would disgust you with
such nonsense; but nothing will convince you,
Lucy, nothing will make you see that it is your
money, and only your money  "

How glad Lucy was when the meal was over,
and she could escape upstairs ! how thankful
to have that pink drawing-room to take refuge
in, though it was not a lovely place ! Jock came
with her, clinging to her hand. Jock's eyes
were bigger than ever as he raised them to his
sister's face, and she, on her part, clung to him
too, little though be was. She held Jock close
to her, and gave him a tremulous kiss when they

entered that lonely little domain in which they
spent so much of their lives. When the door
was closed and everything shut out, even the
voices of the household which lived for them,
yet had nothing to do with them, this room represented
the world to Lucy and Jock. Even
with the household, they had no special tie 
not even a servant attached to them, as they
might have had if they had been brought up like
the children of the rich. But they had been just
so brought up that even the consolation of a kind
nurse, an attendant of years, was denied to
them, in the dismal isolation of that class which
is too little raised above its servants to venture
to trust them  which dares not to love its inferiors,
because they are so very little inferior, yet
will not bow to anything as above itself. They
had nobody accordingly. Lucy's maid even had
been sent away. Jock had no old nurse to take
refuge with ; they clung together, the most forlorn
young pair. " Is it your money, and only
your money," said the little boy, " as Auntie
Ford says ?"

Oh Jock, how can I tell ? I wish you and I
had a little cottage somewhere in a wood, or on

VOL. III. Q

an island, and could go far away, and never see
any one any more !'*

And Lucy cried ; her spirit was broken, her
loneliness seemed to seize upon her all at once,
and the sense that she had no one to fall back
upon, nobody to whom her money was not the
inducement. This was an idea which in her
simplicity she had never conceived before. She
had thought a great deal of her money, and
perhaps she had scarcely formed any new acquaintances
without asking herself whether they
wanted her help, whether it would be possible to
place them upon the privileged list. It had been
her favourite notion, the thing that occupied her
mind most ; but yet Lucy thinking so much
of her money, never thought that it was
because of her money that people were kind to
her. It had seemed so natural, she was so grateful,
and her heart was so open to all that made a
claim upon it. And she and Jock were so lonely,
so entirely thrown upon the charity of those
around them. Therefore she had never thought
of her wealth as affecting anyone's opinion of
herself. Had any of her friends asked for a
share of it, represented themselves or others as in

need of it, Lucy would have listened to them
with delight, would have given with both hands
and a joyful heart, at once gratifying herself and
doing her duty according to her father's instructions.
But that her friends should seek her
because she was rich, and that one man after
another should startle her youth with proposals
of marriage because she was rich  this was an
idea that had never entered into Lucy's mind
before. " Your money, and only your money :"
the words seemed to ring in her ears, and when
Jock asked wondering if this were true, she could
not make him any reply : oh, how could she tell ?
oh, that she had wings like a dove, that she
might fly away, and hide herself and be at rest !
and then she cried. What more could a girl so
young and innocent do?

Jock stood by her side, by her knee, and
watched her with large serious eyes, which
seemed to widen and widen with the strain and
dilation of tears ; but he would not cry with Lucy.
He said slowly in a voice which it took him a
great deal of trouble to keep steady. " I do not
think that Sir Tom "

Oh," cried Lucy, putting him away from her

Q 2

with a burst of still warmer tears. '' Sir Tom I
You don't know, Jock. Sir Tom is unkind too."

Jock looked at her, swallowing all his unshed
tears with an effort ; he looked at her with that
scorn which so often fills the mind of a child, to
see the want of perception which distinguishes
its elders. "It is you that don't know," said
Jock. He would not argue the question. He
left her, shaking as it might be the dust off his
feet, and took the Heroes from the table, and
threw himself down on his favourite rug. He
would not condescend to argue. But after he
had read a dozen pages, he paused and raised
himself upon his elbows, and looked at her with
fine contempt. " You !" he said, " you wouldn't
have known the gods if you had seen them.
You would have thought Here was only a big
woman. What is the good of talking to you f

Lucy dried her eyes in great surprise ; she was
quite startled and shaken by the reproof. She
looked at the little oracle with a respect which
was mingled at once with awe and with gratitude.
If he would but say something more! But,
instead of uttering any further deliverance, he
dropped his elbows again, and let himself down

into the rug, and became altogether unconscious
at once of her presence and her difficulties, indifferent
as the gods themselves to the sorrows of
mortal men.

It is not to be supposed, however, that, after
all this, Lucy could settle with much tranquillity
to her book, which was the history which she had
been reading so conscientiously. When St. Clair
had withdrawn, he had taken with him the
history book (it was Mr. Froude's version of
that oft told tale), which was as easy to read as
any novel, and Lucy was left with her old textbook,
which was as dry as facts could make it.
She could not read, the book dropped upon her
knee half a dozen times in half an hour, and the
time of study was nearly over when some one came
with a soft knock to the door. It was Miss
Southwood who came in with a shawl round her,
and her close old-fashioned bonnet tied over her
ears. She came in somewhat breathless, and
plunged into a few set phrases about the weather
without a moment's pause.

What a dreadful day for your picnic ! I could
not help thinking of you through all that rain.
Did you get very wet, Lucy ? and you were riding

too. You must have got everything spoiled that
you had on."

Oh no, for we drove home ; but it was not
very pleasant."

Pleasant ! I should think not. It was very
foolish what could you expect in October?
Mrs. Rushton must have had some object. What
did she mean by it ? Ah, my dear, you were a
great deal safer in Maria's hands; that is a
scheming woman," cried Miss Southwood. Then
she touched Lucy on the arm, and made signs at
Jock on the rug, " wouldn't you ?  " she said,
making a gesture with her hand towards the
door, " for I want to speak to you by yourself."

You need not mind Jock," said Lucy ; " he
is always there. When he has a book to read he
never cares for anything else."

'' Oh ! I wouldn't trust to his not caring  little
pitchers  and then you never know when they
may open their mouths and blurt everything out.
Come this way a little," Miss Southwood said,
leading Lucy to the window, and sinking her
voice to a whisper. ** I have a note to you from
Maria ; but my dear I wouldn't give it you without
saying  you must not take it by the letter,

Lucy. For my part I don't agree with it at all.
It ought to have been sent to you last night ;
hut I am Frank's aunt as well as Maria. I have
a right to my say too ; and I don't agree with it,
I don't at all agree with it," Miss Southwood said
anxiously. She watched Lucy's face with gi-eat
concern while she opened the note, standing
against the misty-white curtains at the window.
The countenance of little Miss Southwood was
shaded by the projecting eaves of her bonnet,
but it was very full of anxiety, and the interval
seemed long to her though the note was short.
This is what Mrs. Stone said 

Dear Lucy,
On thinking over the extraordinary proposal
you made yesterday, I think it right to recommend
you to dismiss all idea of my nephew,
Frank St. Clair, out of your mind. Your offer
is very well meant, but it is impossible, and I
trust he will never be so deeply wounded as he
would be by hearing of the compensation which
you have thought proper to suggest. I don't
wish to be unkind, but it is only your ignorance
that makes the idea pardonable ; I forgive, and

will try to forget it ; but I trust aou will take
precautions to prevent it from ever reaching the
ears of Mr. St. Clair.

"Your friend,

"Maria Stone."

This letter brought the tears to Lucy's eyes.
I did not mean to be unkind. Oh, Miss South-wood,
you did not think I wanted to insult anyone
!"

It is all nonsense ; of course you never meant
to insult him," said Miss Southwood, anxiously.
It is Maria who is cracked, I think. Money is
never an insult  unless there is too little of it,"
she added, cautiously. " Of course if you were
to offer a gentleman the same as you would give
to a common man  But m} opinion, Lucy, is
that Frank himself should be allowed to judge.
We ought not to sacrifice his interest for our
pride. It is he himself who ought to decide."

I do not want to give too little. Oh !" said
Lucy, " if you knew how glad I would be to
think it was all gone ! I thought at first it would
be delightful to help everybody  to give them
whatever they wanted."

But if you give all your money away, you
will not be a very great heiress any more."

"That was what papa meant," said Lucy.
"He thought because my uncle made it, I should
have the pleasure of giving it back."

Miss Southwood looked at her with a very
grave face. " My dear," she said, " if I were
you I would not speak of it like this, I would
not let it be known. As it is you might marry
anybody ; you might have a duke, I verily believe,
if you liked ; but if it is known that the money is not
yours after all, that you are not the great heiress
everybody thinks, twill spoil your prospects, Lucy.
Listen to me, for I am speaking as a friend : now
that you are not going to marry Frank, I can't
have any motive, can I ? I would not say a
word about it till after I was married, Lucy, if
I were in your place. It will spoil all your prospects,
you will see."

She raised her voice unconsciously as she gave
this advice, till even little Jock was roused. He
got upon bis elbows and twisted himself round
to look at her. And the stare of his great eyes
had a fascinating effect upon Miss Southwood.
She turned round, involuntarily drawn by them,

and said, with a half shriek, " Good Lord ! I
forgot that child."

As for Lucy she niade no reply; she only half
understood what was meant by the spoiling of
her prospects, and this serious remonstrance had
much less effect upon her, than words a great
deal less weighty. " Will you tell me what I am
to do f she said, simply ; " and how much do you
think it should be, Miss Southwood ? Gentlemen
spend a great deal more than women. I
will write at once to my guardian."

To your guardian !" Miss Southwood cried ;
and this time with a real though suppressed
shriek, " you will write to your guardian about
Frank ?"

Here Lucy laughed softly in spite of herself.
You do not think I could keep thousands of
pounds in my pockets? and besides it has all to
be done like business."

Like business !" Miss Southwood was unreasonably,
incomprehensibly, wounded ; " write
to your guardian," she said, faintly ; " about
Frank ? manage it like business. Oh, Lucy, I
fear it was I that was mistaken, and Maria that
understood you, after all !"

Why did she cry ? Lucy stood by wondering,
yet troubled, while her visitor threw herself into
a chair and wept. *' Oh !" she cried, " I that
thought you were a lady I but what is bred in the
bone will come out. To offer a favour, and then
to expose a person  who is much better born
and more a gentleman than yourself!"

This new blow entirely overwhelmed Lucy.
She did not know what to reply. Whatever
happened she began to think, she must always be
in the wrong. She was not a lady, she had no
delicacy of feeling ; had not Mrs. Russell said
so before ? Lucy felt herself sink into unimaginable
depths. They all despised her, or what was
worse, thought of her money, shutting their
hearts against herself, and she was so willing, so
anxious that they should have her money, so
little desirous to get any credit from it. After a
while she laid her hand softly upon her visitor's
shoulder. "Miss Southwood," she said, in her
soft, little, deprecating voice, " if you would
only think for a moment, I am only a girl, I do
not keep it myself. They only let me have a
little, just a little when I want it. It is in the will
that my guardians must know, and help me to

decide. Dear Miss Soutbwood, don't be angry,
for I cannot I cannot do anything else. It is
no disgrace not to have money, and no credit or
pleasure to have it," Lucy said, with a deep
sigh ; " no one can know that so well as me."

You little goose," said Miss South wood, " why
it is everything to you ! who do you think would
have taken any notice of you, who would have
made a pet of you, but for your money ? I mean,
of course," she said, with a compunction, seeing
the effect her words produced, "except steady
old friends like Maria and me."

Poor little Lucy had grown very pale; her
limbs trembled under her, her blue eyes got a
wistful look which went to the heart of the
woman who had not, so opaque are some intelligences,
intended to be unkind. Miss Southwood,
even now, did not quite see how she had been
unkind. It was as plain as daylight to her that
old John Trevor's daughter had no claim whatever
upon the consideration of ladies and gentlemen,
except on account of her money ; which
was not to say that she might not, however, have
friends in a humbler class, who might care for
her, for herself alone. As for Lucy she dropped

down upon a chair, and said no more ; her heart
was as heavy as lead. Wherever she turned, was
not this dismal burden taken up and repeated,
Your money, and your money alone."

Oh, no, it does not matter. Must I write to
Mr. Chervil, or must it all be given up?" said
Lucy, faintly, "and Mr. St. Clair?"

If you think so much of him why, why can't
you make up your mind and have him ?" cried his
aunt. " It is not anything so much out of the
way, when one knows all the circumstances : for
you will not really have such a great fortune
after all. Lucy, would it not be much better ?"

Lucy shook her head ; she did not feel herself
capable of words, and Miss Southwood was
about to begin another and an eloquent appeal,
when there was once more a summons at the door,
and some one was heard audibly coming up stairs.
A minute after Mrs. Rushton appeared at the
drawing-room door. She was flushed and preoccupied,
and came in quickly, not waiting for
the maid ; but when she saw Miss Southwood, she
made a marked and sudden pause.

I beg your pardon. I thought I should find
you alone, Miss Trevor, at this early hour."

I am just going," Miss South wood said ; and
she kissed Lucy affectionately, partly by way of
blowing trumpets of defiance to the rival power.
Don't conclude about what we were speaking
of till I see you again ; be sure you wait till I
see you again," she said, as she went away.
Mrs. Rushton had not sat down, she was evidently
full of some subject of importance. She
scarcely waited till her predecessor had shut the
door.

I have come to say a few words to you which
I fear will scarcely be pleasant, Miss Trevor ;"
she said.

Lucy tried to smile, she brought forward her
softest easy-chair with obsequious attention.
She had something to make up to Raymond's
mother. "I hope nothing has happened," she
said.

"I will not sit down, I am much obliged to
you. No, nothing has happened, so far as I
know. It is about yourself I wanted to speak.
Miss Trevor, you afforded a spectacle to my
party yesterday, which I hope never to see repeated
again. I warned you the other night that
you were flirting  "

Liic's countenance, which had been full of
alarm, cleared a little, she even permitted herself
to smile. " Flirting f ' she said.

I don't think it a smiling matter. You have
no mother," said Mrs. Rushton, " and we are all
sorry for you  in a measure, we are all very sorry
for you. We know what the manner of fashionable
circles are, at least of some fashionable circles,
are. I have always said that to put you, with
your antecedents, into the hands of a woman like
Lady Randolph ! But I have nothing to do with
that, I wash my hands of that. The thing is
that it will not do here."

Lucy said nothing. She looked at her new
tormentor wistfully, begging for mercy. What
had she done t

Yesterday opened my eyes," said Mrs. Rushton,
with a heat and energy which flushed her
cheeks. " I have been trying to think you were
all a nice girl should be. I have been thinking
of you," said the angry woman with some
sudden natural tears, "as one of my own.
Heaven knows that is what has been in my
mind. A poor orphan though she is so rich.

that is what I have always said to myself  poor
thing ! I will try to be a mother to her."

Oh, Mrs. Rushton, you have been very kind.
I know it seems ungrateful," cried Lucy with
answering tears of penitence, "but if you will
only think what was I to do?  I don't want
to marry anyone. And Mr. Raymond is  I
had never thought  "

There was a momentary pause. Mrs. Rushton
had a struggle with herself. Nature had sent
her here in Raymond's quarrel, eager to avenge
him somehow, and her mind was torn with the
desire to take his part openly, to declare herself
on her boy's side, to overthrow and punish the
girl who had slighted him. But pride and prudence
came, though tardily, to her assistance
here. She stared at Lucy for a moment with
the blank look which so often veils a supreme
conflict. Then she said with an air of surprise.
*' Raymond ? Do you mean my son ? I cannot
see what he has to do with the question."

Lucy felt as a half-fainting patient feels when
the traditionary glass of cold water is dashed in
her face. She came to herself with a little gasp
of astonishment. What was it then ? except in

the matter of refusing Ray her conscience was
void of all offence. She looked at Mrs. Rushton
with wonder in her wide open eyes.

** I do not know," Mrs. Rushton continued,
finding her ground more secure as she went on,
what you mean to insinuate about my boy. He
is not one that will ever lead a girl too far. No,
Lucy, that is a thing that will never happen. It is
when one of your town set appears that you show
yourself in jour true colours ; but perhaps it
is not your fault, perhaps Lady Randolph thinks
that quite the right sort of behaviour. I never
attempt to fathom the conduct of women of her
class."

At this Lucy began to feel an impulse if not
of self-defence, yet of resistance on her friend's
behalf. " Please do not speak so of Lady Randolph,"
she said with mild firmness ; " if you are
angry with me  I do not know why it is, but if
you are angry, I am very sorry, and you must
say what you please of me  but Lady Randolph !
I think," said Lucy, tears coming to her eyes,
if I am not to trust Lady Randolph, I may as
well give up altogether, for there seems no one
who will stand by me ! of all the people I know.'

VOL. m. R

Oh, Lady Randolph will stand by you, never
fear ; so long as you keep your fortune, you are
sure of Lady Randolph," cried Mrs. Rushton with
vehemence. " But as for other friends, Miss
Trevor, your behaviour must be their guide."

*' Why do you call me Miss Trevor," cried
Lucy, her courage giving way, " what have I
done ? If it is Raymond that has set you against
me, it is cruel. I have done nothing to make my
friends give me up," the poor girl cried, with
mingled shame and indignation ; for the
suggestion of unfit behaviour abashed Lucy, and
yet, being driven to bay, she could not but make
a little stand in her own defence.

Raymond again !" cried Mrs. Rushton with
an angry laugh, " why should you wish to mix
up my son in it? It is not Raymond, as I have
said before, that would lead any girl to make an
exhibition of herself but the moment you get
with one of your own set ! I call you Miss
Trevor, because I am disappointed, bitterly disappointed
in you. I thought you were a different
girl altogether, nice, and modest, and gentle, and
but I have my innocent Emmie to think of, and
I will not have her grow up with such an

example before her eyes. Therefore if you see
a difference in me you will know the cause of it.
I have treated you like a child of my own. I
have made parties for you, introduced you everywhere,
and this is my reward. But it is always
so ; I ought to console myself with that ; those weare
kind to are exactly those that turn upon
us and rend us. Oh ! what is that, are you
setting a dog upon me? You ungrateful, ill-mannered
"

There was no dog ; but Jock, unobserved by
the visitor, had been there all the time, and as
Mrs. Rushton grew vehement his attention had
been roused. He hud raised himself on his
elbows, listening with ears and eyes alike, and
by this time his patience was exhausted; the
child was speechless with childish fury. He took
the easiest way that occurred to him of freeing
Lucy. He seized the long folds of Mrs. Rushton's
train which lay near him in not ungraceful
undulations, and winding his hands into it, made
an effort to drag her to the door. The alarm
with which she felt this mysterious tug, which
very nearly overset her balance, got vent in a
shriek which rang through the whole house. " It

R 2

is a mad dog !" she cried, with a rush for the
door, carrying Jock along with her. But no
mortal thread could stand such an appendage.
Mrs. Rushton's dress was slight in fabric, and
gave way with a shrieking of stuff rent
asunder, and stitches torn loose. Lucy flew to
the rescue, catching her little champion in her
arms with outcries of horror and apology, yet
secret kisses of gratitude and consolation to the
flushed and excited child. It was at this moment
that Mrs. Ford, having put on her purple silk,
sailed into the room, her pace scarcely accelerated
by the cries she heard, for she owed it to herself to
be dignified in the presence of strangers whatever
happened. She paused a moment at the door, throwing
up her hands. Then, " For shame Jock ! for
shame !" she cried loudly, stamping her foot,
while Lucy kneeling down, kissing, and scolding,
and crying in a breath, endeavoured to unloose
the little passionate hot hands. " She should
let Lucy alone !" cried Jock with spasmodic fury.
He would have held on like the dog for which
his enemy took him, through any amount of
beating. " T do not wonder after the way in
which he has been brought up," cried Mrs. Rushton,
panting and furious as she got free.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE CUP FULL.

JOCK was not allowed to come down to dinner
that day, and Lucy, refusing to leave him,
sat with the culprit on her knee, their arms
clasped about each other, their hot cheeks touching.
" Oh, if we could go away ! if we only
had a little hut anywhere, you and me, in the
loneliest place, where we should never see any of
these people more," Lucy cried; and Jock,
though he was still in a state of wild excitement,
calmed down a little, and began to think of a
desolate island, that favourite fancy of childhood
*' I should not be so clever as Hazel was  for
he was a fellow that knew everything; but
couldn't I build you a house, Lucy ?" the little
fellow said, his wet eyes lighting up at the

thought. He had read " Foul Play" not long
before. Jock was not fond of the modern novel ;
but he made an exception in favour of Mr. Reade,
as what boy of sense would not do? With this
forlorn fancy they consoled themselves as they
sat dinnerless, clinging to each other  a lonely
pair. Mrs. Ford, half alarmed at the success of
her punishment, which was so much greater than
she expected, for, to do her justice, she wanted
only a lawful submission, and not to deprive the
little delicate boy of a meal, came upstairs several
times to the door to ask if Jock would submit;
but he would not say be was sorry, which was
what she required. *' Why couldn't she let my
Lucy alone ? I would do it again," he said, turning
a deaf ear to all Mrs. Ford's moral addresses.
All this time Lucy held him close, kissing his
little tear-wet cheek, and crying over him, so
that, perhaps, his firmness was not wonderful.
You should not encourage him, Lucy," said
Mrs. Ford. " Come down to your dinner. It is
a shame to encourage a little naughty boy ; and
you can't go without your dinner." " If you had
but one in all the world to stand up for you,
only one, would you go and forsake him ?" cried

Lucy, with floods of hot tears. And then Mrs.
Ford went downstairs very uncomfortable, as
are all enforcers of domestic discipline, when the
culprits will not give way. Against this kind of
resistance the very sternest of household despots
fight in vain, and Mrs. Ford was not a household
despot, but only an ignorant, well-meaning
woman, driven to her wit's end. If she were
unkind now and then, it was not that she ever
meant to be unkind. She grew more and more
uncomfortable as time after time she returned
beaten to the dinner-table downstairs, which she,
herself, could not take any pleasure in, because
these two troublesome young persons were fasting
above.

This was a mournful meal in the house. Ford
himself satisfying his usual good appetite in the
natural way, was fallen upon by his wife, and,
so to speak, slaughtered at his own table. The
dainty dishes she had prepared specially for
Lucy were sent away untouched, and the good
woman herself ate nothing. She did nothing
but talk all through that meal of Jock's misdemeanour.
" And Lucy spoils him so. She will
not listen to me. It is bad for the child  dreadfully

bad for the child. He ought to be at school,
knocking about among other boys. And instead
of that, she sits and cries and kisses him, and
goes without her dinner. It's enough to kill the
child," cried Mrs. Ford, " at his age, and a delicate
boy, to eat nothing all day."

Then why don't you let him come down and
have his dinner," said Ford, his mouth full of a
furtive morsel.

Oh, you never  you never understand anything
! Am I the one to ruin that child's morals,
and make him think he can do what he likes, for
the sake of a dinner ? Not till he gives in and
says he is sorry," said Mrs. Ford, pushing her
plate away with angry emphasis, " but it is
Lucy that makes me unhappy," she said, " anybody
 anything else for the sake of that boy."

And it cannot be denied that little Jock, at
least, heard the rattle of the plates and dishes
as thej were cleared away with a sinking of the
heart; but he would not give in. Lucy was
less moved by it. She had something of that
contempt for dinners which is an attribute of
the female mind, and she was worn with excitement,
cast down and discouraged in every way.

She said to herself that she could not have swallowed
anything ; the mere suggestion seemed
to bring a lump in her throat. She wanted to
see nobody, to turn her face to the wall, to
give in" altogether. Lucy could not have told
what vague mysterious despair was implied in
the idea of " giving in," but it seemed the end
of all things, the lowest depth of downfall. Notwithstanding
this wild desperation and desire
to turn her back upon all the world, it was a
very welcome interruption when Katie Russell
knocked softly at the door, and came in with a
subdued eagerness and haste which betrayed
that she had something to tell. Katie was not
like her usual self any more than Lucy was.
There was a soft flush upon her face, an unusual
excitement and brightness in her eyes.

She came in rapidly, with an " Oh, Lucy !"

then stopped short when she saw Jock, and the
lamentable air of the little group still clinging
close together, whose mournful intercourse she
had interrupted. Katie burst forth into a little
laugh of excitement. " What is the matter with
you?" she said. Jock slid out of Lucy's arms,
and Lucy rose up from her chair at this question.

They were glad enough to come to an
end of the situation, though they had both made
up their minds to accept no comfort. And
when Lucy had told the story, Katie's amusement
and applause did her friend good in spite of
herself. " Bravo, Jock !" Katie cried, with another
laugh, which her own personal excitement
and need of utterance had no small share in ;
and she was so much delighted by Mrs. Rushton's
discomfiture that both sister and brother
began to feel more cheerful. *' Oh, how I should
have liked to see her!" said Katie. And then
her own affairs, that were so urgent, rushed into
her mind with a fresh suffusion of her face and
kindling of her eyes. Lucy was not great in
the art of reading looks, but she could see that
there was something in Katie's mind that was in
the most urgent need of utterance  something
fluttering on her very lips that had to be said.
I have got free for the day," she said, with a
little quaver in her voice. " Let us go somewhere
or do something, Lucy, I cannot stop still
in one place. I have something to tell you  "

I saw it directly in your face  what is it ?
what is it?" Lucy said. But it was not till she

had gone to her room to get her hat, where
Katie followed her, that the revelation came.
Will you have me for a relation V" the girl said,
crossing her hands demurely, and making a little
curtsey of pretended humility ; and then natural
emotion regained its power, and Katie laughed,
and cried, and told her story. " And you never
guessed !" she said ; " I thought you would
know in a moment. Didn't you notice anything
even yesterday ? Ah, I know why 1 you were
thinking of your own affairs."

I was not thinking of any affairs," said Lucy,
with a sigh ; " I was tormented all day : but never
mind  tell me. Philip ! he has always seemed
so solid, so serious."

"And isn't this serious?" said Katie. "Oh,
you don't half see all that it means. Fancy !
that he should turn his back upon all the world,
and choose me, a girl without a penny !"

*' But all the world? I don't think Philip had
so much in his power. What did he turn his
back upon? But I am very glad it is you,"
Lucy said. Still her face was serious. She had
not forgotten, and she did not quite understand
the scene of last night.

Katie grew very serious too. " I want to
speak to you, Lucy," she said. "We are two
girls who have always been fond of each other ;
we always said we would stand by each other
when we grew up. Lucy, look here, if you ever
thought of Philip  if you ever once thought of
him  I would cut off my little finger rather than
stand in his way !"

Hot tears were in her eyes ; but Lucy looked
at her with serious surprise, wondering, yet not
moved. "I don't know what you mean," she
said.

Oh, but you must know what I mean, Lucy !
Perhaps you are not clever; but everybody
always said you had a great deal of sense. And
you know you are the greatest prize that ever
was. How can you help knowing? And Philip
is one that you have known all your life. Oh,
Luc}, tell me, tell me true ! Don't you think I
would make a sacrifice for Am? It would
break my heart," cried the girl, "but I would
sacrifice myself and Bertie, too, and never think
twice  for him ! Answer me, answer me true ;
between you and me, that have always been fond
of each other. Lucy !" cried Katie, seizing her

hands with sudden vehemence, " answer me as
if we were two little girls at school. Did you
ever think of Philip? Would you have had him
if if he had not liked me?"

Lucy drew her hands away with an energy
which was violence in her. " I think you are all
trying to drive me out of my senses 1 1 think
of Philip or anyone I I never did, I never will,"
she cried, with sudden tears. " I don't want to
have anyone, or to think of anyone, as you
say. Will you only let me alone, all you people ?
First one and then another ; and not even pretending,"
the poor girl cried with sobs, '* that it
is for me."

I am not like that, Lucy," Katie said, in
mournful tones ; for why should Lucy cry, she
asked herself, if it were not that she had
thought of " Philip. '' I am fond of you, and
I know you would make anyone happy. It is
not only for your money. Oh, I know, I know,"
Katie cried ; " what a difference it would make
to him if he married you : and what is pride
between you and me ? Only say 3'ou care for
him the very least in the world  only say  .
Lucy," cried Katie, solemnly, " if it was so,

though it would break my heart, I would make
poor Bertie take me off somewhere this very day,
to New Zealand or somewhere, and not leave a
word or a trace, and never see either of you
more."

Lucy had recovered a little spirit during this
last assault upon her. She had got to the lowest
depth of humiliation, she thought, and rebounded.
The emergency gave her a force that was not
usual to her. " I once read a book like that," she
said ; " a girl went away, because she thought
another girl cared for the gentleman. Don't
you think that would be pleasant for the other
girl? to think that she had made such an exhibition
of herself, and that the gentleman had
been cheated into caring for her ? I  I am sure
I never made any exhibition of myself," Lucy
cried, with rising warmth. *one is to me just
like another. I am very willing to be friends if
they will let me alone ; but as for Philip ! I am
glad you like him," she said, recovering her
serenity with an effort. " I am very glad you
are going to marry him. And, Katie !" here a
sudden thought flashed into the mind of the
heiress. If it ever could be made to appear

natural to g-ive money away, sure!}- here was the
occasion. She clapped her hands suddenly, with
an unaffected simple pleasure, which was all the
more delightful that it was a flower plucked, so to
speak, from the very edge of a precipice. " They
cannot say anything against that," she cried ; " it
will be only like a wedding present." And satisfaction
came back to Lucy's heart.

Oh, never mind about the wedding present 
so long as you like it, Luc"  that is the best''
cried the other; and then Katie's confidences
took the more usual form. " Fancy, I have not
seen him yet," she said ; " I got the letter only
this morning, and I answered it, you know.
Don't you think a girl should give an answer
straight off, and not keep him in suspense? for I
had always, always, you know, from the very
beginning, from that night when he came in 
don't you recollect ? Now I see you never can
have thought of Philip, Lucy, for you don't
recollect a bit ! It was a beautiful letter ; but it
was a funny letter, too. He said he could not
help himself. Oh, I understand it quite well f
Of course he did not want, if he could have

helped it, to marry a girl without a penny in the
world."

'' Does that matter, when he is fond of you ?"
Lucy said.

"Ah! it is only when you are awfully rich
that you can afford to be so disinterested," cried
Katie. " Naturally, he did not want to marry a
girl with nothing. And you may say what
you like, Lucy ; but for a man to have a chance
of you and like me the best ! There, I will never
say another word ; but if it makes me vain can I
help it ? To choose me when he had the chance
of you!"

*' He never had the chance of me," cried Lucy,
with returning indignation. " What do you all
take me for, I wonder ? Am I like something ina
raffle, in a bazaar ? Can people take tickets forme,
and draw numbers, and everyone have a
chance ? It is not like a friend to say so. And
there is no one, if you fail me, Katie, no one
that I can trust."

You may trust me, to my very last breath,"
cried Katie with indescribable fervour. And
Lucy felt, with a softening sensation of relief and
comfort, that surely here was a stronghold

opening for her: Katie and Philip. She could
trust in them if in nobody else. Philip had been
the one honest among all the people round her.
He had loved somebody else, he had not been
able to pretend that it was Lucy he loved. She
thought of the scene of the previous night with
an uneasy mixture of pleasure and pain. How
strange that they should all think so much of
this money, which to Lucy conveyed so little
comfort ! But Philip had escaped the snare.
And now she thought there could be no doubt
that she had found a pair of friends whom she
could trust.

"Jock all this time waited downstairs ; but he
was not Impatient. Jane, the housemaid, charged
with a sandwich which Mrs. Ford herself had
prepared, waylaid him on the landing, and Jock
wanted small persuading. He was a boy who
liked sandwiches ; and to have his own way and
that too, was enough to reconcile him to a little
waiting. He had just time to dispose of it while
the girls lingered ; and it was very good, and he
felt all the happier. He sallied forth a little in
advance, as was his habit when Lucy was not
alone, his little nose in the air, his head in the

VOL. III. s

clouds. He did not pay any attention to the
secrets the others were whispering ; why should
he ? At eight the superiority of sex is as acutely
felt as at any other age. Jock was loyal to his
sister through every fibre of his little being ; still
Lucy was only a girl when all was said.

It was a beautiful day after the yesterday's
rain. The blue of the sky had a certain sharpness,
as skies are apt to have when they have
wept much ; but the air was light and soft, relieved
of its burden of moisture. It was Katie who
was the directress of the little party, though the
others were not aware of it. She led them
through the streets till they reached a little
ornamental Park into which the High Street fell
at one end. Then suddenly in a moment, Katie
gave her friend's arm a sudden pressure. " Oh,
Lucy," she cried, " have a little feeling for In :
you have so much for me, have a little for him''
and disengaging herself, she ran on and seized
Jock's hand, who was marching serenely in front.
Lucy astonished, paused for a moment not knowing
how to understand this sudden desertion  and
found her hand in the hand of Bertie Russell,

who had appeared she could not tell from
whence.

This is good fortune indeed," he said, " what
a happy chance for me that you should take your
walk here !"

Lucy felt her heart flutter like a bird fallen
into a snare. It was not that she was frightened
for Bertie Russell, but it was that she had been
betrayed in the very tenderness of her trust.
"Katie brought us," she said gravely. Katie,
who was stimulating Jock to a race, had got
almost out of hearing, and the other two were
left significantly alone. Lucy felt her heart sink ;
was there another scene like that of yesterday to
be gone through again ?

Katie is perhaps more kind to me than she
is to you, Miss Trevor," said Bertie, " she knew
I wanted to tell you  various things ; and she did
not realise, perhaps, that it would be so disagreeable
to you."

This troubled Lucy in her sensitive dislike to
give pain. " Oh," she said, "Mr. Bertie, indeed
I did not mean to be rude."

You could not be rude," he said with an
audible sigh. " Those who have not the gift tos

2

please, have only themselves to blame. I wanted
to call, but your old lady does not like me, Miss
Trevor. I heard this morning from Mrs. Berry-montagu.
Did I tell you she had taken me up*?
She has been in Scotland in her husband's
shooting quarters, and she says Sir Thomas
Randolph is off to the East again."

To the East !" Lucy said ; what did it
mean? for a moment the sight seemed to go
out of her eyes, the world to swim round her.
A great giddiness came over her ; was she going
to be ill ? she did not understand what it was.

Yes," said Bertie's voice, quite unconcerned 
and, even in the midst of this wonderful mist and
darkness, it was a consolation to her that he did
not seem to perceive her condition. " When that
mania of travel seizes a man there is no fighting
against it. Mrs. Montagu says that Lady Randolph
is in despair."

I should think she will not like it," Lucy
said. The light was beginning slowly to come
back. She saw the path under her feet, and the
shrubs that stood on either hand, and Bertie by
her side whom she had been so alarmed to see,
but whom she thought nothing of now. What
did it mean? she was too much confused and

confounded in all her faculties to be able to tell.
And she asked no questions. That was why Sir
Tom had not written, had not taken any notice.
Lucy had thought herself very wretched, abandoned
by heaven and earth this morning, but
how different were her sensations now An
invisible prop had been taken away, which had
held her up without her own knowledge. She
felt herself sink down to the very dust, her limbs
and her courage failing alike. And all the time
Bertie's voice went on.

I have been wandering about the town, renewing
my acquaintance with it, and making
notes. May I tell you about what I am going todo,
Miss Trevor ? Perhaps it will only bore you ?
Well, if you will let me I am about beginning
my second book ; and your advice did so much forme
in the first. I know how much of ray success
I owe to you."

Oh no, no, Mr. Bertie," said Lucy, " you only
say so. I never gave you any advice, you don't
owe anything to me."

Perhaps not," he said with a smile. " Perhaps
the Madonna on the mast does not save the
poor Italian fisherman from the storm. You may

think, if you are a severe Protestant, that she has
nothing to do with it ; but he kneels down and
thanks our Lady when he gets on shore, and you
must let me thank the saint of ray invocation too."
Lucy made no reply. She did not understand
what he meant by all these fine words, and if she
had understood she did not care. What did it
matter ? His voice was not much more to her
than the organ playing popular tunes in the
street beyond. The two sounds made a sort of half
ludicrous concert to her ears. She heard them,
and heard them not, and went on in a maze, still
giddy, not knowing where she was going, keeping
very still to command herself. Gone to the East !
all that she thought had been over. He had
gone to Scotland, from whence he was to write,
and she to him, if she wanted advice or anything 
that was what he had said  anything ! And he
had written to her, but not for a long time. And
now he was going away again, going away
perhaps for ever. This was what was going on
in Lucy's mind while Bertie spoke. She had no
feeling about Bertie now, or about the betrayal
of her trust by his sister. What did it matter?
Sir Tom was going  going to the East. Sometimes

she felt disposed to grasp at Bertie's arm
to steady herself, and sometimes there came over
her an almost irretrievable impulse to break into
say " To the East ! do you mean that he is
really, really going to the East f It was only
instinct that saved her, not anything better.
When the words came to her lips, she
became vaguely conscious that he was talking
about something else.

Bertie, on his part, was too much occupied
with his own idea to perceive that Lucy was preoccupied
also. He thought indeed that she was
listening to him with a sort of interested absorption,
unresisting  which indeed was true
enough. Katie and Jock sped on before, leaving
him full space and leisure for his suit. She was
altogether at his mercy, walking downcast by
his side, listening timidly, too shy to make any
reply. It flashed across his mind that it was
just thus that he would describe a girl who was
going to yield and make her lover happy  make
him happy ! Yes, there could be no doubt of
that ; she would make him happy, as very few
had it in their power to do. The bliss Lucy
could bestow would be substantial bliss, yhat

appreciated efforts Bertie made ! the hero ina
novel was never more eloquent. He compared
Lucy to all manner of fine things. And she
heard him, and heard him not. It was very
hard upon Bertie. But when, beginning to
feel discouraged by her silence, he went back
upon the recollections of her life in Grosvenor
Street, Lucy woke up from her abstraction.
Even Mrs. Berry-Montague restored her interest.
May I send a message from you when I write
to her f he said. " She is always inquiring after
you. There are none of your acquaintances that
do not take an interest in you unless, perhaps,
it might be an old man about town like Sir Tom."

Sir Thomas is always kind  there is no one
so kind' cried Lucy, with a little excitement ;
if you say he does not take any interest, it is
because you don't know."

*' Oh, 1 did not mean any harm ; but pardon
me if I cannot bear to see a man like Sir Tom
come near you, Miss Trevor. People show their
feelings in different ways. Mine  you don't
much care to hear about mine  take an old-fashioned
form. There are people who are not
worthy to touch the hem of your dress."

"I don't know what you mean, Mr. Russell.
Sir Tom is better, far better, than most of the
people I know, and as for me I am not sacred,
I don't know why anyone should think of the
hem of my dress."

But you are sacred to me," said Bertie, feeling
that the moment was come. " Pardon me if
I go too far. But what else can a man say when
he has put himself under you as his saint, as his
guiding star, since ever he began to be worth
anything ? that is only since I knew you, Lucy.
Of course I know I am not half, nor a quarter,
good enough for you. But ever since you began
to come to Hampstead you know what you have
been to me; you have inspired me, you have
made me what I am. You thought, or the randolph
thought, that it was presumption to put
your name upon my book  "

Oh, Mr. Bertie, why do you bring that up
again  it is all over and past. You made people
talk of me and laugh at me, and put me in
the papers. It was dreadful ! but it is all over,
and I don't want to hear of it any more."

It was the best I had," said Bertie, with not
unnatural indignation. " It was all I had, and

queens have not scorned such offerings ; but, if
you do not care for that, you might care for a
man's devotion, Lucy  you might care for  "

'* Oh, Mr. Bertie, don't, please don't say anymore."


I know how to take an answer," he said, *' I
won't persecute you as that cub did yesterday ;
but I must know whether you mean it really 
whether you know what I mean. Lucy! you
must let me call you so just once more  is it
only shyness ? are you frightened, don't you understand
? or do you know that, when I offered
my book to you, I offered, like all the poets, my
heart, my life, my "

Lucy," said Jock, suddenly rushing upon
her, rushing between them and pushing, with
the mere force of his coming, the impassioned
suitor away, " Katie has met Philip, and they
don't want me. What are you doing, talking so
long 1 Philip looks so queer, I don't know what
is the matter with him. And I want to go home.
I hate a walk like this there is no fun in it.
And I want to go home; come !" cried the child,
hanging on to her skirts. Bertie looked at him
with a vindictive stare of rage and disappointment.
There was not another word to say.

CHAPTER XIV.

WHEN THE night's DARKEST IT'S NEAREST THE
DAWNING.

NOT a word could Lucy say all the way home.
She was flushed and agitated, her hand
burning, which grasped Jock's, her eyes dim
with moisture. When she got home she made
no reply to Mrs. Ford, who came out to meet
her ; but, dropping Jock's hand, ran up-stairs to
the quiet of that still, pink sitting-room, where
the " Heroes " still lay open on the rug, and her
chair stood as she had thrust it back. The afternoon
was fading into twilight, the lamps were
lighted outside, throwing a strange onesided sort
of chilly illumination into the room, though
mingled with the daylight. Lucy shut the door
behind her, as if it had been the door of a hermitage.

No one would come to disturb her there,
unless it might be Mrs. Ford, to persuade her to
go down to tea. How could Lucy go and sit at
the homely table, and listen to all the tottering
of the pair, over their bread and butter ? She
could not do it. Agitation had driven away all
trace of appetite ; she wanted nothing, she
thought, but to be let alone. She sat down upon
the sofa, and gazed out wistfully at the bit of
blue sky that appeared between the white curtains.
There was not so much as that bit of
blue sky in all Lucy's world. Not one true to
her, not one who did not see something in her
quite different from herself. Her other suitors
had startled Lucy ; but this last application for
her love had driven her to bay. She did injustice
to poor Bertie in the vehemence of her feelings.
Though he had spoken in high-flown
language, he was not in reality worse than the
others, nor had he a worse meaning. They all
of them had known that Lucy was the most desirable
thing within their reach. They had
recognized with the truest sincerity that she
could make them happy, that no one could make
them so happy ; they had aspired to her withall

the fervour of heartfelt sentiment ; and Bertie
had not been behind the others in this very
earnest and unquestionable feeling. Why then
should he have made her so angry  he, and not the
others ? She could not tell ; but she came in,
feeling a universal sickening of distrust, which
took all the heart out of her. She sat down dismally
upon her pink sofa. Nobody to trust to.
What fate in the world could be so terrible ? The
cold gleaming of the lamps outside were a kind
of symbol of all her life had to sustain it : faint
reflections of the outside light of the world, but
no warmth of a household lamp or hearth within.
She sat down forlorn, and began to cry. " Nobody,
nobody !" said poor Lucy. She did her
best to survey the situation calmly, dismal as it
was. What was she to do ? All her friends had
forsaken her ; but she had Jock left, and those
duties which her father had trusted to her hands.
She must go on with her trust whatever happened.
She kept hold of a kind of reality in her
life, by grasping at this resolution. Yes, she
would do her duty ; whoever failed she would
hold on, she would do what her father had said.
It was still something that was left in life.

It seemed to Lucy, all at once, as if a new light
had come upon this duty. It was in love to her
as well as in justice to others that her father had
charged her to give it back. Oh, if it could all
be given back  got rid of, her life delivered from
it, and she herself left free like other girls !
Lucy's sky seemed to her all gloomy and charged
with clouds, great rolling masses of vapour, clouds
of wealth, which had risen out of the earth, and
only by dispersion to earth again would leave her
free. She understood what her father meant 
rain to relieve the clouds, tears to relieve the
heat in her forehead, the gasp in her throat.
But at present the clouds were hanging suspended
over her, hiding all the blueness of the
heavens, and her tears were few and hot, not
enough to relieve either head or heart. Nobody,
faithful  not one ! the women conspiring, even
Katie, the men paying false court, making false
professions, and everyone maligning the other,
accusing the others of that falsehood which they
knew to be in themselves. " Not one," she repeated
to herself; " not one," and then a cry was
forced out of Lucy's poor little wrung heart.
Not even Sir Tom !" she said aloud, with a

sudden torrent of tears. Was this, though she
did not know it, the worst of all ? Certainly
the name opened those floodgates against which
her passion of wounded feeling had been straining
: her tears came in a violent thunder shower.
Not even Sir Tom !" It was the hardest of all.
Something stirred in the dimness behind her.
She had taken no notice of anything in the room
when she came in, blind with those tears which
she was not able to shed until she found that
talisman. Some one seemed to make a step forward.
Was she then not alone ? or was it her
imagination only which made her heart jump?
No, for Lucy's imagination never went so far as
this. It could not have created the voice which
said, with that familiar tone, " What has Sir
Tom done f with a touch of emotion and a little
touch of laughter in it, just over her head, as she
sat and sobbed. The sudden cry with which
Lucy replied told all her little secret, even to
herself. She got up and turned round, transformed,
her innocent lips apart, her eyes all wet
and blinded, yet seeing  But what she saw
was not very clear, a big shadow, a something
that was very real, not false at all, a figure that

somehow  why? Lucy could not tell  put the
world right again, and stopped the giddiness,
and made the ground solid under her feet. She
put out her hands, yet more in meaning than inaction,
half groping, half appealing.

Who is it ? is it your she said.

*' Lucy, what has Sir Tom done to make you
cry f he asked, taking her hands into his. Was
it possible that she did not feel any longer this
most poignant stab of all % She could not in the
least recollect what it was. She thought of it no
more. It sailed away from her firmament as a
cloud sails on a steady breeze.

*' Oh, I am so glad you have come home," she
cried.

Sir Tom was touched almost to tears. No one
could see it, but he felt the moisture steal into
the corners of his eyes. This was not a congenial
place for him this Z>oMreozs room, nor had this little
girl, in her simplicity, any right to greet him so.
And Sir Thomas had by no means made up his
mind, when he came to see his aunt's 'protegee,
notwithstanding her heiress-ship, that he was
going to give up his freedom and independence,
and subject himself to all manner of vulgar comments

for her sake. But these words sealed his
fate. He could no more have resisted their
modest, simple appeal, so unconscious as it was,
than he could have denied his own nature. He
did what he had done when he left her, but with
a very different meaning ; he stooped over her and
kissed her seriously on the forehead ; he had
done it half paternally, half in jest, when he
went away.

"Yes, my dear, I have come home," with a
little quiver in his voice Sir Thomas said ; and
after an interval, " I think my little Lucy must
have missed me. What is the matter ? who has
been vexing you ? and even Sir Tom : did I do
something amiss too ?"

We will speak of that after," Lucy said, with
a relief which was beyond all comprehension.
She could talk again, her tongue was loosened
and her heart opened. She had not been able to
confide in anyone for so long, and now all at
once some door seemed opened, some lock undone.
" It does not seem anything now you are
here. I am sure it was right, quite right' she
cried, with a sob and a laugh together. *' I

VOL. m. T

knew underneath that it must be right all the
time."

Sir Tom did not insist upon knowing what it
was ; he made her sit down, and placed himself
by her, still holding her hands.

*' But something has been wrong," he said.
My little girl is not in such trouble without
some cause. Mrs. Ford tells me there was a
disturbance this morning, and that Jock was
naughty, and you went out without any dinner.
Come tell me ! you can trust in me."

Had she not heard over and over again that he
was not to be trusted ? Had she not believed,
with the deepest sting of all, that Sir Tom had
failed her? Lucy did not remember. " Oh, yes,"
she said, from the bottom of her heart. It
seemed so easy to tell everything now. And
then the whole pent-up stream poured forth.
The trouble of the morning could not be disclosed
without leading to all the rest. Sometimes
she cried as she spoke, sometimes almost
laughed, the fact that he was there taking all
the sting out of her troubles. And as for Sir
Tom, though there was sometimes a gleam of
indignation in him, he felt more disposed to

laughter than to tears. Lucy's troubles were
very simple and transparent to him ; she might
have known that her fortune would tempt everybody
 though the fact that she had not known,
and that even proofs had not convinced her, was
the thing which most profoundly touched Sir
Tom's experienced heart.

You have had a pretty set of guardians," he
said; '* these are all people that have had the
charge of you, Lucy ?" He did not at the moment
recollect that Lady Randolph had the
charge of her also, and had instantly, from the
ends of the world, summoned himself. Then he
said, " Lucy, listen to me ; this is the sort of
thing you will be subject to, I fear, wherever
you go ; and I don't know what you will think of
me when you hear what I am going to say. I
know you have a grievance against me which you
are to tell me by and by "

No, oh no," cried Lucy, fervently ; " I know
now it must have been a mistake."

He smiled, but the smile was not that of mere
triumph. He was old enough to be touched by
his own unexpected success, to be grateful to
he young creature who had resisted all other

T 'I

claims upon her regard, to give her heart
so unreservedly to him ; and there was even
more than this, a something which, at the moment,
was very like love, which probably was
the most passionate sentiment he was likely to
entertain now, after all his experiences, for anyone.
He was *' very fond of" Lucy. He understood
her simple goodness, and regarded it
with that soft paternal enthusiasm which a beloved
child excites in us ; and he was grateful
to her, and deeply touched by her choice of himself,
a choice of which he could have very little
doubt. *' And you have heard a great deal of
harm of me  all these good people have said
something. They have said Tom Kandolph was
not a man to be your friend."

I have not believed them," said Lucy. " I
know you better. I have not believed a word."

But you might have believed, Lucy. You
must listen to me now, my dear. I have not
been a good man, as you give me credit for being.
I cannot say of myself that I am fit to be the
companion of a young, pure, good girl."

Oh, Sir Tom !" Lucy cried in indignant

protestation. Words would not serve her to
say more.

Yes," he said, shaking his head regretfully.
It is quite true. I who know myself best confess
it to you ; but still there is a little truth
left in me. I am going to enter the lists withall
these others, Lucy. I am going to ask you
to set yourself free from all of them by marrying
me."

Marrying you Sir Tom 1"

Yes ! me. People will say I am a fortune-hunter
like the rest."

Lucy could not bear even this censure suggested
by himself. She had been looking at
him seriously all the time, showing her emotion
only by the changing colour of her face, which,
indeed, it was not very easy" to see. Now she
made a hasty movement of impatience, stamping
her foot upon the ground, "No!" she said.
No ! they would not dare to say that. It would
not be true."

*' It would be true so far that, if you were a
little girl without any fortune, I should not dare
to ask you to marry me, for I am a poor man ;
but not any worse than that. Will you marry

me, Lucy ?" Sir Thomas said. He let her hands
go free, and held out his own. He was not
afraid like the others. It cannot even be said
that he had much doubt what the answer would
be.

Lucy had not shrunk from him, nor showed
any appearance of timidity. She sat quite quietly
looking at him, her eyes showing through the
gathering twilight, but not much else. There
was a little quiver about her mouth, but that did
not show.

"Must I be married at all f she said in a
very low voice.

This chilled Sir Thomas a little  for he had
expected a much warmer reply. He had thought
it possible that she would fling herself upon his
breast, and receive his proposal with the same
soft enthusiasm with which she had welcomed
his coming. He forgot how young she was, how
childlike, and how serious and dutiful in every
new step she had to take.

Yes," he said with a little jar in his voice,
"unless you are always to be running the
gauntlet through a string of suitors. You like
me, Lucy V*

''Oh, Sir Tom, yes!"

And I  " he stopped the other words on his
own lips ; he would be honest and no more ; he
would not say love, which indeed was a word he
knew he had soiled by ignoble use, and employed
ere now in a very different sense. " And I,"
he said, " am very fond of you."

There was a pause. He never could have
thought he would have felt so anxious, or that
his heart would have beaten as it was beating.
Through the twilight he could see Lucy's serious
eyes, not stars, or anything superlative, but
honest tranquil eyes, with a little curve of
thought over each brow, looking at him. She was
anxious too. At last she said with a soft sigh.
*' I wish, I wish I knew"
"What, Lucy?"

*' What is right," she said with a little hurrying
and faltering of the words, " what papa would
have liked. It is so hard to tell. He left me a
great many instructions for different things, but
not a word, not a word about this."

In this, you may be sure, he wished your
heart to be your guide," said Sir Thomas, "and
so, even if you decide against me, do I "

"How could I decide against you, Sir Tom?"
she said with a soft reproach. " 1 am thinking,
only thinking, what is right."

What was Sir Thomas to do ?  he began to feel
that his position was almost ludicrous, sitting
here, suspended upon Lucy's breath, waiting for
her answer. This was not the triumphant
position which he had occupied ten minutes ago,
when he felt himself to be the Deliverer,
coming with acclamations to set everything right.
Whether to be very angry and annoyed, or to
laugh at this curious turning of the tables  to be
patient and wait her pleasure, or to betray the
half-provoked, half-amused impatience he began
to feel  he did not know.

The matter was decided in a way as unlooked
for as was the crisis itself. Suddenly, without
any warning, the door bounced open and Mrs.
Ford stood in the doorway, in a dark vacancy,
which showed her darker, substance like a drawing
in sepia. " Lucy," she said solemnly, *' do you
mean to starve yourself to death, all to spite me ?
1 have not had a moment's peace all day since
you went out without your dinner. Sir Thomas

Randolph, if you have got any influence with her,
make her come do\Yn to her tea."

I will, Mrs. Ford," he said.

There's a roast partridge," said Mrs. Ford
with real emotion. " Jock, bless him, has eat up
the other. Oh, Lucy, if you do not want to make
me wretched, come down to your tea !"

I am coming," said Lucy. She rose up, and
so did her companion  Mrs. Ford in the doorway
looking on, not seeing anything but the two
shadows, yet wondering and troubled in her
mind to think of the neglect which had left them
there without any lights. " I will give it to that
Lizzie," said Mrs. Ford internally ; but there
was something in the air which she did not understand,
which kept her silent in spite of
herself.

Then Lucy put her hand into Sir Thomas's
hand, which was no longer held out for it. " If
you think it is the best," she said very low in
her serious voice, " you have more sense than I
have. Tell me what to do. Do you think it is
the best?"

Sir Thomas had been confused by the strange
and unexpected position ; he had been prepared

for an easy triumph, and at the moment of
coming it had eluded him ; and when he had almost
made up his mind to the reverse, here was another
surprise and change. But Lucy's voice again
touched a deeper chord than he was conscious of.
He was affected beyond description by the trust
she placed in him. He took the hand she gave
him within his own. " Lucy," he cried with a
thrill of passionate feeling in his voice, " as God
shall judge between us, I believe it is the best ;
but not, my dear, unless you feel that it will be
happy for you."

Oh !" cried Lucy with a soft breath of ease
and content which scarcely seemed to form words,
yet shaped into them, " Happy ! but it was not
that I was thinking of," she said.

He drew her hand within his arm. It was
triumph after all, but of a kind original, surprising,
with a novelty in it that went to his
heart, touching all that was tender in him. Heled
her down stairs into Mrs. Ford's parlour,
with his mind in a confusion of sympathy and
respect and pleasure  and carved her partridge
for her, and ate half of it with a sacramental
solemnity, and a laugh in his eyes, which were

glistening and dewy. " You see," he said, addressing
the mistress of the house, who looked
on somewhat grimly, ' it is not because I am
greedy, but because she will not eat without
company. She wants company. She does not
care for the good things you get for her, unless
you will share them too."

I declare !" cried Mrs. Ford, " I never thought
of that before. Lucy, is it true ?"

"It is quite true," said Sir Thomas gravely,
with always the laugh in his eyes. " She cares
for nothing unless she can share it. Has she
eaten up her half honestly 1 You see I know
how to manage her. Will you let me marry her,
Mrs. Ford?"

Sir Thomas !" cried the pair in consternation
in one voice. He had come so opportunely to
their assistance that they had quite forgotten he
was a wolf in the fold. Ford thrust up his
spectacles off his forehead, and let the evening
paper (which had come in Sir Thomas's pocket)
drop from his hands, and as for Mrs. Ford she
gasped for breath.

But the two at the table took it very quietly.
Lucy looked up with eyes more bright than her

eyes had ever been before, and a colour which
was very becoming, which made her almost
beautiful ; and Sir Thomas (who certainly was a
real gentleman, with no pride about him), comforted
them with friendly looks, without the
slightest appearance of being ashamed of himself.
Yes," he said. " We both think it will answer
so far as we are concerned. You are her oldest
friends. Will you let me marry her, Mrs. Ford ?"
The question was answered in a way nobody
expected. There raised itself suddenly up to the
level of the table, a small head supported upon
two elbows, rising from no one knew where.
Sir Tom was the one I always wanted," said
little Jock.

CHAPTER XV.

THE GUARDIANS.

SIR THOMAS RANDOLPH got up next
morning with his usual good spirits a little
heightened by something, he could not immediately
recollect what. The doubt lasted only
for a moment, but perhaps his happiness was not
so instantaneously present to his mind as a new
vexation would have been. But on his second
waking moment, he jumped up from his bed and
laughed. The red October sunshine was shining
into his room ; he went and looked out from his
window upon the noble trees in his park, stretching
far away in ruddy masses, all golden and red
with the frosty, not fiery, finger (pardon, dear
poet !) of Autumn. As far as he could see (and
a great deal further) the land was his ; but, oh !

poor acres ! how heavy with mortgages ! how
stiff with borrowings ! heavier and stiffer than
the native clay, of which there was too much
about Farafield ; but that was all over, this red,
russet October morning ; the house had a mistress,
and the land was free.

Was it a wrong to Lucy that he thought of
this so soon? He laughed, at first, at the
astounding position in which he suddenly recollected
himself to stand, as a betrothed man, a
happy and successful lover ; and then there suddenly
rushed into his mind the idea that the
change would make him entirely independent,
safe from all duns, free of all creditors, his own
master on his own land. When, however, he
went downstairs and ate his solitary breakfast
near the fire in the great panelled room, with its
old tapestries and family portraits, the noblest
room in the county, though as good as shut up
for so many years there came quite sweetly and
delightfully into Sir Tom's mind the idea, not
of the hospitalities which now were possible, but
of a little serious countenance, with two mild blue
eyes, following his looks with a little strain of
intelligence, not quite, quite sure all at once of

his meaning, but always sure that he was right,
and soon finding out what he meant, and lighting
up with understanding all the more pleasant
for the first surprise of uncertainty. Ashen this
little vision glanced across him, he put down his
newspaper, which he had taken up mechanically,
and smiled at it over the table. " Give me some
tea, Luc3%" he said, with an amused, exhilarated,
almost excited realisation of what was going to
be. " I beg your pardon, Sir Thomas ?" said the
solemn butler, just coming in ; and then, will it
be believed? Sir Tom, who had knocked about
the world for so many years, Sir Tom, who had
touched the borders of middle-age, and gone
through no small amount of experiences 
blushed ! He laughed afterwards and resumed
his paper  but that there had come over, between
his big moustache and his quite untainted and
plentiful locks, a delightful youthful suffusion of
warmth and colour, it was impossible to deny.
He felt it quite necessary to sound a trumpet
forthwith, so much tickled was he with his own
confusion, and pleased with himself. " Williams,
I am going to be married," he said. Williams
was a man who had been all over the world with

his master, who had himself gone through various
transformations, had been a saucy valet, and an
adventurer, and a dignified family servant by
turns, and was not a man to be surprised at
anything ; but he stopped short in the middle of
the room, and said " Indeed, Sir Thomas !" in a
tone more like bewilderment than any that ever
had been heard from him before. "Did you
ever hear such a joke?" said the master, thinking
of his own blush, that unparalleled circumstance
; and "It do indeed, Sir Thomas," Mr.
Williams gravely replied.

However, after this serious revelation there
were more serious matters in hand. Sir Thomas
had decided that he would go to Mr. E-ushton in
the morning, who was the real guardian, and with
whom in any case he would have to do ;  whether
it would be necessary in everything to observe the
ordinances of the will, which Lucy, he knew,
had declared her determination to stand b3%
and ask the consent of all that board of guardians
to whom old Trevor had given the power
of hampering and hindering Lucy's marriage was
a thing he had not made up his mind
upon ; but with Mr. Rushton, at least,
he must have to do. He drove into Fairfield

through the keen air of the bright, chill,
sunshiny morning with great courage and confidence.
It might be said that he was fortune-hunting
too; but if he would receive a certain
advantage from the heiress, it was certain that
he had something to offer on his side which no
woman would despise. To put her at the head
of the noblest old house and the most notable
family in the county was a balance on his side
which made Lucy's advantage no more than was
desirable. Mr. Rushton, however, presented the
air of a man perturbed and angry when Sir
Thomas entered his office. A letter was lying
on the table before him, the sight of which,
it must be allowed somewhat discomposed even
Sir Tom. Was it Lucy's handwriting ? Had she
taken it upon her to be the first to communicate
to her legal guardian the change in her fortunes
which had happened ? If this had been the case,
no doubt Sir Tom would have adapted himself
to it, and concluded by finding it quite natural
and becoming that a girl in so exceptional a
position should take this upon herself. But in
the meantime he felt just a little annoyed, and
disconcerted too.
VOL. in. u

I see you are busy," Sir Thomas said.

No not so much busy I am always busy
at this hour, and shall be I hope as long as my
strength lasts ; but not more than usual. The
truth is," said Mr. Rushton with a suppressed
snarl, "I'm provoked  and not much wonder if
you knew all."

Sir Thomas looked at the open letter in spite
of himself. " May I ask if I have anything todo
with your annoyance?" he said.

You !" the lawyer opened his eyes wide, then
laughed angrily. "No, I don't suppose it can
be you. She is not quite so silly as that."

Silly !" echoed Sir Thomas, " perhaps it
will be better to tell you at once without any
circumlocution what my errand is. I have come
to tell you, Rushton, a piece of news which may
surprise you  that I have made an offer to Miss
Trevor, and that she has accepted me."

Mr. Rushton said not a word ; he was altogether
taken aback. He stood with his mouth
open, and his eyebrows forming large semi-circles
over his eyes, and stared at Sir Thomas without
a word.

This naturally," said the hero of the occasion

with a laugh, " makes it not quite safe
to criticise Miss Trevor to me."

Accepted yozf /" He could scarcely get his
breath, so bewildered was he. " Do you mean
to say that you  want to marry Lucy Trevor?"
Mr. Rush ton said.

** Yes ! in common with various other people,"
said Sir Thomas, " some of whom you may have
heard of; but the speciality in my case is, that
she has accepted me. I thought it my duty to
come to you at once as Miss Trevor s guardian.
I hope you do not object to me  you have known
me long enough as a suitor for her. I am
rather old for her perhaps  but otherwise, I
think "

Accepted vo!/" the lawyer repeated; and
then he gave utterance to a hard laugh. " She
is young, but she is a cool one," he said. " Accepts
you one minute, and writes to me to make
a provision for an old lover, I suppose. Probably
some one she has cast oflP for your sake  the
minx ! She is a cool one," Mr. Rushton said.

You forget  what I have this minute told
you, Rushton."

No, pardon me, I don't forget !" said Lucy's

u 2

guardian. *' She is only a girl as you may say,
but it seems to me she is fooling us all. Look
at that  read that," he said, tossing the open
letter at Sir Thomas, who, for his part, took it,
how could he help it? with a little tremble of
apprehension. This is what he read :

Dear Mr. Rushton.
I think I have found some one else that is
all that is required by papa's will. This time it is
a gentleman, and as he is not married, and has
no children, it will not require so much. He is
very clever, and has a good profession : but his
health is not good, and he wants rest. This
is just what papa would have wished, don't you
think so ? Two or three thousand pounds would
do, I think and I will tell you everything about
ft and explain all, if you will come to me, or if
I can go and sec you. I have written to Mr.
Chervil too.

Sincerely yours,

Lucy Trevor."

Did you ever hear anything like it ?" said the
lawyer, exasperated. " If there is still time, you

will thank me for letting you know, Sir Thomas.
Who can tell who this person is ? And the moment
you appear, no doubt much better worth
the trouble"

Must I again remind you of what I said ?"
Sir Thomas repeated. " This has reference, sofar
as I can see, to a condition of the father's will,
which Miss Trevor has very much in her mind."

She has told you of it ? There never was
so mad a proviso. They have ' a bee in their
bonnet,' as the Scotch say. And I've got to
stand by and see a fine fortune scattered to the
winds ! That girl will drive me mad. I lose my
head altogether when I think of her. The old
man was always an eccentric, and he couldn't
take the money with him. You know a man
doesn't feel it, what he does by his will ; but
that any living creature, in their senses, should
throw away good money ! I believe that girl
will drive me mad."

* A la bonne heure" said Sir Thomas, " you
have nothing to do but transfer your charge to me."

Ah ! you'll put a stop to it ? I see. A
husband can do a great many things; that is
what I thought, that was my idea when  There

are a great may things to be taken into consideration,
Sir Thomas," Mr. Rushton said,
recovering his self-possession. " Your proposal
is one to be treated respectfully, but nevertheless
in my ward's interests "

I think those interests have been considerably
risked already," said Sir Thomas gravely. " I
do not think they are safe here ; she is with
people who do not know how to take care of her."

According to the will. Sir Thomas"

But it is not according to the will, that she
should have no guardianship at all, but be approached
by every youth that happens to cross
her path."

Mr. Rushton winced ; if his wife schemed was
it his fault 1 " Ah ! 1 have heard something of
that," he said. " Some young fellow who followed
her from town ; it must be put a stop to."

It is put a stop to," said Sir Thomas, '* Miss
Trevor has, as I tell you, accepted me."

That is the most effectual way certainly,
isn't it?" Mr. Rushton said discomfited. He
rubbed his hands ruefully, and shifted from one
foot to another. " It is a very serious question.
I must go into it fully before I can pretend to say

anything; you have a fine property, but it is
heavily burdened, and a good position, an excellent
position ; but with her fortune my ward hasa
right to look very high indeed, Sir Thomas'*
the lawyer said.

"You will not promise me your support?" said
Sir Thomas. " I have a hard task before me, I
understand, and the consent of a great many
people to secure. And how about Miss Trevor's
letter," he said with a twinkle in his eye, " she
will ask me what you said."

Mr. Rushton grew crimson once more. " It is
out of the question," he cried, " the girl is mad,
and she will drive me mad. Two or three
thousands ! only two or three thousand pounds !
the other day she made away with six thousand 
I declare before heaven she will bring down my
gray hairs  no, that's not what I mean to say.
But you can't treat money in this way, Sir
Thomas, you can't do it, it will make me ill, it
will give me a fever, or something. The girl
does not know what she is doing. Money ! the
one thing in the world that you can't treat in
this way."

But the will permits it f said Sir Thomas
with a fictitious look of sympathy.

Oh, the will, the will is mad too. I dare not
take it into a court of law. It would not stand,
it could not stand for a moment. And what
would be the issue," cried Mr. Rushton almost
weeping, " the money would be divided. The
old man would be declared intestate, and the
child, Jock as they call him, would take his
share. She would deserve it  upon my honour,
she would deserve it  but it would cut the
property to pieces all the same, and that would
be worse than anything. It will drive me out of
my senses, I can't bear this anxiety much longer,"
Mr. Rushton said.

Sir Thomas shook his head. " I don't see how
it is to be mended. She has set her heart on
carrying out the will, and unless you can show
that she has no right  "

Right, there is no right in it !" Mr. Rushton
cried. " She will find out she has me to deal
with. I am not a fool like Chervil. I will not
give in at the first word ; I will make my stand.
I will put down my foot."

"But, my good fellowship Sir Thomas, sympathetically
; " first word or last word, what can
it matter? What can you do against her ? The

will gives it, and the law allows it  you are helpless
 you must give in to her at the last."

I won't !" he said, " or else I'll throw up
the whole concern ; it has been nothing but
botheration and annoyance. And now my wife
at me and Ray. I'll wash my hands of the
whole matter. I'll not have my life made a
burden to me, not for old Trevor nor for Lucy,
nor for any will in the world."

Give her to me, and you will be free," said Sir
Thomas, looking at his excited opponent steadily,
to conceal the laughter in his own eyes.

He came out of Mr. Rushton's office an hour
after, triumphant, and came along the marketplace,
and down the High Street, with a smile
upon his face. Sir Tom felt that the ball was
at his foot. An air of success and prosperity
was about him, which vaguely impressed all the
passers-by, and even penetrated through the
shows in the shop-windows, and made everybody
aware that something fortunate had happened.
What had come to him ? A fortune had
been left him  he had been appointed ambassador
somewhere, he had been made an undersecretary
of state. All these suggestions were

abroad in Farafield before night  for at this time
it was quite early, and the people about were at
comparative leisure, and free to remark on what
they saw. Something had happened to Sir
Tom, and it was something good. The town
in general disapproved of many of his ways, but
yet liked Sir Tom. It pleased the public to see
him streaming along like a procession, with all
his colours flying. He went on till he came to
the Terrace, pervading the streets like a new
gleam of sunshine ; but then he stopped short,
just as he was about to enter the gateway.
Lucy herself was at the window, looking for
him. He paused as he was about to go in, then
waved his hand to her, and turned the other
way. Lucy followed him with her eyes, with
astonishment, and disappointment, and consternation.
Where could he be going across the
Common, away from her though he saw her
waiting for him? Sir Tom looked back once
more, and waved his hand again when he was
half way along the uneven road. He was bound
for the White House. He recollected the letter
of the will, which Lucy had vowed to keep,
though Lucy herself had forgotten the marriage

committee, and Mr. Rushton had this very morning
openly scoffed at it. But Sir Thomas was
confident in the successfulness of his success.
Already of the six votes he had secured three.
One more, and all was safe.

Mrs. Stone was in her parlour, like the queen
in the ballad, and like that royal lady, was engaged
upon a light refection. She had been
worried, and she had been crossed, and teaching
is hungry work. The two sisters were strengthening
themselves with cake and wine for their
work, when Sir Thomas Randolph was suddenly
shown into the Queen Anne parlour, taking them
by surprise. Sir Tom was not a man to alarm
any woman with the mildest claim to personal
attractiveness, and he admired the handsome
schoolmistress, and was not without an eye to see
that even the little Southernwood, with her little
old-fashioned curls upon her cheek, had a pretty
little figure still, and a complexion which a girl
need not have despised. How Sir Tom made it
apparent that he saw these personal advantages,
it would be hard to say yet he managed
to do so ; and in five minutes had made himself
as comfortable as the circumstances permitted in
one of the lofty Chippendale chairs, and was

talking of most things in heaven and earth in
his easy way. The ladies saw, as the people in
the streets had seen, that some good fortune had
happened to Sir Tom. Bat he was very wary in
his advances, and it was not till a little stir in
the passages gave him warning that the girls
were flocking in again to their class rooms, and
the moment of leisure nearly over, that he ventured
on the real object of his visit. It was
more difficult than he had thought ; he had his
back to the window, and the room was not very
light, which was a protection to him ; but still
he had to clear his throat more than once before
he began.

I have a selfish object in this early visit," he
said ; "you will never divine it. I have come to
throw myself on your charity. You have it in
your power to make me or to mar me. I want
you to give me your consent."

To what f Mrs. Stone said, surprised. Was
it for a general holiday ? was it an indulgence for
Lily Barrington, for whom he professed a partiality.
What was it ? perhaps a protegee of doubtful
pedigree, whom he wished to put under her care.

Sir Thomas got up, keeping his back to the
window. It was not half so easy as dealing with

Mr. Rushton. " It is something about your little
pupil, Lucy Trevor."

*' !" Mrs. Stone got up, too. " I want to
hear nothing more of Lucy Trevor. I wash my
hands of her," she said.

"Ah !" said Miss Southernwood, coming a step
closer. She divined immediately, though she
was not half so clever as her sister, what it was.

1 am sorry she has displeased you," said Sir
Tom. "I want you to let me marry her, Mrs. Stone."

Marry her !" Mrs. Stone said, almost with a
shriek ; and then she drew herself up to a great
deal more than her full height, as she knew very
well how to do. "I have taken an interest in
her, and she has disappointed me," she said ;
and as to consenting or not consenting, all that
is nonsense nowadays. It might have answered
last century, but now it is obsolete." Then she
made him a stately curtsey. " I could have nothing
to oppose to Sir Thomas Randolph, even if
I meant to oppose at all," she said.

Miss Southernwood came up to him as the door
closed on her sister.

"Was this what she meant all the time?"
asked the milder woman. " It was you she was
thinking of all the time ? AVell, I do not blame

her, and I hope you may be very happy. But,
Sir Thomas, tell Lucy that I rely upon her todo
nothing more in the matter we were talking of.
It could not be done, it would not be possible to
have it done ; but, surely, surely, you could make
it up between you to poor Frank. There are so
many appointments that would suit him, if he
had good friends that would take a little trouble.
I do think. Sir Thomas, that it might be made
up to Frank."

Miss Southernwood, after all, was the best partizan
and most staunch supporter ; but it was
strange that she, who had not originated, nay,
who had disapproved of her sister's scheme in
respect to Frank St. Clair, should be the one to insist
upon a compensation to that discomfited hero.

Lucy was still standing at the window when
Sir Tom came back. He made signs of great despondency
when he came in sight, and alarmed her.

*' She will not give me her consent, though I
made sure of it," he said. " Lucy, what shall
we do if we cannot get Mrs. Stone's consent ?"

*' Her consent !" said Lucy, with momentary
surprise. Then she made her first rebellion
against all she had hitherto considered most
sacred. " I think we might do without it," she said

CHAPTER XVI.

